PCOS and US Cavitation
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age. Women with this syndrome may have infrequent menstrual periods or amenorrhea and excess androgen levels. The ovaries develop numerous small follicles and fail to ovulate on a regular basis, with subsequent subfertility in those women that wish to conceive. Recent research stated that interventions aiming to improve QoL among infertile women with PCOS should focus on alleviating infertility-related stress, especially among women with high BMI. So, the purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of ultrasound cavitation combined with aerobic exercise on menstrual irregularity and infertility related stress in women having PCOS.
PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome) of Bilateral Ovaries
OTHER: ultrasound cavitation in addition to aerobic ex|OTHER: aerobic exercises.
Infertily related Stress level, Infertility-Related Stress Scale is a concise, reliable, and validated tool; it facilitates quick screening for infertility's impact on intrapersonal and interpersonal life domains. The IRSS consists of 12 items rated from 1 ("no stress") to 7 ("high stress")., with higher grades means higher stress., change from base line at 12 weeks.|cortisol level, Saliva samples will be collected with study participants sitting upright in a comfortable position and tilting the head forward, allowing the saliva to pool on the floor of the mouth, change from base line at 12 weeks.
Anthrometric measurement (body mass index and waist-hip ratio), BMI and waist/hip ratio Measurements of body mass index in which the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the heights in meters and waist to hip circumference measured with a soft tape at the level of the umbilicus and the anterior superior iliac spine with woman in the standing position, were made before treatment and after the end of the study period, change from base line at 12 weeks.|Hormonal profile, Blood samples will be drown from an antecubital vein of each patient in the study on two occasions, firstly at the end at 2 nd or 3 rd day of the menstrual cycle after an overnight fasting just before starting her treatment regimen and secondly after 3 months of the treatment. It will be centrifuged within 2 hours after withdrawal. Serum will be stared at -20OC and assayed for LH and FSH with chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay kits. Assays for fasting insulin by RIA kits and SHBG will be determined by using an immunoradiometric assay (IRMA)., change from base line at 12 weeks.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age. Women with this syndrome may have infrequent menstrual periods or amenorrhea and excess androgen levels. The ovaries develop numerous small follicles and fail to ovulate on a regular basis, with subsequent subfertility in those women that wish to conceive. Recent research stated that interventions aiming to improve QoL among infertile women with PCOS should focus on alleviating infertility-related stress, especially among women with high BMI. So, the purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of ultrasound cavitation combined with aerobic exercise on menstrual irregularity and infertility related stress in women having PCOS.