Pomalidomide Treatment in Patients With Kaposi Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies the effect of pomalidomide in treating patients with Kaposi sarcoma. Pomalidomide is a cancer fighting drug that stops the growth of blood vessels, stimulates the immune system, and may kill cancer cells.
Skin Kaposi Sarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Pomalidomide|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Duration of response, The Kaplan-Meier (K-M) method will be used to describe duration of response for all treated participants. The cumulative proportion of study participants still in response at one year will be estimated using the point estimate and the 95% confidence interval using Greenwood's formula for the standard error of the K-M estimate. The proportional hazards model will be used to evaluate the association of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) status and pretreatment status on duration of response., From the first date at which a partial or complete response is documented until progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Overall response rate (ORR), The binomial proportion and its 95% confidence interval will be used to estimate ORR in four groups defined by HIV status and pretreatment status (HIV+, pretreated; HIV+, treatment naive; HIV-, pretreated and HIV-, treatment naive). In addition, the binomial proportion and its 95% confidence interval will be used to describe the ORR for HIV+ and HIV- participants, and those that were pretreated and treatment naïve., Up to 5 years post treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using version Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0. Adverse events observed on this study will be summarized by organ system, severity grade and relationship to pomalidomide. Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated at the event and person level., Up to 5 years post treatment|Changes in visceral disease, For those with evaluable visceral disease, changes in visceral disease will be descriptively reported., Baseline up to 5 years post treatment|Response duration in participants treated with pomalidomide, For deaths unrelated to progressive disease, duration of response will be censored at the date of the last Kaposi sarcoma (KS) evaluation during which the participant was determined to still be in response., From the first date of which a partial or complete response is documented until first date of progression, assessed up to 5 years
Effect of treatment on changes in tumor microenvironment, Will assess the effect of pomalidomide treatment on the tumor microenvironment and explore the relationship with clinical response and summarize over time. Descriptive statistics for changes in tumor micro-environment will be calculated for all participants and according to clinical response to examine pre- and post-treatment differences and to explore the relationship with clinical response. Changes from baseline will be explored with one-sample nonparametric tests., Baseline up to 5 years post treatment|Effect of pomalidomide on CD4 lymphocyte counts, Will be summarized over time., Up to within 7 days of treatment discontinuation|Effect of pomalidomide on HIV viral load, Will be summarized over time., Up to within 7 days of treatment discontinuation|Change in Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) viral copy number, Will assess KSHV viral copy number in plasma and explore whether changes correlate with clinical outcome and summarize this data over time. Descriptive statistics for changes in KSHV viral copy number will be calculated for all patients and according to clinical response to examine pre- and post-treatment differences and to explore the relationship with clinical response. Changes from baseline will be explored with one-sample nonparametric tests, Baseline up to within 7 days of treatment discontinuation|Effect of pomalidomide on change in serum biomarkers, Will assess the effect of pomalidomide treatment on serum biomarkers and explore the relationship with clinical response and summarize this data over time. Descriptive statistics for changes in serum biomarkers will be calculated for all patients and according to clinical response to examine pre- and post-treatment differences and to explore the relationship with clinical response. Changes from baseline will be explored with one-sample nonparametric tests., Baseline up to within 7 days of treatment discontinuation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the proportion of participants with Kaposi sarcoma (KS) (with or without human immunodeficiency virus \[HIV\], regardless of previous treatment status) treated with pomalidomide who respond to treatment with a durable response (i.e., response duration of at least one year).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure the overall response rate (ORR) and report 95% confidence intervals in the overall study population.

Ia. To measure the ORR in the HIV positive study population. Ib. To measure the ORR in the HIV unrelated study population. II. To estimate the ORR in subgroups of KS in regard to HIV and previous treatment status.

III. To assess the safety of pomalidomide therapy. IV. To describe changes in visceral disease among those presenting with evaluable visceral disease.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of pomalidomide treatment on the tumor microenvironment and explore the relationship with clinical response.

II. To describe the effects of pomalidomide on CD4 lymphocyte counts and HIV viral load in HIV positive (+) participants.

III. To assess the effect of pomalidomide treatment on serum biomarkers and explore the relationship with clinical response.

IV. To assess Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) viral copy number in plasma and explore whether changes correlate with clinical outcome.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pomalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 12 cycles, patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) continue pomalidomide for an additional 12 cycles with the option to continue thereafter in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 12 cycles, patients with stable disease may continue pomalidomide for an additional 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo chest x-ray imaging throughout the trial. Patients may undergo computed tomography (CT) as clinically indicated. Patients also undergo blood sample collection and may optionally undergo tissue biopsy during screening and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5 years.