Fezolinetant for the Improvement of Vasomotor Symptoms in Breast Cancer Patients Taking Endocrine Therapy, VENT Trial
This phase II trial tests how well fezolinetant works in improving vasomotor symptoms (VMS) in breast cancer patients taking endocrine therapy (ET). Anti-hormone treatments are effective for lowering the risk of breast cancer but can cause bothersome VMS, such as hot flashes and night sweats. Fezolinetant inhibits the activity of the neurokinin type 3 receptor and has shown activity against VMS in postmenopausal women. Taking fezolinetant may work well at improving VMS in breast cancer patients taking ET.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Ductal Carcinoma In Situ|Localized Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Fezolinetant|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in frequency of vasomotor symptoms (VMS), Will perform an intent-to-treat analysis. The mean change in frequency of VMS with 4 weeks of fezolinetant versus placebo will be reported with the corresponding 95% confidence interval. Initial analysis will use a paired t-test of the mean change in frequency of VMS with 4 weeks of treatment with drug and placebo. Follow up analyses will use a linear mixed effects model (with any transformation needed for assumptions to be met) with random intercept that considers the repeated measurements, possible sequence, period, and carryover effects., Baseline to day 71
Change of the severity of VMS, The mean change of the severity of VMS, as assessed with the hot flash log, with 4 weeks of fezolinetant versus placebo. Will perform an intent-to-treat analysis. Will be reported with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Initial analysis will use a paired t-test of the mean change in severity of VMS from baseline to week 4 between drug and placebo. Follow up analyses will use a linear mixed effects model (with any transformation needed for assumptions to be met) with random intercept that considers the repeated measurements, possible sequence, period, and carryover effects., Baseline to day 71|Change of the hot flash score, The mean change of the hot flash score, as assessed with the hot flash log and calculated by multiplying VMS frequency by severity, with 4 weeks of fezolinetant versus placebo. Will perform an intent-to-treat analysis. Will be reported with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Initial analysis will use a paired t-test of the mean change in hot flash score from baseline to week 4 between drug and placebo. Follow up analyses will use a linear mixed effects model (with any transformation needed for assumptions to be met) with random intercept that considers the repeated measurements, possible sequence, period, and carryover effects., Baseline to day 71|Change of the Menopause-Specific Quality of Life (MENQOL) hot flash subscore, The mean change of the MENQOL hot flash subscore with 4 weeks of fezolinetant versus placebo. Will perform an intent-to-treat analysis. Will be reported with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Initial analysis will use a paired t-test of the mean change in MENQOL hot flash subscore from baseline to week 4 between drug and placebo. Follow up analyses will use a linear mixed effects model (with any transformation needed for assumptions to be met) with random intercept that considers the repeated measurements, possible sequence, period, and carryover effects., Baseline to day 71|Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) for hot flashes and night sweats, The mean PGIC for hot flashes and for night sweats after 4 weeks of fezolinetant versus placebo. Will perform an intent-to-treat analysis. Will be reported with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Initial analysis will use a paired t-test of PGIC score from baseline to week 4 between drug and placebo. Follow up analyses will use a linear mixed effects model (with any transformation needed for assumptions to be met) with random intercept that considers the repeated measurements, possible sequence, period, and carryover effects., Baseline to day 71|Change of the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Sleep Disturbance, The mean change of the PROMIS Sleep Disturbance T score with 4 weeks of fezolinetant versus placebo. Will perform an intent-to-treat analysis. Will be reported with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Initial analysis will use a paired t-test of the mean change in PROMIS Sleep Disturbance from baseline to week 4 between drug and placebo. Follow up analyses will use a linear mixed effects model (with any transformation needed for assumptions to be met) with random intercept that considers the repeated measurements, possible sequence, period, and carryover effects., Baseline to day 71|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be assessed throughout the trial and adverse events during the 10 weeks of study participation will be reported using descriptive statistics for fezolinetant and for placebo. Assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Baseline through 30 days after the last dose of study treatment
This phase II trial tests how well fezolinetant works in improving vasomotor symptoms (VMS) in breast cancer patients taking endocrine therapy (ET). Anti-hormone treatments are effective for lowering the risk of breast cancer but can cause bothersome VMS, such as hot flashes and night sweats. Fezolinetant inhibits the activity of the neurokinin type 3 receptor and has shown activity against VMS in postmenopausal women. Taking fezolinetant may work well at improving VMS in breast cancer patients taking ET.