Selumetinib in Combination With Gefitinib in NSCLC Patients
This is an open-label, non-randomized, multicenter phase Ib/II study, which is composed of a phase Ib dose escalation part and a phase II dose expansion part. Patients will receive selumetinib in combination with gefitinib 250mg daily. This study will enroll EGFR-mutated NSCLC patients who have developed acquired resistance to EGFR TKI treatment.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DRUG: selumetinib
To determine the MTD and/or RP2D, Frequency and characteristics of DLTs to the selumetinib and gefitinib combination using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v.4.0. (an expected average of 18 weeks) If one patient experiences a DLT in a group of 3 or more evaluable patients, then the cohort will be expanded to include 6 evaluable patients. If only one DLT is observed in the complete cohort of 6 evaluable patients, then dose escalation may occur., an expected average of 18 weeks
Overall Response Rate (ORR), to estimate overall clinical activity of selumetinib combined with gefitinib in EGFR-mutated NSCLC patients who have acquired resistance to EGFR TKIs, Patients will be followed up for 2 years(post disease progression)
he primary objective of the dose escalation part is to determine the MTD and/or RP2D of selumetinib in combination with gefinitib. Once MTD and/or RP2D has been determined in the phase Ib dose escalation phase, study drug selumetinib with combination of 250mg QD dose of gefitinib will be further evaluated in a phase II dose expansion phase of the study. The purpose of the dose expansion phase is to evaluate the efficacy of selumetinib in combination of gefitinib and to further characterize the safety, and tolerability of the combination.

20 patients will be required in the phase II period. In the expansion phase, 10 patients with T790M and 10 patients without T790M will be enrolled. It is assumed that 20% response rate is the target of clinical interest. If the true response rate is 20%, the probability of observing no responses in a random sample of 10 patients is 0.107. The false negative rate for detecting a true 20% response rate in each cohort is approximately 10%. Each cohort will be enrolled 10 patients to evaluate the efficacy; therefore 20 patients will be enrolled in dose expansion part. Patients treated at the MTD and/or RP2D during the phase Ib will be considered as part of the required number of patients in the phase II. Patients at the MTD or RP2D cannot contribute to the 20 patients require for phase II part.