Phase 1 Trial To Evaluate mFOLFOX6 With Selinexor In Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This trial will evaluate the combination treatment of established chemotherapy regimen mFOLFOX6 with Selinexor, an oral Selective Inhibitor Of Nuclear Export, in patients with metastatic Colorectal Cancer. The purpose is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of selinexor in combination with mFOLFOX6.
Colorectal Neoplasm
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: Folinic Acid
Numbers of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicities, Primary objective is the determination of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of selinexor in combination with mFOLFOX6 in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

Criteria to assess MTD was the experience of AEs \> grade 3, discontinuation from study treatment due to adverse events or withdrawal of consent by the patients., 28 days of treatment
Overall Response Rate, Secondary objectives are to determine the efficacy and tolerability of selinexor in combination with mFOLFOX6 in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer by

- Overall response rate (RR) (acc. to RECIST v1.1)

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed byCT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Secondary objectives are to determine the efficacy and tolerability of selinexor in combination with mFOLFOX6 in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer by

- Progression free survival (PFS) The disease status was measured by CT/MRI and evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria every 8 weeks during treatment, at End of Treatment and every 3 weeks during Follow-up to determine time until patient has Progressive Disease (PD). PD is defined according to RECIST v1.1 at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., 2 years|Number of Patients Still Alive at End of Study (Overall Survival), Secondary objectives are to determine the efficacy and tolerability of selinexor in combination with mFOLFOX6 in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer by

- Overall survival (OS)

Overall survial is defined as length of time from start of treatment that patients are still alive. For this time-to-event variables the Kaplan-Meier method was intended to be used, 2 years|Number of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events, Secondary objectives are to determine the efficacy and tolerability of selinexor in combination with mFOLFOX6 in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer by

- Toxicity (acc. to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTC AE) v4.03), treatment start to up to 30 days after last dose
This was a multi center, open-label, non-randomized phase I trial study to determine the MTD of a combination of mFOLFOX6 (Folinic Acid (Leucovorin)-Fluorouracil-Oxaliplatin) and selinexor in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

After screening and registration in the study, all enrolled patients were to be treated with oxaliplatin (85 mg/m² IV over 2 hours, Day 1), 5-FU (5-Fluorouracil 400 mg/m2 IV bolus, Day 1), leukovorin (400 mg/m2 IV over 2 hours, Day 1), and 5-FU (2,400 mg/m² continuous infusion, Days 1-3) every 2 weeks and escalating doses of selinexor as follows:

Patients in Dose Level 1 were to receive oral selinexor 40 mg on day 1, 3, and 8.

Patients in Dose Level 2 were to receive oral selinexor 60 mg on day 1, 3, and 8.

Patients in Dose Level 3 were to receive oral selinexor 80 mg on day 1, 3, and 8.

Patients in Dose Level -1 were to receive oral selinexor 20 mg on day 1, 3, and 8.

The MTD was defined as the highest dose level at which six patients had been treated with no toxicity and tolerance of the dose escalation of Selinexor with mFOLFOX6 was evaluated.

Six patients were to be initially treated in a cohort. Safety data were monitored in real time. As soon as last patient of the cohort (either 6th or 9th) reached day 28, safety data of all patients within that cohort were reviewed for decision about opening up a new cohort by moving to the next dose level or expand the cohort or discontinue dose escalation.