Dasatinib as First-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
RATIONALE: Dasatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well dasatinib works as first-line therapy in treating patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor
DRUG: dasatinib
Response as assessed by fusion PET/CT scan according to EORTC PET Study Group criteria, at 4 weeks compared to baseline
Best response as assessed by CT scan/MRI, according to RECIST criteria|Best response as assessed by fusion PET/CT scan, at 4 weeks|Clinical benefit, Clinical benefit is defined as CR, PR, or as SD lasting at least 12 weeks, determined according to RECIST|Time to progression, calculated from registration until progression or death due to tumor|Progression-free survival, calculated from registration until progression or death|Time to treatment failure, calculated from registration until premature trial treatment termination due to any reason|Overall survival, Overall survival will be calculated from registration until death or last follow-up, up to 5 years.|Adverse drug reactions according to NCI CTCAE v3.0, Tolerability will be assessed based on the frequency and severity of Adverse Drug Reactions (ADR) coded according to NCI CTCAE v3.0.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the efficacy of dasatinib as assessed by fusion PET/CT scan in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors.

Secondary

* To determine the efficacy and safety of dasatinib in these patients.
* To correlate the efficacy of dasatinib with KIT and PDGFR mutational status.
* To correlate the efficacy and safety of dasatinib with dasatinib drug exposure.
* To determine the efficacy of second-line treatment with another TK-inhibitor.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral dasatinib twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 4 years.