Physical Activity With or Without Dexamethasone in Reducing Cancer-Related Fatigue in Patients With Locally Advanced, Metastatic, or Recurrent Cancer
This phase II/III trial studies how well physical activity with or without dexamethasone works in reducing cancer-related fatigue in patients with cancer that has spread to other places in the body or has come back. Dexamethasone may decrease the body's immune response. Combining physical activity with dexamethasone may help to treat fatigue in patients with cancer.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid System Neoplasm|Locally Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Dexamethasone|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Placebo Administration
Feasibility For Participants with Cancer-Related Fatigue (CRF), Will be assessed by the proportion of participants completing the intervention. Will estimate 95% confidence intervals for the proportion of patients completing the intervention., Up to 1 month|Adherence, Will be calculated as the mean of the % of total prescribed strength training sessions and the % of total prescribed walking regimen minutes completed (exercise), and mean (across all patients) percentage of total prescribed pills taken (study medication) as detailed above. Will estimate 95% confidence intervals for the proportion of patients completing the intervention and the adherence rate., Up to 1 month|Satisfaction, Will estimate 95% confidence intervals for the proportion of patients with a satisfaction rating of "somewhat satisfied" or "completely satisfied.", Up to 1 month
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the hypotheses that patients with cancer-related fatigue (CRF) will be satisfied with the physical activity + dexamethasone (PA+ DEX) intervention, have adequate rates of adherence, and that PA+ DEX will be feasible for patients with CRF.

Ia. To determine if the combination of PA+ DEX is a feasible intervention for advanced cancer patients, as evidenced by an adherence rate to daily use of PA+ DEX greater than or equal to 75%.

Ib. To determine if patients are satisfied with PA+ DEX, based on more than 75% of patients indicating their satisfaction with PA+ DEX with a rating of "somewhat satisfied" or "completely satisfied."

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the hypothesis that PA+ DEX (PA for 4 weeks plus dexamethasone 4 mg twice a day for 1 week) will be more efficacious than PA+ placebo (PA for 4 weeks plus placebo for 1 week) on CRF as measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F).

Ia. To determine if PA+ DEX results in robust reduction in FACIT-F subscale scores (defined as \>= 10 point improvement in 60% of patients).

II. To explore the effects of PA+ DEX on fatigue-related symptoms and function. IIa. To determine if PA+ DEX improves CRF by targeting the various associated factors of CRF.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive dexamethasone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 7 days. Patients also complete resistance training and moderate intensity walking at home for minimum 5 days per week over 4 weeks.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 7 days. Patients also complete resistance training and moderate intensity walking as in Arm I.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 29 days and 1 month.