Chemotherapy Plus Hormone Therapy Versus Androgen Suppression in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining hormone therapy with chemotherapy and androgen suppression may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known which treatment regimen is more effective for prostate cancer.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of chemotherapy plus hormone therapy versus androgen suppression alone as initial therapy in patients with prostate cancer that is metastatic or that cannot be removed surgically.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Bicalutamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: Estramustine Phosphate Sodium|DRUG: Flutamide|DRUG: Ketoconazole|DRUG: Nilutamide|DRUG: Therapeutic Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Vinblastine|PROCEDURE: Conventional Surgery
Time to Progression, From baseline to post treatment (minimally 24+ weeks)
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the clinical benefit, as measured by time to progression and overall survival, of chemo/hormonal therapy compared to androgen ablation alone, when given as the initial systemic treatment in patients with acinar adenocarcinoma of the prostate that is not amenable to local therapy.
* Validate the clinical significance of PSA criteria for progression.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients are treated with medical or surgical castration followed by an anti-androgen therapy with either flutamide, bicalutamide, or nilutamide.
* Arm II: Patients receive chemo/hormonal therapy for 3 eight week courses, followed by total androgen blockade. Each course consists of 6 weeks of cytotoxic therapy with doxorubicin, ketoconazole, vinblastine, and estramustine followed by 2 weeks of rest. These patients are also maintained on hydrocortisone both during treatment and during rest.

Patients in arm II have a long-term central venous access device inserted.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 368 patients will be accrued for this study.