The Immuno-Response to Primary Cryotherapy for the Treatment of Prostate Cancer
This randomized pilot phase I trial studies how well sargramostim after cryotherapy works in treating patients with prostate cancer. Biological therapies, such as sargramostim, use substances made from living organisms that may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Cryosurgery, also known as cryotherapy, kills tumor cells by freezing them. Giving sargramostim after cryotherapy may work better in treating prostate cancer.
Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage I Prostate Cancer|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: cryotherapy|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim
Change in B cell response identified by Serametrix assay, A scatter plot of each cytokine and antigen level will be created for each patient by marker to observe the behavior of the markers (rising, falling, flat, or combination over time). Patient specific pre-operative levels will be used to obtain individual baseline measures from which the difference in follow-up cytokine and antigen levels will be calculated, then a simple descriptive comparison of the mean elevation in the markers' levels across cohorts will be graphed., Baseline to up to 3 months after cryotherapy|Change in T cell responses identified by Intracellular cytokine assay and enzyme-linked immunospot, A scatter plot of each cytokine and antigen level will be created for each patient by marker to observe the behavior of the markers (rising, falling, flat, or combination over time). Patient specific pre-operative levels will be used to obtain individual baseline measures from which the difference in follow-up cytokine and antigen levels will be calculated, then a simple descriptive comparison of the mean elevation in the markers' levels across cohorts will be graphed., Baseline to up to 3 months after cryotherapy
Change in PSA levels in serum samples, Up to 6 months after cryotherapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine an unknown normal immune response (T cell and B cell) to post-cryotherapy treatment for prostate cancer.

II. Detect the altered immune response (T cell and B cell) post-GM-CSF (sargramostim) response and post-cryotherapy for the prostate cancer.

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (TREATMENT): Patients undergo cryotherapy on day 0 and receive sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, and 12.

ARM II (CONTROL): Patients undergo cryotherapy on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 months.