Palbociclib / Letrozole or Fulvestrant in African American Women With HR+ HER2- Breast Cancer
This study aims to evaluate the hematological safety of palbociclib with letrozole and fulvestrant in African American women with hormone receptor positive HER2 negative advanced breast cancer. Hematological safety is a composite endpoint of episodes of febrile neutropenia and treatment discontinuation due to neutropenia according to current recommendations for management of neutropenia
Hormone Receptor Positive HER-2 Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Palbociclib + Letrozole or Fulvestrant
Number of Patients Who Complete Planned Oncologic Therapy Without the Development of a Hematological Event, For study purpose febrile neutropenia will be defined according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0: "ANC less than 1000/mm3 with a single temperature of \>38.3 degrees Celsius (101 degrees Fahrenheit) or a sustained temperature of 38 degrees Celsius (100.4 degrees Fahrenheit) for more than one hour."

Planned oncology therapy is defined as completion of one year of therapy for advanced breast cancer in the absence of disease progression or cessation of study drug due to progressive disease or non-hematological toxicity., 12 months
Dose Delays in Palbociclib Attributed to Neutropenia, Number of patients who required dose delays in palbociclib attributed to neutropenia., 12 months|Dose Reductions in Palbociclib Therapy Attributed to Neutropenia, Number of patients who required dose reductions in palbociclib therapy, 12 months|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), for those with evaluable disease, defined as the percentage of patients who achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease. RECIST 1.1 was used as the standard way to measure response to treatment. The mean (SD) of specific metabolites were calculated at each time point and graphically assess these measures over time with clinical response and hematological toxicity. The mean change in these variables from baseline to each follow-up point was be calculated. Generalized linear model was utilized for the correlative analysis of clinical response and hematologic events., 24 weeks
The study is designed to assess the rate of completion of planned oncology therapy in the absence of a hematological event defined as episodes of febrile neutropenia and treatment discontinuation due to neutropenia. A completion rate of 80% is considered of clinical relevance as to benefit breast cancer patients who are at a higher risk of having ethnic neutropenia where as a completion rate of 60% is considered poor and to justify additional safety studies. A two stage design with a total of 35 patients is used to test if the completion rate is at least 80% versus if it is below 60% with 80% power at a significance level of 5%.

An exact confidence interval of the completion rate will be calculated. Investigators estimate there will be no more than a 10% rate of febrile neutropenia. Due to the small sample size, the analysis of secondary endpoints will be descriptive and will not include specific hypothesis testing.