A Study of Mirvetuximab Soravtansine vs. Investigator's Choice (IC) of Chemotherapy in Platinum-Resistant, Advanced High-Grade Epithelial Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancers With High Folate Receptor-Alpha (FRα) Expression
This Phase 3 study is designed to compare the efficacy and safety of mirvetuximab soravtansine (MIRV) vs. IC chemotherapy in participants with platinum-resistant high-grade epithelial ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer, whose tumors express a high-level of FRα. Participants will be, in the opinion of the Investigator, appropriate for single-agent therapy for their next line of therapy. The FRα positivity will be defined by the Ventana FOLR1 (FOLR1-2.1) CDx assay.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer
DRUG: Mirvetuximab Soravtansine|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin
Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from randomization until progressive disease (PD) or death whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters (SoD) of target lesion, taken as reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since and including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the SoD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). Unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and appearance of new lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., From randomization until PD or death, whichever occurred first (up to 28 months)
Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that develops or worsens in severity during the conduct of a clinical study and does not necessarily have a causal relationship to study drug. TEAEs are defined as AEs with an onset date on or after the first dose of Study drug, and within 30 days of the last dose of study drug or prior to the start of a new anticancer treatment, whichever occurrs first., Up to 28 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), as Assessed by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, ORR is defined as percentage of participants with a confirmed best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: Disappearance of all target or non-target lesions. All pathological or non-pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (SoD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SoD., Up to 28 months|Overall Survival Assessed by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of first dose until the date of death from any cause, estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 30 months|Number of Participants Achieving at Least 15 Point Absolute Improvement at Week 8 or 9 in the Abdominal/GI Scale of European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire - Ovarian Cancer Module 28 (QLQ-OV28), EORTC-QLQ-OV28 includes 3 functional scales (body image, sexuality, attitude to disease/treatment) and 5 symptom scales/items (abdominal/gastrointestinal \[GI\] symptoms, peripheral neuropathy, hormonal/menopausal symptoms, other chemotherapy side-effects, and hair loss). Functional scales score (body Image and attitude to disease/treatment) is calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (1 minus \[average score minus 1\] divided by 3\*100). Functional scales score (sexuality) is calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (\[average score minus 1\] divided by 3\*100). All of the functional scales range in score from 0 to 100. Higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning. The number of participants achieving at least 15 point absolute improvement at Week 8 or Week 9 in the abdominal/GI scale of the EORTC QLQ-OV28., Baseline and Week 8 or 9|Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, DOR is defined as the time from the date of the first response (CR or PR), until the date of PD or death from any cause, whichever occurrs first. DOR for participants who has not progressed or died at the time of analysis are censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. PD: At least a 20% increase in the SoD of target lesion, taken as reference the smallest (nadir) SoD since and including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the SoD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase. DOR is estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 28 months|Percentage of Participants With CA-125 Confirmed Clinical Response Per Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) Criteria, The GCIG CA-125 response is defined as at least 50% reduction in CA-125 levels from baseline. The response must have been confirmed and maintained for at least 28 days., Up to 28 months|Time to Second Progression-Free Survival (PFS 2), PFS 2 is defined as the time from date of randomization until second disease progression or death whichever occurs first., Up to 28 months
Participants will be randomized to either MIRV or IC chemotherapy (paclitaxel, PEGylated liposomal doxorubicin, or topotecan).