Testing Nivolumab as a Potential Targeted Treatment in Cancers With Mismatch Repair Deficiency (MATCH-Subprotocol Z1D)
This phase II MATCH treatment trial identifies the effects of nivolumab in patients whose cancer has a genetic change called mismatch repair deficiency. Mismatch repair deficiency refers to cells that have mutations (changes) in certain genes that are involved in correcting mistakes made when DNA is copied in a cell. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells with mismatch repair deficiency to grow and spread. Researchers hope to learn if nivolumab will shrink this type of cancer or stop its growth.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate was defined as the proportion of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) among all eligible and treated patients. Best overall response was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. The 90% two-sided binomial exact confidence interval was calculated for ORR., assessed at baseline, then every 8 weeks for the first 2 years, then every 12 weeks in year 3, until disease progression
6-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate, PFS was defined as time from treatment start date to date of disease progression or death from any causes, whichever occurred first. The 6-month PFS rate was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method which can provide a point estimate for any specific time point. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients., assessed at baseline, then every 8 weeks for the first 2 years, then every 12 weeks in year 3, until disease progression|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as time from treatment start date to date of disease progression or death from any causes, whichever occurred first. Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients., assessed at baseline, then every 8 weeks for the first 2 years, then every 12 weeks in year 3, until disease progression
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

II. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of cycles 1-4 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if less than 2 years from study entry, and then every 6 months for year 3 from study entry.

THE MATCH SCREENING TRIAL:

Please see NCT02465060 for information on the MATCH Screening Protocol and applicable documents.