Cannabidiol Expanded Access Study in Medically Refractory Sturge-Weber Syndrome
The purpose of this study is to determine the tolerability and optimal dose of cannabidiol (CBD) as an simultaneous treatment in children and young adults with Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) and drug resistant epilepsy.
Sturge-Weber Syndrome
DRUG: Cannabidiol
Number of Seizures Per Month, A baseline seizure frequency was recorded for each subject in a diary for eight weeks prior to investigational drug initiation and parents/caregivers documented seizures on a daily basis throughout the trial using a seizure log. For assessing the efficacy of CBD, the investigator counted the change in frequency of seizures per month. The number of seizures within 56 days of the baseline and the number of seizures within 56 days of week 14 were calculated. Higher seizure frequency indicates worse outcome. This outcome is measured as the change in number of seizures per month between the baseline and week 14 time points., Measured within 56 days before baseline and 56 days before week 14
Percentage Change in Seizure Frequency at Most Recent Visit on CBD Compared With Baseline, The percentage change, between the seizure frequency per month reported at baseline compared to seizure frequency per month at the subject's most recent visit, on CBD was calculated. Higher positive percentage change in seizure frequency per month would indicate better outcome. Positive values indicate a decrease in seizure frequency., Measured at Baseline and most recent visit within 1 year
We hope to gain an understanding of the utility of pure CBD used for the treatment of medically refractory epilepsy in SWS in this open-label, safety dose-finding, study. Recent evidence suggests that CBD has multiple, beneficial, effects in patients (such as those with SWS that undergo neurological deterioration) suffering from medically refractory seizures. We hypothesize that CBD will reduce seizure frequency in children and young adults with SWS and will therefore help stabilize and improve their neurologic status.This trial is part of an expanded access program, available through a partnership with GW Pharmaceutical, which has been sanctioned by the FDA to study the safety and efficacy of Epidiolex (cannabidiol/CBD) in participants with SWS and medically refractory seizures.