Testing the Addition of an Anti-cancer Drug, Berzosertib, to the Usual Treatment (Radiation Therapy) for Chemotherapy-Resistant Triple-Negative and Estrogen and/or Progesterone Receptor Positive, HER2 Negative Breast Cancer
This phase Ib trial studies the best dose of berzosertib when given together with the usual treatment (radiation therapy) in treating patients with triple negative or estrogen receptor and/or progesterone receptor positive, HER-2 negative breast cancer. Berzosertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radiation therapy uses high energy rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving M6620 and radiation therapy may kill tumor cells more effectively than radiation alone or shrink or stabilize breast cancer for longer than radiation therapy alone.
Bilateral Breast Carcinoma|HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Localized Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Berzosertib|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Recommended phase II dose of berzosertib, The maximum tolerated dose will be defined as the highest dose level with a dose-limiting toxicity rate closest to 0.25 and =\< .33., Up to 4 weeks post treatment
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be defined by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and will be summarized descriptively for each dose level and the entire cohort. The number and severity of all AEs (overall and by dose-level) will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. The grade 3+ AEs will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion., Up to 3 years|Time to progression, Locoregional control will be split by each dose level and analyzed descriptively using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From study registration until the tumor recurs in the ipsilateral breast, chest wall, axillary, supracavicular or internal mammary nodes (if before or synchronous with a systemic recurrence), assessed up to 3 years|Disease-free survival (DFS), Will be split by each dose level and analyzed descriptively using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From study registration until the tumor recurs or the patient dies, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years|Distant DFS, Will be split by each dose level and analyzed descriptively using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From study registration until distant disease recurs or the patient dies, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival, Will be split by each dose level and analyzed descriptively using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From study registration until death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Change in patient-related outcomes (PRO), Patient reported physical well-being, fatigue, skin toxicity (as measured by the PRO-CTCAE) and overall quality of life (as measured by the Breast-Q) will be summarized. The PRO-CTCAE data will be evaluated for data quality, to characterize baseline symptom status of patients on study and the change over time, to explore the development of symptomatic AEs and the change over time, and to explore the patient scores with other relevant clinical information, including clinician graded AEs. Changes in Breast-Q scores through time will be analyzed using graphical methods separately for each treatment level., Baseline up to 3 years|Alterations in deoxyribonucleic acid damage response and repair genes, Will include effectors and regulators of homologous recombination (HR) and be correlated with HR deficiency with disease-free survival. Descriptive statistics (i.e., mean, median, standard deviation, and range) and graphical methods (i.e., boxplots, jitter plots) will be used to summarize and compare the relapses by different dose levels. The number of relapses between the HR-deficient versus (vs.) the HR-proficient patients will be compared using a Chi-square test or independence or Fisher's Exact test. DFS for the HR-deficient and HR-proficient patients will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose of twice weekly berzosertib administered concurrently with conventionally fractionated radiation therapy (RT) to the breast/chest wall and regional nodes.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the nature of toxicity that develops when an ATR inhibitor is administered concurrently with RT for breast cancer using provider assessments.

II. To assess long-term locoregional control, disease-free survival, distant disease-free survival, and overall survival of patients treated with this approach.

III. To explore symptomatic adverse events and tolerability of berzosertib being administered concurrently with RT using patient-reported outcomes (PROs).

IV. To assess for alterations in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage response and repair genes, including effectors and regulators of homologous recombination (HR), in pre-chemotherapy biopsy specimens and post-chemotherapy surgical resection specimens using whole exome sequencing (WES) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq), and to correlate HR deficiency with disease-free survival.

V. To identify somatic alterations in circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) at baseline, mid-treatment, end-of-treatment, and follow-up and to correlate cfDNA with disease-free survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the baseline and post-treatment skin microbiome and make exploratory correlations with severe provider and patient-reported toxicity.

II. To explore dose-volume parameters associated with acute and late provider and patient-reported toxicity following berzosertib administration concurrent with RT.

III. To identify circulating tumor cell (CTC) positivity at baseline, mid-treatment, end-of-treatment, and follow-up and to correlate CTC positivity or the combination of CTC positivity and cfDNA with disease-free survival.

IV. To evaluate pre-treatment and post-treatment differential abundance of peripheral blood immune cell populations identified by cytometry by time-of flight (CyTOF).

V. To evaluate associations of the pre-treatment and post-treatment peripheral blood immune phenotype (as assessed by CyTOF) with disease-free survival, distant disease-free survival and overall survival.

VI. To explore the USP21-ATR pathway and its association with epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) in therapeutically resistant breast cancer specimens at pre-treatment and post-treatment timepoints using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and RNAseq.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of berzosertib.

Patients receive berzosertib intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes twice weekly (BIW) for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo RT 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks depending on the type of surgery undergone. Patients also undergo a collection of blood on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up weekly for 4 weeks, at 12 months, then yearly for up to 3 years.