Development of Urologic Registry for Personalized Medicine in Patients With Urological Malignancy by Analyzing Circulating Tumor DNA
Urological malignancies such as prostate cancer and renal cell cancer in Korean population have been increased due to the aged population and the westernized lifestyles. With the advancement of sequencing technologies, use of genetic mutation profiles in cancer detection and progression has been increased. However, use of circulating tumor DNA in urological malignances have been limited and few studies have been reported. Therefore, we tried to evaluate the usefulness of circulating tumor DNA in detection and monitoring of urological malignancies in Korean population. This study aims to use circulating tumor DNA in plasma and urine for the diagnosis, disease progression monitoring and therapeutic response evaluation. This study plan includes building big databases for circulating tumor DNA of urological malignancies in Korean population and to develop optimized circulating tumor DNA platform.
Prostate Cancer|Renal Cell Cancer|Bladder Cancer|Ureter Cancer
Correlation between genetic mutations of circulating tumor DNA in plasma and urine samples and genetic mutations of primary tumor tissue samples, evaluate mutation profiles of circulating tumor DNA in plasma and urine samples and associate with mutation profiles of primary tumor tissue samples : evaluate the mutation frequency of specific genes in both circulating tumor DNA in plasma and urine samples in association with primary tumor tissues, within 2 weeks after the surgery
Correlation between circulating tumor DNA and early diagnosis and prognosis in urological malignancies, evaluate the association of circulating tumor DNA and early diagnosis of urological malignancies : evaluate the association of circulating tumor DNA and early detection of recurrence : evaluate the association of circulating tumor DNA and cancer-specific survival, within 10 years after the surgery
Urological malignancies such as prostate cancer and renal cell cancer in Korean population have been increased due to the aged population and the westernized lifestyles. With the advancement of sequencing technologies, use of genetic mutation profiles in cancer detection and progression has been increased. However, use of circulating tumor DNA in urological malignances have been limited and few studies have been reported. Therefore, we tried to evaluate the usefulness of circulating tumor DNA in detection and monitoring of urological malignancies in Korean population. This study aims to use circulating tumor DNA in plasma and urine for the diagnosis, disease progression monitoring and therapeutic response evaluation. This study plan includes building big databases for circulating tumor DNA of urological malignancies in Korean population and to develop optimized circulating tumor DNA platform.