Infertility Survey Among Reproductive Age Women With Gynecological and Breast Cancer
This study develops infertility survey among reproductive age women with gynecological and breast cancer. This study aims to learn how women consider whether or not to try to have a baby after surviving cancer. The advice gathered from this survey may be shared with patients and survivors in the future, so that they have information to inform their decisions about cancer treatment and family planning.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Endometrial Carcinoma|Female Reproductive System Disorder|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA1 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA2 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB1 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IC Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8
BEHAVIORAL: Healthcare Activity|OTHER: Survey Administration
Underlying constructs, Will be measured by the Oncofertility Barriers Scale. Will perform factor analysis using principal axis factoring with oblique rotation to simplify the construct interpretation., Up to 3 years|Known-group validity, Will use t-test to compare two groups. If the distributional assumptions are not met, will use the Mann Whitney test., Up to 3 years|Convergent validity, Will correlate Oncofertility Barriers Scale scores with Evaluation and Nurturing Relationship Issues, Communication and Happiness scores. Analysis of variance will be used to generate a generalizability coefficient for relevant factors, as distributions allow. As distributions allow, will also assess a priori hypotheses that divergence will be observed among groups of women with different ages, cancer types, time since completing cancer treatment, and priori fertility concerns, as well as access to and utilization of fertility care. All tests will be two-sided and use a significance level of 0.05., Up to 3 years|Live birth, Will compare cancer diagnosis, treatment characteristics and patient reported survey results by live birth (yes versus no) using a 2-sample t-test (or Wilcoxon depending on underlying distribution) and chi-squared test (or Fisher's exact test). Will also conduct logistic regression analysis regressing live birth on predictors of interest, and build a multivariable model based on univariate results including all terms significant at the 0.10 level then refining the model using backwards selection to include variables significant at the 0.05 level in the final model., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To tailor the National Fertility Barriers (NFB) Survey for women who have had gynecological and breast cancers.

II. To administer the tailored survey and evaluate if utilization of infertility clinics and treatments is associated with pregnancies leading to live births after gynecological or breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether potential covariates are associated with utilization of infertility clinics and live births after gynecological and breast cancers (e.g. socio-demographic, clinical, psychological, lifestyle, and decision-making characteristics).

OUTLINE:

FOCUS GROUP: Patients attend an audiotaped focus group over 90 minutes to provide feedback for survey development.

SURVEY VALIDATION: Patients complete an online survey over 15-30 minutes at baseline and 2 days later.

TELEPHONE SURVEY: Patients complete a telephone survey.