Adebrelimab in Combination With Apatinib and Chemotherapy/Chemoradiotherapy in Immuno-experienced Second-line ESCC.
To assess the efficacy and safety of adebrelimab in combination with apatinib mesylate and chemoradiotherapy in immuno-experienced second-line esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (with symptomatic dysphagia or oligometastatic disease)，and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adebrelimab in combination with apatinib mesylate and chemoradiotherapy in immuno-experienced second-line esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (without symptomatic dysphagia or oligometastatic disease).
Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Adebrelimab|DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: Investigator chosen chemotherapy (ICC)|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Progression-free survival，PFS, Time from randomization to patient's tumor progression or death, 9 months
Objective Response Rate，ORR, The proportion of patients whose tumor shrinks to a certain amount and remains for a certain period of time, 1 year|Overall survival,OS, The time from the beginning of randomization to death due to any cause., 1 year|Duration of Response,DoR, The time from the first assessment of the tumor as CR or PR to the first assessment of PD (Progressive Disease) or death from any cause., 1 year|Disease control rate,DCR, The proportion of patients whose tumors have shrunk or stabilized and remain for a certain period of time (mainly for solid tumors), including cases of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD)., 1 year|Time to response, Time from randomization to the achievement of the first objective response, 1 year|1-year OS rate, Percentage of patients who are still alive after 1 year, 1 year|9-month survival rate, Percentage of patients who are still alive after 9-month, 1 year
The treatment of advanced second-line esophageal squamous cell carcinoma has always been mainly chemotherapy. Since 2019, a number of phase III clinical trials (ESCORT, KEYNOTE-181, RATIONALE 302, ATRACTION-3, etc.) have confirmed that there is a significant difference in OS between the immune monotherapy group and the chemotherapy group, and immunotherapy can bring better survival benefits. Although the above studies have brought new possibilities for second-line patients with advanced esophageal cancer, the results of the study show that the response rate of immune monotherapy is limited, with a single-agent ORR of about 13%-20%, mPFS of about 2 months, and mOS about 8 months. Therefore, finding a suitable combination therapy model to further improve the efficacy of advanced second-line esophageal cancer has gradually become a research hotspot in recent years. In recent years, many experts have also made a lot of explorations. The combination of anti-angiogenic drugs and immunotherapy drugs can be synergistic.

Dysphagia is a major symptom in patients with esophageal cancer, leading to significant nutritional deficiencies, pain, and subsequent deterioration in quality of life. Management of dysphagia is a key goal of esophageal cancer treatment, along with the need to improve nutritional status and quality of life, which may have a positive impact on the overall prognosis of patients. Current treatment methods for dysphagia include esophageal dilation, endoluminal stenting, systemic chemotherapy, external beam radiotherapy (EBRT), brachytherapy, and concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CTRT). At present, there is no consensus on how to better manage this symptom with these treatment regimens, and more research is needed to continue to explore.

To assess the efficacy and safety of adebrelimab in combination with apatinib mesylate and chemoradiotherapy in immuno-experienced second-line esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (with symptomatic dysphagia or oligometastatic disease), and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adebrelimab in combination with apatinib mesylate and chemoradiotherapy in immuno-experienced second-line esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (without symptomatic dysphagia or oligometastatic disease).