Pilot Study of Pembrolizumab Treatment for Disease Relapse After Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation
This pilot study has been designed to investigate the safety of pembrolizumab treatment for disease relapse following allogeneic stem cell transplant (alloSCT). Pembrolizumab will be administered at a fixed dose of 200 mg IV every 3 weeks. Approximately 12-26 patients with relapsed MDS, AML, or mature B cell (B-NHL, cHL) malignancies that have relapsed following alloSCT will be enrolled on this trial. Pembrolizumab treatment will be administered for up to 24 months, provided that neither disease progression, nor development of a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), has occurred. Adverse events will be monitored every three weeks throughout the trial and graded in severity according to the guidelines outlined in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. This trial will be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices.
Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Number of Patients With Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT is defined as the development of grade 3 or 4 acute GVHD (defined by the Gluckenberg scale), graft rejection, the development of any unexpected grade \> 2 toxicity felt to be related to pembrolizumab, or the development of \> grade 2 dysfunction of a vital organ felt to be secondary to an immune-related adverse event within 90 days following the initiation of pembrolizumab treatment., 90 days
Time Between Initial Response and Subsequent Disease Progression or Relapse, To determine the duration of response (DOR) of patients treated with pembrolizumab in the setting of relapsed myeloid malignancies and mature B cell lymphomas following alloSCT., From date of response until the date of first documented progression or relapse, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months|Objective Response Rate, For B cell lymphoma patients, partial and complete responses will be defined according to the International Working Group criteria. For MDS patients, partial and complete responses (including cytogenetic responses) will be defined according to the International Working Group criteria. Lastly, for AML patients, complete (including CR, CRp, CRi), and partial responses will be defined according to the European Leukemia Net response criteria., 24 months|Time Between the Start of Therapy to Death From Any Cause., Survival time in days, patients alive as of last follow-up were censored, From start date of therapy to the date of death from any cause, whichever may come first, assessed up to 24 months
Effect on Restoring Donor Chimerism, To determine the effect of pembrolizumab on restoring donor chimerism in patients with relapsed myeloid malignancies and mature B cell lymphomas following alloSCT., 24 months|Effect of Pembrolizumab on the Numbers and Activations Status of Peripheral Blood T Cells, 24 months|Compare PD-L1 Expression on Malignant Cells at Initial Diagnosis and at Disease Relapse Following alloSCT, 24 months|Effect of Pembrolizumab on the T Cell Receptor (TCR) Repertoire in the Peripheral Blood, and Where Available, Tumor Environment, Following alloSCT, 24 months
This pilot study has been designed to investigate the safety of pembrolizumab treatment for disease relapse following allogeneic stem cell transplant (alloSCT). Pembrolizumab will be administered at a fixed dose of 200 mg IV every 3 weeks. Approximately 12-26 patients with relapsed MDS, AML, or mature B cell (B-NHL, cHL) malignancies that have relapsed following alloSCT will be enrolled on this trial. Pembrolizumab treatment will be administered for up to 24 months, provided that neither disease progression, nor development of a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), has occurred. Adverse events will be monitored every three weeks throughout the trial and graded in severity according to the guidelines outlined in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. This trial will be conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practices.