TAS-102 Combined With Bevacizumab for Second-line Maintenance Treatment of Advanced Colorectal Cancer
This study is a randomized, controlled, open-label, multicentre clinical study. This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of TAS-102 combined with bevacizumab as second-line maintenance therapy versus standard chemotherapy combined with bevacizumab as second-line continuous therapy in advanced colorectal cancer after second-line induction therapy.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: TAS-102+bevacizumab|DRUG: Standard chemotherapy+bevacizumab
Time to treatment failure (TTF), TTF is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the discontinuation of the trial protocol., up to approximately 2 years.
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by investigator assessment per RECIST criteria, version 1.1., up to approximately 2 years.|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD)., up to approximately 2 years.|Duration of Response (DoR), Response will be determined by investigator using RECIST 1.1., up to approximately 2 years.|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization until the date of first occurrence of investigator-assessed radiological disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever came first., up to approximately 2 years.|Overall survival（OS）, OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., up to approximately 2 years.|Adverse Events, AE assessed by NCI-CTCAE v5.0., up to approximately 2 years.|European Quality of Life Five Dimensions Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), EQ-5D-5L is an abbreviation for "European Quality of life - 5 Dimensions - 5 Level" and measures Quality of Life. The scale has five subcomponents with scores from 1 (best) to 5 (worst)., up to approximately 2 years.|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), To compare change in Quality of Life, as defined by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3)) during study treatment.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3) uses for the questions 1 to 28 a 4-point scale. The scale scores from 1 to 4: 1 ("Not at all"), 2 ("A little"), 3 ("Quite a bit") and 4 ("Very much"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 3. For the raw score, less points are considered to have a better outcome.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3) uses for the questions 29 and 30 a 7-points scale. The scale scores from 1 to 7: 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 6. More points are considered to have a better outcome., up to approximately 2 years.
This study is a randomized, controlled, open-label, multicentre clinical study. This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of TAS-102 combined with bevacizumab as second-line maintenance therapy versus standard chemotherapy combined with bevacizumab as second-line continuous therapy in advanced colorectal cancer after second-line induction therapy.

The primary endpoint is investigator-assessed time to treatment failure (TTF). Secondary endpoints include ORR, DCR, DoR, PFS, OS, safety and patient reported outcomes.

This study plans to enroll 224 patients with advanced colorectal cancer who have previously achieved disease control after second-line induction therapy with standard chemotherapy (FOLFOX, FOLFIRI, or CAPEOX) combined with bevacizumab.

The subjects will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the TAS-102 combined with bevacizumab second-line maintenance treatment group (experimental group) and the standard chemotherapy combined with bevacizumab second-line continuous treatment group (control group).