Study of DNA Damage, Angiogenesis, and PD-L1 Inhibitors in Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a phase 2, single-centre, randomized, multi-cohort trial of subjects with advanced Mismatch Repair Proficient Colorectal Cancer (MMRp-CRC), Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma (PA), and Leiomyosarcoma (LMS). Subjects will be stratified based on their primary malignancy and enrolled into one of the following cohorts:

* Cohort A: olaparib and durvalumab.
* Cohort B: cediranib and durvalumab.

Subjects will receive durvalumab through an intravenous line every 4 weeks. If subjects are assigned to the olaparib group, then they will take this pill twice a day continuously. If subjects are assigned to the cediranib group, then they will take this pill once a day for 5 consecutive days, and then have 2 consecutive days off, every week.

Subjects will be enrolled in this trial to evaluate the changes in genomic and immune biomarkers in tumor, peripheral blood and stool samples, in addition to changes in radiomic profiles. About 90 people (45 subjects in each cohort) will be enrolled into this study at the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre.
Mismatch Repair Proficient Colorectal Cancer|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Leiomyosarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Cediranib
Changes in genomic and immune biomarkers that will be measured in the baseline biopsy and the first on-treatment biopsy by applying a log-transformation and the t-test., If a departure from the normal distribution will be noticed for the distributions of the CD8 and CD4 then a log-transformation will be applied. The CD8 and CD4 will be compared between responders and non-responders by applying the t-test. Subgroup analysis based on the site will also be attempted., 3 years
Overall response rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR), 3 years|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), Clinical benefit rate (CBR), 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS), 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS), 3 years|Antitumor activity based on iRECIST, Antitumor activity based on iRECIST, 3 years|Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs), 3 years
The goal of this study is to evaluate the changes in genomic and immune biomarkers in tumor, peripheral blood and stool samples, in addition to changes in radiomic profiles, of subjects with advanced Mismatch Repair Proficient Coloretal Cancer (MMRp-CRC), Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma (PA), or Leiomyosarcoma (LMS) during combination treatment of durvalumab (inhibitor of PD-L1) with either olaparib (inhibitor of Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase \[PARP\]) or cediranib (inhibitor of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor \[VEGFR\] tyrosine kinases).