AZD6244 (Selumetinib) in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well selumetinib works in treating patients with multiple myeloma, a type of cancer in which a specific protein is over active. Selumetinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking this protein.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Selumetinib
Overall Response Rate, Overall Response: Stringent Complete Response (sCR) + Complete Response (CR) + Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) + Partial Response (PR)., Up to 2 years
Duration of Response, Mean duration of response in months. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From response to disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of Toxicity That May Be Treatment Emergent, Participants with Grade 3, 4, and 5 toxicities possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. Toxicity graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE)., 1 year, 11 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Median PFS in months. Progressive Disease (PD): Increase of \>= 25% from baseline. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to progression or death, assessed up to 2 years
Changes in Bone Marrow Microenvironment, Effect of AZD6244 on the bone marrow microenvironment in MM., Baseline to up to 20-30 hours after receiving the first dose of AZD6244|Level of Key Regulators, The level of key regulators of the MEK/MAPK and PI3K pathways and HSP90 and cell cycle regulators may determine the anti-tumor response to AZD6244 in vivo in multiple myeloma (MM)., Up to 20-30 hours after receiving the first dose of selumetinib
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the response rate of AZD6244 (selumetinib) hydrogen sulfate capsules in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (MM).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity of AZD6244 in patients with MM. II. To estimate progression-free survival and duration of response to AZD6244. III. To test whether AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate capsules downregulate tumor cell phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase (pERK)1/2.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 weeks.