Individualized Response-adaptive Radiation Dose Prescription in HNC Based on MRI
This Phase 1 dose-finding study investigates the maximal tolerated dose for a subsequent phase 2 trial testing MR-guided individualized response-adaptive dose prescription in HNC.
Head and Neck Cancer
RADIATION: Real-time ADC-guided response adaptive Boost in HNC
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Dose limiting toxicity (DLT): any acute and late grade 4 or 5 related to the intervention, ≥ grade 3 CTC v.5. oral mucositis at 3 months after radiotherapy (persistent mucosal ulceration or inflammation in the high dose region with severe pain; interfering with oral intake; limiting self-care ADL), At 3 months after radiotherapy
Regional tumor control, Regional tumor control will be measured by clinical H\&N examinations at six weeks and then every three months up to two years. Imaging follow-up includes MRI at 6 weeks and 3 months, FDG-PET CT at 3 months and further CTs every 3 month., After 6 weeks, 3 months and every 3 months up to two years|Disease free survival, Clinical H\&N examinations at six weeks and then every three months up to two years, including MRI at 6 weeks and 3 months, FDG-PET CT at 3 months and further CTs every 3 month., During treatment and after 6 weeks, 3 months and every 3 months up to two years
This single-center, non-randomized interventional dose-finding phase I trial evaluates the maximal tolerated boost dose with respect to dose limiting toxicities in patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (UICC stage III/IVB) with an indication for a primary radiochemotherapy. The primary aim of the trial is to define the maximal tolerated dose in an ADC-based subvolume using an adaptive SBRT-boost areal. Dose-escalated SBRT boost to ADC-high risk volume will be delivered once a week and is defined according to the the actual imaging immediately performed prior to delivery (real-time adaptive) i.e. it can vary from one week to another and it might also be reduced throughout the course of treatment (response adaptive). In case of complete disappearance of high-risk subvolumes sufficient large enough to boost (\<5ml), no further ADC boost but only the floor-boost dose is given. The dose escalation of the ADC-high risk volume boost is graduated in four dose levels of 5x5 Gy, 5x5.5 Gy, 5x6 Gy, 5x6.5 Gy in a classical 3+3 dose-finding design where 3 patients per radiation dose level are enrolled. Primary endpoint is the dose limiting toxicity, any acute and late non-hematologic grade 4 or 5 related to the radiotherapy intervention, ≥ grade 3 CTC v.5. oral mucositis at 3 months after radiotherapy.