Metronomic Treatment in Children and Adolescents With Recurrent or Progressive High Risk Neuroblastoma
Neuroblastoma is the second most frequent cause for death from cancer in childhood. Already one year after diagnosis of recurrence from high risk neuroblastoma, 75% of the patients experience further progression.

Metronomic therapy is targeting not only the tumor cell, but also the tumor supplying vasculature and the interactions between Tumor and immune cells. The toxicity is expected to be low due to the low (but continuous) dosing of drugs.

The study investigates the tolerance and the efficacy of a new combination of five drugs consisting of propranolol (antiangiogenetic, anti-neuroblastic), Celecoxib (modulating immune response, ant-neuroblastic), cyclophosphamide (antiangiogenetic, anti-neuroblastic), etoposide (antiangiogenetic, anti-neuroblastic), and vinblastin (antiangiogenetic, anti-neuroblastic). Vinblastin is scheduled every 14 days intravenously, all other drugs are applied daily throughout 365 days (except etoposide for 4x3 weeks). The efficacies of each of the drugs have been demonstrated in vitro and in vivo in animal studies. All drugs have been used in children for other conditions. From those experiences low toxicities and a favorable Quality of life are expected.
Recurrent Neuroblastoma
DRUG: metronomic therapy
non-inferiority of EFS compared to historical control group, The primary trial objective is to demonstrate the non-inferiority of event free survival (EFS) in comparison to a historical control group. Event free survival (EFS) defined as time from start of treatment up to Progression (emerged from residual tumor, PD) or recurrence (developing from CR achieved by metronomic treatment), permanent discontinuation of treatment for unacceptable toxicity, secondary malignant neoplasm or death of any reason., up to 12 months
disease control rate at 6 months, Disease control rate at 6 months of metronomic treatment defined as number of patients achieving overall complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) related to all treated patients., 6 months after start of treatment|Overall survival, Overall survival defined as time from start of treatment until death of any reason or date of last information, up to 12 months|hospitalization days, Any patient stay in hospital that includes at least one night from day 1 of metronomic treatment until 30 days after the end of treatment. Overall treatment time is 12 months., up to 395 days|number of transfusion days, The number of days with transfusion of platelets or packed red blood cells. Overall treatment time is 12 months., up to 365 days|drop-out rate, The number and rate of patients stopping metronomic treatment during treatment period due to patients and/or parents wish. Overall treatment time is 12 months., up to 12 months|disease control rate at 12 months, Disease control rate at 12 months of metronomic treatment defined as number of patients achieving overall complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) related to all treated patients., 12 months after start of treatment
Neuroblastoma relapses during or after intensive therapy most likely result from the presence of primary or acquired drug resistance. Therefore, new therapeutic modalities for salvage therapies are urgently needed.

The historical Kaplan-Meier curves of 218 unselected high risk patients after the first recurrence (from CR) or after the first progression (from PR/SD) demonstrate a 1 year event free survival rate of 25.2 ± 2.9% and a 1 year overall survival rate of 42.7 ± 3.3%.

Today cancer is widely considered as a multicomponent disease. One novel strategy likely to target the complexity of tumor cells and tumor environment is metronomic scheduling of anticancer treatment or "metronomic treatment" (MT). Low doses of chemotherapeutic drugs are continuously administered to cancer patients. The higher frequency and lower dose targets distinct aspects of cancer's functionality. Effects on tumor-angiogenesis, anti-cancer immunity and tumor stroma have been shown. Additionally low-dose metronomic treatment is often combined with modern antiinflammatory or antiangiogenic drugs, which specifically interact e.g. in tumor growth or angiogenesis pathways.

The rationale of this trial is the efficacy of metronomic therapy in heavily pre-treated refractory neuroblastoma patients.This trial protocol proposes a metronomic schedule of low dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, etoposide and vinblastine, in combination with propranolol, a non-selective blocker of β adrenergic receptors and celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase type 2 (COX-2) inhibitor.

Patients enrolled in this study may benefit for two reasons. In the palliative situation, metronomic treatment may result in disease stabilization (SD) and a significant improvement of the quality of life (QOL) of patients e.g. by the decrease of pain through the treatment. For this reason, QOL including pain module is assessed as a separate secondary objective/ outcome measure. In the case of tumor response (PR, CR), the patients may qualify for a subsequent treatment approach aiming at further disease stabilization or even a long-term benefit.