Focused Ultrasound and RadioTHERapy for Noninvasive Palliative Pain Treatment in Patients With Bone Metastases
The FURTHER study aims to evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of MR-HIFU (alone or in combination with EBRT) compared to EBRT alone, the standard-of-care, as a palliative treatment option to relieve CIBP. The FURTHER study consists of a multicenter, three-armed randomized controlled trial (FURTHER RCT) and a patient registry arm (FURTHER Registry), which will be performed in six hospitals in four European countries.
Bone Metastases|Bone Neoplasm|Bone Lesion|Bone Cancer|Pain|Cancer Induced Bone Pain|Quality of Life|Tumor|Neoplasm Metastasis
RADIATION: External beam radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: MR-HIFU
Pain response - 14 days after completion of treatment, Patient reported pain response will be based on a Numeric Rating Scale (from 0 to 10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain imaginable) and the pain severity index calculated from the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) questionnaire \[Cleeland 1994\]. In addition, analgesic and anti-neuropathic drug use is recorded, and all opioid analgesics are expressed as the oral equivalent daily morphine use (OMED). The primary endpoint of the RCT will follow the International Consensus on Palliative Radiotherapy Endpoints for Future Clinical Trials in Bone metastases (Chow 2012). Patients will be categorized as responders when a complete or partial pain response is achieved. All other patients will be categorized as non-responders., 14 days
Pain response - 14 days after inclusion, Patient reported pain response will be based on a Numeric Rating Scale (from 0 to 10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain imaginable) and the pain severity index calculated from the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) questionnaire \[Cleeland 1994\]. In addition, analgesic and anti-neuropathic drug use is recorded, and all opioid analgesics are expressed as the oral equivalent daily morphine use (OMED). This endpoint will follow the International Consensus on Palliative Radiotherapy Endpoints for Future Clinical Trials in Bone metastases (Chow 2012). Patients will be categorized as responders when a complete or partial pain response is achieved. All other patients will be categorized as non-responders., 14 days|Patient reported pain scores - patient pain diary, Patient reported pain scores will be based on a Numeric Rating Scale (from 0 to 10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain imaginable). This will be assessed using a daily patient pain diary during the first 21 days after completion of treatment., 21 days|Patient reported pain scores - BPI, Patient reported pain scores will be based on a Numeric Rating Scale (from 0 to 10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain imaginable). This will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) questionnaire at 7 time points during the total follow up of 6 months., on baseline, at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months|Physician reported toxicity - CTCAE 5.0, Assessed in seven telephone calls during the first six months following completion of treatment according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, at 3 days, at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months|Patient reported quality of life - EORTC BM22, During the follow up time of 6 months, patients will receive the EORTC BM22 quality of life questionnaire at baseline, one, two, four and six weeks, and three and six months following completion of treatment., on baseline, at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months|Patient reported quality of life - EORTC C15-PAL, During the follow up time of 6 months, patients will receive the EORTC C15-PAL quality of life questionnaire at baseline, one, two, four and six weeks, and three and six months following completion of treatment., on baseline, at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months|Patient reported quality of life - EQ-5D-5L, During the follow up time of 6 months, patients will receive the EQ-5D-5L quality of life questionnaire at baseline, one, two, four and six weeks, and three and six months following completion of treatment., on baseline, at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months|Patient reported quality of life - PGIC, During the follow up time of 6 months, patients will receive the Patient Global Impression of Change scale (a 7 point likert scale about overall improvement after treatment) at one, two, four and six weeks, and three and six months following completion of treatment., at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months|Patient reported quality of life - HADS, During the follow up time of 6 months, patients will receive the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) questionnaire at one, two, four and six weeks, and three and six months following completion of treatment.

Assessed among patients, patients' partners and caregivers by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) at baseline, two and four weeks, and three and six months fol-lowing completion of treatment., on baseline, at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months|Local tumour control, Assessed using CT and/or MRI imaging at patient discretion at three and/or six months after completion of treatment., 3 and 6 months|Cost-effectiveness of the treatment, A hypothetical diagnosis related group (DRG) will be calculated from the perspective of the statutory health insurance (SHI)., 6 months
Rationale: Cancer induced bone pain (CIBP) as a result of bone metastases strongly interferes with quality of life and daily functioning of patients with advanced cancer. The current standard of care for patients with painful bone metastasis includes palliative external beam radiotherapy (EBRT). While EBRT is a well-established treatment option, it takes up to 4-6 weeks for EBRT to induce optimal pain relief, and 30-40% of patients do not respond to EBRT. Pain palliation may be improved by including magnetic resonance image guided high intensity focused ultrasound (MR-HIFU) as alternative or in addition to EBRT.

Objective: The FURTHER study aims to evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of MR-HIFU (alone or in combination with EBRT), as a palliative treatment option to relieve CIBP.

Study design: The FURTHER study consists of a prospective, multicenter, three-armed randomized controlled trial (FURTHER RCT) and a patient registry arm (FURTHER Registry), performed in six hospitals in four European countries, all of which are partners in the FURTHER consortium. The UMC Utrecht is coordinating center. Within the FURTHER RCT, a total of 216 patients with painful bone metastases will be included. These patients will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive EBRT only, MR-HIFU only, or EBRT followed by MR-HIFU. In the Netherlands, we expect to enroll a minimum of 70 patients, and a maximum of 120 patients in three Dutch study sites. Within the FURTHER Registry, data of around 60-90 patients will be captured.

Study population: The study will be performed in male and female adult (≥ 18 years) cancer patients capable of giving informed consent having painful non-spinal bone metastases (pain score on Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) ≥ 4).

Intervention: The intervention under study is MR-HIFU alone or in combination with EBRT. The intervention is aimed at rapid and persistent relief of CIBP. In the FURTHER RCT, the intervention will be compared to standard treatment EBRT.

Main study endpoints: Primary outcome of the study will be pain response at 14 days after the first day of treatment. Secondary outcomes include pain response at 14 days after inclusion, and pain scores, toxicity, adverse events, quality of life and survival in the first 6 months after treatment, and cost-effectiveness of the treatments.