Sodium Thiosulfate in Preventing Ototoxicity for Squamous Cell Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemoradiation With Cisplatin
This phase II trial investigates how well sodium thiosulfate works in preventing ototoxicity (hearing loss/damage) in patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) who are undergoing a chemoradiation. Sodium thiosulfate is a type of medication used to treat cyanide poisoning and to help lessen the side effects from cisplatin. Chemotherapy drugs, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells. The purpose of this trial is to find out whether it is feasible to give sodium thiosulfate 4 hours after each cisplatin infusion along with standard of care radiation therapy in patients with head and neck cancer. Giving sodium thiosulfate after cisplatin may help decrease the risk of hearing loss.
Clinical Stage III Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Pathologic Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVC Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVC Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8
DRUG: Cisplatin|OTHER: Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults - Screening|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Sodium Thiosulfate
Number of Participants Who Successfully Completed Planned Treatment, Evaluated as the successful completion of at least 5 weekly cisplatin or 2 high dose cisplatin without any extended treatment related delays more than 7 days. Overall successful completion is defined as completion by at least 75% of patients., Up to 7 weeks
Proportion of Participants With Reported High Grade Ototoxicity, The proportion of participants with a reported change of grade \>= 2 hearing impairments based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 (for patients on a monitoring program with audiogram) will be reported., Up to 18 weeks|Number of Participants Reporting Tinnitus by Severity, The frequency of tinnitus will be measured by participants' worst level response at any time point on the PRO-CTCAE® question "In the last 7 days, what was the severity of ringing in your ears at its worst?". Item responses were categorized as 'None', 'Mild', 'Moderate', 'Severe', and 'Very Severe'., Up to 18 weeks|Percentage of Participants Reporting Sodium Thiosulfate (STS)-Specific Symptomology, The percentage of participants reporting STS specific adverse events will be measured by affirmative responses on the PRO-CTCAE® on any of the selected oral, gastrointestinal, neurologic and visual/perceptual symptoms., Up to 18 weeks|Frequency of Hearing Handicap, The Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults -Screener (HHIA-S), is a 10-item, self-assessment screening assessment developed to quickly determine the suggested level of hearing handicap. The participants respond to each of the items with a Yes (score of 4), Sometimes (score of 2), or No (score of 0). Total Scores are then summed for overall score (range 0-40) and then assigned a category for a suggested hearing handicap; 0-8 suggesting no handicap, 10-24 suggesting a mild-moderate handicap, and 26-40 suggesting significant hearing handicap. The frequency of participants for worse reported score will be reported, Up to 18 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To establish feasibility of intravenous sodium thiosulfate (STS) after each dose of concurrent cisplatin in patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma undergoing definitive radiotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of grade \>= 2 hearing impairment based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 with use of STS after concurrent chemoradiation with cisplatin 3 months post-treatment.

II. To determine the rate of tinnitus measured by Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE with use of STS 3 months post-treatment.

III. To describe patient reported outcomes with STS measured with PRO-CTCAE for selected oral, gastrointestinal (GI), neurologic and perceptual symptoms.

IV. To describe patient reported outcomes measured with Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults - Screening (HHIA-S) compared to results from standard NRG Oncology head and neck trials (such as Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 1016).

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy in combination with cisplatin therapy for up to 6-7 weeks. Cisplatin treatment repeats weekly for up to 7 cycles, or every 21 days for up to 3 cycles. After each cisplatin infusion, patients also receive an infusion of sodium thiosulfate. The dosing schedule for cisplatin will be at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.