Hypoxia-Specific Imaging to Predict Outcomes of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cell Therapy
This study evaluates whether tumors present in patients with cancer who are planned to get CAR T-cells have low amounts of oxygen (hypoxia). PET scans may be used to check the amounts of oxygen within areas of cancer with a special radioactive tracer called FAZA that specifically looks for areas of low oxygen. This study is being done to help researchers determine how the amount of oxygen within areas of cancer affect how well CAR T-cells kill cancer cells.
Recurrent Aggressive Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Aggressive Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Neoplasm|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Fluorine F 18-fluoroazomycin Arabinoside|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Proportion of fluorine F 18-fluoroazomycin arabinoside (18F-FAZA) positron emission tomography (PET) scans with positive hypoxic volume (HV), Will calculate the uniformly minimum-variance unbiased estimator, p-value and 95% confidence interval (CI) for the response rates., After completion of one-time 18F-FAZA PET scan, 1 day
Overall response (OR), Will determine OR at any time point as attainment of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Logistic regressions will be used to evaluate the association between OR and intratumoral hypoxia, where hypoxia is analyzed as a binary and a continuous covariate., At 30, 90, and 180 days after chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, up to 6 months
Change in Mean Serum Ferritin levels, Will use descriptive statistical methods to present data, including frequencies/percentages for categorical variables and means, medians, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous variables. Will evaluate the effect of intratumoral hypoxia and other exploratory endpoints using chi-squared tests and logistic regressions for categorical variables and two-sample t-tests and linear regressions for continuous variables., Up to 6 months after CAR T-cell therapy|Change in Mean C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, Will use descriptive statistical methods to present data, including frequencies/percentages for categorical variables and means, medians, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous variables. Will evaluate the effect of intratumoral hypoxia and other exploratory endpoints using chi-squared tests and logistic regressions for categorical variables and two-sample t-tests and linear regressions for continuous variables., Up to 6 months after CAR T-cell therapy|Change in Mean Fibrinogen Levels, Will use descriptive statistical methods to present data, including frequencies/percentages for categorical variables and means, medians, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous variables. Will evaluate the effect of intratumoral hypoxia and other exploratory endpoints using chi-squared tests and logistic regressions for categorical variables and two-sample t-tests and linear regressions for continuous variables., Up to 6 months after CAR T-cell therapy|Change in Hepatic aminotransferase Levels, Will use descriptive statistical methods to present data, including frequencies/percentages for categorical variables and means, medians, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous variables. Will evaluate the effect of intratumoral hypoxia and other exploratory endpoints using chi-squared tests and logistic regressions for categorical variables and two-sample t-tests and linear regressions for continuous variables., Up to 6 months after CAR T-cell therapy|Incidence of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), neurotoxicity, or other adverse events (AEs) attributed to CAR T-cell therapy, Will use descriptive statistical methods to present data, including frequencies/percentages for categorical variables and means, medians, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous variables. Will evaluate the effect of intratumoral hypoxia and other exploratory endpoints using chi-squared tests and logistic regressions for categorical variables and two-sample t-tests and linear regressions for continuous variables., Up to 6 months after CAR T-cell therapy|Standardized uptake value maximum (SUVmax) calculations for tumor sites based on 18F-FAZA versus fludeoxyglucose F-18 (18F-FDG) uptake, Will use descriptive statistical methods to present data, including frequencies/percentages for categorical variables and means, medians, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous variables. Will evaluate the effect of intratumoral hypoxia and other exploratory endpoints using chi-squared tests and logistic regressions for categorical variables and two-sample t-tests and linear regressions for continuous variables., Up to 6 months after CAR T-cell therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the incidence of intratumoral hypoxia in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) malignancies before treatment with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the association between intratumoral hypoxia and clinical responses to CAR T-cell therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate intratumoral hypoxia with markers of CAR T-cell activity and toxicity.

2. To correlate pre-therapy fluorine F 18-fluoroazomycin arabinoside (18F-FAZA) uptake with pre-therapy 18Ffluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) uptake (if available).

OUTLINE:

Prior to CAR T-cell therapy, patients receive 18F-FAZA intravenously (IV). Beginning 2 hours after injection, patients undergo a single PET scan. Patients are followed for up to 6 months after CAR T-cell therapy.