Efficacy of Modified Fruquintinib in Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases: A Phase II Study
The overall 5-year survival rate for patients with colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) is still less than 20%. Surgery-based local treatment can achieve no evidence of disease (NED) in CRLM patients, but over 60% of patients experience recurrence even after achieving NED. Even with adjuvant therapy for the 6-month perioperative period after achieving NED, the recurrence rate remains high. Fruquintinib is a selective anti-angiogenic inhibitor that may help reduce tumor recurrence and prolong the time to recurrence and metastasis. The Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO) guidelines have recommended fruquintinib as a third-line therapy for colorectal cancer. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of fruquintinib as a maintenance therapy for patients with advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) who have achieved no evidence of disease (NED) after completing adjuvant chemotherapy.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Fruquintinib
2-year recurrence and metastasis rate, To evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of fruquintinib as maintenance therapy for advanced CRC patients who achieve NED after adjuvant chemotherapy, with the 2-year recurrence and metastasis rate as the primary indicator., 2 years after NED
2-year disease-free survival rate, To evaluate 2-year recurrence-free survival rate, 2-year overall survival rate, recurrence-free survival period in patients accepting fruquintinib maintenance therapy., 2 years after NED
completion rate of maintenance therapy, To evaluate safety and completion rate of maintenance therapy, 2 years after NED
The overall 5-year survival rate for patients with colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) is still less than 20%. Surgery-based local treatment can achieve no evidence of disease (NED) in CRLM patients, but over 60% of patients experience recurrence even after achieving NED. Even with adjuvant therapy for the 6-month perioperative period after achieving NED, the recurrence rate remains high. Fruquintinib is a selective anti-angiogenic inhibitor that may help reduce tumor recurrence and prolong the time to recurrence and metastasis. The Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO) guidelines have recommended fruquintinib as a third-line therapy for colorectal cancer. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of fruquintinib as a maintenance therapy for patients with advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) who have achieved no evidence of disease (NED) after completing adjuvant chemotherapy.