Megestrol Acetate Plus LNG-IUS in Young Women With Early Endometrial Cancer
To see if megestrol acetate plus Levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (LNG-IUS) will not be inferior to returning the endometrial tissue to a normal state than megestrol acetate alone in patients with early endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Neoplasm Malignant Stage I
DRUG: Megestrol Acetate|DEVICE: Levonorgestrel-releasing Intrauterine System(LNG-IUS)
Pathological response rate, From date of randomization until the date of CR or date of hysterectomy, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months|Pathological response time, median time of histologic regression from endometrial atypical hyperplasia to benign endometrium, From date of randomization until the date of CR or date of hysterectomy, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Common side effects from these drugs include weight gain, vaginal spotting and descent of sexuality. Severe side effects include thrombus and diseases related. The investigators will record any mental or body symptoms and evaluate the correlation., up to 2 years after the treatment for each patient|Rate of relapse, up to 2 years after the treatment for each patient|Rate of pregnancy, up to 2 years after the treatment for each patient|Compliance, The investigators designed a questionnaire to evaluate the compliance through treatment as side effects of oral megestrol acetate may be more common than LNG-IUS. Self Efficacy, physical activity and social support will be scored (1 to 5) and compared between different arms., up to 2 years after the treatment for each patient
Economic consequences through study completion, The investigators will evaluate whether the combination could shorten therapeutic period, so that bring economic benefits to the patients., From date of randomization until the date of CR or date of hysterectomy, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months
After diagnosed of endometrioid endometrial cancer (EEC) by hysteroscopy, patients will be enrolled. Age, waist circumstances, blood pressure, basic history of infertility, blood pressure, serum lipid level and side effects will be collected. Blood tests, including fasting blood glucose (FBG), postprandial blood glucose (PBG), fasting insulin (FINS), SHBG, sex hormone levels, blood lipids and anti-müllerian hormone(AMH) will be performed before treatment to evacuate their metabolic conditions.

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups. Patients will receive MA (megestrol acetate) 160 mg by mouth daily for at least 3 months on Arm I. Patients will receive MA 160 mg plus LNG-IUS insertion for at least 3 months on Arm II. Then an hysteroscope will be used to evaluate the endometrial condition every 3 months, and the findings will be recorded. For patients with EEC, complete response (CR) is defined as the reversion of endometrial disease to proliferative or secretory endometrium; partial response (PR) is defined as regression to simple or complex hyperplasia without atypic or atypical hyperplasia; no response (NR) is defined as the persistence of the disease; and progressive disease (PD) is defined as the progression of endometrial lesions. Continuous therapies will be needed in PR, NR or PD.

As the reason of the low response rate of LNG-IUS alone in EC patients (nearly 50%), and the potential limitation of LNG-IUS to focal cancer lesion in endometrial cavity, the investigators did not add LNG-IUS alone as a single control group.

After completion of study treatment, 2 months of maintenance treatment will be recommended for patients with CR, and participants will be followed up for 2 years.