Retrospective-prospective Study to Evaluate Treatment Management and Outcomes of Patients With Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (WM) Treated in Italy According to the Zanubrutinib (Brukinsa®) Compassionate Use Program (CUP) and in Common Practice Following Commercial Approval.
This is a non-interventional, observational, retrospective and prospective multicenter Italian study, to describe treatment management and outcomes of Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (WM) patients treated according to the Italian Compassionate Use Program (CUP) and receiving zanubrutinib following its commercial approval.
Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (WM)
DRUG: Zanubrutinib
Cumulative incidence of treatment discontinuation due to toxicity, Cumulative incidence of treatment discontinuation due to toxicity, From the date of first zanubrutinib administration to the date of definitive treatment discontinuation or dose reduction for any cause or death from any cause, from october 2020 up to 24 months since study start
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Incidence of adverse events related to zanubrutinib., Incidence of adverse events related to zanubrutinib., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Incidence of relevant adverse events., Incidence of relevant adverse events., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs)., Incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs)., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Incidence of adverse events leading to death., Incidence of adverse events leading to death., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Incidence of adverse events leading to treatment discontinuation., Incidence of adverse events leading to treatment discontinuation., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Incidence of adverse events leading to dose reduction/interruption., Incidence of adverse events leading to dose reduction/interruption., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Time to first onset of relevant adverse event., Time to first onset of relevant adverse event., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|AEs ≥ G3 Hematological and non-hematological., AEs ≥ G3 Hematological and non-hematological., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Impact of patients' characteristics and comorbidities on G3 or higher AEs and relevant adverse events development., Impact of patients' characteristics and comorbidities on G3 or higher AEs and relevant adverse events development., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Frequency of transformation of WM to an aggressive lymphoma and frequency of secondary malignancies., Frequency of transformation of WM to an aggressive lymphoma and frequency of secondary malignancies., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Major response rate (MRR), Major response rate (MRR) (≥PR) (best reported response)., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Overall response rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR, defined as MRR plus minor response rate), Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Best response, Best response (best reported response)., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) including 6, 12, and 24-month PFS rate, Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) including 6, 12, and 24-month OS rate., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Time to treatment failure, Time to treatment failure (any treatment definitive discontinuation, incl. patient or investigator decision, toxicity, progression or death)., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Duration of response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR), Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Change of IgM levels until end of zanubrutinib treatment., Change of IgM levels until end of zanubrutinib treatment., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Impact of patients and disease characteristics, and biomarker test results (MYD88 and CXCR4, if available) on treatment response., Impact of patients and disease characteristics, and biomarker test results (MYD88 and CXCR4, if available) on treatment response., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|Hospital stays, Hospital stays comprises all planned and unplanned hospitalizations as well as emergency unit visits, regardless of whether there is an association with WM or not. All hospitalizations and emergency unit visits that started during therapy with zanubrutinib will be considered for hospital stays., Retrospective cohort: from october 2020 until the study start. Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|EORTC-QLQ-C30, Quality of life (QoL) assessed with EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)|EQ-5D-5L, Quality of life (QoL) assessed with EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, Prospective cohort: up to 24 months (duration of study)
This is a non-interventional, observational, retrospective and prospective multicenter Italian study, to describe treatment management and outcomes of Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (WM) patients treated according to the Italian Compassionate Use Program (CUP) and receiving zanubrutinib following its commercial approval.