Dose Escalation Using Hypoxia-adjusted Radiotherapy
DE-HyART is a phase II clinical trial aimed at understanding the effects of escalating radiation doses to hypoxic sub-volumes inherent to squamous cell head and neck cancer. The study is aimed at assessing locoregional control, feasibility, and acceptable toxicity with such a strategy.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: DE-HyART|RADIATION: Standard Arm|DRUG: Cisplatin injection|RADIATION: Standard fractionation (Radiation Oncology preference)
Locoregional Control (LRC), LRC is defined as the absence of tumor recurrence or progression within the primary tumor site and the regional lymph nodes, as determined by clinical evaluation, imaging studies, and/or biopsy confirmation. LRC will be assessed at predefined time points, with the primary time point being 2 years post-treatment, Disease recurrence locally or analysis cut-off point. The analysis cut off pint is 24 months
Overall Survival (OS), The duration of OS was defined from the date of surgery to death from any cause. Therefore, if there is no death (for any reason), the OS duration will be cut-off at the analysis., Death during following up or analysis cut-off point. The analysis cut off pint is 24 months|Locoregional Relapse Free Survival (LRFS), LRFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first histopathologically confirmed relapse of locoregional disease. If there is no confirmed recurrence, the LRC duration will be censored at the time of analysis. Death from any cause will be considered as an event in LRFS., Disease/Death during following up or analysis cut-off point. The analysis cut off pint is 24 months
Acute toxicity, The acute toxicity will be measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, Till 6 months of finishing radiotherapy|Late toxicity assessment, Measuring scale: (RTOG/European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer late toxicity criteria), At 1 year and 2 year follow-up|Patient-reported outcome questionnaire, EORTC QLQ-C30, During treatment, at 3 month and 6 month interval of completion of radiotherapy|Patient-reported outcome QLQ-HN35 questionnaire, QLQ-H\&N35, During treatment, at 3 month and 6 month interval of completion of radiotherapy
DE-HyART is a randomized, non-blinded study that assesses the effects of combining IMRT (using SIB-Sequential planning) with dose-escalation to hypoxic sub-volume delineated using \[18-F\] FMISO. The treatment protocol will also include concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin at standard uniform dosing.

Patients with HNSCC whose cancer is determined to originate from the oral cavity, oropharynx, larynx, and hypopharynx will be selected. The included patients will be subjected to \[18F\] FMISO scan, labeled as baseline FMISO. Depending upon the result of the baseline FMISO, the patient will be either hypoxic or anoxic. Patients exhibiting no hypoxia in their tumor will be labeled as Arm 1 and act as an external cohort. Patients with hypoxia will be randomized (1:1) into two arms - Arms 2 and 3. Both arms will be subjected to chemoradiation by IMRT and concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin at 40mg/m2. In Arm 3, the trial arm will receive an additional 10 Gy @ 2 Gy per fraction in phase II (total 80 Gy) to the HSV + 5mm isotropic margin.

One twenty-four patients will recruited in a 1:1 fashion between Arm 3 and Arm 2. The primary endpoint will be locoregional control and its possible increase in control.