Prognostic Value of Tumor Deposits for Patients With Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma
Tumor deposits (TD), nodules in the peritumoral adipose tissue with no architectural residue of lymph node, which is a definition often being confusing to the extranodal extension (ENE), have been described in several malignancies and linked to a worse prognosis. In gastric cancer and colon cancer, TD and ENE should be distinguished and collected separately in 8th AJCC manual. However, in thyroid cancer, TD as a collection variable was absence in both the 8th AJCC manual and the 2015 ATA guideline. This is a study that revealed the presence of TD by reviewing a large number of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) specimens and explored its prognostic value by constructing a nomogram to accurately predict disease-free survival in PTC patients.
Exploring the Prognostic Value of Tumor Deposits PTC Patients
PROCEDURE: surgery
disease-free survival (DFS) after diagnosis, The primary outcome was disease-free survival (DFS) after diagnosis, with endpoints as tumor locoregional recurrence, distant metastasis, and disease-specific death. If a patient was deceased, the cause of death was confirmed by the death certificate or the hospitalization record to identify disease-specific death., between 2015 and 2021
Disease recurrence, Disease recurrence was defined as recurrent or persistent PTC identified with standard biochemical, cytological, histological, and radiographical criteria. In this study, tumor locoregional recurrence was defined as combined biochemical (serum thyroglobulin) and structural recurrences., between 2015 and 2021
Tumor deposits (TD), nodules in the peritumoral adipose tissue with no architectural residue of lymph node, which is a definition often being confusing to the extranodal extension (ENE), have been described in several malignancies and linked to a worse prognosis. In gastric cancer and colon cancer, TD and ENE should be distinguished and collected separately in 8th AJCC manual. However, in thyroid cancer, TD as a collection variable was absence in both the 8th AJCC manual and the 2015 ATA guideline. This is a study that revealed the presence of TD by reviewing a large number of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) specimens and explored its prognostic value by constructing a nomogram to accurately predict disease-free survival in PTC patients.