A Study of MetMAb Administered to Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, in Combination With Tarceva (Erlotinib)
This is a Phase II, double-blind, randomized, multicenter trial designed to preliminarily evaluate the activity and safety of treatment with MetMAb + erlotinib versus erlotinib + placebo in second- and third-line Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC). Up to 180 patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the two treatment arms.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib HCl|DRUG: MetMAb|DRUG: placebo (0.9 % saline)
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of progression or relapse (as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.0) and assessed by the site radiologist or investigator) or death on study from any cause (within 30 days of last treatment)., Time from randomization to the first occurrence of progression/relapse or death on study. (Up to 20 months)|Progression-free Survival in Patients With Met Diagnostic-Positive Tumors, Progression-free survival (PFS) in participants with Met Diagnostic-Positive tumors as determined by immunohistochemistry.

PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of progression or relapse (as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.0) and assessed by the site radiologist or investigator) or death on study from any cause (within 30 days of last treatment)., Time from randomization to the first occurrence of progression/relapse or death on study. (Up to 20 months)
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response (partial and complete response as determined using RECIST 1.0).

Partial response was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter.

Complete response was defined as disappearance of all target lesions., Start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence or death on study. (Up to 20 months)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response in Patients With Met Diagnostic-Positive Tumors, Objective response (OR); partial and complete response as determined using RECIST 1.0 in patients with Met Diagnostic-Positive Tumors as determined by immunohistochemistry.

Partial response was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter.

Complete response was defined as disappearance of all target lesions., Start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence or death on study. (Up to 20 months)|Duration of Overall Response, Date of initial response until date of progression or death on study. (Up to 20 months)
This is a Phase II, double-blind, randomized, multicenter trial designed to preliminarily evaluate the activity and safety of treatment with MetMAb + erlotinib versus erlotinib + placebo in second- and third-line Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC). Up to 180 patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the two treatment arms.