Acupuncture and Breast Cancer Rehabilitation
The patients were divided into two randomized groups with 24 patients per group, which were given weekly treatment for 10 weeks, one group treated with Kinesiotherapy lasting 30 minutes and the other group followed Kinesiotherapy the same protocol for another 30 minutes acupuncture using predefined points.

The patients were assessed at baseline, after five weeks and at the end of 10 weeks. Responded to an evaluation form about their registration and social data. The physical examination included the assessment of shoulder range of motion, shoulder muscle strength, circumference of the upper limbs and the presence of pain. Questionnaires of quality of life, upper limb function and depression.
Pain
OTHER: Kinesiotherapy|OTHER: Acupuncture
Result of rehabilitation about pain, Shoulder Range of Motion, lymphedema presence, upper limb function, Depressive symptoms, Quality of life and Muscle strength with kinesioterapy and acupuncture, 1. Presence of pain by Visual Analog Scale of Pain (VAS).
2. Shoulder Range of Motion (ROM) by active goniometry of flexion movements, extension, adduction, abduction, internal rotation and external rotation
3. lymphedema presence through top member perimetry.
4. upper limb function through the DASH questionnaire.
5. Depressive symptoms through BECK questionnaire.
6. Quality of life through the EORTC questionnaire.
7. Muscle strength of flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, internal rotation and shoulder external rotation with the Hand Held Dynamometer 01,163 model of Lafayette Instrument Company., two years
They were included in this study patients undergoing surgical treatment for breast cancer, radical or conservative, and to produce pain in the region of the shoulder girdle and upper limb, including thoracic and cervical spine after three months of surgery. Patients over the age of 18 years and level of pain ≥ 3 on the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). patients with bilateral breast surgery were excluded, metastatic disease, vascular disorders and tactile sensitivity, with diabetes mellitus type I and II uncompensated and with lower level of education than four years. The patients were divided into two randomized groups with 24 patients per group, which were given weekly treatment for 10 weeks, one group treated with Kinesiotherapy lasting 30 minutes and the other group followed Kinesiotherapy the same protocol for another 30 minutes acupuncture using predefined points.

The patients were assessed at baseline, after five weeks and at the end of 10 weeks. Responded to an evaluation form about their registration and social data. The physical examination included the assessment of shoulder range of motion, shoulder muscle strength, circumference of the upper limbs and the presence of pain. questionnaires application EORC QLQ C30 BECK and DASH.