Analgesic Efficacy After Pancreatobiliary Surgery: Intravenous Versus Patient-controlled Epidural
Prospective, single institute based, open label, double arm, randomized controlled trial Hypothesis: Pain control after resection of hepatobiliary tumors in patients with PCEA is more effective than in patients with IV-PCA.
Pancreatic Cancer|Biliary Tract Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Patient-controlled analgesia
Comparison of analgesic efficacy after major surgery in pancreatobiliary cancers: Intravenous patient-controlled analgesia versus patient-controlled epidural analgesia, Comparison of pain scale (Numeric rating scale; minimum: 0, maximum: 10) of IV PCA and PCEA during ambulation on the day 2 postoperatively; Scale 0 means no pain and scale 10 means most painful, Day 2 postoperatively
Investigation and comparison of pain and clinical progress during rest after surgery, side effects of drugs administered to IV-PCA and PCEA, and complications related to PCEA procedure, Comparison of pain scale (Numeric rating scale; minimum: 0, maximum: 10) of IV PCA and PCEA during rest from the day 1 to 7 postoperatively; comparison of amount of totally infused analgesics, serum level of troponin I on the day 1 postoperatively, and incidence of postoperative complications between the two groups; investigation of PCEA-related complications and adverse effects of analgesics, 7 days
Postoperative pain control is important in helping patients who underwent abdominal surgery to recover and to live a normal life. There is a method of administering painless injections to relieve postoperative pain. Currently, IV-PCA is mostly used. However, this method has a disadvantage in that the dosage of the opioid-based analgesic is increased, and thus side effects may be concerned. By administering analgesics through an epidural route approached through the thoracic vertebrae rather than intravenous injection, effective post-operative pain control and less side effects can be expected in lesser amounts. This study prospectively compared the pain control effects of IV-PCA and PCEA in patients undergoing resection of hepatobiliary tumors at the National Cancer Center, revealing that PCEA is more effective in alleviating pain after surgery. It has a purpose. In addition, the investigators will investigate and compare clinical outcomes (first fart, dietary progression, postoperative complications, etc.) of the two patient groups and investigate the side effects of PCEA and complications related to the procedure.