Vismodegib and Atezolizumab for the Treatment of Recurrent or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase Ib trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of the combination of vismodegib and atezolizumab in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Vismodegib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving a combination of vismodegib and atezolizumab may be safe, tolerable and/or effective than either drug alone in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic NSCLC.
Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC V8
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Vismodegib
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be the measured using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 criteria. Frequency and severity of AEs and tolerability of the regimen will be collected and summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 2 years|Incidence of dose limiting toxicity, Will be the measured using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 criteria. Frequency and severity of AEs and tolerability of the regimen will be collected and summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to cycle 1 (1 cycle = 28 days)
Objective response rate, Will be calculated and exact binomial 95% confidence interval (CI) will be provided., Up to 2 years|Disease control rate, Will be calculated and exact binomial 95% CI will be provided., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate OS with 95% CI., From initiation of therapy to death, or censored at last follow-up date if the subject is alive, assessed up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate PFS with 95% CI., From initiation of therapy to the time of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors progression or death, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of vismodegib and atezolizumab in patients with advanced NSCLC based upon the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of the combination of vismodegib and atezolizumab in patients with advanced NSCLC, including progression-free survival (PFS), objective response (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and overall survival (OS) based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To study the effect of vismodegib on the levels of M2-TAMs and CD8+ T cells within the tumor microenvironment (TME) as well as myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in peripheral blood of study patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive vismodegib orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 and atezolizumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood sample collection throughout the study. Some patients undergo tissue sample collection during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks.