GTX-RT in Borderline Resectable Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out if a program of intensive chemotherapy with gemcitabine, docetaxel and capecitabine followed by an advanced form of focused radiation aimed at participant's tumor followed by more chemotherapy can increase the chances that the participant's pancreatic tumor can be removed completely.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Docetaxel|RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT)|OTHER: Restaging review after radiation|PROCEDURE: Surgery|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil
Margin-negative (R0) Resection Rate, R0 rate for all participants with resection. Margin negative surgery (R0 resection) is an absolute part of the curative treatment of pancreatic cancer.The primary endpoint is correlation of a radio sensitivity index score derived from the microarray analysis and pathologic response on surgical specimens. Tumor regression Rating: R0 (Complete Response). R0 resections are scored as those resections in which the common bile duct margin, pancreatic resection margin, retroperitoneal margin are negative for tumor involvement., Up to 3 years
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at Three Years, PFS is defined as the duration of time from enrollment to time of death or progression of disease, whichever occurs first. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the longest diameter (LD) of the target lesion or appearance of new lesions at metastatic sites., 3 years|Overall Survival (OS) Rate, OS at time of analysis, calculated from date of enrollment to date of death from any cause., 12 months
Investigators plan to conduct a prospective pilot phase II trial of GTX-SBRT as neoadjuvant treatment of borderline resectable pancreatic cancer. After informed consent, pretreatment pancreatic tumor tissues will be collected and immediately frozen at the time of staging endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). Ribonucleic acid (RNA) will be extracted from tumor specimens and run on microarray analysis to determine radiosensitivity index score. Borderline resectable (BR) patients will be treated with 3 cycles of GTX chemotherapy followed by SBRT. They will be restaged and evaluated for resectability 3 to 4 weeks later. Non-metastatic patients who are deemed resectable after neoadjuvant therapy will be taken to surgery.