VEGF Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Axitinib in Children With Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors
This trial will be the first study of axitinib in children and adolescents. The primary objective of this Phase 1 trial is to determine a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of axitinib in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors. Additional objectives include measurement of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters, description of the toxicity profile of this agent in children and adolescents, and assessment of response within the confines of a Phase 1 trial. A standard rolling 6 design will be used for dose escalation. Further development of axitinib will focus on development of a joint cooperative group (COG/ECOG) Phase 2 study of axitinib in pediatric, adolescent and young adult translocation renal cell carcinoma.
Refractory or Recurrent Solid Tumors, Excluding CNS Tumors
DRUG: Axitinib
Adverse events as assessed by (CTCAE) version 4.0, 28 days|MTD of axitinib based on dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) at which fewer than one-third of patients experience DLT, as assessed by CTCAE version 4.0, 28 days|Pharmacokinetic Assessment of Axitinib Concentrations in Plasma Samples, A descriptive analysis of pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of axitinib will be performed to define systemic exposure, drug clearance, and other pharmacokinetic parameters.

Blood samples will be collected at the following time points:Day 1, Cycle 1: Pre-dose, and at 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours after the AM dose on Day 1. Day 8, Cycle 1: Pre-dose, and at 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours after the AM dose on Day 8., Day 1 and Day 8 of Cycle 1
Evaluation of disease response to preliminarily define the antitumor activity of axitinib, Patients will have tumor disease evaluations performed at the end of cycles 1, 3, and 5 and then every 3 cycles. Disease response will be assessed according to RECIST criteria for patients with solid tumors and will be reported descriptively. Analyses will be descriptive and exploratory and hypotheses generating in nature., up to 2 years|Biomarkers of kidney injury during axitinib treatment, Proteins in the blood (cystatin C and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalcin (NGAL)) and urine (kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), interleukin-18 (IL-18), creatinine and other markers of renal injury) will be measured before treatment and then weekly during Cycle 1 of axitinib treatment and at the end of Cycle 3, Cycles 1 and 3
This trial will be the first study of axitinib in children and adolescents. The primary objective of this Phase 1 trial is to determine a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of axitinib in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors. Additional objectives include measurement of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters, description of the toxicity profile of this agent in children and adolescents, and assessment of response within the confines of a Phase 1 trial. A standard rolling 6 design will be used for dose escalation. Further development of axitinib will focus on development of a joint cooperative group (COG/ECOG) Phase 2 study of axitinib in pediatric, adolescent and young adult translocation renal cell carcinoma.