Romidepsin and Erlotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Romidepsin and erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of romidepsin when given together with erlotinib hydrochloride and to see how well they work in treating patients with stage III or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Erlotinib plus Romidepsin (8 mg/m^2)|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Erlotinib plus Romidepsin (10 mg/m^2)|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Erlotinib plus Romidepsin (10 mg/m^2) + Antiemetic prophylaxis|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: (Erlotinib plus Romidepsin (8mg/m^2)) + Antiemetic prophylaxis
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities and Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Dose limiting toxicities per Protocol definition using (CTCAE), Version 3.0, 12 months
Area Under the Concentration-time Curve (AUC0 t) of Romidepsin in Combination With Erlotinib, AUC0 t was measured in the time interval from 0 to time (t) when the last blood sample is collected with a concentration above the limit of quantification., 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72 hours post-dose on Days 1 and 8
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To characterize the toxicity and determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of erlotinib hydrochloride plus romidepsin. (Phase I)
* To obtain preliminary data regarding efficacy, including response rate and progression-free survival. (Phase II)

Secondary

* To characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of romidepsin in combination with erlotinib hydrochloride.
* To evaluate the impact of erlotinib hydrochloride on the biologic activity of romidepsin by analyzing peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) histone acetylation status and histone acetylase activity. (Exploratory)
* To evaluate the effect of romidepsin and erlotinib hydrochloride on components of the EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor)-signaling pathway in skin biopsies, particularly downstream mediators such as MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase). (Exploratory)

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of romidepsin followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive romidepsin IV on days 1, 8, and 15 and erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily beginning on day 3 of course 1 and on days 1-28 of all subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during study for pharmacokinetic studies. Additional samples of peripheral blood mononuclear cells and skin biopsies may be also collected for correlative studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 30 days.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 39 patients (15 patients for phase I and 24 patients for phase II) will be accrued for this study.