Intrathecal Pemetrexed for Leptomeningeal Metastasis
Intrathecal chemotherapy is one of the most important treatment modalities for leptomeningeal metastasis of solid tumors. In the previous study(Intrathecal Pemetrexed for Recurrent Leptomeningeal Metastasis From Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: A Prospective Pilot Clinical Trial. ClinicalTrials.gov identification number: NCT03101579), pemetrexed presented feasibility of intrathecal administration. Pemetrexed at 10 mg dose level on the schedule of 1-2 times per week was recommended as an intrathecal administration agent for patients with refractory leptomeningeal metastases from non-small-cell lung cancer in the previous study. Moreover, the maximum-tolerated dose and recommended dose of intrathecal pemetrexed in the previous study was obtained without vitamin supplementation. Vitamin supplementation has been shown to reduce pemetrexed-induced myelosuppression. In this study, the regimen of intrathecal pemetrexed with folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation may provide higher safety. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the maximally tolerated dose and evaluate the safety and effectiveness of intrathecal pemetrexed with vitamin supplementation as the first-line intrathecal chemotherapy in patients with leptomeningeal metastases from malignant solid tumors.
Leptomeningeal Metastases
DRUG: Pemetrexed (1)|DRUG: Pemetrexed (2)|DRUG: Folic Acid|DRUG: Vitamin B12|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Maximal tolerated dose, A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as grade 3 neurological toxicities (e.g. chemical meningitis) or other grade 4 toxicity. If more than two patients experienced a DLT, that level was considered too toxic. The maximal tolerated dose (MTD) was exceeded and an additional three patients should be treated at the next lower dose level. The MTD was defined as the dose where 0/3 or 1/6 patients experienced a DLT with at least two patients encountering DLT at the higher dose., From the beginning of the treatment until two months after the treatment.|Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, The incidence of treatment-related adverse events were measured for determining tolerability and safety. Adverse events (AEs) are evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 4.03). Events of grade 3-5 are defined as moderate and severe adverse events., From the beginning of the treatment until two months after the treatment.
Overall survival time, Survival time was defined from the enrollment until death or the last follow-up., The evaluation was performed at least 7 months after leptomeningeal metastasis diagnosis or until death.
Clinical response rate, The Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria proposal for response criteria of leptomeningeal metastasis was used to assess the clinical response in this study., From the beginning of the treatment until two months after the treatment or when patient died.
This is a phase I/II clinical trial. The objective of the study is patients with leptomeningeal metastases from solid tumors. Pemetrexed (Alimta, Eli Lilly and Company) is administrated by intrathecal injection, plus dexamethasone 5 mg, twice per week for 2 weeks, followed by once per week for 4 weeks. In phase I study, the initial dose of intrathecal pemetrexed is 15 mg, escalated to 20 mg, and then 25 mg.... A minimum of three patients and a maximum of six are enrolled in each cohort. A dose-limiting toxicity is defined as grade 3 neurological toxicities (e.g., chemical meningitis) or other grade 4 toxicity. If none of the three patients experiences any dose-limiting toxicity, the subsequent three patients are enrolled at the next higher dosage level. If one of three patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity, up to three more patients are enrolled at the same level. The maximum-tolerated dose is defined as the dose where 0/3 or 1/6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity with at least two patients encountering dose-limiting toxicity at the higher dose. If more than two patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity, that level is considered too toxic. The maximum-tolerated dose is exceeded and an additional three patients should be treated at the next lower dose level. Folic acid 200-400 μg is administered orally once daily, prior to the first intrathecal pemetrexed, until 21 days after the last intrathecal pemetrexed. A single dose of vitamin B12 1000 μg is administered by intramuscular injection before the first intrathecal pemetrexed, once per 3 weeks. In phase II study, the maximum-tolerated dose determined in phase I study is chosen.