Talquetamab in Combination With Iberdomide and Dexamethasone for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial will evaluate the safety, side effects, and best dose of talquetamab in combination with iberdomide and dexamethasone in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). There is currently a significant unmet need for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) who are triple class refractory and have been exposed to B-cell maturation antibody (BCMA) targeted therapy. These patients currently have limited treatment options and poor survival. Talquetamab is an FDA approved drug that can bring T-cells to the myeloma cell, resulting in myeloma cell death. Iberdomide is an investigational drug and works by targeting and destroying proteins that help myeloma cancer cells to survive. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid, is similar to a natural hormone produced by the adrenal glands to reduce inflammation (swelling, heat, redness, and pain) and is used to in helping to treat certain types of cancer including myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Talquetamab|DRUG: Iberdomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy
Proportion of participants reporting treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) (Dose Escalation Cohorts), Safety will be evaluated for the population of participants who received at least one dose of study drug. Treatment-emergent AEs will be graded by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 1 cycle (Cycles are 28 days in length)|Proportion of participants experiencing Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLTs) (Dose Escalation Cohorts), Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be defined as the highest dose at which no more than one instance of DLT is observed among 6 participants treated., Up to 1 cycle (Cycles are 28 days in length)|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) (Dose Escalation Cohorts), RP2D will be defined as the MTD to be evaluated in the expansion cohort based on safety and preliminary activity of at least 2 dose levels (6 patients treated/dose level)., Up to 1 cycle (Cycles are 28 days in length)|Proportion of participants experiencing Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLTs) (Dose Expansion Cohort), The frequency, type, and severity (grade) of each DLT will be reported, Up to 3 years|Objective response rate (ORR) (Dose Expansion Cohort), ORR will be defined as all responses greater than or equal to a partial response (PR) (i.e., PR, very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR), or stringent complete response (sCR) per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) definition). Under Simon's two-stage design, final efficacy evaluation for the primary endpoint will calculate the uniformly minimum variance unbiased estimator, p-value and 95% CI for the response rates., Up to 3 years
Objective response rate (ORR) (Dose Escalation Cohorts), ORR will be defined as all responses greater than or equal to a partial response (i.e., PR, VGPR, CR, or sCR per IMWG definition). Will be summarized using frequency and percentage, along with 95% CIs., Up to 3 years|Number of participants achieving VGPR or CR and MRD (negative (-)) response, MRD will be defined as achieving ≥ VGPR and MRD (-) response will be defined as having \< 1 multiple myeloma clone per 100,000 bone marrow cells (10-5) by next-generation sequencing (NGS) (clono sequence (seq); 10-5). Will be reported for the entire population and for those treated at the MTD., Up to 3 years|Proportion of participants with treatment-related adverse events, Toxicity will be measured by CTCAE version 5.0; cytokine release syndrome and immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) will be assessed according to the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy guidelines; neurological treatment-emergent adverse events that are not assessed as ICANS should be graded per CTCAE version 5.0 and managed by per institutional guidelines., Up to 3 years|Changes in scores on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer - Quality of Life questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30) over time, The functional domains measure the quality of life in Physical functioning, Role functioning, Emotional functioning, Cognitive functioning, Social functioning. Scores consists of responses to items with responses ranging from 1="Not at all" to 4="Very Much". The raw score is calculated by estimating the mean of the items that make up each domains with a resulting total range of 1 - 4. These scores are then transformed to standardized scale score, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A high score for the functional domains represents a high level of functioning., Up to 3 years|Changes in scores on the EORTC QLQ- Multiple Myeloma Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-M20) over time, The EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a 20-item questionnaire that is designed to measure the quality of life of people with multiple myeloma. Scores consists of responses to items addressing multiple myeloma-related symptoms and quality of life issues with responses ranging from 1="Not at all" to 4="Very Much". The raw score is calculated by estimating the mean of the items that make up each domains with a resulting total range of 1 - 4. These scores are then transformed to standardized scale score, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A high score for the functional domains represents a high level of functioning., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety of the combination of talquetamab (Tal), iberdomide (Iber) and dexamethasone (Dex) in patients with triple class exposed (TCE) RRMM. (Phase 1b-dose escalation (DE)).

II. To assess dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of Tal, Iber and Dex administered in 28-day cycles in patients with TCE RRMM. (Phase 1b-DE).

III. To further assess safety of RP2D of the combination of Tal, Iber and Dex administered in 28-day cycles in patients with TCE RRMM Len-refractory, and having received \>= 2 prior lines of therapy. (Phase 1b-expansion (Exp)).

IV. To assess overall response rate (ORR) in patients with TCE RRMM, Len-refractory, and having received ≥ 2 prior lines of therapy. (Phase 1b-Exp).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess ORR, and to determine minimal residual disease (MRD) negative (-) rates in patients achieving ≥ very good partial remission (VGPR).

II. To assess toxicity (incidence of adverse events (AEs), serious AEs (SAEs), and treatment discontinuation due to toxicity) and safety (physical examination findings, vital signs, and clinical laboratory evaluations) in patients with RRMM.

III. Describe changes in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (C30) -Quality of Life questionnaire (QLQ) (EORTC-QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ Oral Health 15 (OH-15) and EORTC QLQ-Multiple Myeloma Questionnaire (MY20)).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess serum cytokines levels with treatment of the combination of Tal, Iber and Dex and the predictive values of response, cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and other adverse events.

II. To assess changes in immune cells in blood and bone marrow with treatment of the combination of Tal, Iber and Dex.

III. To determine the efficacy of combination of Tal, Iber and Dex defined as Objective Response Rate (ORR) and achieving complete response (CR) and MRD (-) status and correlation between mass spectroscopy and bone marrow (BM) MRD assessments.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of Iber followed by a dose-expansion study.

Participants receive Tal in cycle 1 then all 3 drugs will be given in combination in cycle 2 but may be continued at the discretion of the investigator. Cycles repeat every 28 days for as long as there is clinical benefit as determined by the Investigator. Study treatment will be discontinued if there is unacceptable toxicity, disease progression, withdrawal of consent by the participant, noncompliance with study requirements, intercurrent illness, or closure of the study by the Sponsor.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days every 8 weeks for up to 3 years or until progression or initiation of subsequent therapy.