Postoperative Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Thymic Cancer (FUSCC-Thymic 3)
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn the role of adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with thymic carcinoma and completed resection. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does adjuvant chemotherapy decrease disease progression?
2. Does medium dose of three drugs (paclitaxel, cisplatin, 5-FU) well tolerance?

Researchers will compare chemoradiotherapy to radiotherapy to see whether chemoradiotherapy could decrease disease progression or not.

Participants will:

1. Take radiotherapy (50Gy/25f) with or without 4 cycles of chemotherapy (TPF).
2. Follow up every 3 months in the first two year, and then every 6 months.
Thymic Carcinoma
DRUG: Chemotherapy|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Disease free survival, From surgery to any disease relapse or death, 3 year
Overall survival, from surgery to any death, 3 year|Disease Specific Survival, from surgery to death related to thymic carcinoma, 3 year
Thymic carcinomas are rare neoplasms found in the anterior mediastinum, with an incidence of 0.38 cases per 100,000 people. Surgery is the primary treatment for patients with thymic carcinomas, and complete surgical resection proves fundamental for enhancing survival. However, the necessity for adjuvant therapy and the optimal type thereof for patients who have undergone complete resection remain unclear due to the lack of high-quality studies.

Our previous retrospective study found that radiotherapy improved overall survival and disease progression free survival significantly for all patients with thymic carcinoma and completed resection, however, chemotherapy only improved disease progression free survival for patients of stage III/IV. We also found that chemotherapy regimens containing paclitaxel were an advantageous combination for thymic cancer, and 1 or 2 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy were better than more cycles, suggesting reduced dose chemotherapy.

DCF (docetaxel, cisplatin, 5-FU) or TPF (paclitaxel, cisplatin, 5-FU) were widely used in head and neck, esophageal, stomach, and anal canal cancer, and better effect were presented. However, the toxicity of full dose was too toxic to tolerate. Our previous experience in esophageal cancer found TPF with 2/3 of standard dose was well tolerance. Therefore, medium dose of TPF three drugs chemotherapy were chosed to balance efficacy and toxicity.