DHEA in Treating Women Undergoing Surgery for Stage I, Stage II, or Stage III Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) may slow the growth of tumor cells and be an effective treatment for women with breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying how well DHEA works in treating women undergoing surgery for stage I, stage II, or stage III breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: DHEA|PROCEDURE: Surgical resection
Tumor Proliferation (Percentage of Ki-67 Positive Cells), Baseline, prior to DHEA treatment, within 48 hours prior to surgery and after 14 days of DHEA treatment.
Effect of Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) on Androgen Receptor Expression, Baseline, prior to DHEA treatment, within 48 hours prior to surgery and after 14 days of DHEA treatment.|Effect of DHEA on Changes in Serum Estrogen and Androgen Hormone Levels (e.g., Estrone, Estradiol, Testosterone, Dihydrotestosterone, DHEA, and DHEA-sulfate), Baseline, prior to DHEA treatment, within 48 hours prior to surgery and after 14 days of DHEA treatment.|Toxicity, Within 48 hours prior to surgery and after 14 days of DHEA treatment.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To identify the effect of the adrenal steroid, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), on tumor proliferation in women with estrogen receptor-negative, progesterone receptor-negative, HER2/neu-negative, and androgen receptor (AR)-positive stage I-III adenocarcinoma of the breast.

Secondary

* To study the effect of DHEA on expression of AR in these patients.
* To assess the effect of DHEA on changes in serum estrogen and androgen hormone levels (e.g., estrone, estradiol, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, DHEA, and DHEA-sulfate) in these patients.
* To assess the toxicity of DHEA in these patients.
* To follow the clinical course of these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) twice daily on days -14 to 0. Patients then undergo surgery on day 1.

Tissue samples are collected at baseline and at the time of surgery for biomarker analysis (androgen receptor, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, HER2/neu, Ki-67, and p53) by IHC. Blood samples are collected at baseline and after completion of treatment with DHEA for analysis of serum hormone (e.g., estrone, estradiol, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, DHEA, and DHEA-sulfate) and cytokine levels.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 1 week and then every 6 months for 3 years.