Panobinostat With Fludarabine and Cytarabine for Treatment of Children With Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
Cancer is the uncontrolled growth of human cells. The growth of normal human cells is controlled by multiple mechanisms. Panobinostat belongs to a class of chemotherapy drugs called "histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors." HDAC inhibitors like panobinostat block enzymes known as histone deacetylases, which stops cancer cells from dividing and causes them to die. Fludarabine and cytarabine are chemotherapy drugs that are commonly used to treat pediatric patients with refractory or relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

The purpose of this study is to test the safety of panobinostat and to find the highest dose of panobinostat that can be given safely when it is combined with fludarabine and cytarabine.

This pilot study will be done in two parts: The goal of Part 1 of the study is to find the highest tolerable dose of panobinostat that can be given to patients with AML or MDS, when it is combined with fludarabine and cytarabine. Once that dose is determined, participants will be enrolled on Part 2: Dose Expansion, to look at the effect of the panobinostat/fludarabine/cytarabine combination in patients with leukemia/MDS.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

* Determine a tolerable dose of panobinostat when given in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory AML or MDS.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

* Characterize the pharmacokinetics of panobinostat after the first dose and at steady-state.
* Estimate the overall response rate to the combination of panobinostat, fludarabine, and cytarabine.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Panobinostat|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Intrathecal Triples|DRUG: Leucovorin
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Any participant who experiences non-hematologic dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first 28 days after taking the initial dose of panobinostat and before receiving non-protocol therapy is considered evaluable for toxicity. Non-hematologic DLT includes any Grade 5 event and any Grade 3 or 4 event that is at least possibly related to panobinostat, unless the event is clearly due to extraneous causes or disease progression. Hematologic DLT includes failure to recover counts by Day 56 in the absence of persistent leukemia.

Participants without DLTs who receive at least 5 of the 6 prescribed cycle I doses of panobinostat and can be followed for 28 days (56 days for evaluation of hematologic toxicity) after their initial dose of panobinostat are considered evaluable for toxicity. Participants who are not evaluable for toxicity will be replaced.

The MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which six participants have been treated with at most one participant experiencing a DLT., Up to 56 days following first dose of panobinostat
Clearance (CL), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the clearance., From baseline pre-dose day 1 through 48 hours after panobinostat administration|Clearance (CL), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the clearance., On day 8 from pre-dose through 48 hours after panobinostat administration|Drug Absorption (ka), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the drug absorption., From baseline pre-dose day 1 through 48 hours after panobinostat administration|Drug Absorption (ka), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the drug absorption., On day 8 from pre-dose through 48 hours after panobinostat administration|Area under curve (AUC), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the PK parameters. The AUC will be estimated based on the individual estimated PK., From baseline pre-dose day 1 through 48 hours after panobinostat administration|Area under curve (AUC), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the PK parameters. The AUC will be estimated based on the individual estimated PK., On day 8 from pre-dose through 24 hours after panobinostat administration|Maximum concentration (Cmax), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the PK parameters. The Cmax will be estimated based on the individual estimated PK., From baseline pre-dose day 1 through 48 hours after panobinostat administration|Maximum concentration (Cmax), Plasma samples will be analyzed via a validated method for plasma panobinostat concentration. Panobinostat concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population pharmacokinetic (PK) model to determine the PK parameters. The Cmax will be estimated based on the individual estimated PK., On day 8 from pre-dose through 24 hours after panobinostat administration|Complete response (CR) rate, Response will be based on blast percentage by flow cytometry. Blast percentages determined by morphology will be used in cases that are not evaluable by flow cytometry.

The efficacy of the combination of panobinostat and chemotherapy, as measured by the CR rate will be assessed for patients enrolled at the MTD. The rate of CR will be presented as a point estimate with a 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to Day 42 after completion of therapy|Overall response (OR) rate, Response will be based on blast percentage by flow cytometry. Blast percentages determined by morphology will be used in cases that are not evaluable by flow cytometry.

The efficacy of the combination of panobinostat and chemotherapy, as measured by the OR (CR + incomplete blood count recovery + partial response + therapeutic success) will be assessed for the patients enrolled at the MTD. The rate of OR will be presented as a point estimate with a 95% confidence interval., Up to Day 42 after completion of therapy
STUDY PART 1: Dose Escalation Cohort

During the dose escalation phase (Part 1), participants will receive one course of panobinostat plus fludarabine and cytarabine. The starting dose of panobinostat will be 10 mg/m\^2/dose, with 2 additional dose levels of 15 and 20, depending on tolerability. Each course is 12 days

STUDY PART 2: Dose Expansion Cohort

The recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be chosen based on the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the totality of data obtained from study Part 1. Additional patients will be enrolled, if needed, so that at least 6 patients are treated with the recommended RP2D to confirm the MTD of panobinostat to be given in study Part 2.

After final MTD determination, 12 additional participants will be treated at this dose level for further evaluation of tolerability and response, including more complete toxicity data and estimation of the response rate to the combination of panobinostat, fludarabine, and cytarabine.