The Effect of Routine Video-recording on Colonoscopy Quality Indicators.
Routine video recording of the colonoscopy examination has been proposed as a simple and easy to implement method that could improve the quality of colonoscopy. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether implementation of routine video recording of screening colonoscopy withdrawal is effective as a means of supporting quality performance of colonoscopy. The study will be performed in 8 screening centers within the framework of a national colonoscopy screening program in Poland (the Polish Colonoscopy Screening Platform; PCSP). Individuals aged 55-64 years are eligible to participate in the PCSP. In the run-in period colonoscopy quality measures will be monitored through a dedicated joint database. Then eligible screening centres will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the video recording group or the control group. Screening centres assigned to the video recording group will receive videorecorders and DVDs and will be asked to video record all screening colonoscopies (only withdrawal). Control group will be allowed to record colonoscopies on demand only. Then , the colonoscopy quality measures will again be monitored through a dedicated joint database. All the recorded DVDs will be reviewed to verify ceacal intubation and withdrawal time by the PCSP team.
Colorectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Implementation of routine videorecording|BEHAVIORAL: No routine videorecording
Change in screening centre adenoma detection rate before and after intervention, Proportion of patients with at least one adenoma identified (measured in screening program database)., From the time of randomization up to 10 months (the end of screening program annual edition)
Reported and audited ceacal intubation rates, Proportion of complete colonoscopies (measured in screening program database; audited ceacal intubation rates will be assessed through videorecording review), From the time of randomization up to 10 months (the end of screening program annual edition)|Rates of painful colonoscopy, Severe or moderate pain on a four point verbal rating scale (measured in screening program database), From the time of randomization up to 10 months (the end of screening program annual edition)|Rates of proximal (to the splenic flexure) serrated polyps ≥10mm in size, Measured in screening program database., From the time of randomization up to 10 months (the end of screening program annual edition)
Routine video recording of the colonoscopy examination has been proposed as a simple and easy to implement method that could improve the quality of colonoscopy. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether implementation of routine video recording of screening colonoscopy withdrawal is effective as a means of supporting quality performance of colonoscopy. The study will be performed in 8 screening centers within the framework of a national colonoscopy screening program in Poland (the Polish Colonoscopy Screening Platform; PCSP). Individuals aged 55-64 years are eligible to participate in the PCSP. In the run-in period colonoscopy quality measures will be monitored through a dedicated joint database. Then eligible screening centres will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the video recording group or the control group. Screening centres assigned to the video recording group will receive videorecorders and DVDs and will be asked to video record all screening colonoscopies (only withdrawal). Control group will be allowed to record colonoscopies on demand only. Then , the colonoscopy quality measures will again be monitored through a dedicated joint database. All the recorded DVDs will be reviewed to verify ceacal intubation and withdrawal time by the PCSP team.