A Real World Study of Bismuth Colloidal Pectin Granules Quadruple Therapy for H. Pylori Eradication
To observe the eradication rate of H. pylori infection, symptom improvement and the incidence of adverse effects in patients using a bismuth colloidal pectin granules quadruple therapy.
Gastric Cancer|Helicobacter Pylori Infection|Bismuth
DRUG: Bismuth Colloidal Pectin Granules Quadruple Therapy for H. Pylori Eradication
helicobacter pylori eradication, The primary end point of this study is H.pylori eradication,established by negative \[13C\] urea breath test 28 days after the end of eradication., 28 days after treatment
symptoms improvement rates, symptoms improvement rates Evaluation improvement rate of symptoms 2 weeks of treatment and 4 weeks after the end of treatment. Symptom improvement rate =#total score before treatment - total score after treatment#/total score before treatment x100%. Total score = frequency + severity.Frequency score is calculated by all the frequency of heartburn, reflux, abdominal pain, and flatulence, etc. Severity is accumulated by the degree of symptoms described above, which is divided to 4 degree as 0 presenting none, and 3 presenting most severe, 14 days of treatment, and 28 days after treatment
adverse events, Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability.The common side effects of the study include headache, dizziness, skin rash, other gastrointestinal disorders, pyrexia, cough and back pain., 14 days of treatment, and 28 days after treatment
The study will include three phases: screening, treatment and follow-up. Screening: Patients who have been screened to meet the criteria for naval platooning will be enrolled after signing an informed consent form.

Treatment: Subjects will receive 14 days of eradication treatment. With the exception of colloidal bismuth pectin granules, which will be limited, proton pump inhibitors (PPI) and 2 antibiotics will be selected on the basis of the physician's experience.

Follow-up: Includes two visits. approximately 14 days of treatment and 28 days after the end of treatment. Eradication of H. Pylori will be confirmed through urea breath test(UBT).