Orteronel in Treating Patients With Metastatic Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well orteronel works in treating patients with metastatic hormone-resistant prostate cancer. Orteronel may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Hormone-resistant Prostate Cancer|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: orteronel|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Androgen Receptor (AR) Protein Expression Levels in CTCs, The two-sample t-test will be used. Once association between AR protein expression levels and response is established, graphical methods such as receiver-operator curves (ROC) or more quantitative methods such as the maximal chi-square method to determine whether there might be a cut-point with either great sensitivity or great specificity (or both) for identifying a cohort with either a high or low likelihood of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response., Up to 4 weeks|PSA Response, Defined as Occurrence of PSA Decline to Greater Than or Equal to 50% From Baseline, Standard descriptive methods will be used to summarize PSA. Values will be tabulated as outlined in the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria and presented as Kaplan-Meier survival curves, as appropriate., At 12 weeks
Best PSA Response, Values will be tabulated as outlined in the PCWG2 criteria and presented as Kaplan-Meier survival curves, as appropriate., Up to 24 weeks|Absolute Change in PSA, Values will be tabulated as outlined in the PCWG2 criteria and presented as Kaplan-Meier survival curves, as appropriate., Baseline to 24 weeks|Overall Response Rate Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 and PCWG2 Criteria, Response will be tabulated descriptively with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) and Kaplan-Meier survival curves, as appropriate., Up to 3 years|Duration of Response Using RECIST Version 1.1 and PCWG2 Criteria, Response will be tabulated descriptively with 95% CIs and Kaplan-Meier survival curves, as appropriate., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Toxicity, Summary of grade 3 (per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0) or higher toxicities which generally is described as a severe reaction or symptom., 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the relationship between circulating tumor cell (CTC)-based androgen receptor (AR) expression level and \>=-50% prostate-specific antigen (PSA) decline following 12 weeks of therapy with TAK-700 (orteronel).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess changes in PSA and CTC levels and time to PSA progression (best response, decline at 12 weeks as continuous variable, etc.) with or without prior docetaxel-based treatment.

II. To assess measurable disease response and time to radiographic disease progression for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) with or without prior docetaxel-based treatment.

III. To explore relationships between endocrine and clinical responses.

IV. To confirm the safety of TAK-700 administered without prednisone in patients with metastatic CRPC.

OUTLINE: Patients receive orteronel orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.