Image-guided Ultrasound Robotic Intraoperative Evaluation of Lymph-nodes Status in Gynecological Malignancies
The assessment of lymph node status is of crucial importance in gynaecological malignancies.

Indeed, the prognosis and adjuvant treatment regimens are strongly influenced by the presence of nodal involvement. Systematic extensive lymphadenectomies are often performed for staging, diagnosis of skip metastases and to define the radiation field when radiotherapy treatments are required. Nevertheless, these can lead to significant short-term and long-term lymphatic complications, which are difficult to justify if the lymph nodes are free from metastasis. To avoid unnecessary comprehensive procedures in early-stage cancers, evaluation of the sentinel lymph node has acquired a valuable role even if limitations are still present (rate of frozen section false negative, "empty packets" and mapping failure). The introduction of an intra-operative non-invasive imaging technique capable of describing the presence and characteristics of lymph nodes could help in (1) eliminating the risk of empty packet, (2) orienting the intraoperative decision while avoiding the drawbacks of frozen section (time and resources, partial destruction of the tissue material), (3) orientate the pathological section if frozen section is used. To date, technological advancements have paved the way for enhanced intra-operative assessment of cancerous organs and lesions. Over the past decade, the evolution of robotic surgery combined with advancements in image-guided surgery techniques has led to the introduction of ultrasound probes designed specifically for intraoperative ultrasound during robotic surgery (RIOUS). Apart from the conventional rigid laparoscopic probes, which can be inserted through an accessory trocar, there are robotic probes tailored to fit device arms, and drop-in flexible probes that are becoming increasingly relevant in the scientific panorama. Notably, the latter drop-in probes feature a rigid segment designed for compatibility with robotic graspers, leveraging the dexterity and rotational manoeuvrability inherent to robotic surgery. Such probes, already proven effective in evaluating liver and kidney lesions as well as tumour margins, hold promise for intraoperative lymph node assessments due to the possibility of reaching difficult anatomical spaces thanks to the robotic-assisted movements
Lymph Node Metastasis|Gynecologic Cancer
PROCEDURE: image-guided surgery technique
sensibility of RIUS in the metastasis detection, The aim of this prospective trial is to report the sensibility of RIUS in the metastasis detection (macro, micro and ITCs) from fresh, unstained in vivo lymph node samples. Lymph nodes images will be evaluated in order to investigate the presence or the absence of morphological parameters to be significant in the disease detection according to the VITA (Vulva International Tumor Analysis) group consensus. The gold standard will be final pathology., 2 year
drop-in robotic ultrasound probe., The secondary endpoint is to assess the lowest size detectable with the adopted drop-in robotic ultrasound probe, 2 years
Women undergoing radical surgery for gynecological cancers who meet the inclusion criteria in absence of exclusion criteria will be considered candidate for the study. Intraoperative robotic ultrasound will be performed on in vivo lymph nodal samples. Lymph nodes morphology and imaging characteristics will be evaluated. The gold standard will be definitive pathology.