Nutrition and Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of Fermented Soy vs. placebo in 72 adults with localized prostate cancer prior to radical prostatectomy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Fermented Soy|OTHER: Placebo
Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA), The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man's blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The PSA range of scores and interpretation are as follows: Normal PSA Levels: 0 - 4 ng/mL, Slightly Elevated PSA: 4 - 10 ng/mL, Moderately Elevated PSA: 10 - 20 ng/mL, Highly Elevated PSA: 20+ ng/mL. Interpretation of these scores is also based on the age of the inidividual., Greater than or equal to 4 weeks (up to 10 weeks)
Gleason Score, Pathological investigation of the removed prostate gland will include the assessment of biopsy-proven, index prostate cancer lesion will lead to the analysis of any modulation of PCa grade (Gleason score) compared to preoperative biopsies. The Gleason Score is interpreted as follows: 3+4 (Prognosis = Good), 4+3 (Prognosis = Likely to Spread), 8 - 10 (Prognosis = Likely to Spread Rapidly)., Greater than or equal to 4 weeks (up to 10 weeks)|PCa Tissue Telomeric DNA Length, Analysis of telomere length in research samples of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells reveals that telomere length decreases with increased replication of cells, reflecting the replicative history of those cells., Greater than or equal to 4 weeks (up to 10 weeks)|Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA-S) Score Change, Post surgical/post intervention CAPRA score will be used for comparison with baseline (screening) value. The CAPRA score can range from 0 to 10 where: a score of 0 to 2 indicates low-risk, 3 to 5 indicates intermediate-risk, and 6 to 10 indicates high-risk., Baseline to final visit (up to 10 weeks)|Cell Cycle Progression Score, Assessment of prostate cancer mRNA can be determined from PCa tissue. Cell cycle progression score assessment of PCa mRNA is a novel RNA expression-based assay that directly measures tumor cell growth characteristics in order to stratify patients with localized PCa according to disease aggressiveness., Greater than or equal to 4 weeks (up to 10 weeks)|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P v4©), Quality of life assessment for men with PCa will be assessed with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P v4©). The FACT-P contains 39 items that use a 0-4 rating scale. The highest possible score is 156 (lowest possible score = 0). The total score is an indication of overall quality of life where the higher scores indicate better quality of life., Greater than or equal to 4 weeks (up to 10 weeks)
This is a parallel group, double-blind, randomized clinical trial with two arms. The primary aim is to assess the efficacy of Fermented Soy vs. placebo in 72 adults with prostate cancer. This study has 1 primary aim and 3 (1a thru 1c) sub aims. Aim 1 is to assess the effect of Fermented Soy (QC) on PSA (prostate specific antigen) In parallel, in Aims 1a-1c will assess tumor-specific effects of QC:

Aim 1a: Identifying the anti-tumor effects of QC. This will be done by culturing multiple human cancer cell lines with QC at a range of concentrations, followed by readouts at different time points, of tumor cell apoptosis, proliferation, and senescence.

Aim 1b: Identify a hierarchy of tumors that are responsive to QC. From the data in aim one an attempt will be made to identify a hierarchy of anti-tumor effects.

Aim 1c: Investigate the signaling pathways in tumor cells that are modified by QC. To do this, full genomic profiling will be conducted for breast and prostate tumor cell lines, and will be done in conjunction with analysis of the relevant signaling pathways, and will include P53 and P21 activation pathways.