Relevance of T Lymphocytes Tumor Infiltrates CD8 and Foxp3 as Immune Prognostic Biomarker in Breast Cancer Treated by Neo Adjuvant Chemotherapy
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is standard therapy for the management of localised breast cancer, and makes it possible to evaluate tumour response. Achieving pathological complete response (pCR) after chemotherapy is the most important prognostic factor for these patients. However, patients with pCR can suffer relapse. In parallel, long-term prognosis of patients who do not achieve pCR is poorly documented, and no specific prognostic factors have been clearly identified.Preclinical and clinical studies argue for an immunogenic role of some chemotherapy regimens, such as anthracyclines, taxanes or trastuzumab. By facilitating recruitment of CD8 T-lymphocytes in the tumour bed, these agents could favourably influence antitumour immune response, partially contributing to efficacy. Conversely, tumours can promote accumulation of regulatory T-lymphocytes expressing Foxp3, thus evading anti-tumour immune response, and increased numbers of regulatory T-cells are associated with less favourable prognosis in breast cancer patients. We have previously shown that a high number of CD8 T-cells associated with low Foxp3 infiltration, as quantified by immunohistochemistry on surgical specimens, is associated with better response and better survival in breast cancer patients, independently of whether pCR was achieved, the type of chemotherapy used, and the type of breast cancer. Therefore, we propose to validate in a prospective study this immunological prognostic marker in a large cohort of patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: immunohistochemical detection of lymphocytes T CD8+/Foxp3 ratio
Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from inclusion date to death from any cause, or to date of last follow-up, if death does not occur., From date of inclusion up to the end of follow-up period : december 2014 (anticipated)
Recurrence-free survival, Recurrence-free survival is defined as the time interval from the date of surgery to the date of first recurrence (loco-regional or metastatic) or to death (all causes). Patients alive without recurrence will be censored on the date of last follow-up., From inclusion up to the end of follow up period: december 2014|Pathological complete response, Pathological complete response on the surgically resected specimen is defined as the absence of any evidence of invasive carcinoma in the breast or dissected axillary lymph nodes., After surgery|PathIm score (pathological-immunological), PathIm score (pathological-immunological)from 0 to 2, defining three patient groups with different prognoses (0 = good prognosis; 1 = intermediate prognosis; 2 = unfavourable prognosis), and defined as the sum of the pathology information regarding the extent of residual tumour according to the pAJCC score(pAJCC stage≤IIA = 0; pAJCC stage\>IIA = 1), and the immunological information from the CD8/Foxp3 ratio (high CD8 AND low Foxp3 infiltration = 0, all other situations = 1), From inclusion up to the end of surgery for all patients: december 2014 (anticipated)
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is standard therapy for the management of localised breast cancer, and makes it possible to evaluate tumour response. Achieving pathological complete response (pCR) after chemotherapy is the most important prognostic factor for these patients. However, patients with pCR can suffer relapse. In parallel, long-term prognosis of patients who do not achieve pCR is poorly documented, and no specific prognostic factors have been clearly identified.Preclinical and clinical studies argue for an immunogenic role of some chemotherapy regimens, such as anthracyclines, taxanes or trastuzumab. By facilitating recruitment of CD8 T-lymphocytes in the tumour bed, these agents could favourably influence antitumour immune response, partially contributing to efficacy. Conversely, tumours can promote accumulation of regulatory T-lymphocytes expressing Foxp3, thus evading anti-tumour immune response, and increased numbers of regulatory T-cells are associated with less favourable prognosis in breast cancer patients. We have previously shown that a high number of CD8 T-cells associated with low Foxp3 infiltration, as quantified by immunohistochemistry on surgical specimens, is associated with better response and better survival in breast cancer patients, independently of whether pCR was achieved, the type of chemotherapy used, and the type of breast cancer. Therefore, we propose to validate in a prospective study this immunological prognostic marker in a large cohort of patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.