Preoperative Inspiratory Muscle Training in Esophageal Resection
The PREPARE study is the first multicenter randomized controlled trial to evaluate the hypothesis that preoperative inspiratory muscle training leads to decreased pulmonary complications in patients undergoing esophageal resection.
Esophageal Resection Candidates
OTHER: Inspiratory Muscle Training (IMT)
Pneumonia incidence, Pneumonia will be scored according to the Utrecht Pneumonia Scoring System., Date of first pneumonia event. Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 2 weeks
Length of stay, Postoperative length of stay on the intensive care unit, Postoperative length of hospital stay., Time between date of surgery and first discharge from ICU and first discharge from hospital (on average 14 days)|Duration of mechanical ventilation, Number of hours spent on the mechanical ventilator during and directly following the primary surgery., Time between intubation and first extubation (in general no more then 24 hours)|Respiratory muscle function, Inspiratory muscle endurance and maximal inspiratory pressure at the mouth (Pi-max)., At baseline, before surgery and 3, 6 and 9 days after surgery.|Pulmonary function, Forced Expiratory Volume in one second (FEV1), Forced vital capacity (FVC), FEV1/FVC ratio., At baseline, before surgery and 3, 6 and 9 days after surgery.|Quality of life, Quality of life is measured using the EuroQol and SF-12 questionnaires., At baseline and 4 weeks after surgery
Rationale: Esophageal resection is associated with high incidences of postoperative pulmonary pneumonia. Numbers of 30% are reported in literature. Postoperative complications can result in prolonged hospital stay and increased health care costs. In cardiac surgery patients a reduction of postoperative pneumonia of 50% is reported as a result of a preoperative inspiratory muscle training program. While in some surgical centers IMT is already used in the preoperative phase in patients undergoing esophageal resection, the effect of this promising intervention has not yet been investigated in a randomised and controlled study design in large surgical populations other than cardiac surgery.

Primary objective: Investigate the effect of a preoperative inspiratory muscle training program on the incidence of postoperative pneumonia in patients undergoing esophageal resection.

Study design: Prospective multicenter randomised controlled clinical trial.

Main study parameters/endpoints: A significant reduction in incidence of postoperative pneumonia.