Carfilzomib and Melphalan Before Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of carfilzomib when given together with melphalan and to see how well they work in treating patients with multiple myeloma before stem cell transplant. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as melphalan, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving carfilzomib together with melphalan may kill more cancer cells.
DS Stage I Plasma Cell Myeloma|DS Stage II Plasma Cell Myeloma|DS Stage III Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Bone Marrow Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Carfilzomib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Melphalan
Determine Maximum Tolerated Dose by the Number of Patients With a DLT Per Dose Level, Will be defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity(DLT) in at least one-third of patients. For this study, a DLT is any of the following during the first 2 cycles of treatment; Absolute neutrophil count engraftment\* delayed beyond day 21 or Platelet engraftment\* delayed beyond day 30, grade 3+ related sensory or motor neuropathy, or grade 4+ related non-neurologic or non-hematologic adverse event(excluding nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Reported below are the number of patients who experienced a DLT., Up to day 30|Percentage of Patients With Complete Responses, Defined as a Complete Response Noted as the Objective Status on Two Consecutive Evaluations (Phase II), The percentage of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success percentages will be calculated., Up to 5 years
Adverse Event Rate, Graded According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, These results are reported in the adverse events section. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 5 years|Complete Response Rate at Day 100, Complete response rate (CRR) is defined as the percentage of complete responses estimated by the total number of patients who achieve a complete response by day 100 post-transplant divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true complete response rate at day 100 will be calculated., At day 100|Progression Free Percentage at 1 and 2 Years Post Registration, Progression is an Increase of 25% from lowest value in any of the following (A "25% increase" refers to M protein, FLC and bone marrow results and does not refer to bone lesions, soft tissue plasmacytoma or hypercalcemia. The lowest value does not need to be a confirmed value. If the lowest serum Mprotein is ≥ 5 g/dL, an increase in serum M-protein of ≥ 1 g/dL is sufficient to define disease progression.), (In the case where a value is felt to be a spurious result per physician discretion (for example, a possible lab error), that value will not be considered when determining the lowest value.): Serum M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥ 0.5 g/dL) and/or Urine M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥ 200 mg/24 hrs) and/or If the only measurable disease is FLC, the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels (absolute increase must be\>10 mg/dL) and/or If the only measurable disease is BM, bone marrow PC percentage (absolute increase must be ≥ 10%) (Bone marrow criteria for PD, At 1 year and 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of carfilzomib that can be added to high dose melphalan as part of conditioning chemotherapy for myeloma. (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy of the combination in patients with myeloma undergoing stem cell transplantation, as defined by achievement of complete response (CR). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the toxicities associated with addition of carfilzomib to high dose melphalan in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).

II. To determine the progression free rate at 1 and 2 years post registration.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients achieving a minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status.

II. To assess the HevyLite assay prior to and during treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of carfilzomib followed by a phase II study.

CONDITIONING: Patients receive carfilzomib intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days -6, -5, -2, and -1. Patients also receive melphalan IV over 1 hour on days -4 and -3.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo autologous stem cell transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 30, day 100, and then every 90 days for up to 5 years.