Tanespimycin and Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia, or Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of tanespimycin when given with cytarabine in treating patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or myelodysplastic syndromes. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as tanespimycin and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Tanespimycin may also help cytarabine kill more cancer cells by making cancer cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving tanespimycin together with cytarabine may kill more cancer cells.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Adult Acute Basophilic Leukemia|Adult Acute Eosinophilic Leukemia|Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts in Transformation|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: tanespimycin|DRUG: cytarabine
Tolerability of tanespimycin with cytarabine in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or high-grade myelodysplastic syndromes, Evaluated using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 standard toxicity grading., Day 21
Clinical response, Evaluated as suggested by the International Working Group for Diagnosis, Standardization of Response Criteria, Treatment Outcomes and Reporting Standards for Therapeutic Trials in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. Summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics across all patients in each group as well as by dose level. Possible relationships between response and dose level will be explored graphically., Every 2 weeks|Plasma level of tanespimycin, Summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics across all patients in each group as well as by dose level. Possible relationships between pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters and p450 3A5 genotypes will be explored., Day 3|Effects on client proteins, Analyzed by immunoblotting. Results will be displayed graphically and analyzed using simple descriptive statistics., Days 1, 3, and 4 of course 1
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of 17-N-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG) (tanespimycin) when administered with cytarabine in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or high-grade myelodysplastic syndromes.

II. Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine, preliminarily, the activity of this regimen in these patients. IV. Correlate the pharmacokinetics of this regimen with cytochrome p450 3A5 genotype in these patients.

V. Determine the effect of this regimen on client proteins in vivo and ex vivo using leukemic blasts from patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of tanespimycin.

Patients receive induction therapy comprising cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-5 and tanespimycin IV over 1 hour on days 3 and 6.

Patients achieving a morphologic complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) or partial response may be eligible to receive a second induction course of therapy after day 21 at the discretion of the principal investigator. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive up to 4 courses of consolidation therapy with cytarabine and tanespimycin. Consolidation therapy repeats approximately every 60 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve CR and remain in remission for ≥ 6 months may be retreated with cytarabine and tanespimycin (at the current dose level or the maximum tolerated dose \[MTD\]) at the time of relapse. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tanespimycin until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Patients are followed at 3 months.