Resection vs no Resection of the Primary in Colorectal Cancer With Unresectable Metastases
Main outcome: Assess the impact of cancer-related survival at 2 years in patients with unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer treated with chemotherapy alone versus surgery followed by chemotherapy. To assess overall survival. To evaluate postoperative morbidity and mortality in patients treated with resection of the primary tumor. Assess complications and meed for surgery in patients treated with systemic chemotherapy only during the course of the disease. Identify and describe the complications related to chemotherapy and toxicity in the short and medium term systemic treatment. Assessing the quality of life questionnaire QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR29. To study prognostic survival factors.

Method: multicenter randomized clinical trail (22 hospitals). Two parallel group in which to evaluate two therapeutic strategies for colorectal cancer metastasis unresectable stage IV: chemotherapy alone versus primary tumor resection plus chemotherapy.

Subjects: patients with unresectable nonmetastatic colorectal cancer. Hypothesis:Surgical resection of the primary tumor in stage IV colorectal patients with unresectable synchronous metastases increases by 14% overall survival compared to patients receiving systemic treatment with chemotherapy without resection of the primary tumor (survival of 34% vs 20%).
Colonic Cancer|Unresectable Metastasis Originating in Colonic Cancer
PROCEDURE: Colonic resection|DRUG: Chemotherapy- scheme
Assess the impact of overall survival in patients with unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer treated with chemotherapy alone vs surgery followed by chemotherapy., The percentage of patients who are still alive for follow-up at 2 years after randomization., up to 2 years
Postoperative morbidity and mortality., Postoperative complications were classified according to the Dindo-Clavien classification.

Mortality within 30 days after surgery, 30 days postoperatively|Complications in patients treated with systemic chemotherapy, The toxicity will be evaluated and documented according to the CTCAE version 4.0., up to 2 years|Questionnaire Quality of life CR29, Specific questionnaire for colon cancer, up to 2 years|Study of possible survival factors, Identify factors that may influence patient survival before applying any treatment (demographics, clinicals and analitycal factors, tumor characteristics; ...), up to 2 years
Intervention: Arm B (control): chemotherapy alone, regimen according to each center. Arm A (experimental): surgery (complete tumoral resection; R0) followed by chemotherapy, regimen according to each center. Statistical Analysis: A power analysis showed that to assure a significance level of 0,05 and a beta error 0.20. 168 patients are necessary in each arm. It has been estimated a loss rate of up to 10%.

Differences between groups will be analyzed by t, U, X2, exact test and survival will be assessed according to Kaplan and Meier method. Evaluation of safety of the trial will be made in the middle of the study statistically