Study of Poziotinib in Japanese Patients With NSCLC
A Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter study to determine dose, tolerability, safety and efficacy of poziotinib in Japanese patients non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
NSCLC
DRUG: Poziotinib Once Daily Dosing|DRUG: Poziotinib Twice Daily Dosing|DRUG: Poziotinib Once Daily Dosing or Twice Daily Dosing as determined in Phase 1
Phase 1: Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLT was any of the following treatment-related adverse events occurring during Cycle 1, Non-Hematological Toxicity: Grade 3 or higher toxicity except for alopecia; Grade 3 or higher nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea despite medical intervention. Hematological Toxicity: Grade 4 or higher neutropenia for ≥7 days; Febrile neutropenia with a single temperature of \>38.3°C or a sustained temperature of ≥38°C; Neutropenic infection: Grade 3 or higher infection accompanying Grade 4 neutropenia; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or any grade thrombocytopenia requiring platelet transfusion., Cycle 1 (Day 1-28)|Phase 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with best response i.e confirmed complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator using local radiology evaluation according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). CR is defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in the short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR., Up to 461 days
Phase 2: Disease Control Rate (DCR), The percentage of participants who achieve CR, PR, and stable disease (SD) by the best response from the first dose of poziotinib to the end of the study as assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 461 days|Phase 2: Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of response was defined as the time from the date that measurement criteria are first met for CR or PR until the first subsequent date that progressive disease as assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 or death is documented. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in the short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. Disease progression is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression in non-target lesions, and/or appearance of new lesions., Up to 461 days|Phase 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was the number of days from the treatment start date to the date of first documented disease progression or death from any cause. Per RECIST v1.1 for target lesions, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum of diameters (SOD) from previous smallest SOD on study, and an absolute increase of ≥5mm., Up to 461 days|Phase 1: Plasma Concentration of Poziotinib and M1, M2 Metabolites, Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 13|Phase 1 and 2: Percentage of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), TEAEs are AEs that occur from the first dose of study treatment until 40 days after the last dose of study treatment. An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation patient, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. Therefore, an AE can be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product., Up to 40 days after the last dose of the study drug (Up to 461 days)
Phase 2: Exploratory - Overall Survival, The number of days from the treatment start date to the date of death due to any cause., 2 years
This is a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter study in Japanese patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC. This study will be conducted in two parts. Phase 1 is designed to observe the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum administered dose (MAD) of poziotinib when administered once daily or twice daily. Phase 2 will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the dose determined in Phase 1. Study participation includes a 30 day screening period, up to 24 months of treatment, and long-term follow-up for a maximum of 24 months after discontinuation of study treatment.

Phase 1 will enroll up to 36 patients into a dose finding study with two parallel, randomized dose groups. Each group will undergo a dose-finding scheme using a 3+3 design with the assessment of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) at up to three dose levels. Patients will be randomized into once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) dose groups. The DLT assessment will be conducted in the first cycle of treatment and therefore, poziotinib dose modifications are not permitted during this cycle. Patients will be hospitalized for the first 2 weeks.

Phase 2 will enroll 40 additional NSCLC patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) (20 patients) or human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2) (20 patients) exon 20 insertion mutations. Efficacy and safety of the dose and dosing regimen determined in Phase 1 will be evaluated. All patients will be treated in 28-day cycles for up to 24 months.