Accelerated Hypofractionated Intensity - Modulated Radiotherapy After Hyperbaric Oxygenation for Recurrent High Grade Glioma.
This is a pilot study of radiotherapy using Hypofractionated image - guided helical tomotherapy after hyperbaric oxygen HBO therapy for treatment of recurrent malignant High-grade gliomas. HBO therapy will be perform in conjunction with each RT session.

The treatment scheme is:

Hyperbaric oxygenation therapy (the maximum period of time from completion of decompression to RT is 60 min) followed by tomotherapy (3-5 consecutive sessions- one fraction per day , 5 Gy / die ).

The trial will enroll 24 patients in 24 months with a follow-up period of 1 year.
Malignant Glioma|High Grade Glioma|Recurrent Glioma
DEVICE: HBO|RADIATION: RT
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR will be evaluated by performing MRI images The treatment response will be evaluated according to the RANO criteria, up to one year
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria Events v. 4.03., up to 36 months|Overall survival (OS), OS will be defined as the time from the first day of treatment to death due any cause or censored at date last known alive, up to 36 months|Progression Free survival (PFS), PFS will be calculated as the time from the first day of treatment to the date of the first observation of documented disease progression or death due to any cause. Patients without tumor progression at the time of analysis will be censored at their last date of tumor evaluation., up to 36 months|Predictive score of disease progression by DSC MRI, determining a predictive score of disease, using perfusion dynamic contrast-enhanced (DSC) permeability MRI, up to 36 months|Radionecrosis by DSC MRI, determining radionecrosis using perfusion dynamic contrast-enhanced (DSC) permeability MRI, up to 36 months|Pseudoprogression by DSC MRI, determining pseudoprogression using perfusion dynamic contrast-enhanced (DSC) permeability MRI, up to 36 months|Predictive score of disease progression by DCE MRI, determining a predictive score of disease using dynamic susceptibility contrast (DCE) perfusion MRI, up to 36 months|Radionecrosis by DCE MRI, determining radionecrosis using dynamic susceptibility contrast (DCE) perfusion MRI, up to 36 months|pseudoprogression by DCE MRI, determining pseudoprogression using dynamic susceptibility contrast (DCE) perfusion MRI, up to 36 months
This is a pilot study to evaluate the efficacy of hypofractionated image- guided helical tomotherapy after hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO) for treatment of recurrent malignant high - grade gliomas The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the disease control rate (DCR) of treated patients.

The secondary Objectives are:

* Safety assessment (acute and late toxicity).
* Overall Survival (OS),
* Progression Free Survival (PFS).
* Evaluation of predictive score of disease, radionecrosis and pseudoprogression using perfusion DSC and DCE MRI

Patients will receive fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy using tomotherapy combined with hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy.

Hyperbaric oxygenation therapy (the maximum period of time from completion of decompression to RT is 60 min) followed by tomotherapy (3-5 consecutive sessions- one fraction per day, 5 Gy / die).

The overall duration of treatment will be max 5 days.