Naproxen in Preventing DNA Mismatch Repair Deficient Colorectal Cancer in Patients With Lynch Syndrome
This randomized phase Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of naproxen in preventing deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer in patients with Lynch syndrome. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming. The use of naproxen may keep cancer from forming in patients with Lynch syndrome.
Lynch Syndrome
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Naproxen|OTHER: Placebo Administration
Change in PGE2 concentration levels in normal colorectal mucosa, Response will be defined as \>= 30% reduction in PGE2 levels. Pairwise comparisons by the two-sample t-test among the three groups (low-dose versus control, high-dose versus control, and high-dose versus low-dose) will be used. The calculation adjusts for 3 multiple comparisons using the Bonferroni correction to achieve a two-sided 5% type I error. The point estimate and the 95% exact confidence interval for the response rate will be calculated in each arm., Baseline to 6 months|Minimal biologically effective dose of naproxen that induces a modulation of PGE2 levels, Up to 6 months|Incidence of toxicity, Will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Descriptive statistics will be used to monitor the type and grade of toxicities. The frequency of toxicities will be compared between the placebo and naproxen groups., Up to 6 months
Naproxen concentrations in plasma samples, A t-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied for the pairwise comparison of the changes of continuous markers among groups., 6 months|Naproxen concentrations in normal colorectal mucosa, A t-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied for the pairwise comparison of the changes of continuous markers among groups., 6 months|PGE-M levels in urine samples, A t-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied for the pairwise comparison of the changes of continuous markers among groups., 6 months|Change in number of polyps observed in the rectosigmoid area, A t-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied for the pairwise comparison of the changes of continuous markers among groups., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in the microRNA profile of the normal colorectal mucosa, Bioinformatic methods such as the beta-uniform mixture (BUM) model to account for multiple testing by controlling the false discovery rate (FDR), the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with empirical Bayes, and the significance analysis of microarrays (SAM) with the control of the FDR will be applied using the Object-Oriented Microarray and Proteomic Analysis (OOMPA) program., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in gene expression mRNA profiles of the normal colorectal mucosa, Bioinformatic methods such as the BUM model to account for multiple testing by controlling the FDR, the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with empirical Bayes, and the SAM with the control of the FDR will be applied using the OOMPA program., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in the mutational rate of the normal colorectal mucosa, Bioinformatic methods such as the BUM model to account for multiple testing by controlling the FDR, the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with empirical Bayes, and the SAM with the control of the FDR will be applied using the OOMPA program., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in the microbiome of the normal colorectal mucosa, Bioinformatic methods such as the BUM model to account for multiple testing by controlling the FDR, the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with empirical Bayes, and the SAM with the control of the FDR will be applied using the OOMPA program., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in the PGF2, PGD2, Thromboxane B2, 9a11b-PGF2a and 6-KetoPGF1a levels of the colorectal tissue, Bioinformatic methods such as the BUM model to account for multiple testing by controlling the FDR, the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with empirical Bayes, and the SAM with the control of the FDR will be applied using the OOMPA program., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in the stem cell and epithelial differentiation marker levels, Bioinformatic methods such as the BUM model to account for multiple testing by controlling the FDR, the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with empirical Bayes, and the SAM with the control of the FDR will be applied using the OOMPA program., Baseline to 6 months|Changes in the number and type of immune and mesenchymal cells recruited to the colorectal mucosa, Will be assessed by using a multiplex platform based on imaging cell cytometry (IMC) in a tissue microarray (TMA)., Baseline to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether treatment with naproxen at a once-daily 220 mg or 440-mg dose, administered for 6 months as compared to placebo reduces the concentration of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) levels in normal colorectal mucosa in subjects at risk for a mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer.

II. To determine the toxicity profile and tolerability of naproxen at two doses (220 mg or 440-mg once daily) as compared to placebo over 6 months of therapy in subjects at risk for a mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine naproxen concentrations in plasma of patients at risk for DNA mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer taking naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo after 6 months of therapy compared to baseline levels.

II. To determine naproxen concentrations in normal colorectal mucosa of patients at risk for DNA mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancers (CRC) taking naproxen once daily 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo after 6 months of therapy compared to baseline levels.

III. To determine whether urinary prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 1 metabolite (PGE-M) is significantly higher in patients at risk for DNA mismatch repair deficient CRC taking naproxen one daily, 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo after 6 months of therapy compared to baseline levels.

IV. To determine whether 6-months therapy with naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo leads to a reduction in the number of polyps observed in the rectosigmoid and rectal area.

V. To determine whether naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo will significantly change the micro-ribonucleic (RNA) profile of normal colorectal mucosa in patients at risk for DNA mismatch repair deficient CRC compared to the baseline.

VI. To determine whether naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo will significantly change the gene expression messenger RNA (mRNA) profile of normal colorectal mucosa in patients at risk for DNA mismatch repair deficient CRC compared to the baseline.

VII. To determine whether naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo will significantly change the mutational rate in patients at risk for DNA mismatch repair deficient CRC compared to placebo.

VIII. To determine future candidate biomarkers measured by genomic and transcriptomic platforms in tissue biopsies of normal colorectal mucosa in individuals at risk for mismatch repair deficient CRC pre- and post-treatment with naproxen.

IX. To determine whether Naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg or placebo will significantly change the microbiome profile of normal colorectal mucosa in patients at risk for DNA mismatch repair deficient CRC compared to the baseline.

X. To determine whether treatment with Naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg after 6 months of therapy as compared to placebo changed PGF2, PGD2, Thromboxane B2, 9a11b-PGF2a and 6-KetoPGF1a levels in colorectal mucosa of subjects at risk for a mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer.

XI. To determine whether treatment with Naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg after 6 months of therapy as compared to placebo changed the number of stem cells and induced differentiation into other cell lineages in colorectal mucosa of subjects at risk for mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer.

XII. To determine whether treatment with naproxen once daily, 220 mg, 440 mg after 6 months of therapy as compared to placebo changed the number of immune and mesenchymal cells recruited to the colorectal mucosa of subjects at risk for mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancer.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive high-dose naproxen orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 months.

ARM II: Patients receive low-dose naproxen PO QD and placebo PO QD for 6 months.

ARM III: Patients receive placebo PO QD for 6 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 weeks.