Study on the Staging and Prognosis Model of Bladder Cancer
Firstly, we retrospectively gathered the patient information who compliant with the criteria from 2012 to 2023, encompassing basic information, clinical information, along with MRI images, blood/urine samples, and tissue samples, for conducting relevant analyses of radiomics. Subsequently, based on artificial intelligence technology, deep learning and machine learning models were established on the basis of MRI radiomics and pathological histomics. Ultimately, the following research aims were accomplished: 1. Primary research objective: To explore the role of artificial intelligence and multimodal omics features in the staging and prognosis monitoring of bladder cancer. 2. Secondary objective: To explore the correlations among radiomics, case histomics, and test omics.
Bladder Cancer
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the duration from surgery to death or the date of the last follow-up., 2013-|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) refers to the time from surgery until disease progression, the date of the last follow-up, or death from causes other than disease recurrence, 2013-|Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS), Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS), 2013-
Tumor Infiltration Status, Tumor Infiltration Status, 2013-|Lymph node metastasis status, Lymph node metastasis status, 2013-
Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Treatment Effects, Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Treatment Effects, 2013-
Firstly, we retrospectively gathered the patient information who compliant with the criteria from 2012 to 2023, encompassing basic information, clinical information, along with MRI images, blood/urine samples, and tissue samples, for conducting relevant analyses of radiomics. Subsequently, based on artificial intelligence technology, deep learning and machine learning models were established on the basis of MRI radiomics and pathological histomics. Ultimately, the following research aims were accomplished: 1. Primary research objective: To explore the role of artificial intelligence and multimodal omics features in the staging and prognosis monitoring of bladder cancer. 2. Secondary objective: To explore the correlations among radiomics, case histomics, and test omics.