Sorafenib in Treating Non-Smokers or Former Light Smokers With Relapsed or Refractory Stage IIIB or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works in treating non-smokers or former light smokers with relapsed or refractory stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: sorafenib
Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions", or similar definition as accurate and appropriate, 6 months
Overall Survival Rate, Determine the one year survival rate in Non/Light smokers with advanced and previouslytreated NSCLC, Up to 2 years|Incidence of Adverse Events Sssessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Assess the frequency and severity of adverse events associated with Sorafenib in this patient population Non/Light smokers with advanced and previously treated NSCLC., Up to 2 years|Mutational Status for EGFR or Kras, up to 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the efficacy of sorafenib tosylate, in terms of 6-month progression-free survival rate, in non-smokers or former light smokers with relapsed or refractory stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer.

Secondary

* To determine the 1-year survival rate in patients treated with this drug.
* To assess the frequency and severity of adverse events associated with this drug in these patients.
* To investigate the mutational status of EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor), ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase), ROS1, and K-Ras(Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog)in archived tumor samples from these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Archived tumor tissue samples are analyzed for mutations of EGFR, ALK, ROS1, and K-Ras by PCR (polymerase chain reaction) and DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) sequencing.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.