Detection of Acid Sphingomyelinase/Ceramide Pathway Activation in Radiotherapy Patients Using Intravoxel Incoherent Motion (IVIM) Diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Serum Biomarkers
The purpose of this study is to find out if special blood tests and imaging scans can help evaluate the effects of the radiation the patient receives as part of standard treatment. The patient will undergo either stereotactic or conventional radiation treatment as determined by the treating doctor. Previous evidence suggests that blood flow to tumors is affected by the amount (dose) of radiation that it receives. This effect may be seen as soon as 1-2 hours after the radiation is given. This study will evaluate if these changes can be seen and measured by performing a special type of scan called Intravoxel Incoherent Motion (IVIM) diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and a blood test. IVIM MRI is a research exam which is similar to a standard MRI exam, with only a slight difference in the technical parameters used to acquire the images.
Metastatic Disease to Bone|Metastatic Disease to Soft Tissue
DEVICE: MRI with IVIM DW-MRI|OTHER: Blood draw
ASMase activity measurement, For each serum ASMase activity measurement, we will use 3 technical assay replicates. Each of three replicates will be averaged. Then the post-treatment activity will be normalized (fraction) against its paired pre-treatment activity., up to 18-24 hours after the first radiation treatment
C16 serum ceramide levels, Total C16 serum ceramide level, expressed as ng of ceramide per mL, will be measured for the pre-RT serum and post-RT serum. For each patient, the post-RT C16 ceramide level will be expressed as a fraction of the pre-RT levels., 1 year|C18 serum ceramide levels, Total C18 serum ceramide level, expressed as ng of ceramide per mL, will be measured for the pre-RT serum and post-RT serum. For each patient, the post-RT C18 ceramide level will be expressed as a fraction of the pre-RT levels., 1 year
The purpose of this study is to find out if special blood tests and imaging scans can help evaluate the effects of the radiation the patient receives as part of standard treatment. The patient will undergo either stereotactic or conventional radiation treatment as determined by the treating doctor. Previous evidence suggests that blood flow to tumors is affected by the amount (dose) of radiation that it receives. This effect may be seen as soon as 1-2 hours after the radiation is given. This study will evaluate if these changes can be seen and measured by performing a special type of scan called Intravoxel Incoherent Motion (IVIM) diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and a blood test. IVIM MRI is a research exam which is similar to a standard MRI exam, with only a slight difference in the technical parameters used to acquire the images.