Evaluation of ABEMACICLIB Monotherapy in Patients With Locally Advanced/Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer After Failure of Platinum and Cetuximab or Anti-EGFR-based Therapy and Harboring an Homozygous Deletion of CDKN2A, and/or an Amplification of CCND1 and/or of CDK6
This trial is an open-label, single arm, Phase II study using an A'Hern single stage design.

The molecular prescreening step will allow to defined HPV tumor status as well as molecular status CDKN2A, CCND1 and CDK6. Following this centralized molecular screening, only patients with HPV negative status and with tumor harboring CDKN2A homozygous deletion and/or CCND1 amplification and/or CDK6 amplification could initiate abemaciclib at time of documented radiological progression. Patients will be treated with ABEMACICLIB, 400 mg/day with 2 doses of 200 mg 12 hour apart (QH12). A cycle is defined as an interval of 28 days. For each 28-day cycle, a total of 56 doses of study drug will be dispensed.
Head and Neck Cancer|Advanced Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
DRUG: Abemaciclib
The 8-week non-progression rate defined as the rate of patients with complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) lasting at least 8 weeks, according to RECIST v1.1, 8 weeks after start of treatment
8-week Objective response rate, Objective response rate after 8 weeks is defined as the proportion of patients with complete or partial response after 8 weeks of treatment according to RECIST 1.1., 8 weeks after start of treatment|Duration of response, The Duration of Response (DoR) will be measured from the time of first documented response (CR or PR as per RECIST 1.1) until the first documented disease progression or death due to underlying cancer, or censored at the date of the last available tumor assessment, 12 months after start of treatment|Best response rate, 12 months after start of treatment|Time to progression, The Time to Progression will be measured from the time of treatment start until the first documented disease progression, 12 months after start of treatment|Time to Treatment failure, The Time to treatment failure will be measured from the time of treatment start until discontinuation of treatment for any reason, including disease progression, treatment toxicity, and death, 12 months after start of treatment|Progression Free survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) will be measured from the date of inclusion until the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death from any cause. Patients with no event at the time of the analysis will be censored at the date of the last available tumor assessment. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, 12 months after start of treatment|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be measured from the date of treatment start to the date of death from any cause, 12 months after start of treatment
SAMPLE SIZE DETERMINATION The primary endpoint is the non-progression rate (CR, PR, SD as per RECIST 1.1) after 8 weeks of treatment.

The sample size calculation was based on an A'Hern single stage phase II design, with a minimum success (non- progression) rate considered of interest of p1=40% and an uninteresting rate of p0=15%. Assuming a type I error alpha of 0.05 and 85% power, 23 patients are needed to reject the null hypothesis H0: p\<=p0 vs the alternative hypothesis H1: p ≥ p1 in a unilateral situation.

Based on the assumption that 10% of the patients may be non-evaluable, 25 patients will be included in the study.

DATA ENTRY AND DATA MANAGEMENT All the data concerning the patients will be recorded in the eCRF throughout the study. SAE reporting will be paper-based by Fax.

The sponsor will perform the study monitoring and will help the investigators to conduct the study in compliance with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practices (GCP) and local low requirements.