Intravitreal Methotrexate and R2(Rituximab & Lenalidomide) Regimen in Newly-diagnosed Primary Vitreoretinal Lymphoma
This is a prospective single arm phase II study, and the purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficiency of R2 regimen (rituximab \& lenalidomide) combined with intravitreal methotrexate and followed by lenalidomide maintenance in newly-diagnosed primary intraocular lymphoma. Progression free survival (PFS) of the cohort is the primary endpoint.
Primary Intraocular Lymphoma
DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Lenalidomide
2 years progression-free survival, 2 years progression-free survival was calculated from the date of therapy until death from lymphoma or 2-year follow-up without relapsing, from the date of treatment to the subject finished his 2 years follow-up phase or the disease relapsed or the death due to lymphoma
overall response rate(ORR), ORR was calculated by the proportion of patients who achieved complete remission and partial remission., 4 weeks after the end of 6 cycles of induction (each cycle is 28 days).
All the patients will be treated with R2 regimen （Rituximab 375mg/m2 IV d1, lenalidomide 25mg d1-21, 28 days per cycle) as induction regimen, meanwhile intravitreal methotrexate was given at a dose of 400ug for 16 doses.

The response will be evaluated every 3 cycles. After 3 Cycles, patients who achieved complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) will receive 3 more cycles of R2 regimen. The patients with stable disease (SD) or progressed disease (PD) will withdraw from the trial and receive salvage regimens. After total 6 induction cycles, the investigators evaluate the efficiency again, the patients with CR or PR will go to lenalidomide maintenance for 2 years or until progression of the disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity, or patient/investigator discretion. And the patients with SD or PD will receive salvage regimen.

During following-up, surveillance ophthalmologic examination and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans can be performed every 3 months up to the first 2 years, followed by doctor visit every 6 months up to 5 years or the disease relapses.