Radiation/Temozolomide and Immunotherapy With Daratumumab to Improve Antitumor Efficacy in Glioblastoma
TMZ is a standard therapy for GBM. The study will demonstrate that Daratumumab can collaborate with TMZ to enhance the cytotoxicity against GBM cells. Collectively, the preclinical data along with existing in vivo studies by others provides the rationale for therapeutic targeting of CD38 in GBM and its microenvironment. Daratumumab is commercially available, is safe and well tolerated when combined with alkylating chemotherapy, radiation therapy and has attained therapeutic CSF levels. Thus, the addition of Daratumumab to the frontline treatment regimen of GBM can potentially have a significant clinical benefit. Approximately 16 subjects will be enrolled in this trial. Up to 6 will be enrolled in the phase I part and 10 to 13 in the phase II part to come up with a total of 16 patients with 2 phases combined.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Daratumumab
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) rate of Daratumumab, Rate of subjects that experience DLT. Subjects will be evaluated for DLTs after 6 doses of Daratumumab. If there is no DLT in the first 3 patients, the investigators will move forward to conduct the phase II clinical trial. If there is a DLT, another three patients will be enrolled. The study may be suspended with additional discussions in the data monitoring committee if there are ≥2 identified DLTs in the first 3 patients or ≥2 DLTs in the first 6 patients. The sample size justification is based on the standard 3+3 design., Up to 6 weeks|Phase II - Median overall survival of newly diagnosed GBM patients, Evaluate the median overall survival of newly diagnosed GBM patients. All patients in phase I part will be included in the efficacy analysis on overall survival (OS) in phase II part. If the 1-year survival rate of the study subjects is above 50% (median survival rate), it will be considered that the new intervention is promising., Up to 12 months
Phase I - Median overall survival of newly diagnosed GBM patients, Evaluate the median overall survival of newly diagnosed GBM patients. All patients in phase I part will be included in the efficacy analysis on overall survival (OS) in phase II part. If the 1-year survival rate of the study subjects is above 50% (median survival rate), it will be considered that the new intervention is promising., Up to 6 weeks|Phase I - Evaluate the Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Duration of time from start of Daratumumab treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 6 weeks|Phase I - Assess the treatment-emergent adverse events, Treatment-emergent Adverse Events are events not present prior to the initiation of treatment or any event already present that worsens in either intensity or frequency following the treatment., Up to 6 weeks|Phase I - Estimate the tumor response rate, To estimate tumor response rates after treatment with Daratumumab., Up to 6 weeks|Phase II - Evaluate the Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Duration of time from start of Daratumumab treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 12 months|Phase II - Assess the treatment-emergent adverse events, Treatment-emergent Adverse Events are events not present prior to the initiation of treatment or any event already present that worsens in either intensity or frequency following the treatment., Up to 12 months|Phase II - Estimate the tumor response rate, To estimate tumor response rates after treatment with Daratumumab., Up to 12 months
Glioblastoma (GBM) is an aggressive brain cancer. Current therapeutic strategies include maximal safe surgical resection followed by course of Temozolomide (TMZ) and radiation therapy (RT). Despite trimodality treatment, recurrence remains inevitable. Our study will use Daratumumab, an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, in combination with TMZ and RT in newly diagnosed GBM patients. There is pre-clinical evidence suggesting Daratumumab is cytotoxic to GBM in a multimodal fashion, its safe when combined with chemotherapy \& radiation therapy as well as has the potential to cross blood brain barrier.