CT Perfusion Scans in Detecting Changes in Blood Flow to the Liver After Portal Vein Embolization
This trial studies the use of computed tomography (CT) perfusion scans in detecting changes in blood flow to the liver after portal vein embolization in patients with liver cancer. CT perfusion scans use a standard contrast drug given by vein to measure blood flow to the liver. CT perfusion scans may predict the rate and amount of growth of new, healthy tissue on one side of the liver after a portal vein embolization and detect change to the size of the liver tumor as result of the procedure.
Liver and Intrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma
RADIATION: Computed Tomography Perfusion Imaging|PROCEDURE: Liver Biopsy
Perfusion changes to the liver following portal vein embolization (PVE), Will assess whether perfusion changes to the liver following PVE correlate with hypertrophy of the future liver remnant (FLR). Perfusion and FLR hypertrophy are two continuous variables. Each patient will serve as his/her own control. Perfusion to the liver (1) before PVE, (2) immediately after PVE, and (3) 3-6 weeks following PVE will be measured and compared. The changes in perfusion will be compared with FLR hypertrophy at the 3-6 week time point to assess correlation., Baseline up to 6 weeks post PVE
Changes to tumor cellular proliferation following PVE, Will assess perfusion changes to liver tumors following PVE and whether this may affect tumor growth kinetics. Each patient will serve as his/her own control. Perfusion to the liver tumor(s) (1) before PVE, (2) immediately after PVE, and (3) 3-6 weeks following PVE will be measured and compared. Since a percutaneous biopsy will be performed of a single liver tumor before PVE and the tumor explant will be available following surgical resection, changes to tumor cellular proliferation following PVE can be assessed., Baseline up to 6 weeks post PVE
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether perfusion changes to the liver following portal vein embolization (PVE) correlate with hypertrophy of the future liver remnant (FLR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess perfusion changes to liver tumors following PVE. II. To assess whether PVE may affect tumor growth.

OUTLINE:

Prior to PVE, patients undergo CT perfusion scan of the liver and liver biopsy over 15 minutes. Patients undergo a second CT perfusion scan immediately after PVE and a third CT perfusion scan 3-6 weeks post PVE.