Stage IV Surgery Versus Best Medical Therapy
This study will establish the role of surgical versus nonsurgical approaches in patients whose melanoma has spread to distant sites. Results will help clinicians develop a standardized initial approach that prolongs survival and optimizes quality of life. Results also will indicate whether Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) postoperative immunotherapy significantly improves the outcome of patients treated with surgery.
Stage IV Resectable Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Surgery|PROCEDURE: Surgery plus 2 adjuvant doses of BCG|OTHER: best medical therapy
Overall survival, Defined as time from randomization to death from any cause, 3 interim analyses will be conducted when 75, 148, and 217 events (deaths) have occurred. The final analysis will be conducted when all 284 expected events have occurred.
Time to progression of initial metastatic sites (progression-free survival), For this study, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to disease recurrence at initial metastatic site in patients rendered disease-free by surgery, or time from randomization to RECIST-defined progression of target lesions in patients receiving best medical therapy or those having residual disease following surgery., 3 interim analyses will be conducted when 75, 148, and 217 primary events have occurred. The final analysis will be conducted when all 284 expected events have occurred.|Melanoma-specific survival, Defined as time from randomization to death due to melanoma. Death due to causes other than melanoma are not considered events for this analysis., 3 interim analyses will be conducted when 75, 148, and 217 recurrences/progressions have occurred. The final analysis will be conducted when all 284 expected events have occurred.|Time to development of new metastatic sites., This endpoint is defined as the time from randomization to disease recurrence at new metastatic sites in patients rendered disease-free by surgery, or time from randomization to the development of new metastatic sites of disease in patients in the best medical therapy group. Progression of existing lesions in the best medical therapy arm will not be considered an event for this endpoint., 3 interim analyses will be conducted when 75, 148, and 217 primary events have occurred. The final analysis will be conducted when all 284 expected events have occurred.
This study is designed to examine the impact of surgical resection versus medical therapy as initial treatment therapy for patients with Stage IV melanoma. Surgical resection is thought to be efficacious in highly selected patients with solitary metastases, but not in patients with multiple sites of metastases. Even in those with solitary metastases, there is considerable debate among major melanoma centers over whether undergoing initial systemic medical therapy prior to surgical resection should be preferred to initial surgical resection upon Stage IV diagnosis. According to Dr. Dan Coit, Co-leader of the Melanoma Disease Management Team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Institute in New York, a trial of initial medical therapy is their standard approach on the multidisciplinary melanoma service even for patients with solitary distant metastases (personal communication, 15 Dec 2009).

Many who favor upfront medical therapy believe that delay before surgical resection may avoid unnecessary surgery by identifying patients who progress early due to the outgrowth of occult metastases at multiple sites, which may make the patient unresectable.

This is a Phase III, randomized, international, multicenter study of metastasectomy with or without BCG versus best medical therapy as initial therapy in Stage IV melanoma. This study has three arms: surgical resection plus BCG as an immune adjuvant, surgical resection plus observation, and best medical therapy (BMT). Since no systemic medical therapy has been demonstrated to be superior to DTIC and multiple new therapies are being evaluated, the choice as to what constitutes best medical therapy will be determined by the individual investigator based on the standard of care for systemic medical therapy at that particular multicenter site. Best systemic medical therapy may include clinical trials of new agents or standard non-protocol treatments (e.g., DTIC or Temodar according to the standard of care at the multi-center site).

Patients who progress on the best medical treatment arm may switch to a different medical therapy or, if appropriate, have surgical therapy; similarly, surgery patients may have additional surgical resection or receive medical therapy.