Salsalate, Venetoclax, and Decitabine or Azacitidine for the Treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Advanced Myelodysplasia/Myeloproliferative Disease
This phase II trial studies the side effects of salsalate when added to venetoclax and decitabine or azacitidine in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplasia/myeloproliferative disease that has spread to other places in the body (advanced). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as salsalate, venetoclax, decitabine, and azacitidine work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myeloblasts 10 Percent or More of Bone Marrow Nucleated Cells|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Salsalate|DRUG: Venetoclax
Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events Incidence With of Salicylate + Venetoclax + Decitabine, Study drug associated adverse events during therapy, During the first 2 cycles, 56 days total
Number of Participants With Complete or Partial Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, During the first 2 cycles 56 days total
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the tolerability of the addition of standard dose salsalate to the standard treatment combination of venetoclax + hypomethylating agent (HMA) (decitabine or azacitidine \[5-azacytidine\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the remission rate and, when feasible, perform exploratory studies of:

Ia. Patterns of mutation clearance. Ib. Distribution of cells with low and high reactive oxygen species (ROS) content at various points during therapy.

OUTLINE:

CYCLE 1: Patients receive salsalate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) until completion of cycle 1. 24-48 hours later or concurrent with salsalate, patients begin to receive decitabine intravenously (IV) for 10 days or azacitidine IV for 7 days. Starting 24 hour after salsalate, patients also receive venetoclax PO continuously until completion of cycle 1.

CYCLE 2: Patients receive decitabine IV for 5 days or azacitidine IV for 7 days, salsalate PO BID, and venetoclax PO continuously.

Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.