Phase Ib and Phase II Studies of MK-3475 in Combination + for Renal Cell Carcinoma:
This is an open label, multi-institutional, single arm study of dose escalation phase Ib cohort, followed by a phase II cohort of anti-PD-1 antibody MK-3475 in combination with bevacizumab. No randomization or blinding is involved.
Clear Cell Renal Carcinoma
DRUG: MK-3475|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: MK-3475|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Phase 1b: Maximum Safe Dose of Treatment Regimen, To establish the maximum tested safe dose of bevacizumab in combination with 200mg of MK-3475(pembrolizumab) for subjects with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma after failure of at least one systemic therapy for metastatic disease., Every 21 days while on treatment (estimated 4 months)|Overall Response Rate, To determine the activity of combination of MK-3475 and bevacizumab in first line therapy for subjects with treatment naïve metastatic clear cell RCC as assessed by response rates (complete or partial response) By calculating the proportion of subjects with a response (CR, PR) based on RECIST 1.1 where:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, Every 6 weeks while on treatment (estimated 10 months)
Progression-Free Survival, To determine median progression-free survival (PFS) for this patient population, per RECIST 1.1 where:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, Up to two years from enrollment|Overall Survival, To determine if treatment regimen improves overall survival for this patient population. Median overall survival will be calculated up to 2 years from registration., Up to 2 years from registration|Clinical Benefit Rate, To determine the proportion of subjects with clinical benefit (complete response, partial response, or stable disease) based on RECIST 1.1, where:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, Every 6 months while on treatment (estimated 4-10 months)|Characterize Adverse Events, Characterize adverse effects (AE) of pembrolizumab in combination with bevacizumab in subjects with metastatic RCC after failure of at least one systemic therapy. Toxicity will be assessed using CTCAE version 4. All grade 3 and 4 treatment-related adverse events will be reported., Every week while on treatment (estimated 4-10 months)
OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study.

The phase Ib dose escalation study will evaluate MK-3475 in combination with bevacizumab in subjects with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma after failure of at least one systemic therapy for metastatic disease. The phase II trial will determine the activity of the combination of MK-3475 and bevacizumab in first line therapy for subjects with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma.

PHASE Ib DOSE ESCALATION INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

Cohort 1 will consist of 3-6 patients who will receive MK-3475 200mg and bevacizumab 10mg on day 1 of the 21-day cycle. The drugs are administered 15-30 minutes apart in separate intravenous infusions.

Cohort 2 will consist of 3-9 patients who will receive MK-3475 200mg and bevacizumab 15mg on day 1 of the 21-day cycle. The drugs are administered 15-30 minutes apart in separate intravenous infusions.

If none of the 3 subjects experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first cycle of therapy, an additional 3 subjects will be enrolled at dose level 2. If all three subjects in dose level 2 complete the first cycle of therapy without DLT, 3 more subjects will be enrolled to ensure only 0-1 of 6 subjects have a DLT. There will be no further escalation beyond dose level 2.

PHASE II INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

The maximum safe dose of MK-3475 in combination bevacizumab (as determined in the phase 1b cohort) will be given on day 1 of each 21 day cycle. Treatment will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, subject refusal, or subject death either from progression of disease, the therapy itself, or from other causes. Subjects who voluntarily stop the study, have progressive disease, or unacceptable toxicities will be followed for a total of 24 months.

Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) ≥ 70% within 28 days prior to registration for protocol therapy.

Life Expectancy: 6 months or greater

The following baseline labs must be completed within 28 days prior to registration for protocol therapy:

Hematopoietic:

* Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 × 10 9/L
* Platelets ≥ 100 × 10 9/L
* Hemoglobin (Hgb) ≥ 9.0 g/dL

Renal:

* Serum creatinine ≤ 1.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN)
* OR, if serum creatinine \> 1.5 × ULN, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ≥ 40 mL/min

Hepatic:

* Total serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 × ULN
* Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≤ 2.5 × ULN
* OR, AST and ALT ≤ 5 × ULN if liver function abnormalities are due to underlying malignancy

Coagulation:

* INR \< 1.5 × ULN
* OR for subjects receiving warfarin or LMWH, the subjects must, in the investigator's opinion, be clinically stable with no evidence of active bleeding while receiving anticoagulant therapy. The INR for these subjects may exceed 1.5 × ULN if that is the goal of anticoagulant therapy.