NeoOPTIMIZE: Early Switching of mFOLFIRINOX or Gemcitabine/Nab-Paclitaxel Before Surgery for the Treatment of Resectable, Borderline Resectable, or Locally-Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial evaluates whether early switching from modified fluorouracil/irinotecan/leucovorin/oxaliplatin (mFOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy regimen to a combination of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel (GA) before surgery is effective in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that can be surgically removed (resectable or borderline resectable), or that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes and cannot be removed by surgery (locally-advanced unresectable). Chemotherapy drugs, such as fluorouracil, irinotecan, leucovorin, oxaliplatin, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. The study will also evaluate the drug losartan in combination with mFOLFIRINOX or GA.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage 0 Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Losartan Potassium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Resection|PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Imaging|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Proportion of participants with R0 resection, Using the surgery analysis set, the proportion of participants with R0 resection will be estimated with exact 95% confidence interval., Up to time of surgery
Progression-free survival (PFS) NeoOPTIMIZE, Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the PFS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. When feasible, sub-group analyses for the different treatment regimens (i.e., gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel \[GA\] or modified fluorouracil/irinotecan/leucovorin/oxaliplatin \[mFOLFIRINOX\] +/- radiation therapy \[RT\] \[i.e., short- or long-course, or both RT modalities combined\]) will be performed for PFS., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to the time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|PFSNeoOPTIMIZE + pre-operative (preop)-RT, Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the PFS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. When feasible, sub-group analyses for the different treatment regimens (i.e., GA or mFOLFIRINOX +/- RT \[i.e., short- or long-course, or both RT modalities combined\]) will be performed for PFS., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to the time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Disease-free survival (DFS) NeoOPTIMIZE, Using the surgery analysis set, the estimated distribution of the DFS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the DFS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. When feasible, sub-group analyses for the different treatment regimens (i.e., GA or mFOLFIRINOX +/- RT \[i.e., short- or long-course, or both RT modalities combined\]) will be performed for DFS., From the date of surgery to the time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|DFSNeoOPTIMIZE + preop-RT, Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the DFS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. When feasible, sub-group analyses for the different treatment regimens (i.e., GA or mFOLFIRINOX +/- RT \[i.e., short- or long-course, or both RT modalities combined\]) will be performed for DFS., From the date of surgery to the time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS) NeoOPTIMIZE, Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the OS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the OS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. When feasible, sub-group analyses for the different treatment regimens (i.e., GA or mFOLFIRINOX +/- RT \[i.e., short- or long-course, or both RT modalities combined\]) will be performed for OS., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to death due to disease, assessed up to 24 months|OSNeoOPTIMIZE + preop-RT, Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the OS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available. When feasible, sub-group analyses for the different treatment regimens (i.e., GA or mFOLFIRINOX\] +/- RT \[i.e., short- or long-course, or both RT modalities combined\]) will be performed for OS., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to death due to disease, assessed up to 24 months|Proportion of participants with peri- and post-operative complications, Peri- and post-operative complications occurring within 30 days following surgery will be categorized per the Clavien-Dindo classification system. Using the surgery analysis set, the proportion of participants with peri- and post-operative complications occurring within 30 days following surgery., Up to 30 days after surgery|Proportion of participants that die within 30 days of surgery, The proportion of 30-day post-operative mortality will be estimated and reported with two-sided exact 95% confidence intervals. If necessary, the proportion of 30-day post-operative mortality may be estimated from the Kaplan Meier product limit method., At 30 days post-surgery|Incidence of grade >= 3 toxicities, The incidence of grade \>= 3 toxicities per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 will be determined using the safety analysis set. The exact 95% confidence interval will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate. Adverse events will be tabulated by the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA version 21.1) preferred term and system organ class and a preferred term. The severity of the adverse events (AE) will be assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE v 5.0 criteria. Descriptive statistics using the safety analysis set will be used to report on all on-study AEs, grade 3-4 AEs, treatment-related AEs, grade 3-4 treatment-related AEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), treatment-related SAEs, and AEs leading to discontinuation per CTCAE v 5.0. Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities will be summarized using worst grade NCI CTCAE v 5.0 criteria., Up to 90 days after last dose of protocol-directed therapy
CA19-9 serum levels (U/ml), Using the safety analysis set, the levels of CA19-9 will be descriptively reported (across all participants)., Baseline up to 24 months|Proportion of LAPC participants with R0 resection, Will be estimated with exact 95% confidence interval., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to time of surgery|PFSNeoOPTMIZE for LAPC cohort, Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause (up to 24 months from start of study treatment)|PFSNeoOPTMIZE + preop-RT for LAPC subset, Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause (up to 24 months from start of study treatment)|DFSNeoOPTMIZE for LAPC cohort, Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From date of surgery to time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause (up to 24 months from start of study treatment)|DFSNeoOPTMIZE + preop-RT for LAPC subset, Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From date of surgery to time of tumor progression, or death due to any cause (up to 24 months from start of study treatment)|OSNeoOPTMIZE for LAPC cohort, Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months from start of study treatment|OSNeoOPTMIZE + preop-RT for LAPC subset, Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From the start of neoadjuvant therapy (day 1) to death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months from start of study treatment|Proportion of LAPC participants with peri- and post-operative complications, Assessed per the Clavien-Dindo classification system. Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From date of surgery to within 30 days from date of surgery|Proportion of LAPC participants who die within 30 days of surgery, Results will be qualitatively described when statistical measures are not feasible., From date of surgery to 30 days post-surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the rate of margin-negative (R0) resection in participants with resectable or borderline resectable pancreatic cancer (BRPC) following treatment using NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (i.e., FOLFIRINOX alone, or switch to GA).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) of resectable or BRPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (i.e., FOLFIRINOX, or switch to GA).

II. To determine the PFS for the subset of resectable or BRPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy, plus preoperative radiation therapy (RT).

III. To determine the disease-free survival (DFS) of resectable or BRPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (i.e., FOLFIRINOX, or switch to GA).

IV. To determine the DFS for the subset of resectable or BRPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy plus preoperative RT.

V. To determine the overall survival (OS) of resectable or BRPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy.

VI. To determine the OS for the subset of resectable or BRPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy plus preoperative RT.

VII. To assess the surgical complications of resectable or BRPC participants that undergo surgical resection.

VIII. To assess 30-day post-operative mortality of participants with resectable or BRPC that undergo surgical resection.

IX. To assess safety of NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (all participants).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To monitor changes in CA19-9 levels (all participants). II. To determine the rate of margin-negative (R0) resection in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC), following treatment using NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (i.e., FOLFIRINOX alone, or switch to GA).

III. To determine the PFS of LAPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (i.e., FOLFIRINOX, or switch to GA).

IV. To determine the PFS for the subset of LAPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy plus preoperative radiation therapy (RT).

V. To determine the disease-free survival (DFS) of LAPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy (i.e., FOLFIRINOX, or switch to GA).

VI. To determine the DFS for the subset of LAPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy plus preoperative RT.

VII. To determine the OS of LAPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy.

VIII. To determine the OS for the subset of LAPC participants that received NeoOPTIMIZE adaptive therapy plus preoperative RT.

IX. To assess the surgical complications of LAPC participants that undergo surgical resection.

X. To assess 30-day post-operative mortality of LAPC participants who undergo surgical resection.

OUTLINE:

mFOLFIRINOX REGIMEN: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV over 46 hours starting on day 1. Treatment with mFOLFIRINOX repeats every 14 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo disease restaging (re-stage I). Patients with radiographic response and no disease progression receive mFOLFIRINOX for an additional 2 months (approximately 4 cycles). Patients then undergo second re-staging (re-stage II).

GA REGIMEN: After re-stage I, patients with disease progression or toxicity to mFOLFIRINOX (per assessment of the treating physician) switch to receive the GA regimen comprising gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes and nab-paclitaxel IV over 30-40 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo second re-staging (re-stage II). Patients may be switched to GA regimen from FOLFIRINOX regimen prior to re-stage I (per assessment of the treating physician).

LOSARTAN: Starting cycle 1 day 1, patients also receive losartan potassium orally (PO) once daily (QD) until completion of RT in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

RT/SURGERY: Patients with no vascular tumor involvement at re-stage II, undergo surgery 1-4 after completion of chemotherapy. Patients with resolution of tumor contact with pancreatic vasculature at re-stage II, undergo short-course RT to receive a total of 10 fractions over 5 days weekly (Monday-Friday). Patients with tumor vessel involvement that is persistent at re-stage II, undergo long-course RT to receive a total of 15-25 fractions over 5 days weekly (Monday-Friday), and receive capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) on Monday-Friday or fluorouracil IV over 5-7 days weekly until completion of RT. Patients then undergo surgery 1-4 weeks after completion RT.

Patients undergo diagnostic imaging as clinically indicated throughout the trial. Patients also undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up as clinically indicated and following institutional standards, and then every 3 months for 6 months, and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.