Feasibility of Delphi Screener for Cervical Cytology
The aim of this study is to see whether a new self-sampling device, the Delphi Screener (Delphi Devices, Scherpenzeel, Netherlands), can be used for cervical cancer screening. The results using the new device will be compared to results using the current gold standard. The gold standard is clinician-collected endo-cervical and ecto-cervical specimens (often referred to as a 'Pap smear'). Additionally, women will be asked about the acceptability of using the device and how easy it is to understand the user instructions.

The Delphi Screener is a sterile, plastic, syringe-like device containing buffered saline which allows a woman to collect her own vaginal lavage (to 'self-squirt'). The hypothesis is that the device may work well for cervical cytology and will be acceptable to the women in the study.
Cervical Neoplasia
DEVICE: Delphi Screener
Sensitivity and Specificity, We calculated sensitivity of self-collected lavage with cytology to detect histologically confirmed high grade lesions (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, CIN, 2+); specificity for histology-negative (CIN 1 or lower), paired cytology negative, or a third cytology negative; and kappa for paired results.

The cytology specimens were collected 1-3 months apart and women with abnormal results for cytology were followed through January 2010 for final histology endpoints., 1-3 months between 2 specimen collections|Kappa Coefficient, Kappa comparing clinician-collected cytology result to self-lavage cytology result, 1-3 months between 2 specimen collections
Outcome: Acceptability of Device, On a visual analog scale from 0-10 cm, preference for clinician-collected specimen (0) vs. self-lavage specimen (10) for future cervical cancer screening, cross-sectional - asked at time of Screener use
The aim of this study is to see whether a new self-sampling device, the Delphi Screener (Delphi Devices, Scherpenzeel, Netherlands), can be used for cervical cancer screening. The results using the new device will be compared to results using the current gold standard. The gold standard is clinician-collected endo-cervical and ecto-cervical specimens (often referred to as a 'Pap smear'). Additionally, women will be asked about the acceptability of using the device and how easy it is to understand the user instructions.

The Delphi Screener is a sterile, plastic, syringe-like device containing buffered saline which allows a woman to collect her own vaginal lavage (to 'self-squirt'). The hypothesis is that the device may work well for cervical cytology and will be acceptable to the women in the study.