An Investigational Scan (18F-Fluciclovine PET-CT) for the Measurement of Therapeutic Response in Patients With Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This phase IV trial studies how well an investigational scan (18F-fluciclovine PET-CT) works for the measurement of therapeutic response in patients with prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). 18F-fluciclovine is a radioactive substance that is used in this study with PET-CT imaging scans that may help doctors learn about response to standard therapy in patients with prostate cancer.
Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Fluciclovine F18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Metabolic Response by Fluciclovine F18 (18F-fluciclovine) Positron Emission Tomography (PET) With Standardized Uptake Values (SUV)", Will evaluate metabolic response by 18F-fluciclovine PET qualitatively and semi-quantitatively with SUV and correlate the findings with size changes as defined by conventional imaging prostate specific antigen (PSA) response. The percentage of change in the 18F-fluciclovine maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) after therapy will be calculated as follows (\[pretreatment corrected SUVmax - posttreatment corrected SUVmax\]/pretreatment corrected SUVmax) x 100. Similar calculations will be performed for mean SUV, metabolic tumor volume, and total volume activity.

An analysis of the quantitative data was recently performed for the 2 participants., Up to 2 years
18F-fluciclovine PET Imaging Response - SUVMax, Will evaluate 18F-fluciclovine PET imaging response and its correlation with progression free survival defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 criteria., Up to 2 years|18F-fluciclovine PET Imaging Response - SUVMean, Will evaluate 18F-fluciclovine PET imaging response and its correlation with progression free survival defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 criteria. SUVmean represents the average SUV value across a defined region of interest (ROI) in the tumor. The Measure Type is a number, that is dimensionless, because it is the average ratio of tissue activity concentration to the injected dose normalized by the patient's weight., Up to 2 years|18F-fluciclovine PET Imaging Response - Metabolic Tumor Volume, Will evaluate 18F-fluciclovine PET imaging response and its correlation with progression free survival defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 criteria., Up to 2 years|Sites of Progressive Disease Development, Will determine if sites of progressive disease develop at the initial/prior site (diagnostic site) of metastases or in newly developed sites at the time of metastatic progression., Up to 2 years|Metabolic Response by 18F-fluciclovine PET With Target to Blood Pool Ratio (TBR), Will evaluate metabolic response by 18F-fluciclovine PET semi-quantitatively with TBR and correlate the findings with size changes as defined by conventional imaging and PSA response., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate metabolic response by fluciclovine F18 (18F-fluciclovine) PET qualitatively and semi-quantitatively with standardized uptake values (SUV) following androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) plus abiraterone at 22-28 weeks (+/- 4 weeks), and correlate the findings with size changes as defined by conventional imaging and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate pelvic 18F-fluciclovine PET imaging findings with pathologic findings at radical prostatectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection to determine 18F-fluciclovine PET imaging sensitivity and specificity for pelvic lymph node cancer involvement.

II. To evaluate 18F-fluciclovine PET imaging response and its correlation with progression free survival (defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 \[PCWG2\] criteria).

III. To determine if sites of progressive disease develop at the initial/prior site (diagnostic site) of metastases or in newly developed sites at the time of metastatic progression.

IV. To evaluate metabolic response by 18F-fluciclovine PET semi-quantitatively with target to blood pool ratio (TBR) following ADT plus abiraterone at 22-28 weeks (+/- 4 weeks), and correlate the findings with size changes as defined by conventional imaging and PSA response.

OUTLINE:

Within 4 weeks before starting standard systemic therapy (SST), patients receive fluciclovine F18 intravenously (IV) then undergo a PET-CT scan over 30 minutes. Within 22-28 weeks after starting SST, patients receive fluciclovine F18 IV and undergo a second PET-CT scan over 30 minutes.