Effect of Primidone on Platelet Responsiveness in Patients Determined to be Clopidogrel Resistant
The purpose of this study is to determine whether adding primidone will improve the metabolism of clopidogrel thereby increasing metabolite levels within the blood stream and platelet response to clopidogrel in patients who were previously found to lack adequate response to clopidogrel. This information could help overcome clopidogrel resistance in patients who are at risk for stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA).
Clopidogrel Resistance|Secondary Stroke Prevention
DRUG: Primidone
Platelet Aggregometry, Platelet Aggregometry will be used to assess platelet responsiveness to clopidogrel following treatment with investigational medication. Blood will be placed in plastic cuvettes and probes will be inserted. Wires on the probes measure platelet aggregation in electrical impedance. A baseline is obtained and then adenosine diphosphate (ADP) is added to cause aggregation. Clopidogrel prevents platelet aggregation through irreversible binding of its active metabolite to the ADP receptors on the platelet surface. The change in impedance from baseline is directly proportional to the extent of platelet aggregation and is expressed in ohms of resistance., Platelet aggregometry will be performed at Visit 1 and Visit 2 which will be 20-28 days following Visit 1.
Area Under the Curve of Clopidogrel Metabolite Levels, Whole blood from the subjects will be drawn 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours and 4 hours post clopidogrel dose. Once the blood is drawn, the metabolite will be derivatized to keep the metabolite stable in blood. Derivatization of the metabolite, involves spiking blood samples with 2-bromo-3'methoxyacetophenone contained in an acetonitrile solution. Once derivatization has been done, metabolite levels will be analyzed using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LCMS). Once concentration levels of the active metabolite are known, the area under the curve will be calculated under trapezoid rule (linear up, log down)., Metabolite Levels Drawn 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours and 4 hours post clopidogrel dose at Visit 1 and Visit 2 which will be 20-28 days following Visit 1.
The purpose of this study is to determine whether adding primidone will improve the metabolism of clopidogrel thereby increasing metabolite levels within the blood stream and platelet response to clopidogrel in patients who were previously found to lack adequate response to clopidogrel. This information could help overcome clopidogrel resistance in patients who are at risk for stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA).