Tailored Screening for Breast Cancer in Premenopausal Women
The Tailored Breast Screening Trial (TBST) is a population-based, non-inferiority randomised trial aimed at evaluating the impact of tailored screening strategies addressed to premenopausal women, by using breast density as indicator of risk.

44-45 years old women will be enrolled and invited to undergo a digital mammography. Women are then randomly allocated in two arms. In the intervention arm, women will receive a tailored screening strategy according to breast density.

The aim of this study is to assess the impact of a longer screening interval and the reduction of side effects for premenopausal women.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Tailored screening according to breast density|OTHER: Annual invitation to mammography
Comparison of cumulative incidence of interval cancer cases by arm and by density group, An "interval cancer" is, according to European guidelines for quality assurance, a primary breast cancer which is diagnosed in a woman who had a screening test negative for malignancy within a time period equal to the screening interval. Interval cancers will be retrieved by linking the cancer registry and screening archive. The "cumulative incidence of interval cancers" is the number of interval cancers divided by the number of screened women, three and six years|Comparison of cumulative incidence of T2+/node-positive status breast cancer cases by arm and by density group., The "cumulative incidence of T2+/N+ breast cancer" is the number of cancers T2+/N+, regardless the modality of detection (screen-detected, interval cancer, etc.), divided by the number of screened women, three and six years
Comparison of false positive rates by arm and by density group, The "false positive rate" is measured as the sum of women with a positive mammography in a screening round without a breast cancer divided by the sum of screened women in the same round., 3 and 6 years|Comparison of cumulative incidence of breast cancer cases by arm and by density group., The "cumulative incidence of breast cancer" is the cumulative number of breast cancers divided by the number of enrolled women.Breast cancer cases will be retrieved by linking the of enrolled women with cancer registry information, 3 and 6 years|Comparison of attendance to mammography screening by arm and by density group., The "attendance to mammography screening" is measured as the number of women attending screening mammography on the number of invited women., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 year
Introduction: the Tailored Breast Screening Trial (TBST) is a population-based, non-inferiority randomised trial aimed at evaluating the impact of a change in the screening protocol in a service screening practice. "Tailored" means that the use of a breast density classification allocates women to a longer interval, decreasing the number of screening rounds in the 45-50-year age range. Density of the breast at the baseline is considered as an indicator of risk and also as a masking factor. The aim of this study is to assess the impact of a longer interval and the reduction of side effects for women allocated to the intervention group. In this study, any further intervention is offered to high-density women who are followed-up according to the usual care interval, since the study aimed at decreasing the screening burden.

Methods 44- 45 years old women resident in the screening centre catchment area will be invited to attend for mammography screening and will be asked for informed consent in order to be included in the study. After the enrolment, they will receive a high quality digital mammography; two views and breast density will be classified according with the BI-RADS classification. Women are randomly allocated either to an usual care group or to the intervention group. In the intervention group, women with a dense breast (3-4 categories in BI-RADS) will be invited again after 1 year, while the lower-density group in the intervention arm will be invited after 2 years. After the age of 50, all women will continue to be screened in the usual service screening programme. Density of the breast will be read by 2 readers, and controversies will be solved by a consensus. Allocation of women is blinded to the mammography readers.

EXPECTED RESULTS: the outcomes are: 1. cumulative incidence of interval-cancer cases by intention to treat grouping and by density group, aimed at assessing the non inferiority of screening performance; 2. cumulative incidence of T2+/node-positive status breast cancer cases between arms and by protocol. Screening performance parameters will be evaluated at each screening round. Interim and outcome analysis are expected at 3 and 6 years average follow-up, respectively, starting from the beginning of the screening.

SAMPLE SIZE: the non-inferiority limit is derived from the accepted level of interval cancers in women 50-69 years, which was considered acceptable by the European Community Guidelines. Assuming a 70%BI-RADS 1-2 at the baseline on the basis of the digital mammography experience, the estimated sample size with a power of 90% is 16,596 women per arm.