A Multi-centric Clinical Trial in China for Skin Diseases Intelligent Diagnosis and Treatment System
In response to clinical needs, infrared multi-spectral images are combined with traditional clinical images and other multi-modal data to build a more efficient intelligent auxiliary diagnosis system and intelligent equipment for skin health and diseases, including skin lesions automatically segmentation on skin diseases images, automatically design surgical margin and planning for skin tumor surgery.
Skin Diseases|Artificial Intelligence|Augmented Reality|Medical Imaging
DEVICE: A Real-time Augmented Reality Device with Artificial Intelligence Integration
Doctors' Evaluation, Compare the proposed system's perfomance with the doctors in the terms of the diganosis and lesion segmentation. After using the system and the device, doctors evaluated its performance on the Skin Lesion Boundary Description, Margin Design, Sampling Navigation, Projection Effect, Security, Time-consuming and Convenience. 0-10 points for each indicator is scored independently by 4 doctors., Give an evaluation immediately after using the system and equipment.
Database: Relying on the preliminary foundation, build the first standardized infrared multispectral image database of skin diseases, and further integrate other medical images and medical history texts to iterate into a large multimodal skin disease database.

Model: Design a deep learning network based on multi-scale and multi-level. The collaborative attention learning network realizes the collaborative representation of multi-modal data at the feature level, builds a multi-modal skin disease auxiliary diagnosis model, and realizes breakthroughs in algorithms. Develop the segmentation network of skin lesions and model for surgery planning, including surgical margin design and navigation of intraoperative sampling.

System: Propose an artificial intelligence system combined with the real-time augmented reality to assist dignosis and surgery for skin diseases.

Equipment: Based on the self-developed high-performance system, construct and assemble infrared multi-spectral skin disease auxiliary diagnosis equipment and multifunctional device for skin tumors surgery.