Study of Erlotinib and Chemotherapy for Unresectable or Metastatic Cancer of the Esophagus and Gastric Cardia
In this study, Erlotinib and 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), Leucovorin and Oxaliplatin (a regimen known also as FOLFOX-6) will be the chemotherapy study drugs. The main purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of this combination of chemotherapy drugs and to see how they affect your cancer.

Another purpose of this study is to examine samples from your blood and tumor. This research will be done to better understand how subjects respond to treatment. Specifically, researchers will look at the way your genes and proteins respond to drugs like those used in this study.
Unresectable Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus|Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus|Unresectable Adenocarcinoma of Gastric Cardia|Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of Gastric Cardia
DRUG: FOLFOX|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: Erlotinib
Overall Response Rate of Previously-untreated Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Adenocarcinomas of the Upper Gastrointestinal Tract When Treated With the Combination of 5-fluorouracil, Leucovorin, Oxaliplatin, and Erlotinib., Per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors criteria (RECIST) for target lesions and assessed by computerized tomography (CT) scan.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions, 3.5 years
Toxicity of the Combination of FOLFOX, 5-FU, and Erlotinib, Adverse event assessment by investigators and as reported by subjects from time of consent to 30 days after last dose. Up to 3.5 years., 3.5 years
In this study, Erlotinib and 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), Leucovorin and Oxaliplatin (a regimen known also as FOLFOX-6) will be the chemotherapy study drugs. The main purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of this combination of chemotherapy drugs and to see how they affect your cancer.

Another purpose of this study is to examine samples from your blood and tumor. This research will be done to better understand how subjects respond to treatment. Specifically, researchers will look at the way your genes and proteins respond to drugs like those used in this study.