Blue vs Red Light During Levulan Based Photodynamic Therapy in Patients With Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome
The investigators will be testing whether aminolevulinate-based (Levulan™) Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) shows effectiveness in the treatment and prevention of cutaneous basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS) patients. Levulan™ PDT is an FDA-approved method widely used currently for squamous precancers of the skin. The investigators hypothesize that PDT will provide exceptional benefit in the BCNS population because PDT is nonmutagenic, nonscarring, and can be safely repeated many times. Additionally, the study will investigate whether there are any differences in tumor clearance between the Blu-U® (blue lamp) and Aktilite™(red lamp) therapies.
Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome
DRUG: Levulan|OTHER: Red Light PDT|OTHER: Blue Light PDT
Tumor Clearance Rate Following Red or Blue Light PDT, The rate of clearance of existing BCC tumors will be assessed in patients with BCNS, using clinical and photographic measurements. The endpoint will be assessed for tumors in a Red light treatment field and a Blue light treatment field in each patient, and compared (bilateral intrapatient comparison)., 6 months
Pain During Illumination, Pain reported by the patient, using a 0-10 Visual Analog Scale (VAS), where 0 is no pain and 10 is maximum pain possible., Maximum value reported during the illumination period|Patient Satisfaction Survey, Overall patient satisfaction with the technique will be assessed using a simple survey:

6 = extremely satisfied; 5 = very satisfied; 4 = somewhat satisfied; 3 = somewhat dissatisfied; 2 = very dissatisfied; 1 = extremely dissatisfied., 6 months
This is a pilot intra-patient comparative study to evaluate the ability of cyclic Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) using Red (635 nm) or Blue (400 nm) light with 5-Aminolevulinic acid, to eliminate BCC skin cancers that occur in patients with Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (Gorlin-Goltz Syndrome).

Patients will receive 3 cycles of Red light and Blue light PDT treatments, for a total of 6 treatments, over a 4 month period. Cycles will be spaced 2 months apart. Each cycle consists of a double course of PDT treatment with treatments spaced one week apart. Every subject will be treated with two light sources, blue and red, according to randomized assignments made to left side or right side of the body. There will be a final assessment visit at month 6.