Testing an Anti-cancer Radio-Active Immunotherapy Called Lintuzumab Ac225 in Patients With High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome That Has Not Responded to Other Treatment
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects and best dose of lintuzumab-ac225 for the treatment of patients with high risk myelodysplastic syndrome that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Lintuzumab-ac225 is a monoclonal antibody, called lintuzumab, linked to a radioactive agent called Ac225. Lintuzumab attaches to CD33 positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers Ac225 to kill them. Giving lintuzumab-ac225 may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in treating patients with high risk, refractory myelodysplastic syndrome.
Refractory Myelodysplastic Syndrome
RADIATION: Actinium Ac 225 Lintuzumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration
Maximum tolerated dose, Up to 70 days from first dose of lintuzumab-ac225
Complete remission rate, Calculated as per the 2023 myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) response criteria., Up to 90 days after completion of treatment|Overall response rate, Calculated as per the 2023 MDS response criteria., Up to 90 days after completion of treatment|Progression free survival, Calculated as per the 2023 MDS response criteria., Up to 90 days after completion of treatment|Overall survival, Calculated as per the 2023 MDS response criteria., Up to 90 days after completion of treatment|Transcriptomic changes, Ribonucleic acid sequencing analysis will be performed from cryopreserved bone marrow samples., At baseline and after cycle 2 (cycles = 28 days)|Incidence of adverse events, Will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 and described by frequency, duration, and severity of treatment-emergent, treatment-related, and serious adverse events. All reported toxicities, regardless of attribution, will be summarized by toxicity type and maximum grade, and sorted by number of patients experiencing the toxicity for each dosing cohort and overall., Up to 90 days after completion of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of actinium ac 225 lintuzumab (lintuzumab-ac225) monotherapy in myelodysplastic syndrome/neoplasm (MDS) patients whose disease is refractory to or progressing on hypomethylating agent (HMA) therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine the efficacy, complete remission (CR) (CR/complete remission with incomplete bone marrow recovery \[CRi\]) rates, overall response rates (ORR), progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) of lintuzumab-Ac225 in MDS patients whose disease is refractory to or progressing on HMA therapy.

III. To perform bulk ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing to assess transcriptomic changes in MDS patients after HMA therapy.

IV. Dosimetry studies V. To study the correlation of absorbed radiation doses (in Gy) with adverse events and disease control.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lintuzumab-ac225 followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive lintuzumab-ac225 intravenously (IV), over 30 minutes, on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo bone marrow aspiration and buccal cell sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 90 days.