REVIVE: Replens Versus Intra-Vaginal Estrogen for the Treatment of Vaginal Dryness on Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy
This study is investigating whether breast cancer patients who experience vaginal dryness while on anti-estrogen treatment could benefit from either vaginal estrogen or from a vaginal moisturizer called Replens.
Estrogen Receptor Positive Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer
DRUG: ESTRING|DRUG: Replens
What is the number of participants that show improvement of symptoms using vaginal estrogen as compared to the control., To compare improvement of atrophic vaginitis signs and symptoms between women on the vaginal estrogen ring and those on Replens vaginal cream. 1.1 Administer a questionnaire at baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks to all patients which will assess vaginal dryness and vaginal itching. Over six months, we expect that patients who are receiving vaginal estrogen will have more improvement in atrophic vaginitis symptoms as compared to those women on Replens., 4.5 years
Compliance of use of Aromatase Inhibitor to assure safety, Assess compliance with aromatase inhibitor therapy in each arm. Assess sexual health of survivors.

Using an ultra-sensitive estrogen assay, investigate the changes in serum estrogen levels in each arm over time. Compare the change in serum estrogen level from baseline to 6 months in the Estring arm vs. Replens arm., 4.5 years
EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE, To evaluate breast cancer recurrence in each arm over a 5 year time period, 5 years|Evaluation of vaginal dryness by vaginal pH, Evaluate vaginal dryness by a potentially more objective measure - vaginal pH. We will test vaginal pH at baseline and 6 months using a pH strip and will report the pH on the research record. We expect that women on vaginal estrogen will have lower pH at 6 months, compared to women on Replens., 6 months from baseline
To evaluate Estring versus Replens for treatment of atrophic vaginitis in breast cancer survivors on adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE 1. To compare improvement of atrophic vaginitis signs and symptoms between women on the vaginal estrogen ring and those on Replens vaginal cream. 1.1 Administer a questionnaire at baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks to all patients which will assess vaginal dryness and vaginal itching. Over six months, we expect that patients who are receiving vaginal estrogen will have more improvement in atrophic vaginitis symptoms as compared to those women on Replens.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES 2.1 Assess compliance with aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy in each arm to see whether vaginal estrogen therapy increases AI compliance among women who have atrophic vaginitis. Compliance will be checked by counting pills at clinic visits at 4 weeks, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks during the study treatment period, and then every 6 months for a period of 4.5 additional years, or until completion of aromatase inhibitor therapy. We expect that compliance in the vaginal estrogen arm will be superior to that of the Replens arm.

Women over the age of 18 who have been diagnosed with stage I-III ER+ breast cancer and are currently taking adjuvant AI therapy who also complain of atrophic vaginitis symptoms including vaginal dryness, vaginal itching, frequent urinary tract infections, or dyspareunia are candidates for this study. Women also must be post-menopausal as defined by any of the following: age \>55 years, history of bilateral oophorectomy, amenorrhea for 1 year with intact uterus and ovaries, or serum estradiol and FSH concentrations in the post-menopausal range along with either amenorrhea for 6 months or previous hysterectomy.