Phase I Trial: T4 Immunotherapy of Head and Neck Cancer
The overall goal of this study is to investigate the safety of T4 immunotherapy when administered to treat loco-regional disease in Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck (SCCHN) that is not suitable for conventional active therapy.

The investigators propose to conduct an open-labelled, non-randomized, dose-escalation phase I trial in which autologous T4+ T-cells are administered to patients with SCCHN. T-cells will be engineered to express a second generation chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) named T1E28z. Engineered T-cells will be injected directly into the tumour site. Patients will not be lymphodepleted. A classical 3+3 design will be employed, with dose escalation from 10\^7 through to 10\^9 transduced T4+ T-cells, dependent upon toxicity monitoring. It is anticipated that up to 30 patients will be enrolled over the course of the study.
Head and Neck Cancer
OTHER: Intra-tumoral T4 immunotherapy
Dose limiting toxicities for T4 immunotherapy in SCCHN and determine a safe and feasible recommended dose for phase II testing of intra-tumoral T4 immunotherapy., Patients will be monitored intensely for the first 24 hours post T4 administration. Patients will the be assessed for signs of toxicity on days 3-4, 5-7, 8, 15, 29 and 43., Up to 6 weeks post T4 administration
To investigate serum cytokine levels after administration of T4 immunotherapy, up to 6 weeks post T4 administration|To investigate persistence of T4+ T-cells at the site of administration and in the peripheral circulation, up to 6 weeks post T4 administration|To achieve preliminary assessment of anti-tumour activity, using cross-sectional imaging to quantify objective responses, up to 6 weeks post T4 administration|To investigate tumour ErbB receptor phenotype, before and after administration of T4 immunotherapy, up to 6 weeks post T4 administration|To investigate immunomodulatory effects of metronomic cyclophosphamide on T4 immunotherapy, Pre- and post-treatment absolute number of circulating T-regulatory cells will be compared., up to 6 weeks post T4 administration|To investigate effect of T4 immunotherapy upon immune reactivity against endogenous tumour antigens, ELISPOT will be performed on blood samples taken 3 days prior and 29 days after T4 administration to measure for MAGE-reactive T-cells., up to 6 weeks post T4 administration
Further information is provided in van Schalkwyk MC, Papa SE, Jeannon JP, Guerrero Urbano T, Spicer JF, Maher J. Design of a phase I clinical trial to evaluate intratumoral delivery of ErbB-targeted chimeric antigen receptor T-cells in locally advanced or recurrent head and neck cancer. Hum Gene Ther Clin Dev. 2013 Sep;24(3):134-42. doi: 10.1089/humc.2013.144. PubMed ID: 24099518