Safety and Efficacy Study of GM-CSF, Thalidomide Plus Docetaxel in Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the relative efficacy and toxicity of combination therapy of GM-CSF, Thalidomide plus Docetaxel in patients with prostate cancer with a rising PSA.
Prostatic Neoplasms
DRUG: GM-CSF|DRUG: thalidomide|DRUG: docetaxel
To assess the relative efficacy of the combination of GM-CSF, Thalidomide and Docetaxel in patients with prostate cancer., PI relocated, no data currently available, during study (no data currently available)
Collect data on hormonal responses produced by GM-CSF, Thalidomide and Docetaxel., PI relocated, no data currently available, during study (no data currently available)|Evaluate safety and toxicity of the combination of GM-CSF, Thalidomide and Docetaxel for patients with hormone naïve prostate cancer., PI relocated, no data currently available, during study (no data currently available)
As more men are being diagnosed and treated for prostate cancer at an early age, the number who experiences a rising level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after initial treatment is increasing, affecting approximately 50,000 patients each year.

These three drugs are commercially available. Thalidomide is an angiogenesis inhibitor which blocks the development of new blood vessels. GM-CSF stimulates the body's immune response to fight cancer. Docetaxel is the most active chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of prostate cancer. GM-CSF and thalidomide have proven activity in suppressing PSA values.

This study design offers an opportunity to add cytotoxic therapy (docetaxel) in combination with an active pathobiologic regimen (GM-CSF plus thalidomide) to eradicate micrometastatic disease, thus potentially offering a significant delay to clinical failure as measured by a rise in PSA or radiographic involvement. Additionally, delays in the use of hormone therapy has the potential to be of significant benefit.

GM-CSF will be administered at a fixed dose 3 days per week by subcutaneous injection for 12 months. Participants will receive a fixed dose of thalidomide orally at bedtime daily without interruption for 12 months. Docetaxel will be administered intravenously over 1 hour on week 1 of every cycle (every 3 weeks) for 18 weeks.