Phase I/II Study To Test The Safety and Efficacy of TVI-Brain-1 As A Treatment For Recurrent Grade IV Glioma
TVI-Brain-1 is an experimental treatment that takes advantage of the fact that your body can produce immune cells, called 'killer' white blood cells that have the ability to kill large numbers of the cancer cells that are present in your body. TVI-Brain-1 is designed to generate large numbers of those 'killer' white blood cells and to deliver those cells into your body so that they can kill your cancer cells.
Glioma|High Grade Astrocytoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme
BIOLOGICAL: Cancer vaccine plus immune adjuvant
Number of Participants Experiencing the Incidence of Grade One or Higher Adverse Events, To determine the relative toxicity (safety) of vaccinating recurrent grade IV glioma patients four times with live, attenuated cancer cells combined with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Toxicity will be assessed following delivery of each treatment component., 8 weeks|Immunogenicity as Measured by Delayed Type Hypersensitivity Reactions, The potency of the modified vaccination regimen will be assessed by measuring immune responses following each vaccination. The study is designed to determine whether vaccinating recurrent grade IV glioma subjects four times with attenuated cancer cells stimulates more powerful immune responses than vaccinating subjects twice. Clinical effects also will be measured to determine whether the treatment causes the cancer to regress., 48 hours
Overall Survival, Evaluate overall survival of patients, 12 months
TVI-Brain-1 involves several steps. First, the patient's cancer will be surgically removed to provide cells for the vaccine. Second, the patient will be vaccinated twice with those cells and GM-CSF. Third, the patient's blood will be filtered for white cells which will then be cultured and stimulated to reach a higher (killer) activity level. Fourth, the activated white blood cells will be infused into the patient's bloodstream so that they will be able to attack the cancer. Finally, the entire process starting with vaccination will be repeated, for a total of two rounds of therapy.