Novel Treatment to Enhance Smoking Cessation Before Cancer Surgery
The purpose of this clinical trial is to determine the feasibility and efficacy of an intervention designed to increase rates of tobacco abstinence for cancer patients before their cancer surgery.
Smoking Cessation
BEHAVIORAL: Contingency Management (CM)|BEHAVIORAL: Standard of Care (SC)
Pre Surgery Smoking Abstinence, Participants will be classified as succeeded or failed in cessation based on a definition of 1 week of abstinence from cigarettes leading up to the day of their surgery based on self-report and confirmed with biochemical verification (CO≤6ppm). For participants who are classified as abstinent, a chi-square will be computed comparing whether treatment with CM is superior to SC in producing a higher probability of abstinence. These data will be used to compute an effect size, Cohen's w, for smoking cessation., Day of Surgery
Post Surgery Smoking Abstinence, Participants will be classified 3 months post surgical procedure as succeeded or failed in cessation based on self-report and confirmed with biochemical verification (CO≤6ppm) in the 7 days prior to the 3-month follow-up. For participants who are classified as abstinent, a chi-square will be computed comparing whether treatment with CM is superior to SC in producing a higher probability of abstinence., 3 months
Continuous Smoking Abstinence, This exploratory aim is to assess the continuous days of abstinence 3 months post surgical procedure. It will be calculated from the Timeline Follow Back (TLFB) and will be defined as the number of days from the first date of self-reported abstinence until the first lapse. These data will be collected from intake through the 3-month follow-up. An independent-samples t-test will be used to compare the days of continuous abstinence for those in the CM group versus the SC group., 3 months|Perioperative Complications, Wound infections will be assessed (purulent discharge, redness, or serous discharge, including a positive microbial culture or treatment with an antibiotic) 3 months post surgical procedure. This will be recorded from the medical provider interview, along with the duration of the event. The initial dependent measure for this analysis will be the percentage of subjects rated as having wound infections. Instances of respiratory complications (severe coughing, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, recurrent apnea, or pneumonia) will be recorded, along with the duration of the event. The initial dependent measure for this analysis will be the percentage of subjects rated as having respiratory complications. Rates of perioperative complications will be analyzed using a chi-square test comparing CM to SC. Through exploratory step-wise regression modeling of the data, we will attempt to ascertain which variables are important and independent factors with regard to surgical outcomes., 3 months
The investigators are proposing a developmental interdisciplinary pilot study to determine the feasibility and efficacy of an intervention designed to increase rates of tobacco abstinence for cancer patients before their cancer surgery. This study (a follow up to smaller pilot studies) will serve as a means to further develop a treatment protocol and to generate an accurate effect size for a full scale trial. The present study will constitute a development clinical trial with a primary aim of developing an effect size for smoking cessation at the time of surgery (7-day point prevalence abstinence), and a secondary aim of creating an effect size for long-term abstinence at 3 months post-surgery.