Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Treated With Regorafenib or Placebo After Failure of Standard Therapy
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multi-center phase III study to evaluate efficacy and safety of regorafenib in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) who have progressed on/after all approved drugs for CRC
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Regorafenib (Stivarga, BAY73-4506)|DRUG: Placebo|OTHER: Best Supportive Care (BSC)
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time (days) from randomization to death due to any cause. Patients alive at the time of analysis were censored at the last date known to be alive. If a patient was lost to follow-up and there was no contact after randomization, this patient was censored at Day 1., From randomization of the first subject until the database cut-off approximately 14 months later (19May2010 - 21Jul2011) used for 2nd planned formal interim analysis (IA).
Progression-free Survival (Based on Investigator's Assessment), Progression-free survival was defined as the time (days) from date of randomization to date of first observed disease progression (radiological or clinical) or death due to any cause, if death occurred before progression was documented., From randomization of the first subject until the database cut-off approximately 14 months later (19May2010 - 21Jul2011) used for 2nd planned formal interim analysis. Tumor assessed at 8 week intervals.|Objective Tumor Response, The objective tumor response was defined as the percentage of patients with complete response (CR, tumor disappears) or partial response (PR, sum of lesion sizes decreased at least 30% from baseline) as best overall response. A best overall response was defined for all patients, using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, version 1.1. Patients whose best overall response was not CR or PR, and any patients with no post-baseline assessments were considered nonresponders for the analysis., From randomization of the first subject until the database cut-off approximately 14 months later (19May2010 - 21Jul2011) used for 2nd planned formal interim analysis. Tumor assessed at 8 week intervals.|Disease Control, Disease control was defined as the percentage of patients whose best response was not PD \[sum of lesion sizes increased at least 20% from smallest sum on study or new lesions\] (ie, CR \[tumor disappears\], PR \[sum of lesion sizes decreased at least 30% from baseline\] or SD (stable disease)). SD included if at least 6 weeks after randomization., From randomization of the first subject until the database cut-off approximately 14 months later (19May2010 - 21Jul2011) used for 2nd planned formal interim analysis. Tumor assessed at 8 week intervals.|Tumor Response, A tumor response (best overall response) was defined for all patients, using the RECIST criteria, version 1.1. Categories: complete response (CR, tumor disappears), partial response (PR, sum of lesion sizes decreased at least 30% from baseline), stable disease (SD, steady state of disease), progressive disease (PD, sum of lesion sizes increased at least 20% from smallest sum on study or new lesions). Clinical PD considered when radiographic imaging not possible., From randomization of the first subject until the database cut-off approximately 14 months later (19May2010 - 21Jul2011) used for 2nd planned formal interim analysis. Tumor assessed at 8 week intervals.
All participants received Best Supportive Care. Acronyms used in Adverse events section: Gastrointestinal (GI), Genitourinary (GU), Not Otherwise Specified (NOS), Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC), Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), International Normalized Ratio (INR), Central nervous system (CNS), Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), Cranial nerves (CN), Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC), Cardiac troponin T (cTnT).

Abbreviation used in Results section: Data Monitoring Committee (DMC). Adverse event collection will be covered in Adverse events section.