The Performance of Cancer Risk Genes in the Necessity of Secondary TURBT
Investigators performed the Genetron Uro V1 test on the urine of patients before secondary TURBT and compared it with the final pathological results. To analyze the performance of the Genetron Uro V1 method in a study to predict the need for secondary TURBT in high-risk NMIBC patients and the correlation with patient's RFS and OS.
Bladder Cancer
Concordance analysis of Genetron Uro V1 assay results with gold standard results of secondary TURBT histopathology, Through Concordance analysis of Genetron Uro V1 assay results with gold standard results of secondary TURBT histopathology, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV) of Genetron Uro V1 detected before secondary TURBT are measured., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Overall survival, To analyze the performance of the Genetron Uro V1 method in a study to predict the correlation with patient OS., 2 years after surgery|Recurrence-free survival, To analyze the performance of the Genetron Uro V1 method in a study to predict the correlation with patient RFS., 2 years after surgery
The standard of treatment for patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) is transurethral resection of bladder tumors (TURBT), with postoperative intravesical irrigation treatment options determined by the risk of recurrence. After TURBT surgery, tumor remnants are one of the most important causes of postoperative tumor recurrence. Studies have shown that secondary TURBT can detect residual bladder tumor lesions, obtain more accurate pathological staging, increase recurrence-free survival, improve patient prognosis, and enhance treatment outcomes. Current bladder cancer treatment guidelines recommend secondary TURBT for patients with (1) inadequate first TURBT (2) no muscle tissue in the first TURBT specimen, except for TaG1 and carcinoma in situ (3) stage T1 tumors (4) grade G3 tumors, except for carcinoma in situ. However, at present, the lack of screening methods for the population benefiting from secondary TURBT in clinical practice has led to some patients inevitably receiving overtreatment, increasing patient suffering, and financial costs, and raising the burden of government healthcare.

The genetic test for uroepithelial tumor risk (Genetron Uro V1) is a non-invasive liquid biopsy method based on urine samples, which has high diagnostic efficacy in patients with primary uroepithelial cancer. Investigators performed the Genetron Uro V1 test on the urine of patients before secondary TURBT and compared it with the final pathological results.

To analyze the performance of the Genetron Uro V1 method in a study to predict the need for secondary TURBT in high-risk NMIBC patients and the correlation with patient's RFS and OS.