A Study to Develop Predictive and Prognostic Tools for Optimizing Therapy With Bevacizumab Frontline Cancer Therapy in Participants With HER 2-Negative Aggressive Metastatic Breast Cancer
This multicenter, observational, prospective study will identify a powerful and easy predictive/prognostic marker to use with participants under bevacizumab.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit, Clinical benefit was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (v1.1). Clinical benefit is defined as partial or complete response as well as tumor stabilization for up to 24 weeks. Results for clinical benefit were reported for 2 groups based on Circulating Tumor Cells (CTC) Levels. The Sensitive group had CTC levels \<5 (\<5 CTCs in one of the two determinations) and Resistant group had CTC ≥5 (≥ 5 CTCs in the two determinations)., During follow-up (up to 18 months)
Percentage of Participants With Overall Response as Assessed Using RECIST v1.1, Overall response = Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR). Overall response was evaluated for the Sensitive group (CTC \<5) and Resistant group (CTC ≥5)., From Baseline up to end of study (up to 18 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed Using RECIST v1.1, PFS was evaluated for the Sensitive group (CTC \<5) and Resistant group (CTC ≥5)., From Baseline up to end of study (up to 18 months)|Overall Survival, OS was evaluated for the Sensitive group (CTC \<5) and Resistant group (CTC ≥5)., From Baseline up to end of study (up to 18 months)|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events of Toxicity Grading 3 and/or 4, Adverse events (AEs) will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) (v 4.0). Any AEs that are not specifically listed in the NCI CTCAE follow the logic - Grade 3) Severe or medically significant, but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; or limiting self-care activities of daily living; Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated., From Baseline up to end of study (up to 18 months)|Optimal Cut-off for Clinical Benefit, Clinical benefit was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (v1.1). Clinical benefit is defined as partial or complete response as well as tumor stabilization for up to 24 weeks. The optimal cut-off for clinical benefit was calculated from a Receiver Operating Curve (ROC) based on CTC level and used to define the prognostic factors that could better predict clinical outcomes., Baseline (within 21 days prior to Day 1 Cycle 1), 7 days prior to Day 1 Cycle 3 (Cycle length = 28 days)|Percentage of Participants With Overall Response (OR) as Assessed Using RECIST v1. in Prognostic Groups, Overall response = CR + PR. An optimal cut-off point for the CTC count of 0.5 after 2 cycles of treatment was used to define the prognostic groups., Baseline (within 21 days prior to Day 1 Cycle 1), 7 days prior to Day 1 Cycle 3 (Cycle length = 28 days)|PFS as Assessed Using RECIST v1. in Prognostic Groups, An optimal cut-off point for the CTC count of 0.5 after 2 cycles of treatment was used to define the prognostic groups., From Baseline up to end of study (up to 18 months)|Mean CTC Count Levels, CTC and CEA levels were compared to determine any correlation between the two. Both CTC count at baseline and at cycle 2 were considered., Baseline (within 21 days prior to Day 1 Cycle 1 [Cycle length = 28 days])|Mean Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) Levels, Baseline (within 21 days prior to Day 1 Cycle 1 [Cycle length = 28 days])|Mean Biomarker Cancer Antigen 15.3 (CA 15.3) Level, CTC and CA 15.3 levels were compared to determine any correlation between the two. Both CTC count at baseline and at cycle 2 were considered., Baseline (within 21 days prior to Day 1 Cycle 1 [Cycle length = 28 days])
This multicenter, observational, prospective study will identify a powerful and easy predictive/prognostic marker to use with participants under bevacizumab.