Masitinib in Severe Indolent or Smoldering Systemic Mastocytosis Unresponsive to Optimal Symptomatic Treatment
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral masitinib versus placebo in the treatment of patients suffering from smouldering or indolent systemic mastocytosis with severe symptoms of mast cell mediator release, unresponsive to optimal symptomatic treatment.
Indolent Systemic Mastocytosis
DRUG: Masitinib|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Best Supportive Care
Cumulative response (3R75%), Cumulative response in at least one of three severe baseline symptoms of mast cell mediator release (pruritus, flushes, or depression). Response was defined as a 75% improvement from baseline for any of these three symptoms. Cumulative response was defined as the number of actual responses between weeks 8 and 24, divided by the total number of possible responses over the same treatment period (ie, with five scheduled visits, each patient had a maximum of five to 15 possible responses depending on the number of severe baseline symptoms)., 24 weeks
Cumulative response (4R75%), Cumulative response in at least one of four severe baseline symptoms of mast cell mediator release (pruritus, flushes, depression, or asthenia). Response is defined as a 75% improvement from baseline for any of these four symptoms. Cumulative response was defined as the number of actual responses between weeks 8 and 24, divided by the total number of possible responses over the same treatment period (ie, with five scheduled visits, each patient had a maximum of five to 20 possible responses depending on the number of severe baseline symptoms)., 24 weeks|Cumulative response (2R75%), Cumulative response in at least one of two severe baseline symptoms of mast cell mediator release (pruritus or flushes). Response is defined as a 75% improvement from baseline for either of these two symptoms. Cumulative response is defined as the number of actual responses between weeks 8 and 24, divided by the total number of possible responses over the same treatment period (ie, with five scheduled visits, each patient had a maximum of five to 10 possible responses depending on the number of severe baseline symptoms)., 24 weeks|Cumulative response, Cumulative response on each of the individual handicaps. Response is defined as a 75% improvement from baseline for either of these two symptoms. Cumulative response is defined as the number of actual responses between weeks 8 and 24, divided by the total number of possible responses over the same treatment period., 24 weeks
Masitinib is a selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor that modulates mast cell activity via inhibition of c-Kit, Lyn and Fyn kinase signaling pathways. This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-parallel-group, trial comparing oral masitinib versus placebo in the treatment of patients suffering from smouldering or indolent systemic mastocytosis with severe symptoms of mast cell mediator release (also referred to as handicaps), unresponsive to optimal symptomatic treatment. The treatment period is 24 weeks. Participants receive masitinib (3.0 mg/kg/day), given orally twice daily, with a dose escalation to 4.5 mg/kg/day after 4 weeks of treatment, followed by dose escalation to 6.0 mg/kg/day after 4 weeks of treatment. Each ascending dose titration is subjected to a safety control.