Treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Arsenic and All-trans Retinoid Acid
The clinical trial was designed to prove that Arsenic plus ATRA possibly had an effect on improving the symptoms, reducing the early mortality rate and prolonging the total survival time of patients with newly diagnosed or relapsed AML.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: All-trans retinoic acid|DRUG: Arsenic Trioxide|DRUG: Realgar-Indigo naturalis formula
Early death rate (ED), Death reported within the first month of diagnosis, 30 days|Overall survival (OS), the time from enrolled to death from any cause, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years
Hematologic complete remission (HCR), Bone marrow blasts \<5%; absence of circulating blasts and blasts with Auer rods; absence of extramedullary disease; absolute neutrophil count \>1.0×10\^9 /L; platelet count \>100× 10\^9 /L., 30 days|Cumulative relapse rate, From the date of enrollment to the date of relpase proved by bone marrow test, assessed up to 3 years
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a genetically heterogeneous disease with a highly variable prognosis and an overall high mortality rate. The 5-year overall survival of adult AML patients is less than 50%, and only 20% of elderly patients survive over 2 years. Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) accounts for 10% - 15% of acute myeloid leukemia. Arsenic and ATRA are very effective treatments for APL, a distinct AML subtype characterized by the expression of the PML/RARA fusion protein. PML/RARA expression disrupts PML NBs and blunts p53 signaling, which contributes to increased self-renewal of myeloid progenitors. The application of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic modifies APL from highly fatal to highly curable. Both RA and arsenic induce degradation of PML/RARA through distinct pathways. Nucleophosmin-1(NPM1) is the most frequently mutated gene in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). According to El Hajj's research, RA or arsenic trioxide synergistically induces proteasomal degradation of mutant NPM1 in AML cell lines or primary samples, leading to differentiation and apoptosis. Combined ATRA/arsenic treatment significantly reduced bone marrow blasts in 3 AML patients and restored the subnuclear localization of both NPM1 and PML. Overall, there is no consensus yet as to whether the addition of ATRA/arsenic improves the outcome of patients with NPM1 mutant AML. However, it still needs clinical research to confirm. The investigators design a clinical trial to prove that arsenic plus ATRA is possibly improving the symptoms of AML patients, reduce early mortality, and extending overall survival time.