Cetuximab Plus Conformal Thoracic Radiotherapy in Patients (Pts) With Inoperable or Unresectable Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (LA - NSCLC)
This research is being done to find out if a treatment consisting of a combination of thoracic radiotherapy with cetuximab, given together, and followed by chemotherapy with docetaxel and cetuximab (also given together) will kill the cancer cells in the patient's body and shrink the size of their tumor without causing unacceptable side effects. This may allow patients to live longer or decrease the frequency and/or severity of the symptoms caused by the cancer without increasing the frequency and/or severity of the symptoms caused by the treatment.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Cetuximab|RADIATION: Conformal Thoracic Radiotherapy (CTRT)
Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival is defined as the interval between the date of the first cetuximab administration and the date of objective progression of disease. Progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria. Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to 36 months
Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization until death from any cause., Up to 36 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR = Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (CR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.0. Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 36 months
Patients will be asked to spend about six months in this study. There will be 4 different phases in this study as follows: (1) Loading Phase: This is the first week (week 1) of the study, when patients receive their first (loading) dose of cetuximab only, in the vein. (2) Concurrent Phase: During this phase patients will be treated simultaneously (concurrently) with radiation therapy to their chest and cetuximab. Radiation is delivered 5 days a week, Monday to Friday for a total of 7 weeks (weeks 2-8). Cetuximab is delivered in the vein, weekly, during the weeks of radiation. (3) Recovery Phase: Patients receive no treatment during these next 3 weeks (weeks 9-11). This phase is designed to allow patients to recover from side effects before they start the last phase. (4) Consolidation Phase: The last phase. Patients will receive 3 doses of chemotherapy with docetaxel during this phase. Docetaxel is given intravenously every 21 days. Patients also receive weekly cetuximab during this phase. Cetuximab is delivered in a similar way as it was during the concurrent (second) phase of this study. In total, this phase lasts 6 weeks (weeks 12-18). Once the therapy treatment is completed, and if the patient's cancer did not get worse, follow up visits will include visits to their physician every three months for 2 years, then every 4 months for 2 years or more, as long as their cancer doesn't get worse (at which time they will be removed from the study).