Nal-IRI(Nanoliposomal Irinotecan) Plus 5-FU/LV in Metastatic Biliary Tract Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of combination of fluorouracil/folinic acid and liposomal irinotecan(Onivyde) compared with fluoruracil/folinic acid in patients with metastatic biliary tract cancer which progressed on 1st line gemcitabine/cisplatin.
Metastatic Biliary Tract Cancer
DRUG: Onivyde|DRUG: 5-FU/LV
Progression Free Survival by independent central reviewer, Progression-free survival is the time from the date of enrollment to the earlier of the date of confirmed progression or death from any cause., from the date of enrollment to the earlier of the date of confirmed progression or death from any cause. (assessed up to 36 months)
Overall Survival, Overall survival is the time from the date of enrollment to death from any cause, from the date of enrollment to death from any cause. (assessed up to 36 months)|Response rates determined by the investigator according to the RECIST(Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) v1.1, The response rate is the proportion of eligible patients with measurable lesions with a overall response of CR(Complete Response) or PR(Partial Response), from the date of enrollment to end of treatment. (assessed up to 36 months)|EORTC-QLQ (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer - Quality of life Questionnaire) C30 (version 3.0), EORTC-QLQ C-30 questionnaires will be performed at screening visit, at pre-dose (Cycle 1 Day1) of every subsequent cycle, at the end of treatment visit. It is a 30-item questionnaire. It has 4-point scales for the item number 1 to 28. These are coded with the same response categories as items 1 to 28, namely "not at all=1" "a little=2" "quite a bit=3" and "very much=4" It has 7-point scale for question number 29 to 30. These are coded with the same response categories as items 29 to 30, namely "worst=1" to "best=7" Total score will be minimum 30 and maximum 126., from the date of Screening to end of treatment. (assessed up to 36 months)|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Severity of adverse events will be graded by NCI-CTCAE (National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) v4.03, from the date of enrollment to 30 days after last treatment. (assessed up to 36 months)|Progression Free Survival by investigator assessment, Progression-free survival is the time from the date of enrollment to the earlier of the date of confirmed progression or death from any cause., from the date of enrollment to the earlier of the date of confirmed progression or death from any cause. (assessed up to 36 months)|Response rates determined by the independent central reviewer, The response rate is the proportion of eligible patients with measurable lesions with a overall response of CR(Complete Response) or PR(Partial Response), from the date of enrollment to end of treatment. (assessed up to 36 months)
This study is a multicenter, open-label, randomized, phase II study comparing the efficacy and safety between fluorouracil/folinic acid plus liposomal irinotecan and fluoruracil/folinic acid monotherapy in patients with metastatic biliary tract cancer which progressed on 1st line gemcitabine/cisplatin.

Eligible patients will be included in this study and treated according to the protocol. Study treatment will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or patient's decision/consent withdrawal. Local investigators will determine disease progression, radiologic or clinical deterioration.