Magnetic-Targeted Doxorubicin in Treating Patients With Cancer Metastatic to the Liver
MTC-DOX is Doxorubicin or DOX, a chemotherapy drug, that is adsorbed, or made to "stick", to magnetic beads (MTCs). MTCs are tiny, microscopic particles of iron and carbon. When DOX is added to MTCs, DOX attaches to the carbon part of the MTCs. MTC-DOX is directed to and deposited in the area of a tumor, where it is thought that it then "leaks" through the blood vessel walls. Once in the surrounding tissues, it is thought that Doxorubicin becomes "free from" the magnetic beads and will then be able to act against the tumor cells. The iron component of the particle has magnetic properties, making it possible to direct MTC-DOX to specific tumor sites in the liver by placing a magnet on the body surface. It is hoped that MTC-DOX used with the magnet may target the chemotherapy drug directly to liver tumors and provide a treatment to patients with cancers that have spread to the liver.
Metastases, Neoplasm|Colorectal Neoplasms|Esophageal Neoplasms|Stomach Neoplasms|Pancreatic Neoplasms|Breast Neoplasms|Melanoma|Sarcoma|Gastrointestinal Neoplasms|Lung Neoplasms|Liver Neoplasms|Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: MTC-DOX for Injection|PROCEDURE: Chemotherapy
MTC-DOX is Doxorubicin or DOX, a chemotherapy drug, that is adsorbed, or made to "stick", to magnetic beads (MTCs). MTCs are tiny, microscopic particles of iron and carbon. When DOX is added to MTCs, DOX attaches to the carbon part of the MTCs. MTC-DOX is directed to and deposited in the area of a tumor, where it is thought that it then "leaks" through the blood vessel walls. Once in the surrounding tissues, it is thought that Doxorubicin becomes "free from" the magnetic beads and will then be able to act against the tumor cells. The iron component of the particle has magnetic properties, making it possible to direct MTC-DOX to specific tumor sites in the liver by placing a magnet on the body surface. It is hoped that MTC-DOX used with the magnet may target the chemotherapy drug directly to liver tumors and provide a treatment to patients with cancers that have spread to the liver.