Patient-derived Organoid Drug Sensitivity Guided Treatment for Drug-resistant Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This study aims to enroll non-small cell lung cancer patients who have undergone at least two rounds of standard treatment for drug resistance/recurrence. Patient-derived Organoid will be established, and drug sensitivity test will be conducted to intervene in the selection of clinical treatment plans. Efficacy evaluation and prognosis analysis will also be conducted. It is hoped that this study will provide a basis for the development of personalized treatment plans.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Chemotherapy and targeted-therapy guided by organoid drug sensitivity test
Objective Response Rate, Percentage of patient's measurable disease who have achieved either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1., 1-2 years
Progressive free survival, The time from initiation of treatment to the occurrence of disease progression or death., 1-2 years|Overall survival time, The time from the date of randomization to the date of death for any cause. Patients will be followed until their date of death or until final database closure., 2 years
Twenty patients with drug-resistant/relapsed non-small cell lung cancer who met the inclusion criteria were enrolled in the study after signing an informed consent form. Tumor samples were obtained through clinical puncture, and qualified samples were subjected to organoid modeling. Perform drug sensitivity test on the established lung cancer organoids. The drugs used are all that have been marketed and applied in clinical practice. According to the results of organoid drug sensitivity analysis, the patient received a treatment plan with relatively sensitive drugs. Follow up prognostic data and relevant clinical information of enrolled patients, conduct statistical analysis on the consistency between drug sensitivity test results and patient treatment response, and evaluate the clinical effectiveness of treatment plans guided by organoid drug sensitivity results.