Impact of Chronic Renal Failure on Plasma Exposure of Kinase Inhibitors in Patients Treated for Metastatic Kidney Cancer
The study of the blood concentration of ITK what are pazopanib and cabozantinib at 1 month and 3 months from the start of treatment will allow to evaluate the impact of renal failure on their efficacy and toxicity in patients with metastatic kidney cancer.
Kidney Neoplasm
OTHER: blood sampling for ITK dosage
Residual concentration at equilibrium of ITK in the blood, Assessment in patients treated for metastatic kidney cancer without or with moderate or severe renal impairment if the plasma concentration (residual concentration at equilibrium) of ITK is higher than the target concentration (specific to the ITK molecule : pazopanib : 20 000 ng/mL and cabozantinib : 1000 ng/mL ), at 1 month (+/1 week)
Concentration of ITK in the blood in patients with Failure renal function, Assessment the plasma concentration (residual concentration at equilibrium) of ITK (pazopanib and / or cabozantinib) in patients with moderate renal impairment and / or severe renal impairment, at 1 month (+/- 1 week) and 3 months (+/- 1 month)|Concentration of ITK in the blood in patients with normal renal function, Assessment the plasma concentration (residual concentration at equilibrium) of ITK (pazopanib and / or cabozantinib) in patients with normal renal function, at 1 month (+/- 1 week) and 3 months (+/- 1 month)|Toxicities related to the intake of ITKs, Assessment toxicities induced by the use of ITK targeting Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-Receptor (VEGF-R) by using the NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 (grade ≥ 2), at 1 month (+/- 1 week) and 3 months (+/- 1 month)
This study involves patients treated with cabozantinib or pazopanib in their metastatic renal cancer.

Indeed, the aim of this study is to assess the blood concentration of these two drugs as well as their tolerance, in relation to their renal function (normal renal function or moderate or severe renal failure).

Pazopanib and cabozantinib are kinase inhibitors that are indicated for a number of cancer conditions, including metastatic kidney cancer.

Both of these oral therapies require a daily intake of the drug to ensure its effectiveness.

For this, the patient must have optimal compliance and benefit from regular follow up to assess clinical and biological tolerance.

Chronic renal failure is a factor that may impact the efficacy and toxicity of pazopanib and cabozantinib. This may be due either to a elimination default of the drug or to much elimination if the drug is filtered after dialysis.

As a result, kinase inhibitors could be impacted by chronic renal failure and thus modify the safety and efficacy of the treatment.

A study-specific blood test will be taken at 1 month and at 3 months during a consultation (this blood test is in addition to the routine blood test). Its analysis will evaluate the quantity of medication present in the blood.

The other objective of this study is to evaluate the side effects of the drug taken by the patient (pazopanib or cabozantinib).

This will alow to propose possible dose adjustments for each of these treatments and thus improve the management of these patients.