The Effect of Acupuncture on Insulin Sensitivity Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance play a key role in the pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Insulin resistance is significantly associated with the long-term risks of metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease. Acupuncture with electrical stimulation has in rats with dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced PCOS been shown to improve insulin sensitivity. Whether these findings can be translated into women with PCOS has not been investigated. Therefore, this study aims to evaluate whether acupuncture improves insulin sensitivity, ovulation rate and quality of life in women with PCOS. Our hypothesis is that acupuncture with combined manual and low-frequency electrical stimulation of the needles improves insulin resistance, induces ovulation and improves quality of life.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Insulin Resistance
OTHER: acupuncture
HOMA-IR, baseline,treat for 3 and 6 month ,3 or 6 month follow-up
FSH, Determine FSH by electrogenerated chemiluminescence., baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|LH, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|Androgen, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|Progesterone, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|Prolactin, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|Estradiol, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|dehydroepiandrosterone(sodium)sulfate, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|sex hormone binding globulin, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|c-peptide, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|Apoa1, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|ApoB, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|TC, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|TG, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|glycosylated hemoglobin, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|Questionnaire investigation, Health related quality of life, affective symptoms and personality: Will be determined by short form-36 (SF36), polycystic ovary syndrome questionnaire (PCOSQ),(generic and diagnosis-specific HRQL questionnaire),and the Chinese Quality of Life (ChQOL) ,and symptoms of anxiety and depression assessed by the Zung Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (Zung SAS) and Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (Zung SDS)., baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month|Transvaginal ultrasound, baseline,up to 6 month,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month
Body composition(weight,height,waist circumference,hip circumference), baseline,every month in treatment,the follow-up of 3 or 6 month
This is a prospective observational study. A total of 112 women with PCOS and insulin resistance will be recruited and randomized into two groups according to their body mass index (BMI), i.e. normal weight (BMI=18.5-23Kg/m2) group and overweight or obese (BMI \> 23Kg/m2) group1. The acupuncture treatment will last for six months, 3 times per week, 30 minutes per treatment. The primary outcome is changes in insulin sensitivity from baseline to after 6 months of acupuncture treatment measured by OGTT.