A Phase I Study to Assess PSMA+ and PSMA- Tumour Lesions
CB307 is a trispecific Humabody® targeting CD137; PSMA; and human serum albumin (HSA) undergoing Phase 1 assessment in patients with PSMA+ solid tumours. This sub study will assess the biodistribution of radiolabelled CB307 in patients with advanced and/or metastatic solid tumours that are PSMA+.
Advanced and/or Metastatic Solid Tumours
DRUG: Radiolabelled CB307|DRUG: CB307
Assessment of the safety of 89Zr-CB307 by assessing incidence of adverse events following administration of 89Zr-CB307., Incidence (frequency and severity) of adverse events following administration of 89Zr-CB307 assessed by CTCAE version 5.0, Throughout study completion, up to 8 months from first patient recruited.|Assessment of 89Zr-CB307 uptake by PET scan by measuring maximum standardized uptake value in the tumour lesions., SUVpeak - maximum standardized uptake value., Throughout study completion, up to 8 months from first patient recruited.|Assessment of 89Zr-CB307 uptake by PET scan by measuring mean standardized uptake value in the tumour lesions., SUVmean - mean standardized uptake value., Throughout study completion, up to 8 months from first patient recruited.|Assessment of 89Zr-CB307 uptake by PET scan by measuring percentage of injected dose per gram of tissue in the tumour lesions., %ID/g - percentage of injected dose per gram., Throughout study completion, up to 8 months from first patient recruited.
Phase 1, Open-label, single centre, non-randomised study during which, enrolled patients will undergo a number of PET scans following administration of 89Zr-CB307, in order to assess the uptake of the radiolabelled drug. A post-treatment tumour biopsy for the assessment of PSMA expression will also be taken, if medically feasible, after the last PET scan.

The sub-study consists of 2 parts: an Optimisation Phase (Part A) and an Expansion Phase (Part B).

In Part A, both 89Zr-CB307 and CB307 will be administered to patients. The timing of the scans, post-dose tumour biopsy and CB307 dose will be optimised as determined by the Optimisation Review Committee (ORC).

In Part B (Expansion Phase), 89Zr-CB307 PET scanning will be performed based on the optimal dosing and timing determined in Part A.

The sub-study will continue for 7 days after the tracer injection. Patients will then be enrolled into the main study and will receive Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) CB307 treatment according to the main study protocol.