Immediate Surgery or Surgery After Sunitinib Malate in Treating Patients With Metastatic Kidney Cancer
RATIONALE: Sunitinib malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving sunitinib malate before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Giving sunitinib malate after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery. It is not yet known whether undergoing immediate surgery or surgery after sunitinib malate is more effective in treating patients with metastatic kidney cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying immediate surgery to see how well it works compared with surgery after sunitinib malate in treating patients with metastatic kidney cancer.
Kidney Cancer
PROCEDURE: timing of surgery|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|OTHER: biologic sample preservation procedure|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Overall progression-free survival
Overall survival|Morbidity|Overall response to treatment in the deferred nephrectomy arm including the proportion of patients who become unresectable|Effect of nephrectomy on early progression in both arms
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine if immediate versus deferred nephrectomy has an effect on disease control in patients with resectable, synchronous, metastatic renal cell carcinoma treated with sunitinib malate.
* To identify potential response criteria based on histopathology and molecular research on tumor tissue.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to WHO performance status (0 vs 1), number of metastatic sites (1 vs 2 or more), and institution. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I (immediate nephrectomy): Patients undergo cytoreductive nephrectomy. Beginning 4 weeks after surgery, patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment with sunitinib malate repeats every 6 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Arm II (deferred nephrectomy): Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. About 1 day after completion of sunitinib malate, patients undergo cytoreductive nephrectomy. Patients then receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Some patients undergo tumor tissue collection at baseline and at time of surgery to assess possible differences in gene expression. Patients also undergo blood sample collection periodically to evaluate the potential impact of serum proteins on the clinical outcome. Samples are then stored for future studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.