Polarized Dendritic Cell (aDC1) Based Treatment, Interferon Alpha-2, Rintatolimod, and Celecoxib for the Treatment of HLA-A2+ Refractory Melanoma
This phase II trial studies how well polarized dendritic cell (aDC1) based therapy, interferon alpha-2, rintatolimod, and celecoxib work together in treating patients with HLA-A2 positive (+) melanoma that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). The aDC1 cell-based treatment contains white blood cells (dendritic cells or DCs) that stimulates the immune system. Interferon alpha-2 can improve the body's natural response to infections and other diseases. It can also interfere with the division of cancer cells and slow tumor growth. Rintalolimid may stimulate the immune system. Celecoxib is a drug that reduces pain. This study is being done to find out if the combination of the study cell-based treatment (aDC1 dendritic cells) and interferon alpha-2, rintatolimod, and celecoxib can prevent the growth and/or progression of melanoma.
HLA-A2 Positive Cells Present|Refractory Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Alpha-type-1 Polarized Dendritic Cells|DRUG: Celecoxib|DRUG: PD-1 Ligand Inhibitor|DRUG: PD1 Inhibitor|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b|DRUG: Rintatolimod
Objective response rate (ORR), Will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Will be carried out by an exact binomial test of a proportion within a Simon two-stage design., At 12 weeks
ORR, Will be evaluated using immune-related RECIST (iRECIST) criteria in patients that continue on with either PD1 and/or CTLA4 blockade after meeting the 12-week primary objective treated with autologous alpha-type-1 polarized dendritic cells (alphaDC1)/tumor blood vessel-targeting antigenic peptides (TBVA) cell-based treatment plus cytokine modulating (CKM) regimen followed by re-treatment with PD1 blockade (+/- CTLA4 blockade). The analysis will be primarily descriptive and consist of sample proportions and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals., At 6 months|Durable objective response rate (>= 6 months), Will be evaluated on patients treated autologous alphaDC1/TBVA cell-based treatment plus cytokine CKM regimen followed by retreatment with PD1 blockade (+/- CTLA4 blockade). The analysis will be primarily descriptive and consist of sample proportions and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals., From time of first confirmed response assessed up to 2 years
Immune-related progressive free survival, Will be evaluated using iRECIST criteria. Will be compared to the historical control of the best supportive care and to identify the intratumoral and systemic immune correlates of the response to treatment. Will be analyzed by a Cox regression model as a function of various biomarker combinations., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be compared to the historical control of the best supportive care and to identify the intratumoral and systemic immune correlates of the response to treatment. Will be analyzed by a Cox regression model as a function of various biomarker combinations., Up to 2 years|Change in density of CD8 positive cytotoxic T cells, Will be evaluated using the OmniSeq immune report card (IRC). Will be analyzed by a Cox regression model as a function of various biomarker combinations., Baseline up to week 11|Change in density of molecular biomarkers, Will be evaluated using the OmniSeq IRC. Will be analyzed by a Cox regression model as a function of various biomarker combinations., Baseline up to week 11
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the objective response rate to treatment with an autologous alpha-type-1 polarized dendritic cells (alphaDC1)/TBVA cell-based treatment (alpha-type-1-polarized dendritic cells loaded with tumor blood vessel-targeting antigenic peptides) plus cytokine modulating (CKM) regimen (rintatolimod, recombinant interferon alpha-2 \[IFN-alpha2b\] and, celecoxib) in human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A2+ subjects with primary PD-1 resistant immuno-oncology (IO)-refractory melanoma (who will continue the original PD-1/PD-L1 regimen for 12 weeks).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the immune-related objective response rate (objective response rate \[ORR\]; per immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[iRECIST\];) in the above patient population treated with autologous alphaDC1/TBVA cell-based treatment plus cytokine CKM regimen followed by continued treatment with PD-1/PD-LI blockade (+/- CTLA4 blockade or LAG3 blockade).

II. Evaluate rate of durable responses (\> 6 months) on the combination treatment in the above patient population treated with autologous alphaDC1/TBVA cell-based treatment plus cytokine CKM regimen followed by continued treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 blockade (+/- CTLA4 blockade or LAG3 blockade).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine whether the combination of peptide-loaded autologous alphaDC1 cell-based treatment and tumor-selective chemokine modulation (CKM: IFN-a2b, rintatolimod, and celecoxib) improves the overall survival (OS) and immune-related progression-free survival (iPFS) in HLA-A2+ subjects PD-1/PD-L1-refractory melanoma compared to the historical control of the best supportive care.

II. Identify the intratumoral and systemic immune correlates of the response to treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive recombinant interferon alpha-2 intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes, rintatolimod IV over 2.5 hours, and celecoxib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-3. Beginning cycle 2, patients also receive alpha-type-1 polarized dendritic cells intradermally (ID) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At 12 weeks, patients with progressive disease may switch to ipilimumab with or without a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor and patients with a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) may switch to a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor or best alternative care.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years.