Upfront EUS CGN/CPN vs Conventional Step up Approach for Inoperable Painful Pancreatic Cancer
Patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer are often demoralized by intractable, persistent and incapacitating pain. It must be managed aggressively and strong opioids are recommended as the mainstay of treatment. However, patients develop opioid-related adverse effects. EUS-guided celiac plexus neurolysis (CPN) and celiac ganglion neurolysis (CGN) has been shown to provide high efficacy for pain control. The optimal timing, however, is in debate.
Pancreatic Cancer Non-resectable|Tumor Pancreas|Pain Cancer
PROCEDURE: EUS-guided coeliac ganglion neurolysis / celiac plexus neurolysis
The mean change in VAS pain score at 3 months, The mean change in VAS pain score at 3 months when compared to baseline (pre-procedure) between upfront EUS group and conventional step-up group, 3 months
The mean percentage and absolute change in VAS pain score at 1 month, The mean percentage and absolute change in VAS pain score at 1 month when compared to baseline (pre-procedure), 1 month|The mean percentage in VAS pain score at 3 month, The mean percentage in VAS pain score at 3 month when compared to baseline (pre-procedure), 3 months|Short form McGill Pain Questionnaire-2, The absolute and mean percentage change in Short form McGill Pain Questionnaire-2, 3 months|Brief Pain Inventory, The absolute and mean percentage change in Brief Pain Inventory, 3 months|Morphine equivalent (MEQ) consumption, Absolute use and percentage change of morphine (expressed in morphine equivalent (MEQ) consumption) when compared to baseline, 3 months|Common opioid-related adverse effects, Common opioid-related adverse effects including nausea, pruritus, constipation and drowsiness will be recorded, 3 months|Quality of life, Changes of the score in quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30), 3 months|Karnofsky performance status, Karnofsky performance status at baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks and 12 weeks, 12 weeks|Adverse events from the EUS-guided CGN/CPN, Adverse events from the EUS-guided CGN/CPN will be recorded, 7 days|Breakthrough visits, Breakthrough visits in between the 4 weeks, 4 weeks|Need for and timing EUS-guided CGN/CPN for the conventional group, Need for and timing EUS-guided CGN/CPN for the conventional group will be recorded, 3months|Overall survival, Date of death will be recorded, 48 weeks
Patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer are often demoralized by intractable, persistent and incapacitating pain. It must be managed aggressively and strong opioids are recommended as the mainstay of treatment. However, patients develop opioid-related adverse effects. EUS-guided celiac plexus neurolysis (CPN) and celiac ganglion neurolysis (CGN) has been shown to provide high efficacy for pain control. The optimal timing, however, is in debate.