Fenretinide in Treating Patients With Refractory or Relapsed Hematologic Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fenretinide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving fenretinide in a different way may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of intravenous fenretinide in treating patients with refractory or relapsed hematologic cancer.
Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm
DRUG: fenretinide
To determine the maximum tolerated dose of fenretinide, participants will be followed for the duration of cycle 1, which is expected to be 3 weeks.|To describe the toxicities of fenretinide, participants will be followed for the duration of treatment, which is expected to be 18 weeks or less
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of intravenous emulsified fenretinide in patients with refractory or relapsed hematologic malignancies.
* Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.
* Determine the pharmacokinetics and in vivo activity of this drug in these patients.
* Determine, preliminarily, disease or tumor response in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot, dose-escalation, multicenter study.

Patients receive emulsified fenretinide IV continuously over 5 days. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a complete or partial response may continue to receive fenretinide at the discretion of the study chair.

Cohorts of 1 patient receive accelerated escalating doses of fenretinide until 2 patients experience moderate toxicity (cumulative across all dose levels) OR 1 patient experiences dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). After completion of the accelerated dose-escalation portion, the standard dose-escalation portion begins. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of fenretinide until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience DLT. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD. An additional 12 patients are treated at the MTD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 40 patients will be accrued for this study.