Clinical Trial of Brentuximab Vedotin in Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
This trial will study two treatment combinations for classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL). This trial will find out if these two treatment combinations work to treat cHL. It will also find out what side effects occur. A side effect is anything the drug does besides treating cancer. This study will have three parts (Parts A, B, and C).

The drugs used in Part A are a combination of targeted anticancer drug (brentuximab vedotin) and three chemotherapy drugs (doxorubicin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine). These four drugs are called "A+AVD." Participants will be treated with granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) following every dose of A+AVD for 6 cycles of treatment (12 doses).

Part A will look at whether the A+AVD drug combination reduces the number of participants who experience the side effect of febrile neutropenia. Febrile neutropenia is a very low white blood cell count and a fever, which can be life threatening.

Parts B and C will use drug combination of brentuximab vedotin, plus nivolumab, doxorubicin, and dacarbazine. These four drugs are called "AN+AD." Parts B and C will study how well the drugs work to treat cHL and what side effects they cause.
Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: brentuximab vedotin|DRUG: doxorubicin|DRUG: vinblastine|DRUG: dacarbazine|DRUG: G-CSF|DRUG: nivolumab
Febrile Neutropenia (FN) Rate (Part A), The FN rate is defined as the number of participants who experience treatment-emergent FN., 7.5 months|Complete Response (CR) Rate (Parts B and C), CR rate at EOT is defined as the percentage of subjects with CR at EOT, according to the Lugano Classification Revised Staging System for malignant lymphoma (Cheson 2014) with the incorporation of LYRIC (Cheson 2016), in subjects with previously untreated cHL., 7.8 months
Primary Refractory Disease Rate (Part A), The primary refractory disease rate is defined as the percentage of participants with less than complete response or relapse within 3 months of EOT, according to the Lugano Classification Revised Staging System for nodal non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphomas, 10.2 months|Complete Response Rate (Part A), The complete response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with CR at EOT according to the Lugano Classification Revised Staging System for nodal non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphomas (Cheson 2014)., 7.2 months|Physician-reported Progression Free Survival (PFS) (Part A), The physician-reported PFS rate at 2 years is estimated based on Kaplan-Meier methodology., 24 months|Subsequent Anticancer Therapy Utilization Rate (Part A), Number of participants with subsequent anticancer therapy, 33.8 months|Actual Dose Intensity: Brentuximab Vedotin (Part A), 6.5 months|Actual Dose Intensity: Doxorubicin, Vinblastine, Dacarbazine (Part A), 6.5 months|Relative Dose Intensity (Part A), 6.5 months|Rate of Dose Reduction and Delays: Brentuximab Vedotin (Part A), 6.5 months|Rate of Dose Reduction and Delays: Doxorubicin (Part A), 6.5 months|Rate of Dose Reduction and Delays: Vinblastine (Part A), 6.5 months|Rate of Dose Reduction and Delays: Dacarbazine (Part A), 6.5 months|Incidence of Adverse Events (Parts B and C), 8.9 months|Incidence of Laboratory Abnormalities (Parts B and C), Laboratory values were graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.03)., 8.9 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) at EOT (Parts B and C), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants with CR or partial response (PR) at EOT according to the Lugano Classification Revised Staging System for malignant lymphoma (Cheson 2014) with the incorporation of LYRIC (Cheson 2016) in subjects with previously untreated cHL., 7.8 months
This study will have three parts.

Part A of the study is designed to evaluate the incidence of febrile neutropenia, efficacy, and dose intensity in participants with advanced stage classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) receiving granulocyte colony stimulating factor primary prophylaxis (G-PP) administration during treatment with frontline A+AVD. In Part A, participants will be treated with granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) following every dose of A+AVD for 6 cycles of treatment. Participants will be treated using institutional standard of care practices for the majority of treatment decisions.

Part B is designed to evaluate the combination of brentuximab vedotin, nivolumab, doxorubicin, and dacarbazine (AN+AD) as frontline treatment in participants with advanced cHL. In Part B, participants will be given AN+AD combination for 6 cycles of treatment. This part of the trial will look at whether this combination of drugs is effective and tolerable in participants with Stage II with bulky mediastinal disease and Stage III or IV cHL.

Part C is designed to evaluate AN+AD as frontline treatment in participants with early stage cHL. In Part C, participants will be given AN+AD combination for 4 cycles of treatment. This part of the trial will look at whether this combination of drugs is effective and tolerable in participants with Stage I or II cHL with non-bulky mediastinal disease.