Yoga to Alleviate Fatigue, Anxiety and Pain in Adolescents During Treatment for Lymphoma or Leukemia
Researchers at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital want to investigate the feasibility of a yoga intervention for adolescents receiving treatment for lymphoma or leukemia. Adolescents who participate in the program may experience improved physical and psychosocial measures. Improvements in these areas may increase participation in meaningful activity and improve quality of life.

Adolescents diagnosed with cancer may experience more fatigue, anxiety and pain during treatment. Yoga is considered a complementary alternative medicine (CAM) that has been implemented into some pediatric oncology rehabilitation programs and has been shown to be beneficial in both inpatient and outpatient settings. It may decrease anxiety and increase quality of life and hamstring flexibility in teens.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

* To determine the feasibility of yoga intervention for adolescents during lymphoma and leukemia treatment.

OTHER PRE-SPECIFIED OBJECTIVE:

* To obtain pilot data regarding efficacy of yoga on pain, quality of life, fatigue and physical performance.
Leukemia|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin's
OTHER: PedsQL Cancer Module|OTHER: PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale|DEVICE: Biodex System 3 Dynamometer|DEVICE: Jamar Hydraulic Hand Dynamometer|OTHER: Sit and Reach Test|OTHER: Test of Motor Proficiency|OTHER: Verbal Numeric Pain Scale|OTHER: :Yoga Therapy
Rate of Patients Who Are Willing to Participate, The rate of participants who are willing to participate on this protocol to the total number of participants approached. It is anticipated that 50% approached patients will agree to participate on the study. Twenty five patients will be approached and asked to participate in the study. If more than 6 patients out of 25 approached patients refuse to participate in the study, the study will be closed, and it will be concluded that the trial is not feasible., Day 0|Rate of Patients Who Complete the Study, The rate of enrolled and consented patients who complete the 60-minute yoga sessions offered over a 4-6 week period to the total number of participants on the study. It is hypothesized that 60% of those participants will complete the intervention. Thus, if more than 5 patients can not complete the intervention, then it will be concluded that the trial is not feasible., At end of 4-6 weeks
Mean Change in PedsQL Cancer Module Score, Mean ± standard error will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Median Change in PedsQL Cancer Module Score, Median (range) will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Mean Change in PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale, Mean ± standard error will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Median Change in PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale, Median (range) will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Mean Change in Quadriceps Strength, The "Biodex System 3 Dynamometer" will be utilized to measure isometric quadriceps muscle contractions. Mean ± standard error will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Median Change in Quadriceps Strength, The "Biodex System 3 Dynamometer" will be utilized to measure isometric quadriceps muscle contractions. Median (range) will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Mean Change in Grip Strength, A calibrated "Jamar" hydraulic hand dynamometer will be used to measure grip strength. Mean ± standard error will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Median Change in Grip Strength, A calibrated "Jamar" hydraulic hand dynamometer will be used to measure grip strength. Median (range) will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Mean Change in Hamstring Flexibility, Hamstring flexibility will be assessed by the Sit and Reach Test. Mean ± standard error will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Median Change in Hamstring Flexibility, Hamstring flexibility will be assessed by the Sit and Reach Test. Median (range) will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Mean Change in Balance, Mean ± standard error on the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Median Change in Balance, Median (range) on the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency will be provided., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Mean Change in Verbal Numeric Pain Scale, Summary statistics of mean ± standard error will be provided. Longitudinal change for the numeric pain scale across the yoga session will be reported., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)|Median Change in Verbal Numeric Pain Scale, Summary statistics of mean ± standard error will be provided. Longitudinal change for the numeric pain scale across the yoga session will be reported., Baseline at initial evaluation to follow-up evaluation (up to 6 weeks later)
Those who consent to participate will participate in 60-minute yoga sessions 2-3 times per week for 4-6 weeks. Only specified yoga poses will be implemented during the classes.

The study will be done in three parts: initial evaluation, yoga therapy, and follow-up evaluations.

INITIAL EVALUATION: Participants will complete the PedsQL Cancer Module questionnaire and the PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale questionnaire. Physical performance including quadriceps strength, grip strength, hamstring flexibility, and balance, will be assessed.

YOGA THERAPY: The principal investigator (PI) is a certified yoga therapist (CYT) and is a registered yoga teacher with 500 hours of training (RYT 500). Participants will take part in a 60-minute yoga session conducted by the PI 2-3 times a week for 4-6 weeks, during which time they must complete 8-12 yoga sessions. The yoga intervention includes these parts: warm-up, strengthening, increasing hamstring flexibility, balance and relaxation. Yoga poses will be used for each yoga session from a predetermined roster depending on individual adolescent abilities. This will allow for a tailored but standardized yoga intervention. Modifications including chairs, straps and blocks will be allowed to promote appropriate form and use of these props will be recorded. Immediately before and after each yoga session, the therapist will record pain with the verbal numeric pain scale.

FOLLOW-UP EVALUATIONS: After completion of the 4-6 weeks of yoga therapy, participants will complete all assessments and physical performance measures that were done in the initial evaluation.