To Explore the Efficacy and Safety of SHR-1701 Combined With Temozolomide in the Treatment of Advanced Melanoma
This study is being conducted to explore the efficacy and safety of SHR-1701 combined with temozolomide in the treatment of advanced melanoma.
Melanoma
DRUG: SHR-1701|DRUG: Temozolomide
ORR (Objective Response Rate), Containing the incidence of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, subjects received their first tumor imaging evaluation at 6 weeks after the treatment start, followed by imaging evaluation every 2 cycles., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months
PFS (Progression-Free-Survival), From date of treatment start until the date of progression or the date of death due to any cause. Evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, subjects received their first tumor imaging evaluation at 6 weeks after the treatment start, followed by imaging evaluation every 2 cycles., From date of treatment start until the date of progression or the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months|DCR (Disease Control Rate), Containing the incidence of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD).Evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, subjects received their first tumor imaging evaluation at 6 weeks after the treatment start, followed by imaging evaluation every 2 cycles., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months|OS (overall survival), From date of treatment start to any cause death or last follow-up., From date of treatment start until the date of death from any cause or censored at the last day that the subjects are documented to be alive, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 month|6mPFS, 6-month- Progression-Free-Survival rate. Evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, subjects received their first tumor imaging evaluation at 6 weeks after the treatment start, followed by imaging evaluation every 2 cycles., Up to 6 months|Adverse events (per CTCAE v5.0 criteria), To evaluate the adverse events of subjects with advanced melanoma after treated with SHR-1701 plus temozolomide, Up to 12months
This trial is a prospective, single-center, single-arm clinical research. Based on current experience, single agent immunotherapy has limited efficacy in advanced melanoma. SHR-1701 is a novel immunotherapy drug . Preclinical data suggest that temozolomide selectively depletes regulatory T cells. This potential immunomodulatory effect of temozolomide provides rationale for combination with SHR-1701. This study is aiming to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SHR-1701 combined with temozolomide in patients with advanced melanoma. The safety and efficacy of this study will be assessed through ORR, DCR,PFS, OS , and adverse effects as graded by CTCAE 5.0.