A Study to Determine if the Drug, Pyrvinium Pamoate, is Safe and Tolerable in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of pyrvinium pamoate for the treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that cannot be removed by surgery (resectable). Pyrvinium pamoate may slow down tumor growth and help patients live longer.
Resectable Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Stage 0 Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Pyrvinium Pamoate
Incidence of dose limited toxicity (DLT), Considered any grade 3 or higher adverse event due to the drug itself or delay of surgery. Research coordinator will call patient every day to monitor for DLTs., Up to 30 days from last dose
Profile of pyrvinium pamoate (PP), Will be assessed using liquid chromatography followed by mass spectrometry (LC/MS)., At Start of Treatment|Profile of pyrvinium pamoate (PP), Will be assessed using liquid chromatography followed by mass spectrometry (LC/MS)., Completion of treatment|Bioavailability of PP, Will be assessed using liquid chromatography followed by mass spectrometry (LC/MS)., Up to 4 weeks|Fatty tissue accumulation of PP, Will be assessed using liquid chromatography followed by mass spectrometry (LC/MS)., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of pyrvinium pamoate (PP), dosed orally, in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) that are surgical candidates.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assessment of PP's pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) profile and bioavailability in humans.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive pyrvinium pamoate orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 3 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every week for up to 4 weeks.