BMS-986205 and Nivolumab as First or Second Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of IDO1 inhibitor BMS-986205 (BMS-986205) when given together with nivolumab and how well it works as first or second line therapy in treating patients with liver cancer. BMS-986205 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving BMS-986205 and nivolumab may work better in treating patients with liver cancer.
Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: IDO1 Inhibitor BMS-986205|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Adverse Events (AE), Number of participants with adverse events graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, Up to 2 years.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to approximately 2 years, 1 month.
Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of patients that achieve an objective tumor response or have stable disease to therapy. The DCR will be estimated as the proportion of participants who experience an objective response, along with its exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 2.5 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions\>, From date of enrollment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2.5 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever status is recorded first) until the first date that recurrence or progressive disease (PD) is objectively documented, assessed up to 2.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods; medians and 95% confidence intervals will be computed., From date of enrollment to death from any cause, assessed up to 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain the safety and tolerability of BMS-986205 in combination with nivolumab in unresectable / metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the first or second line setting using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (V)5.0 criteria.

II. To determine efficacy as defined by objective response rate (ORR) of BMS-986205 in combination with nivolumab in unresectable / metastatic HCC in the first or second line setting using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version 1.1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine disease control rate (DCR), duration of response (DOR), progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) by RECIST 1.1 and ORR using immune RECIST (iRECIST) of BMS-986205 in combination with nivolumab in unresectable HCC. (Phase II) II. To further evaluate safety of BMS-986205 in combination with nivolumab in unresectable HCC. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of IDO1 inhibitor BMS-986205 followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive IDO1 inhibitor BMS-986205 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 100 days, and then every 3 months thereafter.