Study of Efficacy and Safety of Novel Spartalizumab Combinations in Patients With Previously Treated Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of novel spartalizumab (PDR001) combinations in previously treated unresectable or metastatic melanoma
Melanoma
DRUG: PDR001|DRUG: LAG525|DRUG: INC280|DRUG: ACZ885|DRUG: LEE011
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined as the percentage of patients with a best overall response of either confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per local review by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) and assessed by computed tomography (CT)/ magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

CR:Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to 49 months (randomized section) and 18 months (non-randomized section)
Duration of Response (DOR), DOR defined as the time from date of first documented CR or PR to date of first documented disease progression (as per local review by RECIST v1.1 and assessed by CT/MRI) or death due to any cause. Subjects continuing without progression or death due to underlying cancer were censored at the date of their last adequate tumor assessment.

CR:Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From first documented response to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 49 months (randomized part) and 18 months (non-randomized part)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from date of randomization (or date of first dose of study treatment in non-randomized part) to date of death due to any cause. The OS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the medians and 95% confidence intervals of the medians were presented., From randomization (or start of treatment for non-randomized section) to death due to any cause, assessed up to 49 months (randomized section) and 24 months (non-randomized section)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time between the date of randomization (or date of first dose of study treatment in non-randomized section) to the date of event defined as the first documented disease progression (as per local review by RECIST v1.1 and assessed by CT/MRI) or death due to any cause. If a subject had not had an event before leaving study or initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment. The PFS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, medians and 95% confidence interval of the medians were presented., From randomization (or start of treatment for non-randomized section) to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 49 months (randomized section) and 18 months (non-randomized section)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response of CR, PR or stable disease (SD) (as per local review by RECIST v1.1 and assessed by CT/MRI).

CR:Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to 49 months (randomized section) and 18 months (non-randomized section)|Percentage of Participants With PDR001 Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) Positive Result at Baseline, Percentage of participants who had a PDR001 ADA positive result at baseline., At Baseline|Percentage of Participants With LAG525 Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) Positive Result at Baseline, Percentage of participants who had a LAG525 ADA positive result at baseline. Only applicable for participants enrolled in Arm 1 and Arm 1A., At Baseline|Percentage of Participants With ACZ885 Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) Positive Result at Baseline, Percentage of participants who had an ACZ885 ADA positive result at baseline. Only applicable for subjects enrolled in Arm 3., At Baseline|Percentage of Participants Who Were Treatment-induced ADA Positive and Treatment-boosted ADA Positive for PDR001, Percentage of participants who tested positive for treatment-induced ADA for PDR001 (subjects with ADA-negative sample at baseline with at least one post-baseline ADA positive sample) as well as treatment-boosted ADA for PDR001 (subjects with baseline positive ADA titre that was boosted to a 4-fold or higher-level following treatment)., Pre-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and thereafter every 3 cycles until end of treatment (EOT), EOT, and 30 and 150 days post-EOT (assessed up to 49 months randomized section and 24 months non-randomized section). Cycle= 28 days|Percentage of Participants Who Were Treatment-induced ADA Positive and Treatment-boosted ADA Positive for LAG525, Percentage of participants who tested positive for treatment-induced ADA for LAG525 (subjects with ADA-negative sample at baseline with at least one post-baseline ADA positive sample) as well as treatment-boosted ADA for LAG525 (subjects with baseline positive ADA titre that was boosted to a 4-fold or higher-level following treatment). Only applicable for subjects enrolled in Arm 1 and Arm 1A., Pre-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and thereafter every 3 cycles until end of treatment (EOT) and EOT (assessed up to 49 months in the randomized section and 18 months in the non-randomized section). Cycle= 28 days|Percentage of Participants Who Were Treatment-induced ADA Positive and Treatment-boosted ADA Positive for ACZ885, Percentage of participants who tested positive for treatment-induced ADA for ACZ885 (subjects with ADA-negative sample at baseline with at least one post-baseline ADA positive sample) as well as treatment-boosted ADA for ACZ885 (subjects with baseline positive ADA titre that was boosted to a 4-fold or higher-level following treatment). Only applicable for subjects enrolled in Arm 3., Pre-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and thereafter every 3 cycles until end of treatment (EOT) and EOT (assessed up to 40 months). Cycle= 28 days|Percentage of Participants With a Favorable Biomarker Profile (pFBP), Biomarker parameters included: 1) number of tumor infiltrating T cells (TIL), 2) activation level of TIL, and 3) changes in immune response gene expression signatures. For the number of TILs, an increase in tumoral CD8+ cell numbers compared to baseline was considered favorable. The activation level of TIL was assessed by the percentage of tumoral CD8+ cells expressing GzmB (a marker for cytotoxic activity) or Ki67 (a marker for cell proliferation), where an increase in either GZMB+/CD8+ or KI67+/CD8+ post-baseline was considered favorable. Changes in immune response gene expression signatures were evaluated by the levels in T-cell inflamed signature (TIS), where an increase from baseline was considered favorable.

To be categorized as having a pFBP, a subject must meet the favorable criteria for at least two of the three biomarker parameters. The percentage of participants with pFBP was assessed., Baseline and after 3-4 weeks of treatment
This study was a randomized, open-label, two-part, multi-center, open platform phase II study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the anti-PD-1 antibody PDR001 in combination with novel agents for previously treated unresectable or metastatic melanoma. Additionally, a non-randomized single-arm was added based on interim analysis findings to assess the efficacy and safety of PDR001 in combination with LAG525 in subjects with previously treated unresectable or metastatic LAG-3 positive melanoma.

The study consisted of two parts: the selection part and the expansion part, which were applicable to both the randomized and non-randomized sections. In the randomized section, participants were randomized to one of four combination arms available for enrollment:

* Arm 1: LAG525 600 mg intravenously (i.v.) every 4 weeks (Q4W) and PDR001 400 mg i.v. Q4W.
* Arm 2: INC280 400 mg orally (p.o.) twice daily (BID) and PDR001 400 mg i.v. Q4W.
* Arm 3: ACZ885 300 mg subcutaneously (s.c.) every 4 weeks (Q4W) and PDR001 400 mg i.v. Q4W.
* Arm 4: LEE011 600 mg p.o. once daily (QD) on Days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle and PDR001 400 mg i.v. Q4W.

At each interim analysis, the following determinations were made: (1) which arm met the pre-specified efficacy criteria and expanded to the expansion part, (2) which arms continued enrollment in selection part (up to 45 subjects), and (3) which arms were discontinued due to futility, considering efficacy, safety, and biomarker data. The expansion phase included enrollment of subjects only in the combination arms that met the pre-specified criteria in selection part.

In the non-randomized section, a single combination arm was opened for enrollment in selection part:

• Arm 1A: LAG525 600 mg i.v. Q4W and PDR001 400 mg i.v. Q4W, assessed in a population selected based on the LAG-3 status of their tumor.

Arm 1A would be eligible for enrollment in expansion part only if it met the pre-specified criterion for this arm.

Participants received the study treatment corresponding to their assigned arm on a 28-day cycle basis until disease progression, as determined by local assessment using RECIST v1.1 criteria, or until certain events occurred, such as unacceptable toxicity, initiation of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, withdrawal of consent, investigator's decision, loss to follow-up, death, or termination of the study by the sponsor. Following discontinuation of the study treatment, all subjects were monitored for safety evaluations for up to 150 days after their last dose of the study treatment.