Neoadjuvant Low-Dose Radiotherapy Plus Targeted-Immunotherapy vs Targeted-Immunotherapy Monotherapy in Resectable HNSCC: A Randomized Trial
This study compares the efficacy of neoadjuvant low-dose radiotherapy plus targeted-immunotherapy versus targeted-immunotherapy alone in resectable HNSCC patients.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Afatinib|RADIATION: Low dose radiotherapy
Major Pathologic Response, Major Pathologic Response (MPR) was defined as fewer than 10% viable tumor cells., Intraoperative
Pathologic Complete Response, Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) was defined as the absence of viable tumor cells., Intraoperative|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR or PR using RECIST Criteria, Up to 8 weeks|Disease-free Survival, Disease-free Survival (DFS) was defined as the time from the administration of the first dose to first disease progression or death., 1 year|Progression-Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the commencement of therapy to the first evidence of disease progression or death., 1 year|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time from the start of treatment initiation to the patient's death from any cause., 1 year|Immune microenvironment, The local microenvironment of tumor cells, including the changes of T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes and other cells., Intraoperative
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a common malignant tumor in the head and neck region. It has a high global incidence. Due to its special anatomical location, HNSCC affects patients' appearance and physiological functions. Comprehensive treatments such as surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy are often adopted. More than 60% of patients are diagnosed with locally advanced or metastatic diseases, resulting in a low 5-year survival rate. Locally advanced patients have high recurrence and metastasis rates, and a poor prognosis. Neoadjuvant therapy before surgery theoretically can improve the possibility of radical surgery and the organ preservation rate. However, except for nasopharyngeal carcinoma, induction chemotherapy has not brought significant survival benefits to HNSCC patients, and new treatment regimens are urgently needed.

EGFR is overexpressed in 90% of HNSCC patients. The PD-1/PD-L1 signaling pathway is an important mechanism of tumor escape. Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies have shown good efficacy and high safety in the treatment of malignant tumors. The combination of radiotherapy and immunotherapy can induce an anti-tumor immune response. Low-dose radiotherapy (LDRT) has low toxicity and can reprogram the tumor immune microenvironment. Multiple studies have confirmed the safety and feasibility of its combination with immunotherapy.

The previously conducted "Prospective, Single-arm Clinical Study of Low-dose Radiotherapy Plus Tislelizumab Combined with Afatinib for Neoadjuvant Therapy of Resectable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma" has demonstrated good safety. Based on this, a head-to-head clinical study is planned to compare the efficacy of low-dose radiotherapy combined with targeted immunotherapy and pure targeted immunotherapy in patients with resectable head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, explore the clinical benefits of this new treatment measure, and provide new treatment options for HNSCC patients.