Feasibility of Patient-Centered Home Care (PCHC) to Reduce Disparities in High-Risk Black Men (BM) with Advanced Prostate Cancer (CaP)
This study evaluates the possibility of patient-centered home care as a new model of cancer care to reduce disparities and improve health related quality of life and patient-reported outcomes in Black patients with advanced prostate cancer.
Advanced Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC V8
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Feasibility of Patient-centered Home Care (PCHC), Participants will be asked to fill in a brief questionnaire regarding: patient preference for location of therapy (at the infusion center or in the home); perceived difficulties (isolation, less contact with hospital staff and other patients, feeling less secure with less back-up outside the hospital setting, the possibility of equipment malfunctions and complications in the home setting); and advantages (less travelling to specialized medical facilities, reduced risk of hospital acquired infections or blood clots, the ability to receive treatment in the comfort and security of the home, less disruption to family life, increased feeling of control over treatment and illness). Feasibility will be assessed based on responses to the questionnaire., Up to 6 months
Time to emergency room visit, Time to first emergency room visit will be recorded., Up to 6 months|Time to hospital visit, The time to first hospitalization will be recorded., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate a highly innovative project evaluating the feasibility of patient-centered home care PCHC as a new model of cancer care to reduce disparities and improve health related QoL (HRQoL) and patient reported-outcomes (PROs) in Black patients with advanced prostate cancer (CaP). (Phase I) II. Establish patient-centeredness by exploring patients' choice relative to the place of CaP treatment for certain aspects of therapy as well as end-of-life care.

III. Establish the acceptance and impact of PCHC on PROs and HRQoL in BM with advanced CaP.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study. Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP 1: Participants take part in a focus group or complete questionnaires and may take part in an interview on study.

GROUP 2: Participants complete questionnaires throughout the study.