Randomized Phase 2 Study to Investigate Efficacy of ALECSAT in Patients With GBM Measured Compared to Avastin/Irinotecan
The overall purpose of the study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of ALECSAT in patients with relapse of GlioBlastoma Multiforme (GBM) after first line treatments (followed by reoperation if possible). The efficacy and safety of ALECSAT treatment is, compared to standard Bevacizumab/Irinotecan second line treatments for these patients.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
BIOLOGICAL: ALECSAT|DRUG: Bevacizumab/Irinotecan
Progression-free survival (PFS), To compare progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with relapsed GBM when the patients are either treated with ALECSAT immunotherapy or standard praxis therapy with Bevacizumab/Irinotecan. Progression of disease is defined according to the response evaluation criteria for solid tumours (RANO), During the study period up to 62 weeks
Overall survival (OS), To evaluate the overall survival (OS) during the study period in patients treated with ALECSAT compared to patients treated with Bevacizumab/Irinotecan by Kaplan-Meier methodology, During the study period up to 62 weeks|Time to progression (TTP), To evaluate time to progression in the two treatment groups To compare PFS in the two treatment groups by Kaplan-Meier methodology upon study completion To compare PFS in a landmark analysis in the two treatment groups after a duration of 6 and 12 months after initiation of treatment, During the study period up to 62 weeks|Quality of Life by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) questionnaire, To investigate QoL and performance status during the study period for patients treated with ALECSAT compared to patients treated with Avastin/Irinotecan, During the study period up to 62 weeks|Overall Response Rate (ORR), To compare Objective Response Rate (ORR), During the study period up to 62 weeks
Safety & tolerability, Comparison of type and frequency of AEs; changes in biochemical parameters of clinical relevance; in hematology parameters of clinical relevance; in vital signs and change in electrocardiogram (ECG). Evaluation of medical events of special interest., During the study period up to 62 weeks
This study is an open-label, randomized, prospective, parallel group phase II study with ALECSAT compared to Bevacizumab/Irinotecan in patients with verified relapsed glioblastoma multiforme after or during treatment with recognised first-line treatment. After 62 PFS events have been recorded, an interim analysis will be conducted under the auspices of the Data Monitoring Committee.

The patients in the two treatment groups will be followed for up to 62 weeks by planned study visits. Patients with, at least, stable disease will continue the allocated treatment after the study period as judged by the Investigator. Patients allocated to the Bevacizumab/Irinotecan (control group) will receive their treatment according to standard praxis, i.e. up to 16 treatment cycles with 4 weeks duration. Each cycle of Bevacizumab/Irinotecan consist of 2 dosing days; day 1 and day 15 in the cycle.