Intraperitoneal Lidocaine in Ovarian Cancer Surgery
The main objective of this trial is to improve the postoperative analgesia effect and prognosis of patients with ovarian cancer after laparotomy surgery. This is a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial to evaluate analgesia and patient outcomes after local peritoneal anesthesia after surgery.
Ovarian Cancer|Post Operative Pain
PROCEDURE: intraperitoneal lidocaine analgesic or normal saline as control
Postoperative analgesic use, Postoperative intravenous analgesia pump pressing time (recording the time by the electronic analgesia pump) and times (including effective and ineffective pressing times, recording by numbers), intravenous analgesia pump drug usage\[sufentanil (µg)\]., Postoperative 72 hours
Survival time (months), Postoperative survival time (months)., Postoperative 5 years|Disease free survival time (months), Time between surgery to cancer relapse (months)., Postoperative 5 years|Recurrence (yes/no, if yes ,record recurrence date), Whether the cancer relapse., Postoperative 5 years|Postoperitive chronic pain duration (months), Postoperitive chronic pain duration (months), if present, record the location of the pain., Postoperative 5 years
Start drinking and eating time (hours), Time when the patients start drinking and eating., During the time in the hospital. Up to 30 days post operation.|Time for recovery of gastrointestinal function (defecation or exhaust)(hours), Time to the patients bowel movement recover., During the time in the hospital. Up to 30 days post operation.|The time for starting to walk., Record the time of walk with attendant assistance (hours), and by theirselves____ (hours)., During the time in the hospital. Up to 30 days post operation.|The standard time of postoperative discharge preparation ____ (hours), Postoperative discharge preparation standards include: Walk independently, gastrointestinal function (to eat, drink, defecate) returned to normal, with oral analgesics, appropriate control without a mild pain, symptoms of nausea and vomiting, a local infection (redness, tenderness) or systemic infection, fever, c-reactive protein or increase white blood cell count), no other complications (bleeding, respiratory dysfunction, Deep vein thrombosis, etc., During the time in the hospital. Up to 30 days post operation.|Drainage tube and fluid., Drainage tube removal time ____(hours), drainage volume ____(ml), drainage flow character ____(color/transparent/other)., During the time in the hospital. Up to 30 days post operation.|Local anesthetic toxicity, Frequency of occurrence: Times of occurrence (number) The time of occurrence from surgery (hours) Symptoms (record) Treatment (record), During the time in the hospital. Up to 30 days post operation.|Nausea and vomiting:, Nausea and vomiting: Times of vomiting(number) The time of occurrence from surgery (hours) Treatment (record) Postoperative nausea score was recorded by numbers 0-3:0 = no nausea, 1= mild nausea and vomiting, which did not require drug treatment, 2= moderate nausea, which could be controlled by ondansetron, 3= severe nausea, which did not respond to ondansetron., During the time in the hospital. Up to 30 days post operation.
This is a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical study. Sixty patients were expected to participate in a centralized randomized study method divided into two groups of 30 patients per group: the intraperitoneal analgesic group and the normal saline control group. Standard routine anesthesia was performed in both groups using the same method, and intravenous analgesia pump was routinely used in clinical use after surgery. The intraperitoneal analgesic group was continuously pumped with local anesthetics into the abdominal cavity, while the control group was pumped with normal saline. Visual analogue pain score (VAS), amount of remedial analgesia and use of analgesia pump were recorded at 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60 and 72 hours after operation. Record the time when the patient began drinking and eating, and the time when gastrointestinal function (defecation or exhaust) recovered. The time of starting to walk on the ground (including the time of needing attendant assistance or not) and the time of meeting the standard of postoperative discharge preparation. Perioperative peripheral blood samples were collected for five times (T0 before anesthesia induction, T1 after tracheal extubation, T2 on the morning of the first postoperative day, T3 on the morning of the second postoperative day, and T4 on the morning of the third postoperative day), and inflammatory factors and tumor-related indicators were monitored. Adverse reactions were recorded. The prognosis of the patients was followed up 5 years after operation.