A Combined Exercise Training Program for Women Living With Breast Cancer
Women living with and beyond breast cancer are at a heightened risk for experiencing adverse mental health outcomes and declines in cognitive function following chemotherapy treatment. Women living with and beyond breast cancer have reported increased levels of anxiety and depression during the COVID-19 pandemic which may have significantly impacted their quality of life (QoL). Physical activity (PA) may be used to manage mental health and improve cognitive function in women living with and beyond breast cancer. Research is needed to assess the feasibility of a supervised, remotely delivered, combined (i.e., aerobic + resistance) exercise program to improve cognitive function and manage adverse mental health in women living with and beyond breast cancer. This study will pilot an 8-week, remotely delivered, combined (i.e., aerobic + resistance) exercise and behavioural counselling intervention on cognitive function and mental health outcomes (i.e.,anxiety, depression, self-efficacy and self esteem) in women living with breast cancer who received chemotherapy treatment within 12-48 months.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Combined Exercise + Behavioural Counselling|BEHAVIORAL: Active Control
Enrolment rate, Participant enrolment rate will be one measure of feasibility. This will be calculated by measuring the amount of participants who enrolled in the intervention, divided by the number of participants who were assessed for eligibility., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Adherence rate, Adherence rate of participants to the intervention, will be one measure of feasibility. This will be measured by calculating the number of exercise sessions participants attend, divided by the total number of exercise sessions that took place in the intervention., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Attrition rate, Attrition will be one measure of feasibility. This will be measured by calculating the number of participants who did not complete the intervention, divided by the number of participants who completed the entirety of the intervention, Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Burden and satisfaction, Burden and satisfaction scores will be one measure of feasibility. This will be assessed using a researcher-generated 15-item questionnaire that asks participants about their experience with the intervention and assessments. Participants will rate items using a 5-point Likert scale (1= 'strongly disagree', 5 = 'strongly agree')., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Adverse events, Adverse events will be one measure of feasibility. This will be assessed as an unexpected and severe medical problem or injury that occurs during the exercise classes., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).
Executive/Attention, Cognitive function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox cognition battery. The NIH toolbox cognition battery with computerized cognitive tasks and automated scoring was used (Weintraub et al., 2013). The Flanker Inhibitory Control and Attention Test tests the ability to inhibit visual attention to irrelevant task dimensions. A scoring algorithm integrates accuracy and reaction time yielding scores from 0 to 10. There are 40 trials and the average time to complete the task is 4 minutes.To interpret individual performance, one can evaluate all three types of scale scores in which higher scores indicate higher levels of ability to attend to relevant stimuli and inhibit attention from irrelevant stimuli., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Episodic Memory, Cognitive function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox cognition battery. The NIH toolbox cognition battery with computerized cognitive tasks and automated scoring was used (Weintraub et al., 2013). The Picture Sequence Memory Test involves a presentation of stimuli which are pictured objects and activities, thematically related but with no inherent order. For each trial, pictures appear in the center of the screen and then are moved 1 at a time into a fixed spatial order, as an audio file simultaneously describes the content of each. The score is based on the cumulative number of adjacent pairs of pictures remembered correctly over 3 learning trials. The test takes approximately 10 minutes. Higher scores indicate better episodic memory., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Language, Cognitive function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox cognition battery. The NIH toolbox cognition battery with computerized cognitive tasks and automated scoring was used (Weintraub et al., 2013). The Picture Vocabulary Test involves single words that are presented via an audio file, paired simultaneously with 4 screen images of objects, actions, and/or depictions of concepts. The participant will pick the picture that matches the spoken word. Total administration time is approximately 5 minutes. To interpret individual performance, one can evaluate all three types of scale scores. A participant's age-adjusted scale score at or near 100 indicates vocabulary ability that is average for the age level. Scores around 115 suggest above-average vocabulary ability, while scores around 130 suggest superior ability - in the top 2 percent nationally for age, based on Toolbox normative data., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Crystallized Cognition, Cognitive function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox cognition battery. The NIH toolbox cognition battery with computerized cognitive tasks and automated scoring was used (Weintraub et al., 2013). This composite includes the Picture Vocabulary and Reading Tests. This composite score is derived by averaging the normalized scores of each of the measures, and then deriving scale scores based on this 14 new distribution. An Age-Adjusted Scale Score, Fully Adjusted Scale Score, Unadjusted Scale Score and Age-Adjusted National Percentile are provided for the Crystallized Cognition Composite. Crystallized Cognition Composite is a more global assessment of individual and group verbal reasoning. Higher scores indicate higher levels of functioning., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Immediate Recall, Cognitive function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox cognition battery. The NIH toolbox cognition battery with computerized cognitive tasks and automated scoring was used (Weintraub et al., 2013). The Auditory Verbal Learning Test (Rey) measures immediate recall. Unrelated words presented via audio recording and participant recalls as many as possible. he Rey is scored by taking the sum of the number of words recalled across all trials (possible range is 0-45 words). The raw score is most commonly used for interpretation of the Rey test, with higher scores reflecting better episodic memory., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Processing Speed, Cognitive function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox cognition battery. The NIH toolbox cognition battery with computerized cognitive tasks and automated scoring was used (Weintraub et al., 2013). The Oral Symbol Digit Test measures speed of processing. Symbols on the screen are associated with a number, then presented with symbols without numbers. The Oral Symbol Digit Test is scored as the number of items answered correctly in 120 seconds (possible range is 0-144).Higher scores indicate better processing speed., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Self-reported anxiety and depression, Measured using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), which is a 14-item questionnaire divided into two subscales of seven items each measuring anxiety (HADS-A) and depression (HADS-D). Two sub-scores (HADS-A and HADS-D) will be calculated with scores that vary from 0 to 21. Higher scores indicate more anxious/depressive symptoms (Zigmond \& Snaith, 1983)., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Self-efficacy, Self-efficacy will be measured using the Breast Cancer Survivor Self Efficacy Scale. This is an 11-item Likert scale through which participants rate their responses from 1'strongly disagree' to 4, 'strongly agree'. A higher total score indicates better self efficacy., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Self-esteem, Self-esteem will be measured pre-intervention and post-intervention (i.e., 8 weeks) using the Rosenberg Self-Esteem scale. This is a 10-item, likert style scale through which participants rate their responses from 1, 'strongly disagree' to 5, 'strongly agree'. Higher total scores indicate better self-esteem., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Objectively-assessed physical activity, Objectively assessed PA was measured using Actigraph GTX3+ accelerometers (Pensacola, FL). Participants will wear the accelerometer on their non-dominant hip during waking hours for 7 consecutive days. Data will be downloaded in 60-s epochs and processed and converted to mean counts per minute in ActiLife software package (Version 6; Actigraph) to estimate daily minutes of light (101-1951 counts min-1), moderate (1952-5724 counts min-1), vigorous (≥ 5725 counts min-1), and total moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA; ≥ 1952 counts min-1) based on established cut-points (Freedson, Melanson, \& Sirard, 1998). Estimated average daily minutes spent in each activity intensity category was calculated by dividing the number of minutes spent in each category by the total number of valid days worn., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Semi-structured qualitative interviews, The researcher will conduct semi-structured qualitative interviews over videoconferencing that will ask participants about their experience with the study and intervention, including enjoyment, potential barriers faced, and how they felt mentally and cognitively during and after the intervention., Post-intervention (8 weeks).|Therapeutic alliance, Therapeutic alliance will be measured using the Working Alliance Inventory Short Revised (WAI-SR). This is a Likert scale through which participants rate their responses from 1, 'seldom', to 5, 'always'. A higher total score indicates better therapeutic alliance., Post-intervention (8 weeks).
Women living with and beyond breast cancer who received chemotherapy treatment are at a heightened risk for experiencing adverse mental health outcomes (i.e., anxiety, depression, self-efficacy and self esteem) and declines in cognitive function (i.e., impairments to memory, learning, concentration, reasoning, executive function, attention, processing speed and/or visual-spatial skills deficits) compared to those without a history of cancer. These effects may be worsened among those who received chemotherapy treatment and may persist for up to 5 and 20 years following chemotherapy treatment completion, respectively. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated existing adversities in the mental health of women living with and beyond breast cancer due to reduced social opportunities, greater sedentary time, fear of susceptibility to the virus and barriers to in-person support services. Physical activity (PA) may be used to manage mental health adversities and improve QoL among women living with and beyond breast cancer. In addition, preliminary evidence has demonstrated the potential mediating effect of PA on cognitive impairments among women living with and beyond breast cancer. Remote-based interventions could be an effective option to increase PA during the COVID-19 pandemic while maintaining physical distancing protocols. In addition, the combination of exercise with group-based counselling has been found to be feasible and provide favourable improvements in depression, self-efficacy, social support, and quality of life and long-term PA maintenance among women living with and beyond breast cancer, compared to exercise interventions alone. However, no studies have evaluated the feasibility and impact of a supervised, remotely delivered, combined (i.e., aerobic and resistance) exercise + behaviour counselling program on mental health and cognitive function in women living with and beyond breast cancer following chemotherapy treatment. Using a mixed-method approach, this study will address these gaps by evaluating the feasibility of a supervised, remotely delivered combined (i.e., aerobic and resistance) exercise and behavioural counselling program for mental health and cognitive function in women living with and beyond breast cancer. This project is necessary given the remote-based format of exercise delivery that has been adopted because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need for programs to be adapted to an environment that is safe and reliable to deliver to women living with and beyond breast cancer.