Toripalimab Combined With Axitinib as Neoadjuvant Therapy in Patients With Non-metastatic Locally Advanced Nonmetastatic Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
This study is design to prospectively investigate the safety and efficacy of Toripalimab combined with Axitinib in downsizing tumors in patients with nonmetastatic biopsy-proven clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Toripalimab is new antibody that may help activate the immune system by blocking the function of an inhibitory molecule, Programmed cell death-1 (PD-1). This is a single-institution, single-arm phase 2 clinical trial.
Neoadjuvant Therapy of Non-metastatic Locally Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Axitinib
Objective Tumor Response Rate, Number of patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, 3 month
Safety assessed by adverse events, Safety as assessed by number of participants experiencing adverse events, through study completion, an average of 4 months|Perioperative complication rate, Perioperativecomplications judged by Clavien-Dindo classification, from perioperative to 90 days after surgery|Quality of Life questionnaire, Quality of Life as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Kidney Symptom Index (FKSI) -15 questionnaire, Baseline, 3 weeks, 12 weeks and after surgery|Tumor complexity changing by total R.E.N.A.L. score, R.E.N.A.L. Nephrometry Score) to quantify the anatomical characteristics of renal R.E.N.A.L. score consists of 5 anatomical features, and sum them up., Baseline, 12 weeks
This study is design to prospectively investigate the safety and efficacy of Toripalimab combined with Axitinib in downsizing tumors in patients with nonmetastatic biopsy-proven clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Toripalimab is new antibody that may help activate the immune system by blocking the function of an inhibitory molecule, Programmed cell death-1 (PD-1). This is a single-institution, single-arm phase 2 clinical trial. Patients will receive axitinib 5 mg bid combined with Toripalimab 3mg/KG q3w for up to 12 wk. Patients then will receive partial or radical nephrectomy after neoadjuvant therapy.