Real World Treatment Study of AZD9291 for Advanced/Metastatic EGFR T790M Mutation NSCLC
The aim of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of single agent AZD9291 in a real world setting in adult patients with advanced or metastatic, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) T790M mutation-positive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), who have received prior EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy.
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: T790M+ Testing|PROCEDURE: Baseline Visit Blood & Urine Testing|PROCEDURE: Baseline ECG|PROCEDURE: Visual Slit-Lamp Testing|DRUG: AZD9291 Dosing
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time, in months from the date of first dose of Osimertinib until death due to any cause, or at last documented contact with participant status "alive" (in this study any participants alive at study discontinuation, or lost to follow-up was considered being censored at study discontinuation date or at the last known date participant was alive). OS was summarized using a Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimate of the median time to death or censoring together with their 95% confidence intervals., From the date of first dose of Osimertinib until the date of death (due to any cause) or last participant contact [up to 43 months]|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Safety assessment of Osimertinib was analyzed by evaluating AEs and SAEs., From screening to progression follow-up [every 6 weeks +/- 1 week] relative to the date of enrolment until the end of study [up to 43 months]
Progression Free Survival, PFS was defined as the time, in months from first dose of AZD9291/ost/study drug/ study treatment until the date of disease progression or death in the absence of progression. Participants who had not progressed or died at study discontinuation were censored at the time of the latest date of disease assessment. PFS was summarized using KM estimates of the median time to progression or death with their 95% confidence intervals., From the date of first dose of Osimertinib until disease progression or death in the absence of progression [up to 43 months]|Time to Treatment Discontinuation (TTD), TTD or death was assessed as a supportive summary to PFS and defined as the time from the date of the first dose of osimertinib in the study until the date of osimertinib discontinuation or death, regardless of the reason for discontinuation. TTD was summarized using KM estimates of the median times to progression or death or treatment discontinuation., From the date of first dose of Osimertinib until disease progression or death in the absence of progression [up to 43 months]|Response Rate (RR), RR was defined as the number (%) of participants with a best response (by Investigator assessment) of 'responding', regardless of the method of evaluation, and was based on a subset of the full analysis set consisting of subjects with at least one documented response assessment. RR was summarised together with the 95% CI., From the date of first dose of Osimertinib until disease progression or death in the absence of progression [up to 43 months]
Objective: The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of single agent AZD9291 in a real world setting in adult patients with advanced or metastatic, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) T790M mutation-positive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), who have received prior EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy.

Study site(s) and number of patients planned: Approximately 1500 patients will be recruited in Europe. The recruitment will be increased beyond that as the study will expand in other regions of the world (America, Asia).

Study Design This will be an open-label, single-arm, multinational, multicenter, real world treatment study.

Target patient population: Adult patients (fulfilling the definition of "age of majority" per local regulations) with locally advanced (stage IIIB) or metastatic (stage IV) NSCLC with confirmed T790M mutation, who have received prior EGFR-TKI therapy.

Investigational product (IP), dosage, and mode of administration: AZD9291 is an oral, potent, selective, irreversible inhibitor of both EGFR-TKI sensitising and resistance mutations in NSCLC with a significant selectivity margin over wild-type EGFR. AZD9291 will be administered orally as one 80 mg tablet once a day.

Duration of IP administration: Patients may continue to receive AZD9291 as long as they continue to show clinical benefit, as judged by the investigator, and in the absence of discontinuation criteria). The study will be closed in each participating country as soon as possible following national reimbursement of AZD9291 in that country (up to a max of 90 days post reimbursement). Enrolment will be closed within 6 months after market license approval in that country or at national reimbursement, whichever is sooner. Patients withdrawing from the treatment prior to national reimbursement will be followed up as part of this study. Patients on treatment will receive commercial supply until documented disease progression as per investigator assessment.

In the event that national reimbursement should not be granted following a reasonable time after market license approval in the country, the study will be closed in a maximum period of 18 months after the last patient is enrolled in that country. If applicable, timelines for conversion to commercial drug will be agreed with local bodies which may include regulatory agencies, ethics committees, and institutions. Patient will be followed until death or lost to follow-up.

Study measures: Data collected will include patient demographics, information needed to determine patient eligibility (including medical history, past and current disease characteristics, and tumor EGFR mutational status), AZD9291 exposure, investigator-reported efficacy (including tumor response and disease progression), overall survival (OS), and safety (including serious adverse events \[SAEs\], adverse events leading to dose modification, and adverse events of special interest \[interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis-like events, and QTc prolongation events\]).

Statistical methods: All data will be presented for the overall full analysis/evaluable set, and also by cohorts defined by number and type of previous treatment lines for the advanced disease. Descriptive statistics will be used for all variables, as appropriate. Continuous variables will be summarised by the number of observations, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. Categorical variables will be summarised by frequency counts and percentages for each category. OS and PFS will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier estimates of the median time to death or censoring and quartiles together with their 95% confidence intervals.