Interactive Educational Website for Women With Ovarian Cancer & Caregivers
Ovarian cancer accounts for more deaths than any other gynecologic malignancy. The majority of patients are diagnosed with Stage III-IV disease. Nearly 80% of these patients will recur resulting in 5-year survival rates of 14-32%. Although enrollment is increasing in hospice, hospice programs have been challenged to reach eligible patients. Several factors limit the number of people who enroll in hospice and the length of their hospice stay. Prognostication challenges and the increasing availability of cancer therapies for people with cancer set the stage for a mismatch between certification of a 6 month prognosis and contemporary medical care. Additionally patients often are not aware of hospice and the services they can provide.
Stage III Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care Educational Website|BEHAVIORAL: Prototype System
Comparison of Number of Women Who Completed Advanced Directive, Count of number of women with ovarian cancer who completed a new or updated their Advanced Directive during the study period., Day 60 After Baseline
Comparison of Number of Women Who Report Appointment with Palliative Care, Count of number of women with ovarian cancer who report an appointment with a Palliative Care specialist, Day 60 After Baseline
In this study, we will pilot-test a technology-based approach for women with Stage III/IV or recurrent ovarian cancer, their caregiver, and their providers to assist in and study the decision-making process that surrounds end-of-life decisions, specifically, opting for palliative care and/or entry into hospice care. We will randomize the women and their caregivers into either our intervention or control websites. All subjects will complete a battery of demographic, psychosocial, health status and outcomes, health information, and decision making measures at baseline and 60-day post-baseline.

Once the participant has completed the baseline survey, he/she will be automatically brought to their assigned website. Both the patient and their caregiver will be assigned the same group (intervention or control). All participants will have open access to their respective study websites for a minimum of 60 days. During enrollment, participants will agree to access their respective websites at least 2-3 times per week. Both patients and caregivers assigned to the control arm will view a website containing documents generally provided as part of the usual care. They will be requested to log in with the same frequency as the intervention group.