Testing the Addition of M3814 (Peposertib) to Radiation Therapy for Patients With Advanced Head and Neck Cancer Who Cannot Take Cisplatin
This phase I trial investigates the side effects and best dose of peposertib when given together with radiation therapy in treating patients with head and neck cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced) who cannot take cisplatin. Peposertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. This trial aims to see whether adding peposertib to radiation therapy is safe and works well in treating patients with head and neck cancer.
Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Advanced Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Advanced Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Advanced Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Advanced Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Clinical Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Peposertib|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Dose-limiting toxicity, Up to 28 days after the end of intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT)
Incidence of acute toxicity, Will be as measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0, Up to 3 months from IMRT completion|Incidence of late toxicity, Will be as measured by CTCAE v5.0., More than 3 months from IMRT completion for up to 2 years|Clinical response rate, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1., At 3 months post completion of IMRT|Progression-free survival (PFS) rates, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) method (Kaplan and Meier 1958). Point estimates of the PFS at 6 months and 1 year post-IMRT along with their 95% confidence intervals after using a log-log transformation will be calculated using the K-M curves., At 6 months and 1 year|Overall survival (OS) rates, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) method (Kaplan and Meier 1958). Point estimates of the OS at 6 months and 1 year post-IMRT along with their 95% confidence intervals after using a log-log transformation will be calculated using the K-M curves., At 6 months and 1 year
Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter of M3814 (peposertib), Plasma PK values will be estimated in the context of the Merck popPK model at the end of the trial and reported as such. PK-outcome relationships may be assessed in an exploratory fashion., Within 30 minutes before administration, 2 hours and 4 hours after administration on day 1 of weeks 1 and 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of M3814 (peposertib) when given in combination with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of M3814 (peposertib) with radiotherapy.

II. To estimate the rates of grade 3 or greater acute toxicities of the regimen.

III. To estimate late toxicities of the regimen. IV. To evaluate the clinical response rate, based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, at 3 months post completion of radiotherapy.

V. To estimate 6 and 12-month progression-free survival (PFS) in the dose expansion cohort (DEC).

VI. To estimate 6 and 12-month overall survival (OS) in the DEC.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter of M3814 (peposertib) using population PK approaches.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of peposertib.

Beginning 60-90 minutes before each radiation treatment, patients receive peposertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and undergo IMRT daily Monday-Friday for 7 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or receive fludeoxyglucose F-18 (18F-FDG) intravenously (IV) and undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/CT during screening and follow-up.

After completion of treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.