Varian ProBeam Proton Therapy System China Clinical Trial (Hefei)
This study is prospective, two-center, single-arm objective performance criteria. This trial will be conducted in 2 clinical trial sites with a total of 47 subjects enrolled. All of subjects will be treated with radiation therapy using the medical device Varian ProBeam Proton Therapy System (ProBeam), aim to compare the data with objective performance criteria to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of ProBeam radiotherapy system for oncology patients, providing clinical evidence for the medical device registration.
Tumor, Solid
RADIATION: Proton Therapy System (ProBeam)
Percentage of Participants With Disease Control, Disease control refers to partial response and stable disease and complete response. Percentage of participants with disease control should be at least 95%.

Tumor disease control measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)/Computed Tomography (CT) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). CT or MRI changes will be assessed before and after treatment., 3 months ± 7 days after treatment completion, up to 24 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grade 3 Toxic Reaction, The percentage of participants with CTCAE grade 3 toxic reaction should be lower than 5%. Higher than 5% means worse outcome and will not be accepted.

AEs occurred in the clinical trial are recorded and scored by the investigator according to CTCAE version 5.0., From enrollment to 3 months ± 7 days after treatment completion, up to 24 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grade 4 and 5 Toxic Reaction, The percentage of subjects with toxic reactions of levels 4 and 5 should be 0%. If CTCAE level 4 and 5 toxic reaction occured, the clinical trial is considered as failure.

AEs occurred in the clinical trial are reported and scored by the investigator according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., From enrollment to 3 months ± 7 days after treatment completion, up to 24 weeks
Oncology patients, including tumors of the nervous system, head and neck, chest, abdomen, spine, pelvic cavity, limbs and other tumors. The screening period from informed consent to enrollment is expected to be 4 weeks, while the treatment period is 1 to 8 weeks. The period after the last treatment is divided into short-term follow-up and long-term follow-up, in which short-term follow-up is 3 months after treatment completion and long-term follow-up is 5 years after the end of the last radiotherapy session.

The clinical trial with short-term follow-up fulfills the requirements for National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) regulatory registration. All the end points claimed will be achieved in the short-term follow-up stage. The trial is defined as completion once short-term follow-up finished.

Long-term follow-up report will be submitted for future post market evaluation when requested by NMPA.