PGL4001 Versus Placebo in Uterine Myomas
This trial will assess the efficacy and safety of PGL4001 with concomitant iron administration versus placebo with concomitant iron administration, over a 3-month period for the pre-operative treatment of pre-menopausal women suffering from excessive uterine bleeding due to uterine myoma.
Uterine Myomas
DRUG: PGL4001 (ulipristal) and iron|DRUG: PGL4001 matching placebo and iron|DRUG: PGL4001 (ulipristal) and iron
Co-primary Endpoint: Percentage of Subjects With Reduction in Uterine Bleeding Defined as a Pictorial Blood-loss Assessment Chart (PBAC) Score <75 at End-of-treatment Visit (Week 13), Uterine bleeding was assessed with the use of the PBAC, a validated self-reporting method to estimate menstrual blood loss.

Patients recorded daily the number of tampons and towels used and the degree to which individual items were soiled with blood (plus small or large clots). Monthly scores range from 0 (amenorrhea) to more than 500, with higher numbers indicating more bleeding.

A slightly stained tampon/towel scores 1, a partially stained tampon/towel scores 5, a completely saturated tampon scores 10 and a completely saturated towel scores 20. Small clots/flooding (2cm) score 1. Large clots/flooding (3cm) score 5.

Menorrhagia is defined as a PBAC \> 100 during one menstrual period which approximates to a blood loss of \> 80 mL. A PBAC of 400 corresponds to a blood loss of around 300 mL or approximately 80 tampons/towels used.

The week 13 PBAC score was calculated using the last 28 days of treatment., Week 13 visit|Co-primary Endpoint: Percent Change in Total Myoma Volume Assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) From Screening to End of Treatment Visit (Week 13 Visit), Percent change in total fibroid volume from screening to end of treatment visit (Week 13 visit) assessed by MRI and read centrally by a radiologist who was unaware of the study-group assignments. The total fibroid volume was the sum of the individual fibroid volumes., Week 13
This trial will assess the efficacy and safety of PGL4001 with concomitant iron administration versus placebo with concomitant iron administration, over a 3-month period for the pre-operative treatment of pre-menopausal women suffering from excessive uterine bleeding due to uterine myoma.