Mechanistic Study on the Diagnosis of Esophageal Cancer Lymph Node Metastasis Using Spectral CT, Multimodal MRI, FAPI PET-CT, Pathology, and AI Evaluation System
The objective of this study is to address the urgent issues in the diagnosis of lymph node metastasis in esophageal cancer. By employing multimodal MRI, spectral CT imaging and FAPI PET-CTtechniques, the study will correlate lymph node images with postoperative pathology results. Additionally, AI technology will be applied to learn from multimodal imaging data, enabling comprehensive analysis and evaluation of lymph node metastasis. Using a large volume of clinical and imaging data, a predictive model will be established to provide individualized lymph node metastasis risk assessments for each esophageal cancer patient. This will, in turn, offer robust support for personalized treatment strategies in esophageal cancer.
Esophageal Cancer
MRI, spectral CT and FAPI PET-CT combined with AI in prediction of lymph node status in esophageal cancer, To evaluate the effectiveness of multimodal MRI, spectral CT imaging, and FAPI PET-CT combined with AI in determining the preoperative lymph node status (presence or absence of metastasis) in patients with esophageal cancer, with confirmation through pathological assessment., February 2025 - January 2030
The objective of this study is to address the urgent issues in the diagnosis of lymph node metastasis in esophageal cancer. By employing multimodal MRI, spectral CT imaging and FAPI PET-CTtechniques, the study will correlate lymph node images with postoperative pathology results. Additionally, AI technology will be applied to learn from multimodal imaging data, enabling comprehensive analysis and evaluation of lymph node metastasis. Using a large volume of clinical and imaging data, a predictive model will be established to provide individualized lymph node metastasis risk assessments for each esophageal cancer patient. This will, in turn, offer robust support for personalized treatment strategies in esophageal cancer.