Safety and Efficacy of Oral Midazolam for Perioperative Anxiety Relief of Patients Undergoing Mohs Micrographic Surgery
Midazolam is an approved sedative medication used for medical procedures. This study was being done to document the safety and efficacy of midazolam in improving anxiety, heart rate, and blood pressure in patients prior to undergoing Mohs micrographic surgery for the treatment of skin cancer (basal cell carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma). Midazolam may make a patient relaxed and sleepy, and lower blood pressure. These effects last for about 2 hours.

This study had two parts. In the first part, eligible patients were randomized to either receiving one standard dose of midazolam syrup or placebo syrup before their surgery, with neither the patient nor the study team knowing which patient received the study drug. In the second part, patients who were not eligible to participate in the randomized study or who refused to participate in the randomized study were enrolled in a prospective arm where they knew they were receiving midazolam syrup. In the prospective arm, the doses were based on the patient's weight, and patients were given additional doses of midazolam syrup as necessary to control their anxiety.

The primary hypothesis of this study was that a single dose of oral midazolam syrup to patients prior undergoing outpatient Mohs micrographic surgery for skin cancer would result in lower anxiety scores at 60 minutes compared to placebo. In addition, the second hypothesis of this study was that patients given oral midazolam would have the rate of adverse events that was not worse than 25% higher than in the placebo group.
Basal Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Skin Cancer|Anxiety
DRUG: Randomized Midazolam|OTHER: Placebo|DRUG: Local Anesthesia|DRUG: Prospective Midazolam
Patient Anxiety at Baseline, A 10-point visual analog scale (VAS) was used to measure anxiety. The patients marked on the scale their feeling of anxiety. The lowest value possible was 0 (no anxiety) and the highest value possible was 10 (highest possible anxiety)., Baseline (prior to drug administration)|Patient Anxiety at 60 and 120 Minutes, A 10-point visual analog scale (VAS) was used to measure anxiety. The patients marked on the scale their feeling of anxiety. The lowest value possible was 0 (no anxiety) and the highest value possible was 10 (highest possible anxiety)., 60 and 120 minutes after drug administration
Patient Alertness at Baseline, A 10-point visual analog scale (VAS) was used to measure alertness. The patients marked on the scale their feeling of alertness. The lowest value possible was 0 (awake) and the highest value possible was 10 (barely awake)., Baseline (prior to drug administration)|Patient Alertness at 60 and 120 Minutes, A 10-point visual analog scale (VAS) was used to measure alertness. The patients marked on the scale their feeling of alertness. The lowest value possible was 0 (awake) and the highest value possible was 10 (barely awake)., 60 and 120 minutes after drug administration|Patient Cognitive Function at Baseline and 60 Minutes, Cognitive function was measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), a brief 30 point questionnaire test. The scores can range from 0 (low cognitive function) to 30 (high cognitive function)., baseline (prior to drug administration) and 60 minutes after drug administration|Patient Cognitive Function at 120 Minutes, Cognitive function was measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), a brief 30 point questionnaire test. The scores can range from 0 (low cognitive function) to 30 (high cognitive function)., 120 minutes after drug administration|Blood Pressure at 30 Minutes, 30 minutes after drug administration|Heart Rate at 30 Minutes, 30 minutes after drug administration|Respiratory Rate at 30 Minutes, 30 minutes after drug administration|Pulse Oximetry at 30 Minutes, Pulse oximetry measures the oxygenation of a patient's hemoglobin. A sensor is placed on the patient's finger. Light at red and infrared wavelengths is passed sequentially through the patient to a photodetector. The changing absorbance at each of the two wavelengths is measured, allowing determination of the absorbance. The color of the blood provides a measure of oxygenation (the percentage of hemoglobin molecules bound with oxygen molecules). A healthy young person will probably have an oxygen saturation of 95-99%., 30 minutes after drug administration|Blood Pressure at 60 Minutes, 60 minutes after drug administration|Heart Rate at 60 Minutes, 60 minutes after drug administration|Respiratory Rate at 60 Minutes, 60 minutes after drug administration|Pulse Oximetry at 60 Minutes, Pulse oximetry measures the oxygenation of a patient's hemoglobin. A sensor is placed on the patient's finger. Light at red and infrared wavelengths is passed sequentially through the patient to a photodetector. The changing absorbance at each of the two wavelengths is measured, allowing determination of the absorbance. The color of the blood provides a measure of oxygenation (the percentage of hemoglobin molecules bound with oxygen molecules). A healthy young person will probably have an oxygen saturation of 95-99%., 60 minutes after drug administration
The main objective of this study was to establish the safety and efficacy of midazolam in patients with skin cancer undergoing outpatient Mohs micrographic surgery. Patients were randomized in a double-blind placebo-controlled study of a single-dose midazolam syrup for efficacy in producing safe anxiolysis of short duration. A parallel prospective arm of the study involved administration of midazolam in an unblinded fashion. Based on available studies of orally administered midazolam, the expectation was that the only observed adverse events will be minor and the major adverse event rate for midazolam would be similar to placebo. Data was collected on vital signs, anxiety, adverse events, and overall satisfaction with the anxiolytic agent.