Integrating Primary & Secondary Interventions for Cervical Cancer Prevention in Primary Care Settings
The purpose of this study is to determine whether a mobile health educational intervention for Human PapillomaVirus (HPV) Vaccination promotion and cervical cancer screening in Primary Care settings is a feasible behavioral intervention to integrate as a primary and secondary cervical cancer prevention approach.Study Design: The investigators will conduct an open feasibility proof-of-concept trial using a single experimental group with all subjects receiving the behavioral intervention being studied.

Outcome measures. The primary outcome of interest is receipt of the first dose and completion of the three-dose series of HPV vaccine within 6 month of intervention, this will be evaluated by Electronic medical review review.
HPV-Related Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: brief negotiated mobile application
Number of participants who received the first dose and completed the vaccine series as measured electronic medical record review, The primary outcome of interest is receipt of the first dose and completion of the three or two-dose series of HPV vaccine by participants within 6 month of intervention, this will be evaluated by Electronic Measure Review. Unit of measure: Number of participants who received the first doses and who competed the total number of does based - recorded as percentage who receive the first dose, and completed the two or 3 doses., up to 6 months
Patient knowledge and provider-patient communication, The secondary outcomes are: (a) Change in knowledge of HPV, HPV vaccination, and cervical cancer screening as evaluated by pre/post intervention survey: unit of Measure: based on a 1-10 point scale, with 10 being the highest score;, over 6 months|provider communication about HPV vaccine, greater provider communication about HPV vaccine : Unit of measure- the number of participants who responded yes to provider communication about HPV vaccine, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Cervical cancer screening rate, Cervical cancer screening rate as evaluated by Electronic Medical Review review: Unit of Measure: Number of participants who has cervical cancer screening within the time guideline ( as measured and reported as percentage who screened within the pap smear guideline, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Background: Nearly 80 million people in the US are infected with HPV and 14 million new cases are diagnosed annually. There is an increasing HPV prevalence among women through the young adult years. Although the body clears many HPV infections persistent infections can progress to cancer and other HPV-related diseases. Cervical cancer is the most common cancer caused by HPV.

Many of the HPV-associated cancers are preventable with a series of safe and effective HPV vaccines. To date, no state has attained the 80% target vaccination rate for HPV. Despite the proven benefits and safety of HPV vaccine, usage remains suboptimal (only 38% had completed the three-dose series) and lower than other recommended adolescent vaccines.

Objective/Hypothesis: Our short term objective is to increase HPV vaccine initiation and completion rates among all age-eligible adolescent girls for whom vaccine is not contraindicated; and explore and examine acceptability of providing HPV vaccination to female youth during her adult female guardian's (AFG) cervical cancer screening appointment.

The investigators hypothesize that a combined intervention which includes (1) a motivational web-based education aimed at AFGs and youth females in their Primary Care site; and (2) text message reminders and an informational web-link on HPV vaccine and cervical cancer screening will increase HPV vaccination rates among youth females and will increase cervical cancer screening rates among their respective AFGs.

The investigators propose the following Aim:

Specific Aim: Conduct a single-arm proof of concept, open trial clinical study investigating the feasibility and efficacy of integrating primary and secondary prevention model for HPV and cervical cancer: a mobile educational and automated electronic interactive messaging intervention that will remind AFG and youth females of scheduled and missed second and third HPV vaccination appointments, and deliver brief text and video educational messaging on HPV, HPV vaccine, and cervical cancer screening.

Study Design: The investigators will conduct an open feasibility proof-of-concept trial using a single experimental group with all subjects receiving the behavioral intervention being studied.

Outcome measures. The primary outcome of interest is receipt of the first dose and completion of the three-dose series of HPV vaccine within 6 month of intervention, this will be evaluated by Electronic medical review review.