Lenalidomide and Cetuximab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Lenalidomide may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving lenalidomide together with cetuximab may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with cetuximab in treating patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Colon Cancer|Rectal Cancer
DRUG: lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|OTHER: mutation analysis|OTHER: polymerase chain reaction|GENETIC: polymorphism analysis
Safety / Tolerability (type, frequency, severity, and relationship of adverse events to study drug), Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
Time to progression of disease, Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression .|Tumor response according to RECIST, at the end of Cycle 2 and every 56 days thereafter until tumor progression|Lab correlatives (FCGRIIa and FCGRIIIa polymorphisms, K-Ras and B-Raf mutations), FCGR2a and FCGR3a polymorphisms, K-Ras and B-Raf mutations in patient specimens (paraffin embedded formaldehyde fixed tissues) will be identified., Tissue collection less than or equal to 28 days prior to day 1 of therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further explore the safety and efficacy profile.

OUTLINE:

This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

Patients receive oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1-28 and cetuximab IV once weekly over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.