Aumolertinib Combined Intrathecal Chemotherapy for Leptomeningeal Metastasis From EGFR-Mutated NSCLC and Prognostic Value of Dynamic Changes in cfDNA Profiles
This is a prospective, open-label, single-arm clinical trial. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of almonertinib and intrathecal chemotherapy in patients with advanced EGFR mutation positive (EGFRm+) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and leptomeningeal metastasis, and to explore the predictive value of dynamic changes of cfDNA in cerebrospinal fluid for efficacy and prognosis. A total of 40 subjects who met the inclusion criteria were enrolled in the study and received almonertinib (165mg, oral, once a day) combined with intrathecal infusion. Before and after treatment, cerebrospinal fluid was extracted for cfDNA detection by a 49 gene detection panel. Treatment continued until disease progression or other discontinuation criteria were met. In addition, the subjects received regular hematological and imaging examinations to evaluate the condition. Finally, through data analysis, the progression-free survival (PFS), disease control rate (DCR), objective response rate (ORR), duration of response (DoR), and overall survival (OS) of patients with EGFR mutation-positive advanced NSCLC and leptomeningeal metastasis who received almonertinib combined with intrathecal infusion chemotherapy were evaluated. The dynamic changes of cfDNA in cerebrospinal fluid before and after treatment were explored and the correlation between the dynamic changes of cfDNA in cerebrospinal fluid and the therapeutic effect was explored.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Aumonertinib 165mg orally once daily and intrathecal chemotherapy with pemetrexed
Progression-free survival, PFS is defined as the time from date of enrollment until the date of disease progression as assessed according to RECIST 1.1 or death from any cause on study., 18 months.
intracranial progress free survival, iPFS is defined as the time from date of enrollment until the date of disease progression in intrathecal lesions as assessed according to Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology or death from any cause on study., 18 months.|objective response rate, ORR is defined as the number of patients with at least 1 visit response of CR (Complete response) or PR (Partial response) according to RECIST 1.1., 18 months.|Disease control rate, Disease control rate (DCR) is defined as the percentage of participants with disease control best overall response (complete response, partial response or stable disease)., 18 months.|overall survival, OS is defined as time from date of enrollment until date of death due to any cause. For participants still alive at the time of analysis, OS time was censored on last date that participants were known to be alive., From baseline until death due to any cause,up to a maximum of approximately 3 years.|Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), AEs are graded according to CTCAE v5.0 and recorded in the case report form., From the screening period to 28 days after treatment completion, approximately 3 years.
This study is a prospective, open-label, single-arm clinical trial to explore the efficacy and safety of almonertinib and intrathecal chemotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC and leptomeningeal metastasis and the predictive value of cfDNA changes for efficacy and prognosis. A total of 40 patients aged 18 years or older with confirmed advanced NSCLC with leptomeningeal metastases and an EGFR sensitive mutation (exon 19 deletion or 21 L858R) are expected to be enrolled. The intervention was almonertinib (165mg orally, once daily) combined with intrathecal infusion therapy (pemetrexed 30 mg by injection on days 1 and 8 of each cycle). Treatment continued until disease progression or other discontinuation criteria were met.

Relevant examinations and data collection during the study were as follows. CSF collection: Approximately 15mL of CSF was collected from each sample, and sampling was performed before C1D1 administration and within one week after PD (24 hours after the previous day's administration). Venous blood sample collection: subjects who underwent CSF sampling were performed before C1D1 and C2D1 administration (24 hours after the previous day's dose) and within 1 week after PD. Before treatment, all enrolled patients underwent neurological examination, complete blood count, serum biochemistry, coagulation indexes, blood tumor markers, cytological and CSF tumor markers, electrocardiogram, brain and spinal cord MRI, chest and abdominal CT, and bone scan. The blood and CSF tests described above were performed for each treatment cycle. Imaging was performed every 2 months or if clinical progression was suspected until death. Before each intrathecal infusion, LM-related neurological symptoms, PS score, Neuro-oncology Working Group (RANO) score, and headache score were assessed and recorded in detail. Adverse events (AEs) were graded and recorded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 5.0).

The primary objective was to evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of almonertinib versus intrathecal chemotherapy in patients with advanced EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC and leptomeningeal metastases. The secondary study objectives were: first, to evaluate the efficacy of almonertinib and intrathecal chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced NSCLC with leptomeningeal metastases: disease control rate (DCR), objective response rate (ORR), duration of response (DoR), and overall survival (OS); Intracranial: intracranial progression-free survival (iPFS), intracranial disease control rate (iDCR), intracranial objective response rate (iORR), and intracranial duration of response (iDoR). Second, evaluate the time to symptom improvement of almonertinib versus intrathecal chemotherapy in patients with EGFR mutation-positive advanced NSCLC and leptomeningeal metastases. Third, we evaluated the safety of almonertinib and intrathecal infusion chemotherapy in patients with EGFR mutation-positive advanced NSCLC and leptomeningeal metastases. The objectives of this pilot study were as follows: 1) To evaluate the correlation between baseline and post-treatment cfDNA changes in CSF and treatment response; Second, the correlation between baseline CSF cfDNA status and patient prognosis; Third, sensitivity analysis based on baseline CSF cfDNA mutations and leptomeningeal metastases after targeted therapy.