Safety and Efficacy of Everolimus Treatment in Liver Transplantation for Liver Cancer
This study is a prospective Phase IV study to determine if the use of Everolimus results in lower liver tumor recurrence and improved patient and graft survival after liver transplant for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The immunosuppressive comparators will be Everolimus and Tacrolimus therapy compared to Tacrolimus and Mycophenolic acid/Mycophenolate Mofetil/Azathioprine. Primary outcomes data is disease free survival (the time from randomization to HCC recurrence or death). Secondary outcomes are rate of recurrence of Hepatitis C, problems related to wound healing, hernia repair within the first 12 months, hepatic arterial thrombosis, renal function, acute cellular rejection, post-transplant diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Myfortic|DRUG: CellCept|DRUG: Imuran
Disease free survival (DFS) defined as the time from randomization to the time of tumor recurrence or death, whichever occurs first., Through Month 36
Tumor recurrence sites, Through Month 36|Hepatitis C recurrence rate, Through Month 36|Renal function, Through Month 36|Acute cellular rejection, Through Month 36|Post-transplant diabetes, Through Month 36|Hypertension, Through Month 36|Hyperlipidemia, Through Month 36|Wound healing and associated risk factors, Through Month 36|Hernia repair, Through Month 36|Hepatic arterial thrombosis, Through Month 36
The study population will consist of approximately 336 patients (224 Everolimus and Tacrolimus and 112 Tacrolimus and Mycophenolic acid/Mycophenolate Mofetil/Azathioprine). Initial screening criteria will include the presence of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients 18 years or older who are candidates to receive a primary orthotopic liver transplant (from deceased or living donor). Within 7 - 12 days post-transplant, patients will be re-evaluated for eligibility for randomization. The criteria include: pre-transplant imaging that shows HCC disease exceeding Milan criteria; pathology review for tumor burden and/or presence of microvascular invasion; AFP \>200IU/mL; pre-transplant ablation or resection with HCC recurrence; progression or new tumors; evaluation to rule out any hepatic vessel complication.

Subjects will remain in study treatment until Month 12 at which time the subject and investigator will determine the preferred immunosuppressive regimen. Subjects will be followed for an additional 24 months for outcome data as described above.