Robot Assisted Laparoscopic Hysterectomy vs. Abdominal Hysterectomy in Endometrial Cancer
The purpose of the trial is to determine whether robot assisted laparoscopic hysterectomy compared with abdominal hysterectomy in a fast track program gives a faster recovery postoperatively, causes less tissue damage and less effects on the immunological system, and is health economically cost-effective.
Endometrial Cancer
PROCEDURE: Abdominal total hysterectomy|PROCEDURE: Robot assisted laparoscopic hysterectomy
Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL), Quality of life measured by means of the EuroQol form (EQ-5D). The EQ-5D form was completed daily during the first eight days after surgery, then once weekly for additional six weeks. The health state index has a possible range from 0 to 1 with a higher score meaning a better quality of life., Days 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42
Changes in Biomarkers for Tissue Damage (C-reactive Protein (hsCRP)), The biomarker was measured on seven occasions. Time 1: one week before surgery. Time 2: just before surgery. Time 3: two hours postoperatively. Time 4: 24 hours postoperatively. Time 5: 48 hours postoperatively. Time 6: one week after surgery. Time 7: six weeks after surgery., One week and just before surgery. Two, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. One and six weeks after surgery.|Changes in Biomarkers for Tissue Damage (White Blood Cells (WBC)), The biomarker was measured on seven occasions. Time 1: one week before surgery. Time 2: just before surgery. Time 3: two hours postoperatively. Time 4: 24 hours postoperatively. Time 5: 48 hours postoperatively. Time 6: one week after surgery. Time 7: six weeks after surgery., One week and just before surgery. Two, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. One and six weeks after surgery.|Changes in Biomarkers for Tissue Damage (Interleukin 6 (IL-6)), The biomarker was measured on seven occasions. Time 1: one week before surgery. Time 2: just before surgery. Time 3: two hours postoperatively. Time 4: 24 hours postoperatively. Time 5: 48 hours postoperatively. Time 6: one week after surgery. Time 7: six weeks after surgery., One week and just before surgery. Two, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. One and six weeks after surgery.|Changes in Biomarkers for Tissue Damage (Creatin Kinase (CK)), The biomarker was measured on seven occasions. Time 1: one week before surgery. Time 2: just before surgery. Time 3: two hours postoperatively. Time 4: 24 hours postoperatively. Time 5: 48 hours postoperatively. Time 6: one week after surgery. Time 7: six weeks after surgery., One week and just before surgery. Two, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. One and six weeks after surgery.|Changes in Biomarkers for Tissue Damage (Cortisol), The biomarker was measured on seven occasions. Time 1: one week before surgery. Time 2: just before surgery. Time 3: two hours postoperatively. Time 4: 24 hours postoperatively. Time 5: 48 hours postoperatively. Time 6: one week after surgery. Time 7: six weeks after surgery., One week and just before surgery. Two, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. One and six weeks after surgery.|Health Economics (With 300 Robotic Procedures Annually), Total costs (direct and indirect) for hospital stay and recovery period until six weeks postoperatively., From the day of surgery until six weeks after surgery.|Health Economics (With 500 Robotic Procedures Annually), Total costs (direct and indirect) for hospital stay and recovery period until six weeks postoperatively., From the day of surgery until six weeks after surgery.
If detailed description is requested, please contact sponsor.