Epidemiology of Barrett's Esophagus: A Population Based Study
To assess attitudes toward screening for esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) and Barrett's esophagus (BE) in the community.

To develop a population based clinical risk factor prediction model for the diagnosis of BE and identify novel risk factors for BE which would make population based screening more efficient. This will be an important first step in identifying the target population for BE screening, another crucial component of making screening feasible and efficient
Barrett's Esophagus|Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)|Olmsted County Resident
The primary outcome from the survey will be the proportion of patients willing to undergo an esophageal capsule study compared to those willing to undergo an endoscopic procedure (Esophagogastroduodenoscopy or transnasal endoscopy), 18 months
Study established (age, gender, ethnicity, reflux) and potential risk factors (sleep apnea, visceral adiposity, Helicobacter pylori infection, Metabolic Syndrome)to develop a clinical risk factor model for diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus(BE)., Metabolic Syndrome (ATP III criteria, JAMA 2001; 285: 2486-97.) defined as a combination of clinical disorders that includes the presence of three or more of the following indicators:

1. abdominal obesity (waist circumference \> 102 cm in men, \> 88 cm in women);
2. high triglyceride level (≥ 150 mg/dL);
3. low level of high density lipoprotein (\< 40 mg/dL in men; \< 50 mg/dL in women);
4. high blood pressure (≥ 130/85 mmHg);
5. high fasting plasma glucose (≥ 110 mg/dL)., 18 months
To assess attitudes toward screening for esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) and Barrett's esophagus (BE) in the community.

To develop a population based clinical risk factor prediction model for the diagnosis of BE and identify novel risk factors for BE which would make population based screening more efficient. This will be an important first step in identifying the target population for BE screening, another crucial component of making screening feasible and efficient