e-Natureza Project - Affective Validation of Nature Images for Hospital Use
Randomized clinical trial about the evaluation of the use of nature photographs in the positive and negative affects of oncological patients.
Cancer
OTHER: Nature video
Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), The questionnaire aims to verify the positive and negative affects of participants in oncologic treatment before and after their first chemotherapy session, in order to verify if after the intervention, the negative affects decrease and the positive ones increase. Each questionnaire will be analyzed individually., Change from Baseline positive and negative affects at immediate post intervention, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS-Br), This tool is designed to assist in the assessment of nine symptoms common in cancer patients: pain, tiredness, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, appetite, wellbeing and shortness of breath, (there is also a line labelled "Other Problem"). The severity at the time of assessment of each symptom is rated from 0 to 10 on a numerical scale, 0 meaning that the symptom is absent and 10 that it is of the worst possible severity. It does not have final classification scores. It measures the frequency and intensity of symptoms presented at the time of its application., Change from Baseline Edmonton Symptoms at immediate post intervention, through study completion, an average of 1 year
The Connectedness to Nature Scale, The Nature Connection Scale is used to verify the affective aspect of the person-environment relationship. It is composed of 14 items, which are answered in a scale of 5 points, ranging from 1 (I totally disagree) to 5 (I totally agree). The higher the score, the greater the individual's connection with nature., Single baseline measurement|Nature Relatedness Questionnaire, The 21-item Nature Relatedness Scale (NR) assesses subjective connectedness with the natural environment. Participants respond to statements using a 5-point Likert scale (1 = strongly disagree, 5 = strongly agree) and items are averaged with higher scores indicating stronger connectedness., Single baseline measurement
In recent decades there has been growing interest from researchers in understanding how the adoption of natural elements in daily life, even in hospitals, can characterize restorative environments and reflect in better health for patients. Contact with nature can be done indirectly through photographs. This clinical trial aims to verify the therapeutic potential of the nature images, previously validated in another part of this study, in the care of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Anchored on the assumptions of the theory of Biophilia, and the environmental theory of Florence Nightingale our study hypothesis is that this intervention promotes well-being and promote more positive mood states, and reduce symptoms resulting from the treatment during chemotherapy session.