Phase II Trial of Dasatinib in Patients With Isocitrate Dehydrogenase (IDH)-Mutant Advanced Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
This research study is studying Dasatinib as a possible treatment for cancer of bile ducts.
Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Dasatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The number of participants that achieved either a complete or partial response, as assessed by Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1)

* Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.
* Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 8 Weeks
Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), The median amount of time from registration until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was assessed via RECIST 1.1 criteria:

\> Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., From registration until disease progression or death, median duration of 8.7 weeks|Overall Survival, The median amount of time from registration until death. Participants are censored at the date last known alive., From the time of registration until death, median duration of 37.9 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The number of participants that experienced an adverse event as assessed by Common Toxicology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 4.0), From the start of treatment until 30 days after the end of treatment, median duration of 3 months
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The standard treatment for metastatic cholangiocarcinoma is combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved dasatinib for your specific disease (Cholangiocarcinoma) but it has been approved for other uses (Chronic Myeloid Leukemia)