Aldesleukin With or Without Ziv-Aflibercept in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Melanoma That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well aldesleukin with or without ziv-aflibercept works in treating patients with stage III-IV melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Aldesleukin may stimulate the white blood cells to kill cancer. Ziv-aflibercept may stop the growth of melanoma by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether aldesleukin is more effective with or without ziv-aflibercept in treating melanoma.
Metastatic Melanoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
BIOLOGICAL: Aldesleukin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Ziv-Aflibercept
Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., The time from the date of randomization until date of progression, death, or recurrence, assessed up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Until Death from any cause, up to 5 years|Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (RR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years|Count of Participants With Adverse Events, Count of the number of participants with grade 3 \& 4 adverse events attributed to treatment agents. Events are graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival for Patients With High Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) Levels, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Median baseline measure for VEGF were used as the cut point for "low" vs "high" VEGF groups., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival for Patients With Low VEGF Levels, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Median baseline measure for VEGF were used as the cut point for "low" vs "high" VEGF groups., Up to 5 years
1-year Overall Survival Rate, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Until Death from any cause, up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Test the hypothesis that combination biotherapy with aflibercept (ziv-aflibercept) and high-dose (HD) interleukin (IL)-2 (aldesleukin) will improve the progression-free survival compared to HD IL-2 alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the response rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) of aflibercept and HD IL-2 as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 and compare to results of HD IL-2 alone.

II. Evaluate the toxicities and tolerance of combination biotherapy with aflibercept and HD IL-2 and maintenance aflibercept alone in this patient population and compare to HD-IL2 alone.

III. Test the hypotheses related to the laboratory correlative studies. IV. Evaluate the overall survival of patients treated with aflibercept and HD IL-2 and HD IL-2 alone.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive ziv-aflibercept intravenously (IV) over at least 1 hour on day 1 of weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7 (and in week 9 of course 1 only) and high-dose aldesleukin IV over 15 minutes every 8 hours for 5 days in weeks 1 and 3 (and in weeks 3 and 5 of course 1 only). Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive maintenance therapy comprising ziv-aflibercept IV on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive high-dose aldesleukin IV over 15 minutes every 8 hours for 5 days in weeks 1 and 3. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-4 months for 5 years.