Efficacy and Safety of Adebrelimab Combined With Chemoradiotherapy in Patients With Unresectable Locally Advanced or Postoperative Recurrent Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This study was a single-center, single-arm, open-label phase II clinical trial. Thirty patients with unresectable locally advanced or postoperative recurrent esophageal squamous cell carcinoma were treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy combined with immunotherapy. The radiotherapy regimen was intensity-modulated radiotherapy with PGTV at 50-50.4 Gy/25-28 fractions, 1.8-2 Gy per fraction, five times a week. The chemotherapy regimen was paclitaxel 50 mg/m2 and cisplatin 25 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on day 1, once a week for five times. The immunotherapy was with adebutilimab at 20 mg/kg on day 1, every three weeks for three times. One week before radiotherapy, gastroscopy, chest CT or PET-CT images were taken as the baseline standard. Based on the results of gastroscopy, chest CT or PET-CT before and after treatment, the number of patients with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) in the two groups was observed. The objective response rate (ORR) was calculated as CR + PR, and the disease control rate (DCR) was calculated as CR + PR + SD. The progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), 1-year and 2-year survival rates and adverse reactions were also statistically analyzed.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Adebrelimab: 20mg/kg day1, Q3W, 3 times
Objective response rate at 3 months after radiotherapy (ORR), ORR includes Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) according to accepted response evaluation criteria (such as solid tumor RECIST version 1.1), (1) Complete response (CR) : Except for nodular disease, all target lesions disappeared completely. All target nodules must be reduced to normal size (short axis \< 10 mm). All target lesions must be evaluated. (2) Partial response (PR) : Total diameter of all measurable target lesions is ≥ 30% below baseline. The short diameter was used for the sum of the target nodules, while the longest diameter was used for the sum of all other target lesions. All target lesions must be evaluated., Three months after radiation
Overall survival, From the date of treatment initiation (or diagnosis) to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 120 months|Progression free survival, The time from the start of treatment to tumor progression or death due to any cause， assessed up to 120 months|Clinical complete response rate, Except for nodular disease, all target lesions disappeared completely. All target nodules must be reduced to normal size (short axis \< 10 mm). All target lesions must be evaluated, "Monitored throughout the treatment period and during follow-up, an average of 2 years"|Quality of life scores of cancer patients, Assess the patient's physical function, psychological state, social function, symptom burden, and overall health status through telephone follow-ups, return visits for review, and other methods .The measurement tool is SF-36 Quality of Life Assessment Scale, "Monitored throughout the treatment period and during follow-up, an average of 2 years
This study was a single-center, single-arm, open-label phase II clinical trial. Thirty patients with unresectable locally advanced or postoperative recurrent esophageal squamous cell carcinoma were treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy combined with immunotherapy. The radiotherapy regimen was intensity-modulated radiotherapy with PGTV at 50-50.4 Gy/25-28 fractions, 1.8-2 Gy per fraction, five times a week. The chemotherapy regimen was paclitaxel 50 mg/m2 and cisplatin 25 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on day 1, once a week for five times. The immunotherapy was with adebutilimab at 20 mg/kg on day 1, every three weeks for three times. One week before radiotherapy, gastroscopy, chest CT or PET-CT images were taken as the baseline standard. Based on the results of gastroscopy, chest CT or PET-CT before and after treatment, the number of patients with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) in the two groups was observed. The objective response rate (ORR) was calculated as CR + PR, and the disease control rate (DCR) was calculated as CR + PR + SD. The progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), 1-year and 2-year survival rates and adverse reactions were also statistically analyzed.