Nivolumab and ADI-PEG 20 Before Surgery for the Treatment of Resectable Liver Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effect of nivolumab and ADI-PEG 20 before surgery in treating patients with liver cancer that can be removed by surgery (resectable). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. ADI-PEG 20 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the proteins needed for cell growth. Giving nivolumab and ADI-PEG 20 before surgery may help control liver cancer.
Resectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pegargiminase|PROCEDURE: Resection
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Safety will be recorded through the incidence of AEs, serious (S)AEs and specific laboratory abnormalities (worst grade). Toxicities will be graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Will tabulate AEs with frequency and percentage and will summarize them by severity and their relations to the study treatments, and will estimate the success rate along with the 95% exact confidence interval., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Rate of pathologic complete response, Pathological response rate will be estimated along with the 95% confidence interval (95% CI)., Up to 2 years post-treatment|Necrosis of tumors, Up to 2 years post-treatment
Time-to-progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from the start of study drug to the first documented tumor progression or recurrence of tumor as determined by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 or Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC) criteria. Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years post-treatment|Recurrent-free survival (RFS), RFS will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From surgery to date of a recurrent disease or date of death whichever occurs first if patients have an event, or to the last follow-up date if patients are alive without RD, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From the initiation of the study combination to the date of death, assessed up to 2 years
Immune biomarker analysis, Will use descriptive statistics to summarize expressions of markers at each time point and will use paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test to evaluate the pre- and post- treatment changes in immune biomarkers, including CD8+/Treg ratio. To correlate markers with response, will fit logistic regression models or use a Fisher's exact test. For longitudinal measurements, we will use logistic regression models including random effects to account for within-patient correlation. To evaluate marker changes over time, will fit linear mixed models with random effects to account for within-patient correlation., Up to 2 years post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of therapy and assess the pathologic response rate including pathologic complete response (pCR) and degree of necrosis (\> 50% in tumor volume) with nivolumab + pegargiminase (ADI-PEG 20) in resectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the context of presurgical therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy of presurgical nivolumab + ADI-PEG 20 therapy in HCC by estimating the time-to-progression (TTP), recurrence-free survival (RFS), and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the immunological/biomarker changes (pre- versus \[vs\] post-treatment) in tumor tissues and peripheral blood in response to nivolumab + ADI-PEG 20 in HCC therapy.

II. To explore any potential association between these biomarker measures and antitumor response and immune-related response criteria (irRC) assessed by MD Anderson Department of Diagnostic Imaging.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and pegargiminase intramuscularly (IM) at 2 days before day 1 of cycle 1, day 8 of cycle 1, days 1 and 8 of cycle 2, and day 1 of cycle 3. Treatments repeat every 2 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care surgical resection at week 7.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 12 weeks for up to 2 years.