A Study to Evaluate the Clinical Outcomes of Efgartigimod PH20 SC in Adults With New-onset Generalized Myasthenia Gravis (gMG)
The main purpose of this study is to measure how well adults with new-onset gMG (which means they've had generalized disease signs and/or symptoms for less than 1 year) respond to treatment with efgartigimod PH20 SC. The study consists of a treatment period of 51 weeks. The study duration for each participant will be approximately 58 weeks.
New Onset Generalized Myasthenia Gravis (gMG)
BIOLOGICAL: Efgartigimod PH20 SC
Proportion of participants who achieve MSE of MG at any time within the first 16 weeks of treatment with efgartigimod PH20 SC, MSE (minimal symptom expression) is defined as an MG-ADL (Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living) total score of 0 or 1. The MG-ADL scale assesses MG symptoms and their effects on daily activities. The score varies between 0 and 24 (with 24 the most severe)., up to 16 weeks
Changes from baseline in MG-ADL total scores over time, The MG-ADL (Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living) scale assesses MG symptoms and their effects on daily activities. The score varies between 0 and 24 (with 24 the most severe)., up to 51 weeks|Changes from baseline in MG-QOL-15r total scores over time, The MG-QoL15r (Myasthenia Gravis Quality of Life 15-item scale revised) questionnaire is a patient-reported instrument that measures the impact of MG symptoms on Quality of Life. The score varies between 0 and 30 (with 30 the lowest quality of life)., up to 51 weeks|Proportion of participants who are administered systemic corticosteroid therapy as background add-on therapy throughout the study, up to 55 weeks|Incidence of adverse events, serious adverse events and adverse events leading to study drug discontinuation, up to 55 weeks
The main purpose of this study is to measure how well adults with new-onset gMG (which means they've had generalized disease signs and/or symptoms for less than 1 year) respond to treatment with efgartigimod PH20 SC. The study consists of a treatment period of 51 weeks. The study duration for each participant will be approximately 58 weeks.