Educational Video for Genetic Testing
Develop and evaluate the acceptability, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of an informational video on paired tumor/normal testing for children and adolescents with a new diagnosis of cancer, tumors or other diagnosis.
Genetic Disease|Cancer
OTHER: Educational Video
Knowledge Score - Before Results, The primary outcome is the primary caregiver's knowledge score measured before receipt of genetic results. Knowledge score is a 12-point true/false questionnaire. Higher scores indicate higher genetic knowledge., up to 4 weeks after testing
Knowledge Score - After Results, The primary caregiver's knowledge score measured after receipt of genetic results, which is the same knowledge score measured before receipt of results. Knowledge score is a 12-point true/false questionnaire., Once, within 6 months after receipt of results|Knowledge Score - all caregivers and probands, Another secondary analysis will include data from all caregivers' (primary and secondary) and probands' (over 12 years of age) knowledge scores. The knowledge score is a 12-point true/false questionnaire., Twice, prior to, and within 6 months after receipt of results|Acceptability of use of an informational video on paired tumor/normal testing for participants with a new cancer or other diagnosis, Acceptability will be assessed using a questionnaire including a satisfaction with decision scale, a 6 question decision satisfaction measure, an impact of events scale for cancer-specific distress, a 15 item questionnaire, and a multidimensional impact of cancer risk assessment, a 6 item questionnaire., One time, within 6 months after receipt of results|Feasibility of an informational video on paired tumor/normal testing for children and adolescents with a new cancer diagnosis., Feasibility will be assessed with absence of technical difficulties of video delivery and timeliness of delivery of video after recommendation for testing., One time, within 6 months after receipt of results
As over 15% of pediatric cancers are associated with a cancer predisposition, it is increasingly becoming standard of care for children with cancer, as well as those with suspected hereditary risk, to be evaluated for germline cancer predisposition. Unfortunately, the increase in pediatric genetic testing has exceeded the pace of research establishing best practices to optimize delivery of care for patients undergoing testing and their families. Tumor/normal genetic testing (testing of both tumor tissue and a paired normal sample) at time of cancer diagnosis or relapse is now widespread in pediatric oncology to improve cancer diagnostics, prognostics, and treatment; this testing also has potential to uncover underlying cancer predisposition syndromes with lifelong implications. Disseminating information at the time of cancer diagnosis is difficult, and is best done by a provider with expertise in cancer genetics. Thus, Investigators will develop an informational video for use prior to tumor/normal genetic testing to augment genetic counseling resources to support patients and families.

In this study, Investigators will develop and evaluate the acceptability, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of an informational video on paired tumor/normal testing for children and adolescents with a new diagnosis of cancer, tumors or other diagnosis. Investigators will use a non randomized trial whereby a convenience sample of patients/families will be recruited to be controls in Year 1, followed by a convenience sample that will be allocated the video intervention In Year 2. To evaluate the impact of the video intervention, Investigators will compare assessments of two cohorts- an unexposed (no video intervention, Year 1) and exposed (video intervention, Year 2).