Hot EMR vs Underwater Cold EMR for Large Colonic Adenomas
This randomized, multi-center trial aims to evaluate the advantages of underwater cold endoscopic mucosal resection technique (CS-EMR) in comparison to the conventional endoscopic mucosal resection technique (EMR) for laterally spreading colorectal lesions exceeding 20 mm in size. More precisely, our hypothesis posits that underwater cold EMR is non-inferior to conventional EMR in terms of recurrence rates, resection completeness and safety.
Colonic Neoplasms|Colonic Adenoma|Colonic Lesion
PROCEDURE: Traditional EMR|PROCEDURE: the cold snare ("CO"), underwater technique ("W"), and the use of submucosal lift ("L") in both study arms
Success rate of resection defined as absence of residual/recurrence in SC1 and/or SC2, at 6 and/or 12 months
technical success, defined by the complete resection of polyp, 2 years|Rate of intraprocedural adverse events such as bleeding or perforation, Defined as any procedure-related complication that compromises the completeness of the procedure and/or results in unplanned hospitalization of the patient, 2 years|Rate of delayed bleeding of the patient, 2 years|Rate of post-polipectomy syndrome, 2 years|Rate of delayed perforation, 2 years|Avarage time of procedure and polyp resection time, 2 years
Endoscopic mucosal resection stands as one of the most commonly employed techniques for the removal of gastrointestinal lesions, particularly within the colon. "Piece-meal" endoscopic mucosal resection is the preferred approach for large colonic polyps without signs of deep infiltration. This method consists of the removal of lesions in multiple fragments.

The conventional procedure starts with the initial submucosal infiltration of the submucosal layer using a physiological solution and methylene blue, forming a cushion that facilitates tissue transection with the assistance of a diathermic snare. The goal is to remove the lesions in larger fragments whenever possible.

In contrast, the "cold" procedure, employs a specialized snare that enables tissue transection without the need for electrical current. This approach yields the same outcome as the conventional procedure but offers the advantage of reducing the risks associated with the use of diathermic current. Subsequently, the lesion fragments are retrieved for histological examination.