Docetaxel and PROSTVAC for Metastatic Castration-Sensitive Prostate Cancer
Background:

Metastatic castrate-sensitive prostate cancer is cancer that has spread beyond the prostate area. It can be controlled by lowering the amount of testosterone in the body. This is called androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). The vaccine PROSTVAC might help the immune system kill cancer cells. Researchers want to add PROSTVAC and docetaxel chemotherapy to ADT. They think this may work better against prostate cancer than ADT alone.

Objective:

To test if adding PROSTVAC and docetaxel to ADT works better against prostate cancer than ADT alone.

Eligibility:

Men ages 18 years and over with metastatic castrate-sensitive prostate cancer

Design:

Participants will be screened with:

Physical exam

Medical history

Blood tests

Possible computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or bone scan: Participants lie in a machine. The machine takes pictures of the body.

Electrocardiogram: Soft electrodes are stuck to the skin to record heart signals.

Participants will have 2 optional tumor biopsies during the study.

Participants will join 1 of 2 groups. Both groups will get:

ADT

Docetaxel by vein

Steroids by mouth or vein before each docetaxel infusion

PROSTVAC injection

Both groups first have ADT. One to 4 months after, they have:

Group A:

Docetaxel every 3 weeks for 6 cycles

PROSTVAC 3 weeks after the last infusion

Booster injections 2 weeks later and then every 3 weeks, for 6 boosters total

Group B:

PROSTVAC

Booster 2 weeks later

Docetaxel hours later

Docetaxel and the booster every 3 weeks for 6 cycles

Participants will have a visit 4-5 weeks after the last treatment. They will then have visits every 12 weeks.

Participants will be followed for up to 15 years. This includes physical exams every year for 5 years.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Neoplasms|Neoplasms, Prostatic
BIOLOGICAL: PROSTVAC-V|BIOLOGICAL: PROSTVAC-F|DRUG: Docetaxel
Antigen Spreading (i.e., a Broader Immune Response) With Greater Associated Response Score Compared to Docetaxel Alone After 19 Weeks, Antigen spreading as measured by antigen spread score. The antigen spreading score denotes the presence of a T-cell (cluster of differentiation(CD8)+ and/or cluster of differentiation 4(CD4+) immune response against 2 tumor associated antigens that were not targeted by PROSTVAC:Mucin 1(MUC-1) \& carcinoembryonic antigen(CEA). Antigen-specific T-cell responses were determined using intracellular cytokine staining of 4 established markers (Lysosome-associated membrane proteins h-LAMP1, interferon gamma, interleukin-2\& tumor necrosis factor) in both CD4+\& CD8+T-cells, giving a total of 8 measures of activation per antigen. Numbers of activation markers per antigen were totaled \& multiplied by 1.5 to give higher weighting to T-cell responses to antigens that were not targeted by PROSTVAC;\& the scores for both MUC-1 \& CEA were totaled per participant, with a possible range of 0-24 (0 is a negative result whereas 1.5-24 are positive results). The higher level of response, the better outcome., After 19 Weeks
Antigen Specific T-cell Immune Composite Response Scores Between All Arms at 39 Weeks and 1 Year, Response score denotes the presence of a T-cell (cluster of differentiation 8(CD8+) and/or cluster of differentiation 4(CD4+) response against 3 tumor associated antigens: prostate-specific antigen(PSA), mucin 1(MUC-1) and carcinoembryonic antigen(CEA). Antigen-specific T-cell immune responses were determined using intracellular cytokine staining of 4 established markers (Lysosome-associated membrane proteins h-LAMP1, interferon gamma, interleukin-2\& tumor necrosis factor in both CD4+ \& CD8+T-cells, a total of 8 measures of activation per antigen. The number of activation markers for PSA were totaled for a maximum score of 8. Numbers of activation markers for MUC-1 \& CEA were totaled \& multiplied by 1.5 to give higher weighting to T-cell responses to antigens that were not targeted by PROSTVAC. The scores for PSA, MUC-1 \& CEA were totaled per participant, with a possible range of 0-32 (0 is a negative result whereas 1-32 are positive results). Higher level of response, better outcome., 39 weeks and 1 year|Number of Participants With T-cell Response to Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA), PSA-specific immune responses T-cell responses were assessed using nonparametric methods. The value denotes the number of participants with T-cell immune responses towards PSA. The higher level of response, the better outcome., 39 weeks and 1 year
Number of Participants With Serious and/or Non-serious Adverse Events Assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0), Here is the number of participants with serious and/or non-serious adverse events assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0). A non-serious adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence. A serious adverse event is an adverse event or suspected adverse reaction that results in death, a life-threatening adverse drug experience, hospitalization, disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions, congenital anomaly/birth defect or important medical events that jeopardize the patient or subject and may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the previous outcomes mentioned., Date treatment consent signed to date off study, approximately 70 months and 4 days for Arm A, 38 months and 28 days for Arm B, and 43 months and 29 days for Arm C.
Background:

* A phase III trial demonstrated that combining docetaxel and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) significantly improved survival (57.6 vs 44.0 months (hazard ration (HR)=0.56, (0.44-0.70), p \<0.0001) for men with metastatic castration sensitive prostate cancer (mCSPC).
* PROSTVAC (developed by the National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] and licensed to Bavarian Nordic Immunotherapeutics, Mountain View, California (CA) is a therapeutic cancer vaccine for prostate cancer.
* Preclinical and clinical studies support the potential synergy in the combination of docetaxel and PROSTVAC. The potential to combine docetaxel with vaccine in mCSPC could improve upon the survival advantage that has been previously seen.

Objectives:

Primary

-To determine if PROSTVAC combined with docetaxel is able to induce greater antigen spreading (i.e. a broader immune response) with greater associated response score compared to docetaxel alone after 19 weeks.

Key Eligibility Criteria:

* Must have castrate sensitive prostate cancer (rising PSA and testosterone over 100) or is within 134 days of starting ADT (Arm A or B) or within 28 days of start ADT (Arm C)
* Histopathological confirmation of prostate cancer
* Patients must have metastatic disease
* Patients must have a performance status of 0 to 2 according to the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) criteria
* Patients must have adequate bone marrow, hepatic, and renal function

Design

* This is a randomized trial of ADT followed by simultaneous docetaxel 75 mg/m(2) every (q)3 weeks x 6 cycles + PROSTVAC q3 weeks x 6 cycles versus ADT followed by sequential docetaxel 75 mg/m(2) q3 weeks x 6 cycles followed by PROSTVAC q3 weeks x 6 cycles in men with newly diagnosed mCSPC.
* Patients who have not started ADT or who have been on ADT 28 days or fewer will be assigned to treatment with PROSTVAC for 4 - 6 injections followed by docetaxel 75 mg/m\^2 q3 weeks x 6 cycles.