Guadecitabine With or Without Idarubicin or Cladribine in Treating Older Patients With Previously Untreated Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This randomized phase II trial studies how well guadecitabine with or without idarubicin or cladribine works in treating older patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia. Guadecitabine may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as idarubicin and cladribine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether guadecitabine with or without idarubicin or cladribine is more effective in treating older patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia.
Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cladribine|DRUG: Guadecitabine|DRUG: Idarubicin
Number of Participants With a Complete Response, Complete Response = Complete Remission (CR) + Complete Remission without blood count recovery (CRi) - CR: Neutrophil count \>/= 1.0 x 10\^9/L and platelet count \>/= 100 x 10\^9/L, and normal bone marrow differential (\</+ 5% blasts). (CRi): Peripheral blood and bonemarrow results as for CR, but with platelet counts of \< 100 x 109/L or ANC \< 1.0 x 109/L, Up to 4 years, 3 months|Remission Duration, The date of Complete Response to the date of loss of response or last follow-up., Up to 4 years, 3 months|Leukemia-free Survival, Survival time will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The two-sided log-rank test will be used to assess the differences of time to events between groups. Time from date of treatment start until the date of first objective documentation of disease-relapse., Up to 4 years, 3 months|Survival, Survival time will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The two-sided log-rank test will be used to assess the differences of time to events between groups., Up to 4 years, 3 months|Number of Participants With the Most Frequently Reports Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Event., The most frequently reported adverse events will be determined by the Principal Investigator. The number of participants who experienced the most frequent grade 3 or 4 adverse events will be reported., Up to 4 years, 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete remission (CR) rate, remission duration, leukemia-free survival, and survival in patients \>= 70 years with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with 4 different guadecitabine (SGI-110) single agent and SGI-110 based combination regimens.

II. To determine the safety profile and tolerability of the 4 SGI-110 single agent and SGI-110 based combination regimens in patients \>= 70 years of age with previously untreated AML.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 4-6 weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR or CR with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) continue on to Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR or complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi) but deriving clinical benefit may continue to Maintenance therapy at the discretion of the Principal Investigator (PI).

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine as in Induction therapy. Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (CLOSED):

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-10. Courses repeat every 4-6 weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR or CRp continue on to Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR or CRi but deriving clinical benefit may continue to Maintenance therapy at the discretion of the PI.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-5 (days 1-10 of courses 1 and 2). Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-5 and idarubicin intravenously (IV) over up to 1 hour on days 1-2. Courses repeat every 4-6 weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR or CRp continue on to Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR or CRi but deriving clinical benefit may continue to Maintenance therapy at the discretion of the PI.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC on days 1-5 and idarubicin IV over up to 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IV (CLOSED):

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC and cladribine IV over up to 1 hour on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 4-6 weeks for 2-3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR or CRp continue on to Maintenance therapy; patients not achieving CR or CRi but deriving clinical benefit may continue to Maintenance therapy at the discretion of the PI.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive guadecitabine SC and cladribine IV over up to 1 hour on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every month.