Improving Resection Rates Among African Americans With NSCLC
This is a randomized, interventional trial in which the navigation is the intervention. Phase is not applicable. The study is a randomized trial to evaluate the impact of a nurse-led patient navigation intervention in improving rates of receipt of lung-directed therapy with curative intent (LDTCI) among African Americans with early stage lung cancer. Study sites are cluster-randomized to either the usual care study arm or the to the navigation intervention study arm. Randomization occurred at the level of the study site rather than at the level of individual participants. There are two arms.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
OTHER: Usual Care|OTHER: Intervention Arm
Receipt of LDTCI, Receipt of lung-directed therapy with curative intent (LDTCI), Inquiry at time of follow-up survey, confirmed by medical record review, 12 Months Post-Enrollment
Receipt of Surgical and/or Radiation Oncology Consultation Confirmed by Medical Record Review, • Receipt of surgical and/or radiation oncology consultation (defined as outpatient or inpatient consultation with a general or cardiothoracic surgeon and/or radiation oncologist to discuss LDTCI for NSCLC within 4 months post-diagnosis of probable/proven, early stage NSCLC)., Baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 Months Post-Enrollment|Time to LDTCI (For Pts. Who Received LDTCI Only) Confirmed by Medical Record Review, Time to LDTCI (For Pts. Who Received LDTCI Only). Inquiry at Time of Follow-Up Survey, Confirmed by Medical Record Review. Baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 Months Post-Enrollment, Baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 Months Post-Enrollment|Satisfaction with Care Received, Patient Satisfaction(REF) (28 items), Satisfaction with Care Received, Patient Satisfaction(REF) (28 items). 6 Months Post-Enrollment, 6 Months Post-Enrollment|Time of Death, Follow-up Survey, Confirmed by Medical Record Review, Time of Death. Inquiry at Time of Follow-Up Survey, Confirmed by Medical Record Review , inquiry of cancer registries at study sites, and inquiry of Social Security Death Index. Baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 Months Post-Enrollment., Baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 Months Post-Enrollment
The burden to participants will be minimized to enhance retention. Patients in the usual care arm receive the current "gold standard" of treatment. The patients in the intervention arm are assigned to a PN, who helps to reduce the barriers to care that could negatively impact the patients' receipt of LDTCI. The telephone-administered survey is administered to all study participants at baseline and at 3-, 6-, and 12-months post-enrollment. It takes approximately 30-40 minutes to administer. The telephone mode of survey administration was chosen to reduce the number of visits that would be required by each patient. Interviews are scheduled at the convenience of the study participants. To further reduce burden to the study participants, the interviewers offer breaks during the interview process. Patients in both arms undergo standard therapy visits. Patients in the navigation arm receive standard therapy visits plus the navigation intervention. Outside of the standard therapy visits, no additional clinic visits are required of the study participants.

Once informed consent has been obtained and the informed consent document is received, the SSC/PN will communicate to the MUSC HCC study staff the participant's contact information and that the participant is ready for baseline survey administration. All the study surveys will be administered by trained MUSC HCC study staff via telephone. A survey answer guide will be provided to the participant either in-person or via mail prior to administration of the baseline survey.