Prognosis of Patient Evaluated for Palliative Radiotherapy
Many patients with incurable cancer will receive palliative oncological treatment before their death, and radiotherapy (RT) is an important element of this. The aim of palliative RT is to alleviate symptoms and improve quality of life. An accurate and practical survival prediction model for metastatic cancer patient receiving palliative RT can assist the decision making (ranging from best supportive treatment alone for expected short survival, to dose escalation for potential better disease control).

The available survival prediction models (such Survival Prediction Score using Number of Risk Factors by Chow et al and TEACHH model) have been developed in the Western world. We therefore perform a prospective observational study 1) to assess the overall survival of patients evaluated for palliative RT at a tertiary hospital in Hong Kong, and 2) to validate the prognostic score systems in our population.
Cancer|Radiotherapy
RADIATION: palliative radiotherapy
Overall Survival, Overall Survival in the studied population, 1 year
Overall Survival in Each Indication of Palliative Radiotherapy, Indications of Palliative Radiotherapy:

The indication will be as follow:

spinal cord compression brain metastases tumor bleeding tumoral mass Cancer pain Superior Vena Cava Syndrome/ Airway compression, 3, 6, 9, 12 months|Overall Survival by Survival Prediction Model (NRF), Overall Survival by Survival Prediction Score using Number of Risk Factors (NRF), 3, 6, 9, 12 months|Overall Survival by Survival Prediction Model (TEACHH), Overall Survival by Survival Prediction Score using TEACHH Model, 3, 6, 9, 12 months
Many patients with incurable cancer will receive palliative oncological treatment before their death, and radiotherapy (RT) is an important element of this. The aim of palliative RT is to alleviate symptoms and improve quality of life. An accurate and practical survival prediction model for metastatic cancer patient receiving palliative RT can assist the decision making (ranging from best supportive treatment alone for expected short survival, to dose escalation for potential better disease control).

The available survival prediction models (such Survival Prediction Score using Number of Risk Factors by Chow et al and TEACHH model) have been developed in the Western world. We therefore perform a prospective observational study 1) to assess the overall survival of patients evaluated for palliative RT at a tertiary hospital in Hong Kong, and 2) to validate the prognostic score systems in our population.