Web-based Treatment Information Tool for People With Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is usually diagnosed at a late stage when it is incurable, thereby limiting treatment to palliative care. Chemotherapy is one of the standard palliative care options. Due to the availability of different regimens with varying degrees of benefits and risks, clinicians and patients with advanced pancreatic cancer usually discuss treatment options in order to arrive at the most appropriate chemotherapy regimen for the patient. The use of information tools has produced positive results in explaining the benefits and risks of different treatment options for diseases like stage IV lung cancer, ovarian cancer, and colorectal cancer. However, there is no such tool for people with advanced pancreatic cancer. With over 80% of people with pancreatic cancer being diagnosed in the advanced stage, it would be beneficial to enhance effective decision-making with respect to treatment at this challenging time of the disease progression.

The aim of this research is to investigate the potential of a web-based information tool to support decision-making about treatment options for people who have been diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer.

A multiphase mixed methods design has been adopted for this research study. The identified phases are: (1) systematic review and network meta-analysis of reported randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in advanced pancreatic cancer; (2) focus groups/personal interviews with clinicians, and semi-structured interviews with patients and their relatives; (3) web-based information tool development; and (4) pilot test of the developed information tool with clinicians, patients, and relatives of patients
Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
OTHER: web-based interactive tool
Decisional Conflict Scale, this is a 16-item validated instrument that measures the effectiveness in, and perceptions around decision making, using the decisional conflict construct, which is a state of uncertainty about the course of action to take. Subscales in the instrument are Informed subscale (3 items), Values Clarity subscale (3 items), Support subscale (3 items), and uncertainty subscale (4 items). The individual score is converted to an equivalent 0-100 scale. A total high score (above 37.5) means a high decisional conflict indicating a poor decision-making outcome, while a score below 25 indicates low decisional conflict hence better decision-making outcome. Mean scores and standard deviations will be reported for this measure., up to 2 weeks after using the web-based information tool
Usability: System Usability Scale (SUS), a measure of the usability of the web-based information tool based on adaptions of the System Usability Scale (SUS).

This is a 10-item scale with 5 responses per item that measures the ease of use of a system. The scoring involves conversion of the responses to a scale of 100. Scores of 68 or above termed as "above average", while those below 68 are "below average". However, normalization will be done to obtain percentile ranking for the group under investigation., up to 2 weeks after using the web-based information tool
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a disease with very low 5-year survival rates. Some estimates set this at less than 5%. In the European Union (EU), over 85,000 deaths were projected in 2017, which is a rise of around 8.0% from 2012. PC can be broadly classified as locally resectable, borderline resectable, locally advanced, and metastatic. Treatments include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and palliative care. Surgery offers curative treatment, but 80% of patients are diagnosed in the advanced stage (locally advanced or metastatic) and are ineligible. However, systemic therapy (such as chemotherapy) is a palliative option for people with advanced pancreatic cancer (APC). "Best supportive care" (BSC), or "supportive care", is another option which involves symptom management and improving quality of life.

Shared decision-making (SDM) is a process where clinicians and patients make decisions together using the best available evidence. SDM is recognised as a policy priority and ethical imperative by the National Health Service (NHS) and several healthcare regulators in the United Kingdom (UK), respectively. The concept of equipoise is a scenario where there is more than one legitimate choice of treatment for a medical condition. It offers an opportunity to apply SDM in discussing the choice of treatment for people with APC because there is no clear preference of treatment options in terms of benefits and risks for APC. Moreover, a systematic review in 2006 indicated, among other things, that SDM facilitated positive impact on the clinical process and patient outcomes. Encouraging SDM in APC treatment could yield similar results, including the reduction in selecting aggressive treatments that have little or no corresponding economic or personal benefits.

Several tools have been developed to enhance SDM in relation to other medical conditions. Some of these tools are for ovarian cancer, stage IV lung cancer, and colorectal cancer. CONNECT ™ is a computer-based tool that was developed for the general improvement of the doctor-patient communication process. Additionally, a systematic review in 2015 showed that decision tools can improve patients' knowledge and awareness of the treatment options available to them. However, there is very little in literature about the use of evidence-based digital tools in discussing the expected outcomes of treatment for people with APC. Although predictive tools have been developed for PC, there is currently no web-based information tool that can provide clinical evidence on the treatment choices available to people with APC.

However, there is an online decision aid developed for patients with APC in Canada. It has some useful features which can help its users make decisions about their treatment, including information about APC. However, its automation in comparing treatment options is basic, its depth of information necessary for decision-making, and its flexibility could be improved. Its target audience are the patients only. It also assumes that users typically have only 3 options to choose from, although it suggested the possibility of increasing the user options.

It is necessary that patients are fully aware of the benefits and risks associated with any treatment that is being proposed to them. Also, to ensure that clinicians provide the best available evidence-based information in an easily understandable format for the patients, the purpose of this study is to investigate the potential of an interactive, web-based information tool to facilitate the process of shared decision-making between clinicians, and patients and their relatives (or caregivers).

RESEARCH RATIONALE

1. The need for an evidence-based information tool for APC treatment options:

   There is currently no web-based, SDM tool for APC that presents information on available treatment options in a visual, and concise way to patients so that they and their clinicians can make informed choices. Acceptability and reliability are two important factors to be considered when developing such tools.
2. The support for the policy priority for patient-centred care in the UK:

   In the United Kingdom, shared decision-making is viewed as a priority in patient care. However, effective SDM is enhanced through well-informed participants, and that is an objective of the proposed information tool.
3. Enhancing clinicians' communicative skills:

   Communicative skills was identified in healthcare professionals as a requisite for successful SDM. Therefore, the proposed information tool is hoped to enhance clinicians' capacity to communicate available treatment options with their patients by presenting pertinent facts about APC treatment in a concise and user-friendly manner for them.
4. Improving medical cost-effectiveness This tool could also potentially challenge the "more-is-better" attitude (assumption that expensive treatment equals better healthcare) held by the public. Evaluation of some patient decision aids showed improved cost-effectiveness in some medical conditions. Introducing the information tool to APC treatment could potentially yield similar results.

OBJECTIVES Primary objective To investigate the potential of a web-based, interactive, information tool in facilitating shared decision-making in the choice of treatment for people with advanced pancreatic cancer

Second objectives (i) To assess the quality of life, efficacy, and safety of chemotherapy treatments of APC through systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA) of randomized controlled trials (RCTs).

(ii) To explore the preferences and expectations of clinicians, people with APC, and their relatives, when making decisions about treatment, through focus groups and semi-structured interviews for clinicians, and people with APC (including their relatives), respectively.

(iii) To identify the features necessary for the design of a web-based information tool to facilitate SDM between clinicians and people with APC about choice of treatment.

(iv) To evaluate the effectiveness of the developed information tool in SDM, through a pilot test with clinicians (doctors and nurse specialists), people with APC, and their relatives.