Efficacy and Safety of Perioperative Use of Breztri Aerosphere to Relieve Cough After Lobectomy
Cough after lobectomy is common. The prevention and treatment of cough after lobectomy is not standardized. Breztri Aerosphere is often used to relieve cough. Therefore, we conduct a single center placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of perioperative use of Breztri Aerosphere in relieving cough after lobectomy.
Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell|Perioperative|Cough|Drug Effect|Drug Toxicity
DRUG: Breztri Aerosphere|OTHER: Placebo
Incidence of significant cough two weeks after surgery, Cough Evaluation Test (CET) is an easy way to assess the cough condition. A Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) is a cough rating scale. Significnant cough means VAS more than 3 or any item of CET score more than 2., 12 weeks
The total and sub-scores of the Cough Evaluation Test (CET) score of each day after surgery, Cough Evaluation Test (CET) is an easy way to assess the cough condition, 12 weeks|Incidence of significant cough 1 month after surgery, Cough Evaluation Test (CET) is an easy way to assess the cough condition. A Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) is a cough rating scale. Significnant cough means VAS more than 3 or any item of CET score more than 2., 12 weeks|LCQ-MC at 1 month after surgery, Leicester Cough Questionnaire in Mandarin-Chinese (LCQ-MC) is a useful questionnaire to evaluate cough after surgery, 12 weeks|the number of days the cough lasts, the number of days the cough lasts, 12 weeks|Cough start time, Days from surgery to onset of cough, 12 weeks|Inflammatory factor levels in venous blood before and after surgery, we test the inflammatory factor 3 days before surgery and 1 day after surgery, 12 weeks|Incidence of serious postoperative pneumonia, we make a chest radiograph after surgery to find the postoperative pneumonia, 12 weeks|length of postoperative hospital stay, length of postoperative hospital stay, 12 weeks
This study is a single-center, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial to understand the efficacy and safety of perioperative use of Breztri in relieving cough after lobectomy. This study plans to include 128 subjects from the Department of Thoracic Surgery of the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University. Participants will be randomly divided into according Breztri group and placebo group to the ratio of 1:1. Participants in Placebo group will receive 0.9% normal saline for 3 days before operation and 14 days after operation (n=64). Participants in Breztri group will receive Breztri for 3 days before operation and 14 days after operation (n=64). All patients will undergo screening and baseline visits. After sugery, they will be followed up for 2 months.