Nivolumab in Treating Patients With Stage IIB-IIC Melanoma That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well nivolumab works in treating patients with stage IIB-IIC melanoma that can be removed by surgery. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Recurrence-free survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The corresponding median survival times (with 90% confidence limits) will be determined, as will the cumulative percentage of patients remaining progression-free / alive at selected time points after initial treatment (e.g., 6, 12, and 18 months)., Up to 24 months
Median duration of overall survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The corresponding median survival times (with 90% confidence limits) will be determined, as will the cumulative percentage of patients remaining progression-free/alive at selected time points after initial treatment (e.g., 6, 12, and 18 months)., Up to 24 months|Median duration of distant metastases-free survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The corresponding median survival times (with 90% confidence limits) will be determined, as will the cumulative percentage of patients remaining progression-free/alive at selected time points after initial treatment (e.g., 6, 12, and 18 months)., Up to 24 months|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy nivolumab administered in the adjuvant setting in patients with resected stage IIB or stage IIC cutaneous melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and estimate the median duration of overall survival (OS) in stage IIB-IIC melanoma patients.

II. To evaluate and estimate the median duration of distant metastases-free survival (DMFS) in stage IIB-IIC melanoma patients.

III. To assess safety and toxicity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (V)5.

IV. To assess quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Melanoma (FACT-M) quality of life instrument.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess and compare clinical, histological, immunological and molecular panels as prognostic and predictive biomarkers.