Cabozantinib for Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) Refractory to First Line Treatment
Patients suffering from advanced stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have shown disease progression during lenvatinib-based first line treatment, will be enrolled in this trial. Patients who progressed either during lenvatinib monotherapy or lenvatinib-IO (immuno-oncology) combination therapy will be eligible for study participation, whereas at least 50% of the enrolled patients should be in favor of lenvatinib monotherapy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable|Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Time-on-treatment, Time on treatment will be assessed as time from date of first dose of cabozantinib intake till date of permanent discontinuation of treatment., at study end (approx. 30 months after FPI)
Overall survival (OS), Survival rates will be assessed from the date of first dose of cabozantinib intake to the date of death from any cause using Kaplan-Meier methods., at 18 months after last patient randomized|Progression free survival (PFS), Survival rates for the different time points will be determined using the Kaplan-Meier analysis and RECIST 1.1., at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate will be defined as the proportion of subjects experiencing a confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1., at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Duration of response, Time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression., at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Treatment exposure, Time on treatment/dose intensity/dose reductions, at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Toxicity: o Treatment-related adverse events (TRAEs) o TRAE related treatment interruptions o TRAE related treatment modifications o TRAE related treatment discontinuations, All observed toxicities and side effects will be graded according to NCI CTCAE v5.0 and the degree of association of each with the study treatment assessed and summarized., at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Change in ECOG Performance Status, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group patient performance status (Grading from 0 to 5), at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Change in ALBI Grade, ALBI score = -0.085 × (albumin g/L) + 0.66 × l g(TBil μmol/L), at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Change in Child Pugh Score, Child-Pugh Classification Score (Grading from A to C), at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)|Translational research, Correlation of biomarkers potentially associated with clinical efficacy (OS, PFS and ORR) of cabozantinib by NGS Oncopanel analysis and VEGF module expression analysis., at study end (approx. 18 months after last patient randomized)
This is a open-label, single-arm, multicenter phase II trial for patients with locally advanced and/or metastatic and/or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

Patients who have histologically proven or were clinically diagnosed (by guideline criteria in cirrhotic patients) with locally advanced or metastatic and/or unresectable HCC will be included to receive cabozantinib peroral 60 mg/day. A stepwise dose de-escalation schedule on individual level is available for patients with lower tolerability against cabozantinib.

The study treatment will be limited to a maximum of 12 months (including temporary interruptions).

Tumor tissue will be collected for accompanying research project. (Participation is optional for participant).

During treatment, clinical visits (blood cell counts, ECG, detection of toxicity) occur every four weeks during treatment phase. Safety will be monitored continuously by careful monitoring of all adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) reported.

During treatment, tumor response will be assessed by the Investigator according to RECIST 1.1 (radiological imaging by CT and/or MRI of the chest, abdomen, pelvis and all other sites of disease every 10 weeks until end of treatment (EOT) and every 12 weeks during follow-up (FU), in case of EOT due to other reasons than progressive disease. Safety-FU visit and Survival FU visits will be assessed 30 days-, and every 12 weeks after EOT.