Nutrition and Lifestyle Study Cohort of Gastric Cancer in China
China has the largest gastric cancer patients population all over the world. Recent reports concluded nutrition status and lifestyle factors were associated with gastric cancer risk, however, the influence of nutrition and lifestyle factors on cancer outcome in gastric cancer survivors is largely unknown.The investigators will explore the impact of nutrition status, life style, dietary pattern, obesity, physical activity, depression, diabetes, aspirin use and vitamin supplement on gastric cancer outcome. The investigators will recruit approximately 50,000 patients as a prospective study cohort. During follow up, the investigators will explore the association of these factors with disease-specific survival, disease-free survival and overall survival of patients. The investigators believe that this project will facilitate the establishment of domestic nutrition and lifestyle data of gastric cancer of China, and the improvement of the quality of clinical management of patients with gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
Disease-specific survival, Disease-specific survival is defined as the time elapsed from surgery to death due to gastric cancer. Concretely, the cause of death obtained in the follow up was classified according to ICD-10 conventions. Disease-specific deaths included those with an underlying cause attributed to ICD-10 codes C18.0-C20.0 or C26.0., 7 years
Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time elapsed from surgery to the date of death from any cause, 7 years
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival is defined as the time elapsed from surgery to the first occurrence of any of the following events: recurrence of gastric cancer; gastric cancer distant metastasis; development of second non-colorectal malignancy excluding basal cell carcinomas of the skin and carcinoma in situ of the cervix; or death from any cause without documentation of a cancer-related event., 7 years
Background - Gastric cancer incidence is increasing at an alarming rate in China. Recent studies reported that nutrition status and lifestyle factors such as dietary pattern, obesity, physical activity, depression, diabetes, aspirin use and vitamin supplement were associated cancer risk. Yet, the influence of nutrition and lifestyle factors on gastric cancer outcome (i.e. recurrence and survival) in gastric cancer survivors is largely unknown. And there is currently no large cohort studies investigated the impact of these factors on gastric cancer outcomes in China.

Objectives - Our study aims to evaluate the impact of nutrition status and lifestyle factors such as dietary pattern, tea consumption, obesity, physical activity, depression, diabetes, aspirin use and vitamin supplement on gastric cancer outcome (disease-specific survival, disease-free survival and overall survival).

Settings and methods - The study will recruit approximately 50,000 participants with gastric cancer from 12 public hospitals in China after informed consent. Appropriate questionnaires will be utilized to evaluate nutrition status and lifestyle factors such as dietary pattern, tea consumption, obesity, physical activity, depression, diabetes, aspirin use and vitamin supplement. The association of disease-specific survival, disease-free survival and overall survival with these factors will be evaluated.

Impact - To the best of our knowledge, this is the first large cohort, systematically investigation of the impact of nutrition status and lifestyle factors on gastric cancer outcome. When complete, our investigation would supply a systematical and precise understanding of the impact nutrition status and lifestyle factors on cancer out come in China.