Gefitinib in Treating Patients Who Are Undergoing Surgery and/or Radiation Therapy for Locally Advanced or Recurrent Squamous Cell Skin Cancer
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if giving Iressa (Gefitinib or ZD1839) with surgery and/or radiation will help to control squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. The safety of this treatment will also be studied
Recurrent Skin Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin
DRUG: Gefitinib|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Conventional surgery|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Early Progression Rate, Number of participants out of total participants with progression following two 30 day courses of Gefitinib. Tumor response evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors by physical exam, computed tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Progressive disease defined as determined as response to Gefitinib induction therapy: Progression: 25% increase in sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques, OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer). Participants restaged on days 15 and 60 of treatment., Baseline to 60 days, up to 2 courses of induction therapy|Number of Participants With Response Rate During Induction, Dose Escalation, and Concomitant With Radiation., Completion Induction phase, participants are evaluated for clinical response and resectability. Resectable participants who had achieved at least stable disease and received surgery followed by radiation. Unresectable participants who had achieved at least stable disease received concomitant radiation/Gefitinib., Up to 100 days|Toxicity as Assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria Associated With Gefitinib Therapy: Expected Toxicities (Grade 1 - 3), Severity and timing of toxicities evaluated according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 3. Occurrences of late (post-radiation) toxicities that are radiation-related monitored and included., Up to 5 years|Toxicity as Assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria Associated With Gefitinib Therapy: UnExpected Toxicities (Grade 1 - 3), Severity and timing of toxicities evaluated according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 3. Occurrences of late (post-radiation) toxicities that are radiation-related monitored and included., Up to 5 years
Clinical Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), Number participants with response defined by RECIST: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance all disease; No new lesions/non-evaluable disease; Responders on none/only maintenance doses of corticosteroids. Partial Response (PR): \>/= 50% decrease under baseline in sum products perpendicular diameters of measurable lesions; No progression evaluable disease/new lesions; Responders on same/decreasing doses dexamethasone \& stable/improved neurological exams. Stable/No Response (SD): Not qualify for CR, PR, or progression; requires minimum 12 weeks duration; Responders on same/decreasing doses dexamethasone \& stable/improved neurological exams. Progression (PD): 25% increase in sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease), OR clear worsening any evaluable disease, OR appearance any new lesion/site, OR failure to return due to death/deteriorating condition. All measurable/evaluable sites assessed using same baseline techniques., Up to 5 years|Frequency and Timing of Local and Distant Failures, From study entry to first documented local recurrence or last patient contact, assessed up to 5 years
Change in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) and Phospho-Akt Expression, Samples were not available from all participants because the protocol specified that consenting to tissue biopsies was optional. In addition, some participants presented with regional recurrences, which were not superficially accessible. The sample size was too small to determine the EGFR-proliferative responses activated by the AKT pathway; hence, the monitoring of the status of activated phospho-AKT as an independent marker of EGFR activation could not be performed., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Early progression rate (progression during ZD1839 induction).

II. Feasibility of induction ZD1839 (for all patients) and concomitant ZD1839 with radiotherapy (for unresectable patients).

III. Toxicities of induction ZD1839 (for all patients) and concomitant ZD1839 with radiotherapy (for unresectable patients).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Response: clinical responses to induction therapy.

II. Failures: frequency and timing of local and distant failures.

III. Biomarkers: biomarker levels in tumor and normal tissue.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. For progressive disease responders, patients will be followed for locoregional and distant metastases data.

II. Feasibility of maintenance ZD1839.

III. Toxicities of maintenance ZD1839.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

STRATUM I (initially resectable tumor): Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily (QD) 5 days a week for approximately 6-7 weeks. Patients also receive gefitinib orally (PO) QD for up to 12 months

STRATUM II (initially unresectable tumor): Patients undergo radiotherapy QD 5 days a week for approximately 6-7 weeks. Patients also receive concurrent gefitinib PO QD for 6-7 weeks. Patients then undergo surgery. After surgery, patients receive gefitinib PO QD for up to 12 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.