A Trial of Induction Chemotherapy and Chemoradiotherapy With TS-1 and Cisplatin (SP) as First-line Treatment in Patients With High Risk Advanced Gastric Cancer
A Phase I trial of Induction chemotherapy and Chemoradiotherapy with TS-1 and Cisplatin (SP) as first-line treatment in patients with high risk advanced gastric cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving chemotherapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Radiation therapy was effectively used in esophageal cancer, laryngeal cancer and rectal cancer, but gastric cancer are rarely studied in Korea. There is an increasing interest in preoperative radiotherapy in effort to improve survival and increase pathologic complete response in patients with gastric cancer. Chemoradiotherapy may be the best modality in the neoadjuvant setting for high-risk advanced tumors, such as type IV or large type III, N3/bulky N2 metastasis, or locally advanced tumors.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: TS-1 with Cisplatin
maximum tolerated dose, about 7 weeks
A Phase I trial of Induction chemotherapy and Chemoradiotherapy with TS-1 and Cisplatin (SP) as first-line treatment in patients with high risk advanced gastric cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving chemotherapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Radiation therapy was effectively used in esophageal cancer, laryngeal cancer and rectal cancer, but gastric cancer are rarely studied in Korea. There is an increasing interest in preoperative radiotherapy in effort to improve survival and increase pathologic complete response in patients with gastric cancer. Chemoradiotherapy may be the best modality in the neoadjuvant setting for high-risk advanced tumors, such as type IV or large type III, N3/bulky N2 metastasis, or locally advanced tumors.