Using CircuLating Tumor DNA to Risk Adapt Post-Operative Therapy for HPV-associated Oropharyngeal Cancer
This is a single institution phase II study that will enroll patients with T0-3N0-2 p16-positive oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) undergoing resection of all gross visible disease at the primary site and in the lymph nodes.
Oropharyngeal Cancer|Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin
2-year progression-free (PFS), The primary objective of this study is to assess the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) of de-intensified post-operative chemoradiation in patients with HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancer when basing treatment intensity on both standard pathologic features and post-operative Blood-based circulating tumor tissue modified viral (cTTMV-HPV DNA), 2 Years
Overall Survival (OS), Proportion of patients alive, based on time from enrollment to death from any cause., 2 Years|Locoregional Control, Proportion of patients without local recurrence or regional recurrence, as defined above, based on the time from enrollment to the first evidence of either local or regional recurrence, irrespective of prior distant recurrence. Death from causes unrelated to cancer is a competing event., 2 Years|Distant Control, Proportion of patients without distant recurrence, based on time from enrollment to distant recurrence, irrespective of prior local or regional recurrence. Distant metastasis includes any recurrent disease outside of the head and neck, cervical lymph nodes, or retropharyngeal lymph nodes. Death from causes unrelated to cancer is a competing event., 2 Years|Cause-Specific Survival, Proportion of patients without oropharyngeal cancer-related or treatment-related death, based on time from enrollment to death from oropharyngeal cancer or treatment. Death from other causes is a competing event., 2 Years|Mean change in patient-reported outcomes using Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), To assess quality of life changes before, during and after treatment via Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE)

PRO-CTCAE responses are scored from 0 to 4 (or 0/1 for absent/present), with lower scoring indicating an absence of symptoms to higher scoring reflecting higher severity of symptoms., 2 Years|Mean change in patient-reported outcomes using Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults (HHIA-S), To assess quality of life changes before, during and after treatment via Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults (HHIA-S). The scale ranges from 0 to 4 (0 - no, 2 - sometimes, 4- yes) for each question identifying problems with hearing loss, as self-reported by patients. The total number of points for the 25 questions range from 0 to 100, with 0 indicating no handicap to 100 indicating total handicap., 2 Years|Mean change in patient-reported outcomes using European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30), To assess quality of life changes before, during and after treatment via EORTC QLQ-C30. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is composed of both multi-item scales and single-item measures. These include 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, a global health status / QoL, and 6 single items. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0-100. A high scale score represents a higher response level and represents a high/healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status/QoL represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale represents a high level of problems. Most questions are scored 1 to 4, with exception to global health questions scored from 1 to 7. The raw scores are then standardized by a linear transformation, so that scores range from 0 to 100; a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., 2 Years|Mean change in patient-reported outcomes using the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI), To assess quality of life changes before, during and after treatment via the MD Anderson Dysphagia Index (MDADI). The MDADI is a patient-reported, 20-item scale that quantifies four domains: an individual's global (G), physical (P), emotional (E), and functional (F) perceptions of their swallowing ability. Two summary scores can be obtained from the MDADI: 1) global and 2) composite. The global scale is a single question, scored individually, to assess the overall impact that swallowing abilities have on quality of life. The composite MDADI score summarizes overall performance on remaining 19-items of the MDADI, as a weighted average of the physical, emotional, and functional subscale questions. Summary and subscale MDADI scores are normalized to range from 20 (extremely low functioning) to 100 (high functioning). Five possible responses to the items on the MDADI are: strongly agree, agree, no opinion, disagree, and strongly disagree, and scored on a scale of 1 to 5 respectively., 2 Years|Mean change in patient-reported outcomes using University of Michigan Xerostomia-Related Quality of Life Scale (XeQoLS), To assess quality of life changes before, during and after treatment via the University of Michigan Xerostomia-Related Quality of Life Scale (XeQoLS). XeQOLS is a patient-reported, 15-item scale that measures four domains: physical functioning, pain/discomfort, personal/psychologic functioning, and social functioning. Patient responses to all four domains are averaged, and the total scores range from 0 to 4; an increased xerostomia burden is indicated by a higher score., 2 Years|Mean change in patient-reported outcomes using 5-level version of the EuroQol five dimensional instrument EQ-5D-5L, To assess quality of life changes before, during and after treatment via the 5-level version of the EuroQol five dimensional instrument EQ-5D-5L.The EQ-5D-5L descriptive system comprises of five dimensions: (MOBILITY, SELF-CARE, USUAL ACTIVITIES, PAIN / DISCOMFORT and ANXIETY / DEPRESSION), with each dimension having five response levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, unable to /extreme problems - severity level of each dimension are coded from 1 to 5, respectively. The visual analog scale (EQ VAS) attached to this questionnaire records the respondent's overall self-rated perception of current health status on a vertical visual analogue scale, where the endpoints are scored from 0 to 100, 100 being the 'The best health you can imagine' and 0 indicating 'The worst health you can imagine', 2 Years|Mean change in Dysphagia using MDADI, To assess dysphagia before, during, and after treatment with the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) tool. The MDADI is a patient-reported, 20-item scale that quantifies four domains: an individual's global (G), physical (P), emotional (E), and functional (F) perceptions of their swallowing ability. Two summary scores can be obtained from the MDADI: 1) global and 2) composite. The global scale is a single question, scored individually, to assess the overall impact that swallowing abilities have on quality of life. The composite MDADI score summarizes overall performance on remaining 19-items of the MDADI, as a weighted average of the physical, emotional, and functional subscale questions. Summary and subscale MDADI scores are normalized to range from 20 (extremely low functioning) to 100 (high functioning). Five possible responses to the items on the MDADI are: strongly agree, agree, no opinion, disagree, and strongly disagree, and scored on a scale of 1 to 5 respectively., 2 Years|Mean change in Dysphagia using Modified Barium Swallow, To assess dysphagia before, during, and after treatment with the modified barium swallow. MBS is an analysis of swallowing through three phases: oral (mouth), pharyngeal (throat) and upper esophagus. A Modified Barium Swallow Study (MBSS) is a special x-ray that allows the Radiologist (who specializes in using x-rays) and Speech Language Pathologist (SLP) to identify why you are having trouble swallowing. The MBS provides quantitative evaluation of 17 physiologic components of swallowing distributed across three functional domains: oral, pharyngeal, and esophageal. MBS components are scored on an ordinal scale from 0 (indicating no impairment) to a maximum of 2, 3, or 4, depending on the specific component., 2 Years|2-year Progression-Free Survival, To assess the 2-year PFS (Progression-Free Survival) in the high-risk \[extranodal extension (ENE), positive margins, ≥5 positive lymph nodes (LNs)\] and intermediate-risk \[T3, close margins, LN size \> 3cm, 2 or more LN+, lymphovascular invasion (LVI), perineural invasion (PNI)\] subgroups separately. The difference between the proportion of patients alive and without evidence of local, regional, or distant recurrence at 2 years from study enrollment, in high-risk and intermediate subgroups., 2 Years
All eligible patients will be treated with a de-intensified cisplatin-based chemoradiation regimen after undergoing transoral robotic surgery. Enrolled patients will be risk-assessed and assigned to specific regimens based on a combination of their post-operative cTTMV-HPV DNA, as determined by results from NavDx kits by Naveris, and pathologic features. All patients will receive a dose of 40 mg/m2 IV weekly concurrently with radiation therapy. Patients ineligible to receive cisplatin at this dose will undergo modified sydtemic therapy. Patients will recieve concurrent radiation in a dose of 30 Gy in 15 fractions to the primary tumor bed, ipsilateral neck +/- contralateral neck. Based on risk-stratification, some patients will receive a sequential boost of 10 Gy over 5 fractions or 20 Gy over 10 fractions.