Harvest of CTCs From MBC Patients Using the Parsortix™ PC1 System
The purpose of this clinical study is to demonstrate that the Parsortix™ PC1 system enables the capture and harvest of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) from the peripheral blood of patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) and not from healthy volunteers (HVs). The study is also designed to demonstrate that the CTCs harvested by the Parsortix PC1 system from MBC patients can be used effectively for different types of evaluations (e.g. cytopathology, FISH, qPCR, RNAseq, etc.).

This is an investigational study. The Parsortix PC1 system is not FDA approved and is currently being used for research purposes only.
Healthy Volunteers|Breast Cancer, Metastatic
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood draw
Incidence of CTC, Determine the proportion of MBC patients and healthy volunteers (HVs or controls) that have one or more observable CTCs (as determined by a qualified pathologist using cytological evaluation of Wright-Giemsa stained slides) harvested from their peripheral blood using the Parsortix PC1 system., 1 day (At time of blood draw)
CTC Enumeration, Quantify the number of observable CTCs (as determined by a qualified pathologist using cytological evaluation of Wright-Giemsa stained slides) harvested from the peripheral blood of each MBC patient and healthy volunteer (HV or control) and summarize separately for each group., 1 day (At time of blood draw)
Her2 FISH Evaluation, Demonstrate that CTCs harvested from peripheral blood of MBC patients by the Parsortix PC1 system and deposited onto slides can be evaluated by fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) for Her-2/neu gene amplification., 1 day (At time of blood draw)|qPCR Evaluation, Demonstrate that CTCs harvested from peripheral blood of MBC patients by the Parsortix PC1 system and deposited into an RNA preservation/lysis buffer can be evaluated using qPCR for analysis of cancer related gene expression., 1 day (At time of blood draw)|RNAseq Evaluation, Demonstrate that CTCs harvested from peripheral blood of MBC patients by the Parsortix PC1 system and deposited into an RNA preservation/lysis buffer can be evaluated using whole genome sequencing (RNAseq) for determination of the expression patterns of breast cancer related genes., 1 day (At time of blood draw)
Approximately 200 evaluable MBC patients (either newly diagnosed or patients with progressive/recurrent disease who are about to start a new line of therapy for the treatment of their disease) and 200 evaluable healthy volunteer (HV) subjects (healthy women with no history of cancer) will be enrolled at a minimum of three (3) US based clinical sites. Each subject will have information about their age race/ethnicity, height and weight, menopausal status, smoking status, pregnancy and/or nursing status, and a brief medical history captured at the time of enrollment. Blood will be drawn from each subject into three different EDTA tubes (minimum of \~7mL up to a maximum of \~23mL of whole blood) specifically for the purposes of this study. One of the blood tubes collected will be used for a complete blood count (CBC) with differential testing, while the other two tubes of blood will be processed on the Parsortix PC1 system for the capture and harvest of CTCs. The cells harvested from one of the blood tubes will be deposited onto a glass slide and automated Wright-Giemsa staining will be done to allow for identification of CTCs based on their cytologic features (e.g. size, shape, nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio, chromatin structure, etc.) by an expert cytopathologist. The cells harvested from the remaining blood tube will be used for one of three different evaluations: Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) for evaluation of Her-2/neu gene amplification, quantitative reverse-transcriptase real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) for evaluation of cancer related gene expression, or whole transcriptome sequencing (RNAseq) for determination of the expression patterns of breast cancer related genes.