Anti-IMP3 Autoantibody and MicroRNA Signature Blood Tests in Finding Metastasis in Patients With Localized or Metastatic Kidney Cancer
This research trial studies the development of a blood test for detecting anti-insulin-like growth factor II mRNA binding protein 3 (anti-IMP3) antibody and micro ribonucleic acid (microRNA) in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) or is limited to the tissue or organ where it began (localized). Anti-IMP3 is a tumor marker that can be detected in many human cancers, including RCC and is likely to be present in the serum (blood) of patients with metastatic or localized RCC. Alterations in microRNA expression has also shown to play a critical role in cancer progression and may be a promising biomarker for patients with RCC. Developing a blood test for anti-IMP3 antibody and microRNA in serum and tissue samples of patients in the laboratory may help doctors find and diagnose RCC earlier, find out how far the disease has spread, and plan effective treatment for RCC.
Kidney Cancer
GENETIC: gene expression analysis|GENETIC: protein expression analysis|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method
Presence of primary and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma by IMP3 autoantibody, For the IMP3 autoantibody study, the results of IHC studies of IMP3 on the tissue sections will be used as golden standard to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Statistical significance will be set at P \< 0.05 (confidence level of 95%)., Baseline|Presence of primary and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma by miRNA/snRNA signature, For the miRNA/snRNA signature study, the patients' clinical presentation of RCC and its recurrence/metastasis will be used as the golden standard to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Statistical significance will be set at P \< 0.05 (confidence level of 95%)., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To develop a blood test by monitoring the titer of IMP3 autoantibody and/or microRNA (miRNA)/small non-coding RNA (snRNA) expression in patients' serum for the early detection of RCC and its recurrence/metastasis.

OUTLINE: Serum samples are collected prior to treatment and analyzed for anti-IMP3 autoantibody titer via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and total RNA via sequencing, microarray, and/or quantitative polymerase chain reaction (q-PCR). Previously collected tissue samples are analyzed for IMP3 via immunohistochemistry (IHC).