A Study of Obinutuzumab (RO5072759) Induction in Patients With Relapsed/ Refractory Waldenström Macroglobulinemia, OBI-1
This is a multi-center, single-arm, open label, non-randomized, phase II study designed to investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of obinutuzumab given as monotherapy in patients with relapsed/refractory Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (R/R MW).
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Obinutuzumab 25 MG/ML
Best Overall Response (BOR), BOR is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression: response assessments recorded as CR, VGPR, PR, MR, SD, PD. As a responder is considered patient with at least MR (CR, VGPR, PR, MR). BOR will be presented as rates with corresponding exact 95% CI., Up to 3,5 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be calculated as time from fist treatment dose until progression or death of any cause. The PFS will be defined as well-documented and verifiable data. The Kaplan-Meier curve will be provided. The median time to PFS along with associated 95% confidence interval will be provided as well., Up to 3,5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from first study treatment dose to death due to any cause. Survival distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Each subject will be followed for 1 year after the treatment period., from first study treatment dose till 1 year after the treatment period|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR as a secondary endpoint will be assessed after completion of induction phase and after maintenance phase. Responders include subjects with at least MR (CR, VGPR, PR, MR). Non-responders include subjects with Stable Disease (SD) and Progressive Disease (PD). Subjects with unknown or missing responses will be considered as non-responders., after 6 Cycles of obinutuzumab treatment (after induction phase); each cycle is 21 days in Induction Phase;|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR as a secondary endpoint will be assessed after completion of induction phase and after maintenance phase. Responders include subjects with at least MR (CR, VGPR, PR, MR). Non-responders include subjects with Stable Disease (SD) and Progressive Disease (PD). Subjects with unknown or missing responses will be considered as non-responders., after all 12 Cycles of treatment in Maintenance Phase (at first visit in follow-up phase FU2M) or after the last dose, if not after 12 Cycles of obinutuzumab (each cycle is 8 weeks in Maintenance Phase;
Study to investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of obinutuzumab administered as monotherapy in patients with relapsed/refractory Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (R/R WM)