Erlotinib Hydrochloride and Quinacrine Dihydrochloride in Stage IIIB-IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of quinacrine dihydrochloride when given together with erlotinib hydrochloride and to see how well it works in treating patients with stage IIIB-IV non-small cell lung cancer. Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as quinacrine dihydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving erlotinib hydrochloride together with quinacrine dihydrochloride may kill more tumor cells
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|DRUG: quinacrine dihydrochloride - Escalation dose|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study|DRUG: quinacrine dihydrochloride - Extension dose
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of quinacrine dihydrochloride in combination of erlotinib hydrochloride determined by dose-limiting toxicities, 28 days|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Estimated by Kaplan-Meier method and the difference between two treatment arms will be evaluated by log-rank test., Date of randomization to the date of disease progression or the date of death, assessed up to 2 years
Pharmacokinetic parameters, after 2 months (2 cycles)|Objective tumor response rate (ORR) (complete response and partial response) evaluated by revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, Estimated based on the number of responses by excluding the dropouts who are not evaluable for response using a binomial distribution., Up to 2 years|Disease stabilization rate (complete response, partial response and stable disease), The confidence intervals for them will be estimated using Wilson's method., Up to 2 years|Baseline expression of intracellular inhibitor of the nuclear factor kappa B (IkappaB) or NFkappaB gene signature in determining survival or response, Baseline up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Estimated by Kaplan-Meier method and the difference between two treatment arms will be evaluated by log-rank test. Identified by Cox model or extended Cox model. Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used to examine the difference of response rate between two treatment arms., Date of randomization to the date of death, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) and quinacrine (quinacrine dihydrochloride) in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

II. To determine the recommended Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of the combination of erlotinib and quinacrine in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the dose limiting toxicity of the erlotinib and quinacrine combination.

II. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of the erlotinib and quinacrine combination.

III. To determine objective response rate (complete response \[CR\]+partial response \[PR\]) and clinical benefit rate (CR+PR+ stable disease \[SD\]) of the erlotinib and quinacrine combination.

IV. To estimate overall survival (OS)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of quinacrine dihydrochloride

Escalation Portion: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO)daily on days 1-28 and quinacrine dihydrochloride PO thrice daily (TID) on days, 1-7 and PO daily from days 8-28.

After Maximum Tolerated Dose is established: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride PO daily on days 1-28.

ARM II: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride PO and quinacrine dihydrochloride PO daily (TID) on days, 1-7 and PO daily from days 8-28.

In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.