RAD001 and AV-951 in Patients With Refractory, Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
Research has shown that anti-angiogenic agents can be effective therapies to treat cancer. Anti-angiogenic agents target the blood vessels required for tumors to grow. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is one of the cell pathways used for this blood vessel growth. When the investigators interfere with the VEGF pathway, the investigators inhibit this blood vessel growth which is required by tumors. One of the study drugs being used, tivozanib (AV-951), selectively interferes with the VEGF pathway. The second study drug being used, everolimus (RAD001) interferes with the mTOR pathway. The mTOR pathway is another pathway involved in blood vessel and tumor cell growth. By combining these two drugs the investigators hope to slow or reverse tumor cell growth in patients whose tumors have become resistant to other therapies for their disease.
Gastrointestinal Cancer
DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Tivozanib
Everolimus Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) [Phase I], The everolimus MTD in combination with tivozanib is determined by the number of patients who experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). See subsequent primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a DLT. If no DLTs are observed, the MTD is not reached., Patients were assessed continuously for toxicity while on study. The observation period for MTD evaluation was the first 28 days (cycle 1) of treatment.|Tivozanib Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) [Phase I], The tivozanib MTD in combination with everolimus is determined by the number of patients who experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). See subsequent primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a DLT. If no DLTs are observed, the MTD is not reached., Patients were assessed continuously for toxicity while on study. The observation period for MTD evaluation was the first 28 days (cycle 1) of treatment.|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) [Phase I], A DLT was defined as a treatment-related (attribution possible, probable, definite) adverse event that meets any of the following criteria: Grade 3 (G3) or higher non-hematologic toxicity (excluding, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, alopecia, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, or hypertriglyceridemia); G3 diarrhea, nausea or vomiting lasting \> 48 hours or leading to hospitalization, despite aggressive anti-diarrheal or anti-emetic medications; G4 diarrhea, despite aggressive anti-diarrheal medications; G4 vomiting, despite aggressive anti-emetic medications; G3 hypertension, for which blood pressure cannot be reduced to \<150/100 with anti-hypertensive therapies; G4 hypertension or severe hypertension, as defined by systolic blood pressure \>180 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure \> 110 mmHg; G4 hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia lasting \> 7 days, despite appropriate use of anti-hyperlipidemic medications; G4 hematologic toxicity lasting for \>5 days, including leukopenia, neutropen, Patients were assessed continuously for toxicity while on study. The observation period for DLT evaluation was the first 28 days (cycle 1) of treatment.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) [Phase II], PFS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to the earliest documentation of disease progression (PD) or death. Participants alive without evidence of PD were censored at the earliest date of last disease assessment. Per RECIST 1.0 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was assessed radiographically to document clinical progression every 2 cycles on treatment. Participants were followed for up to 16 months since study entry.
Disease Control Rate (DCR) [Phase II], Disease Control Rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve confirmed stable disease (SD) or better on treatment based on RECIST 1.0 criteria. Per RECIST 1.0 for target lesions, complete response (CR) is disappearance of all target lesions and partial response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in sum LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started. SD is neither PR nor PD. For non-target lesions, PD is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Disease was assessed every 2 cycles on treatment. Median treatment duration on this study cohort was 2 months (range 1-16).|Overall Survival (OS) [Phase II], OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or date last known alive., Long-term follow-up for survival was not specified per protocol. Participants were followed for up to 20 months on this study.
Primary Objective

Phase I

* To determine the safety, tolerability, and maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of everolimus and tivozanib administered in combination to patients with advanced gastrointestinal tumors.

Phase II

* At the MTD, to assess progression-free survival associated with everolimus and tivozanib in patients with refractory, metastatic colorectal cancer.

Secondary Objectives

Phase II

* To assess tumor response rate.
* To assess overall survival.