First-line Chemotherapy Followed by Toripalimab Combined With Anlotinib for Maintenance in ES-SCLC
Our aim in this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of etoposide combined with cisplatin or carboplatin (EC/EP) chemotherapy regimens followed by toripalimab combined with anlotinib for maintenance in extensive small cell lung cancer(ES-SCLC).
Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: Etoposide Injection|DRUG: Carboplatin Injection|DRUG: Cisplatin injection|DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Anlotinib hydrochloride
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS, Duration of time from the start of chemotherapy to the time of disease progression, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), OS, Duration of time from the start of chemotherapy to the time of outcome events, assessed up to 3 years
Adverse event (AE), The acute and chronic AE profiles associated with the study regimen using CTCAE v5.0, Duration of time from the start of treatment to the end of study, assessed up to 3 years|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR was the sum percentage of partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD) according to RECIST v1.1, Duration of time from the start of treatment to the end of study, assessed up to 3 years|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR was the sum percentage of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD) according to RECIST v1.1, Duration of time from the start of treatment to the end of study, assessed up to 3 years|Duration of response (DoR), DoR, Duration of time from the start of treatment response to the time of disease progression, assessed up to 3 years
Lung cancer is the most leading malignant tumor, among which small cell lung cancer accounts for about 15%. Approximately 65% of new patients were diagnosed with ES-SCLC at the first visit with less than 6 months of median PFS (mPFS) and 8-13 months of median OS (mOS). Platinum combined with etoposide or irinotecan chemotherapy is the first-line standard chemotherapy treatment. Despite high objective response of initial treatment, it is evitable to develop chemotherapy resistance and the effects of follow-up line treatment is dissatisfying. Therefore, combination therapy may be promising and efficient.

Anlotinib, the brand new multi-target protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) blockers, could normalize distribution of blood vessels in the tumor, gather T cells and enhance effect of immune drugs via vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR), type Ⅲ tyrosine kinase and others signal pathways, and then inhibit the growth, proliferation and differentiation of lung cancer cells. According to ALTER1202 study, anlotinib played a promising role in local tumor control and effectively prolonged PFS in third line or more for ES-SCLC patients. Meanwhile, immunocheckpoint inhibitors can improve tumor immune microenvironment, relieve VEGF-mediated immunosuppression, reduce Treg activity, promote tumor antigen presenting ability and better infiltrate T cell into the tumor to play an anti-tumor effect. Emerging studies have shown that immunocheckpoint inhibitors, such as Atezolizumab, Pembrolizumab and Nivolumab, can effectively improve ORR, DoR and survival in SCLC patients. In terms of molecular mechanisms, immunocheckpoint inhibitors and vascular targeting drugs complemented and the combination of two drugs has superior efficacy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), just as it shown in IMpower150 and other studies. However, the role of immunocheckpoint inhibitors in maintenance therapy in SCLC were disappointing in CheckMate451 and a study of pembrolizumab, although it obtained some victories in first line or more for SCLC.

In summary, the investigators proposed that first-line etoposide/platinum-based chemotherapy followed by toripalimab combined with anlotinib for maintenance may prolong chemo-resistance in extensive small cell lung cancer.