Palbociclib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Rb Positive Advanced Solid Tumors, Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, or Histiocytic Disorders With Activating Alterations in Cell Cycle Genes (A Pediatric MATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II Pediatric MATCH trial studies how well palbociclib works in treating patients with Rb positive solid tumors, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or histiocytic disorders with activating alterations (mutations) in cell cycle genes that have spread to other places in the body and have come back or do not respond to treatment. Palbociclib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the proteins needed for cell growth.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Childhood Ependymoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma|Recurrent Glioma|Recurrent Hepatoblastoma|Recurrent Kidney Wilms Tumor|Recurrent Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Recurrent Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Malignant Glioma|Recurrent Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Rhabdoid Tumor|Recurrent Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Refractory Ependymoma|Refractory Ewing Sarcoma|Refractory Glioma|Refractory Hepatoblastoma|Refractory Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Refractory Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Refractory Malignant Glioma|Refractory Medulloblastoma|Refractory Neuroblastoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Osteosarcoma|Refractory Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Refractory Rhabdoid Tumor|Refractory Rhabdomyosarcoma|Refractory Soft Tissue Sarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Palbociclib|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Objective Response Rate, Defined as a patient who achieves a best response of partial response or complete response on the study. Confidence intervals will be constructed using the Wilson score interval method., From enrollment to the end of treatment, up to 2 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as time from initiation of protocol treatment to disease progression, recurrence, death from any cause, or date of last contact., At 6 months|Percentage of Patients Experiencing Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., From enrollment to 30 days after the end of treatment, up to 2 years
Changes in Tumor Genomics Over Time Through Evaluation of Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid, A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics. All of these analyses will be descriptive in nature., Baseline up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR; complete response + partial response) in pediatric patients treated with palbociclib with advanced solid tumors (including central nervous system \[CNS\] tumors), non-Hodgkin lymphomas or histiocytic disorders that harbor activating genetic alterations in cell cycle genes.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression free survival in pediatric patients treated with palbociclib with advanced solid tumors (including CNS tumors), non-Hodgkin lymphomas or histiocytic disorders that harbor activating genetic alterations in alterations in cell cycle genes.

II. To obtain information about the tolerability of palbociclib in children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory cancer.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore approaches to profiling changes in tumor genomics over time through evaluation of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive palbociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.