Self-affirmation Intervention for People Newly Diagnosed With Advanced Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if a brief writing intervention works to improve quality of life outcomes in adult patients newly diagnosed with advanced stage cancer.
Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Self-affirmation writing
Mean Changes From Baseline in Self-esteem Scores on the Rosenberg Self-esteem Scale (RSES) to Two-, Six-, and Eight Weeks Post Baseline, Changes include raw score changes and standardized mean differences. Scores on the Rosenberg Self-esteem Scale range from 0 to 30, with higher score indicating higher level of self-esteem., Baseline (T1) as well as 2 weeks (T2), 6 weeks (T3), and 8 weeks post baseline (T4)|Mean Changes From Baseline in Quality of Life (QoL) Scores on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) to Two-, Six-, and Eight Weeks Post Baseline, Changes include raw score changes and standardized mean differences. Scores on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) range from 0 to 108, with higher score indicating higher level of quality of life. Each subscale ranging from 0 to 28, with higher score indicating higher level of quality of life. The raw scores of overall QoL (total FACT-G), four composite domains (physical well-being, PWB; social/family well-being, SWB; emotional well-being, EWB; functional well-being, FWB), global QoL (item Gf7 "I am content with the quality of my life right now") and one item pertinent to this study (Ge6 "I worry that my condition will get worse") were presented below., Baseline (T1) as well as 2 weeks (T2), 6 weeks (T3), and 8 weeks post baseline (T4)
Mean Changes From Baseline in Spiritual Well-Being Scores on the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual Well-Being 12 Item Scale (FACIT-Sp-12) to Two-, Six-, and Eight Weeks Post Baseline, Changes include raw score changes and standardized mean differences. The FACIT-Sp-12 scale measures an individual's level of spiritual well-being, specifically assessing their sense of meaning, peace, and faith in life, with higher scores indicating a better level of spiritual well-being and lower scores a worse level of spiritual well-being. It consists of 12 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale (0 = Not at all to 4 = Very much). The FACIT-Sp-12 Scale consists of 2 sub-scales Meaning/Peace (M/P) with a range of 0-32, and Faith ranging from 1-16. Possible overall spiritual well-being or FACIT-Sp-12 (total) range from 0 to 48. The revised Faith subscale as well as the revised FACIT-Sp-12 scale have the same scale range of the original measures., Baseline (T1) as well as 2 weeks (T2), 6 weeks (T3), and 8 weeks post baseline (T4)|Mean Changes From Baseline in Anxiety and Depression Scores on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) to Two-, Six-, and Eight Weeks Post Baseline, Changes include raw score changes and standardized mean differences. Scores on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) range from 0 to 42, with higher score indicating higher level of anxiety or depression. The two subscales HADS anxiety (HADS-A) and HADS depression (HADS-D) were analyzed separately. Each sub-scale has a range from 0-21, with the higher score indicating higher level of anxiety or depression., Baseline (T1) as well as 2 weeks (T2), 6 weeks (T3), and 8 weeks post baseline (T4)
A diagnosis of cancer may challenge one's former assumptions and beliefs about themselves and the world and potentially compromise quality of life (QoL). The primary aim of the study is to explore the preliminary efficacy of an intervention to protect individuals from the negative psychological impact of the cancer diagnosis. The secondary aim is to test the validity of the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy- Spiritual Well-Being 12 item Scale (FACIT-Sp-12), in its current and revised forms. Potential participants will be enrolled from two study sites as per protocol: the Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer Institute at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS) and the Arkansas Hospice respectively, and will be asked to write as guided by the researcher for 4 weeks. Study outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 2-, 6- and 8-weeks post baseline. It is hypothesized that self-affirmation via writing at the time following a diagnosis of an advanced cancer by affirming values or beliefs that are salient to self will help enhance self-esteem, reinforce spiritual well-being, decrease levels of anxiety or depression, and improve QoL.