Impact of Preoperative Counseling and Education in Reducing Anxiety Levels in Patients With Gynecologic Tumors
The surgical procedure can be considered a transition in the patient's life. The transition can generate instability and produce negative effects, which may be temporary or permanent. Failure to prepare people to deal with the unexpected, such as diagnosing a disease, such as cancer, and surgical necessity can be a frightening and frustrating experience, developing painful and distressing feelings, involving their family members as well.
Anxiety Disorders
BEHAVIORAL: Pre-operative Counseling and Education
Anxiety levels, The investigators will measure anxiety levels using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.The HADS is a fourteen item scale that generates ordinal data. Seven of the items relate to anxiety and seven relate to depression. Each item on the questionnaire is scored from 0-3 and this means that a person can score between 0 and 21 for either anxiety or depression. The HADS uses a scale and therefore the data returned from the HADS is ordinal., up to 2 months
A preoperative orientation process with potential benefits to the patient has been adopted for some surgical procedures. However, recently some surgical specialties such as orthopedics have been implemented in their routine a potentially modifiable conduct of the emotional trauma of a surgery, is the use of the preoperative advice and orientation, in order to attain an ability to increase the client's satisfaction, to facilitate the recovery, decrease the rate of complications without increasing reintegration, decrease hospitalization time and health costs without additional patient risk. There is a belief among surgeons that preoperative counseling and counseling is vitally important for a post-operative outcome. Despite this, there is a paucity of well-conducted studies that examine the importance of the need for preoperative counseling with detailed information to analyze the yearnings and needs as well as the emotional impact. In addition, there are few studies evaluating the emotional impact and impact in the postoperative period in general of detailed preoperative counseling in patients with gynecological tumors submitted to laparotomy and minimally invasive surgery. For these reasons, this study aims to evaluate whether the application of detailed and clear preoperative counseling and education about the surgical procedure to be performed, as well as all the perioperative guidelines that involve the procedure versus the usual preoperative orientation and preoperative, can have an impact on the level of anxiety of the patient and the companion, as well as assess the degree of satisfaction of the companion.