Clinical Study of Azacitidine Combined With Ruxolitinib in the Treatment of Higher-risk MDS/MPN
This study observes the safety and efficacy of Azacitidine (AZA) combined with ruxolitinib to treat higher-risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes∕Myeloproliferative Neoplasms(MDS/MPN)
MDS/MPN
DRUG: Azacitidine (AZA) with Ruxolitinib
complete response rate, Complete remission was achieved according to the remission criteria of MDS/MPN, From randomization to the end of Cycle 6 (each cycle is 28 days)|overall survival, It is measured from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause; patients not known to have died at least follow-up are censored on the date they were last known to be alive., From the time of randomization to time for up to 2 years|overall response rate, overall response includes all the response according to the remission criteria of MDS/MPN, From randomization to the end of Cycle 6 (each cycle is 28 days)
progression-free survival, The progression-free survival was calculated as the time from randomization to disease recurrence or death due to disease progression, From the time of randomization to time for up to 2 years|Early mortality, Early mortality was defined as death within the first 3 months after initiation of induction therapy, up to 3 months
This is an open label, a multi -centered clinical trial, aiming to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Azacitidine with Ruxolitinib to treat MDS/MPN patients Myelodysplastic Syndromes/Myeloproliferative Neoplasms（MDS/MPN） are a set of malignant clonal diseases that originated from hematopoietic stem cells, which have both the characteristics of MDS and MPN. They also have the risk of transforming to Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML). According to the 2016 World Health Organization (WHO) classification, MDS/MPN include Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia(CMML), Atypical chronic myeloid leukemia(aCML)，Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML), MDS/MPN with ring sideroblasts and thrombocytosis(MDS/MPN-RS-T), and MDS/MPN unclassified(MDS/MPN-U). Except for JMML, other types of MDS/MPN mainly happened in persons over 60 years old, and the heterogeneity of the disease is large. At present, the treatment is limited. Although allo hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only way to cure the diseases, a recent large series study on CMML showed that allo hematopoietic stem cell transplantation would increase the mortality risk of lower-risk CMML, and did not obtain survival benefit in higher-risk CMML. Therefore, it is currently urgent to explore the new treatment for MDS/MPN.

CMML is the most common subtype of MDS/MPN, manifested the increased monocytes in peripheral blood (absolute cell count ≥1x109/L and percentage ≥10%, which lasts more than 3 months) accompanied with at least one lineage dysplasia and bone marrow blasts ≤20%. The median diagnosis age is (73-75) years old, and the estimated annual incidence in the population is 4/10,000.

The treatment strategy of CMML based on the prognostic stratification. According to the prognostic stratification, low-risk patients (low and inter-1) receive red blood cells transfusion and cytoreductive treatment. For high-risk (inter-2 and high) patients who are unsuitable for stem cell transplantation, hypomethylating agents and clinical trials are recommended. The hypomethylating agents (including Decitabine, Azacitidine, and oral Decitabine) are the only drugs approved by the FDA in the United States for CMML treatment. The approvement were based on MDS clinical trials that included CMML, such as CALGB Studies (including 14 patients with CMML) and European AZA-001 Studies (including 11patients with CMML). Since then, many prospective and retrospective studies containing CMML have confirmed its efficacy. The Overall Response Rates (ORR) is 40-50% for hypomethylating agents, while Complete Remission (CR) is less than 20%. In addition, a recent prospective clinical trial pointed out that hypomethylating agents did not achieved clinical response in MPN-CMML, and no significant difference was found between hypomethylating agents group and Hydroxyurea group in Overall Survivals (OS) and Leukemia Free Survival.

In addition to hypomethylating agents, clinical trials are also recommended for patients with higher risks CMML. At present, several clinical trials including Lenzilumab (GM-CSF monoclonal antibody, NCT02546284), Tipifarnib (Fennec metastases inhibitor, NCT02807272), Ruxolitinib (JAK1/2 inhibitors, NCT03722407) and Cobimetinib (MEK inhibitor, NCT04409639) are carried on in CMML. The results show that they have good efficacy and safety in CMML. In addition, a series of clinical trials combined hypomethylating agents with other drugs to explore the way to increase the efficacy in CMML.

Some MDS/MPN patients have the clinical manifestations of MPNs such as increased blood cells, large spleen sizes, and constitutional symptom. Meanwhile, activated inflammatory cytokine secretion also exists in MDS/MPN. Ruxolitinib is JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor used for the treatment of myelofibrosis. A multi -center phase I clinical trial of ruxolitinib including 20 CMML patients showed that 4 patients obtained hematopoietic improvement, and 1 patient obtained bone marrow PR. Of the 9 patients with splenomegaly, 5 patients received spleen reduction \> 50%. 10 of 11 patients with constitutional symptom were significantly improved. The ORR was 35% combining spleen response and MDS/MPN International Working Group (IWG) efficacy criteria. Only one patient had level 3 platelet decrease, indicating that ruxolitinib had less impact on platelet counts in CMML. Based on this, the phase I/II clinical trial was included 50 patients with CMML. The ORR according to MDS/MPN IWG was 38%, and 43% patients achieved spleen reduction. The most common adverse events were anemia (10%) and platelet decrease (6%), further confirming the safety and efficacy of ruxolitinib in the treatment of CMML.

In addition, a phase II clinical trial explores the efficacy of ruxolitinib in aCML (n = 23) and chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL) (n = 22). The ORR was 35% (11 PR\[9 CNL and 2 aCML\], 4 CR \[CNL\]). The most common 3/4 adverse event was anemia (34%) and platelet decrease (14%). It is worth noting that the efficacy was better in CNL compared with aCML.

Based on previous studies, we intend to further investigate the safety and efficacy of azacitidine combined with ruxolitinib in the treatment of higher-risk myelodysplastic syndromes/myelodysplastic diseases (MDS/MPN).