Targeted Therapy and Avelumab in Merkel Cell Carcinoma
10.17 GoTHAM is intended as a signal-seeking, biomarker, phase Ib/II study that will evaluate the safety and anti-tumour activities of the novel combination of avelumab with 177-Lu-DOTATATE (a type of peptide receptor radionuclide therapy; PRRT) or external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (mMCC).
Metastatic Merkel Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Avelumab|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy (EBRT)|RADIATION: Lutetium-177 (177Lu)-DOTATATE
Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 12 months, To evaluate the anti-tumour activity as reflected by PFS rate at 12 months. PFS is defined as the time from treatment initiation until the first date of documented radiographic progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. The radiographic progression will be assessed by the Investigator according to RECIST v1.1., 3 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 24 months, Time to disease progression including rate at specific landmark timepoint of 24 months., 4 years|Overall Survival (OS) at 12 and 24 months, OS rates at specific landmark timepoints of 12 and 24 months. OS is defined as the time from treatment initiation to the date of death due to any cause., 4 years|Best Objective Response Rate (ORR) according to RECIST v1.1, To evaluate best ORR according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumours version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). ORR is defined as PR or CR at any stage from time of treatment initiation according to RECIST v1.1., 4 years|The safety and tolerability of 177Lu-DOTATATE or EBRT in combination with avelumab., Rate of treatment-related adverse events (AEs). Safety will be measured by serious adverse events (SAEs) and AEs assessed using the NCI CTCAE v5.0., 4 years|Rate of treatment discontinuation due to toxicity, This is defined as the proportion of patients who discontinue with treatment due to treatment-related toxicity., 4 years
Despite recent advances with immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as avelumab which has changed the treatment landscape for metastatic Merkel Cell Carcinoma (mMCC), many mMCC patients who attained an initial response exhibit acquired resistance within 1 year. Therefore, novel treatment combinations are needed to improve patient outcome. MCC is an exquisitely radiosensitive tumour and there is emerging data supporting the role of radiation in inducing immunogenic cell death and therefore potentially improving the anti-tumour efficacy when combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) is used in first-line treatment for neuroendocrine tumours (NETs), by delivering radiation to somatostatin receptor (SSTR) expressing tumour cells. Most NETs, including MCC, express SSTR. Therefore, MCC tumours are ideal candidates for PRRT, and immune checkpoint inhibitor combination approaches with PRRT are highly attractive.

The GoTHAM trial is intended as a signal-seeking and biomarker study. It is designed as a prospective, open-labelled, multi-institutional, two-arm, phase Ib/II trial that will evaluate the safety and anti-tumour activity of 177Lu-DOTA-octreotate (LuTate) or external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in combination with avelumab in patients with mMCC. The primary objective is to evaluate the anti-tumour activity as reflected by PFS rate at 12 months.

The LuTate arm of this study is now closed to recruitment.