ONCOTIPNET: Multicenter Study on Risk Factors and Outcome in Cancer Pediatric Patients Admitted in Italian PICUs
The study will describe characteristics of pediatric cancer patients admitted to Italian PICUs and will analyze risk factors of PICU admission, neurological outcome, and mortality. After a retrospective analysis (2019-2020), investigators will perform a prospective study over 12 months gathering data from 15-20 Italian PICUs.
Pediatric Cancer|Critically Ill
mortality, rate of dead patients, from date of patient's admission in PICU to date of PICU discharge assessed up to 7 days|mortality, 30-days mortality, from discharge to 30th day after PICU discharge|mortality, 90-days mortality, from 31st to 90th day after PICU discharge|neurological outcome, patients's Pediatric Overall Performance Category (POPC) score (a 6 level score: 4 to 6 is considered bad outcome), on date of PICU discharge assessed up to 10 days
The study aim to evaluate:

1. characteristics of pediatric cancer patients admitted to Italian PICUs
2. risk factors of PICU admission, neurological outcome and mortality.

Inclusion criteria: age \<= 18 years, informed consent. Exclusion criteria: informed consent not obtained. After a retrospective analysis (2019-2020), investigators will perform a prospective study over 12 months (March 2021 - February 2021) gathering data from 15-20 Italian PICUs. Each Center can decide whether to participate only in the prospective phase. Data will be recorded in an electronic data collection form in Red Cap.

The following variables will be collected:

* Demographic variables: age, sex, ethnicity;
* TIP pre-admission clinical variables and at the time of admission: basic diagnosis, comorbidity, Hemopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (TCSE) number and type, treatment phase, HLA matching, Graft Versus Host (GVH) and grade, veno-occlusive disease, Venous Occlusive Disease
* Variables upon entering TIP: PIM3, POPC score, organ failure cause and staging, high intensity treatments, high flow oxygen therapy, dialysis, inotropes or other, fluid overload, immunodeficiency
* Clinical variables during hospitalization: organ failure cause and staging, ventilation, modality, presence of pARDS and severity, need for inotropic support, sepsis and severity score (SOFA), inotropes (VIS score), arrest event cardiac, need for HFOV, Extra-Corporeal Membrane Oxygenator, Nitric Oxide, dialysis, Intracranial Pressure monitoring, drugs used for sedation, development of withdrawal syndrome, development of delirium.

Considering the participation of 15-20 centers involving 20 patients in a year, the expected number is 600 patients considering the retrospective phase (optional, therefore some Centers may not contribute) and the prospective phase.

Study sites will also take part to a survey designed to collect data in order to describe Italian PICUs involved in providing care to cancer patients.