TCR-T Cell Immunotherapy of Lung Cancer and Other Solid Tumors
Tumor organoids and TILs (and/or peripheral T cells) cultures will be established from fresh tissure of lung cancer and other solid tumors. Coculture will be utilized to screen tumor-responsive T cells which are further selected for monoclonal expansion and TCR cloning for engineered reconstitution of TCR-T cells. After verification by multiple in vitro and in vivo studies, a large number of TCR-T cells will be introduced back into the patients via vein, artery or fine needle punctured to the tumor, or combinations. In this phase I study, the safety, tolerance and preliminary efficacy of the TCR-T cell immunotherapy on human will firstly be assessed.
Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer|Solid Tumor, Adult
BIOLOGICAL: TCR-T cells
Number of Patients with Dose Limiting Toxicity, A dose limiting toxicity is defined as any toxicity that is considered to be primarily related to the TCR-T cells, which is irreversible, or life threatening or hematologic or non-hematologic Grade 3-5., three months
Percent of Patients with best response as either complete remission or partial remission, Response rates will be estimated as the percent of patients whose best response is either complete remission or partial remission by combining the data from the patients. To compare with historical data, a 95% confidence interval will be calculated for the response rate., three months
Median TCR-T cell persistence, Median TCR-T cell persistence will be measured by quantitative rt-PCR., Five years
1. Choose appropriate patients with KK-LC-1 expression in advanced lung cancer or other solid tumors and matched MHC-A11 typing, with written consent for this study; For cancer without expression of KK-LC-1, fresh tumor tissue should be obtained for RNA/DNA sequencing to computationally identify neoantigen peptides that can be captured by specifically personizedly synthesized poly-MHCI which can be further used to fish appropriate T cells from the patient.
2. Perform biopsy to obtain tissue from tumor/lymph node for organoids, TILs, DC and T cells culture, coculture to screening anti-tumor T cells, establish and select monoclonal T cells for TCR cloning;
3. Clone TCR sequence that targets KK-LC-1 or neoantigens; collect PBMCs from the blood of the patients, isolate and activate the T cells and generate the TCR-T cells;
4. Test the quality and killing activity of the TCR-T cells in vitro and then transplant back the patients via systemic (vein and/or artery) or local injections, and follow up closely to collect related clinical data as needed;
5. Evaluate the clinical results as needed.