A Pilot Surgical Trial To Evaluate Early Immunologic Pharmacodynamic Parameters For The PD-1 Checkpoint Inhibitor, Pembrolizumab (MK-3475), In Patients With Surgically Accessible Recurrent/Progressive Glioblastoma
This research study is studying an immunotherapy as a possible treatment for Glioblastoma.
Brain Cancer
DRUG: MK-3475
Tumor Infiltrating T Lymphocyte (TIL) Density, To measure changes in tumor infiltrating T lymphocyte (TIL) density, defined as % total cells. It will be assessed using pooled Group A and Group B patients., 2 weeks. TIL density is determined in surgical tumor tissue; on-study surgery occurs 14 days (+/- 5 days) after Neoadjuvant Day 1.|Cell Cycle and Cancer Proliferation Genetic Signature, To measure changes in cell cycle and cancer proliferation genetic signature; these results are reported using Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) absolute enrichment scores (ES). GSVA scores are unit-less scores derived by comparing mRNA expression of a specific gene set to genes outside of the gene set in a sample. In this case, GSVA scores for "Farmers_breast_cancer_cluster_2, as previously described" were utilized.

PMID 30742122 (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30742122/) and PMID 23323831 (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23323831/)

It will be assessed using pooled Group A and Group B patients., 2 weeks. Cell cycle/cancer proliferation genetic signature is determined in surgical tumor tissue; on-study surgery occurs 14 days (+/- 5 days) after Neoadjuvant Day 1.|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Number of Participants who Experienced a Serious Adverse Event (SAE) or Event of Clinical Interest (ECI) Deemed At Least Possibly Related to Pembrolizumab (MK3475). The following are measured as part of safety: laboratory safety assessments, KPS status, vital signs and physical examinations., 5 years. Although there is still 1 patient on active study treatment as of today (4/1/2024), we stopped looking at this information as of 6/2/2022 for study reporting purposes.
Progression Free Survival (PFS), To determine the efficacy of pembrolizumab in patients with surgically accessible recurrent/progressive glioblastoma (GBM) participants as measured by 6-month progression-free survival (PFS6) using Radiologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria.

Progression is defined using RANO criteria, as any of the following:

1. ≥ 25% increase in sum of the products of perpendicular diameters of enhancing lesions compared with the smallest tumor measurement, on stable or increasing doses of corticosteroids
2. Any new enhancing measurable lesion
3. Clear clinical deterioration not attributable to other causes apart from the tumor or changes in corticosteroid dose
4. Or failure to return for evaluation as a result of death or deteriorating condition, 180 Days
PD-1 works to help tumor cells continue to grow and multiply. Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is a humanized monoclonal antibody. Humanized monoclonal is an antibody that is designed to block the action of the receptor, PD-1.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Pembrolizumab for Glioblastoma but it has been approved for other uses.