Health Behaviors, Surveillance, Psychosocial Factors, and Family Concerns
The purpose of this study is to examine the health behaviors of melanoma survivors. We want to know about their thoughts and concerns. Melanoma is a type of skin cancer. The number of people being diagnosed with melanoma is growing. Many people who are diagnosed with melanoma are young. Little research has been done to find out how melanoma survivors feel years after they have been treated.
Melanoma|Survivors|Psychological Factors
BEHAVIORAL: Focus group|BEHAVIORAL: Survey
This pilot study will provide baseline data to enhance our understanding of the behaviors of melanoma survivors., 2 hours
Conduct a pilot survey study of melanoma survivors to describe the behavioral and psychosocial issues in melanoma survivors. Results from the survey will enable us to obtain preliminary data in order to conduct a larger scale study., half an hour
The rapidly rising incidence and mortality rates of melanoma, the most fatal form of skin cancer, are among the greatest increases of all preventable cancers over the past decade. However, because of recent advances in early detection, secondary prevention efforts, and treatment, the number of melanoma survivors is increasing. Little research has been conducted on melanoma survivors and important opportunities exist for research in this understudied population. Understanding recurrence and second primary cancer risk, cognitive characteristics, behaviors, surveillance patterns, economic sequelae, and family issues of melanoma survivors is imperative from a public health standpoint to promote the health and well-being of this cohort. The objectives of this study are to: 1) conduct focus groups to enhance our understanding of the behaviors of melanoma survivors, and 2) conduct a pilot survey study based on the results of the focus groups to further describe the behavioral and psychosocial issues in melanoma survivors. This will be among the first studies that explores behavioral and psychosocial issues in melanoma survivors. The study findings will inform a large-scale melanoma survivorship grant proposal to the National Cancer Institute or other federal/private sources of funding.