Enzalutamide and Decitabine in Treating Patients With Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of decitabine and how well it works when given together with enzalutamide in treating patients with castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Androgen can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Drugs, such as enzalutamide, may lessen the amount of androgen made by the body. Decitabine may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving decitabine and enzalutamide may work better in treating participants with castration resistant prostate cancer.
Castration Levels of Testosterone|Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma in the Soft Tissue|Prostate Carcinoma Metastatic in the Bone|PSA Level Greater Than or Equal to Two|PSA Progression|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Dose limiting toxicity determined by estimation of maximum tolerated dose assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 (Phase Ib), The dose level at which at least 2 out of 6 patients within the same cohort experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)., Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events assessed by NCI CTCAE version 4.03 (Phase Ib), Adverse event (AE) summaries will be organized by body system, frequency of occurrence, intensity (i.e., severity grade), and causality or attribution. Subjects who experience an AE more than once will be counted only once. The occurrence with the maximum severity will be used to calculate intensity. AEs deemed serious and those resulting in treatment withdrawal or death will be summarized separately., Up to 28 days after last dose|Recommended phase II dose (Phase Ib), Up to 28 days|Tumor response (Phase II), According to prostate specific antigen (PSA) response (longitudinally), Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1, Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria and, a longitudinal mixed model for repeated measures of tumor burden: follow serial PSAs and follow target lesions on computed tomography scans and bone scans as per PCWG3 criteria., Up to 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), The Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimator will be used to estimate PFS distributions., At 12 months
HbF measurements assessed by hemoglobin (Hgb) electrophoresis on peripheral blood (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Molecular pharmacodynamics assessed by flow cytometric assessment of DNMT1-protein in peripheral blood (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|LINE-1 methylation levels assessed in peripheral blood by pyrosequencing (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Number of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and proportion of stem/progenitor cells in CTC population (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Presence or emergence of androgen receptor (AR) mutations, splice variants (ARv7), messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels in CTCs (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers. Correlation of gene expression levels will be measured using Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficients. Association of androgen profiles with clinical outcomes will use logistic regression or Cox proportional hazards regression, as appropriate., Up to 24 months|Cancer-testis (CT) antigen, in particular NY-ESO-1 mRNA expression in CTCs (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers. Correlation of gene expression levels will be measured using Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficients., Up to 24 months|Analyses of immune subsets (Phase II), Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be assessed using multiparameter flow cytometry for immune subsets including but not necessarily limited to regulatory T cells (Tregs), myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC), effector and exhausted CD4+ or CD8+ T-cells, and CD14+ monocytes. Assessment will include functional markers, i.e. PD-1, PD-L1, Tim-3, and CTLA-4. Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Evaluation of neuroendocrine lineage markers SYP, ASCL1, and CHGA (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Epigenetic reprogramming factors SOX2, EZH2, and DNMT1 assessed by biopsies (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Expression of luminal lineage markers like Androgen Receptor, KRT8 and KRT18 assessed in biopsies (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Decrease in DNMT1- protein level by > 50% (molecular pharmacodynamics) (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months|Analyses of immune signatures (Phase II), Will calculate the mean and standard deviation for these markers., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of decitabine in combination with enzalutamide in patients with refractory metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). (Phase 1b) II. To determine the 12-month progression free survival rate of patients with enzalutamide-naive metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) treated with decitabine plus enzalutamide. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of decitabine in combination with enzalutamide in patients with refractory metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). (Phase 1b) II. To determine the overall response rate, overall survival and prostate specific antigen (PSA) changes in enzalutamide-naive mCRPC patients treated with decitabine plus enzalutamide. (Phase 2) III. To determine the safety and tolerability of decitabine in combination with enzalutamide in the study population. (Phase 2)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the relationship between decitabine dose and plasma biomarkers (e.g., levels of HbF, LINE-1 methylation, number of circulating tumor cell's \[CTC?s\] and, NY-ESO expression in CTC?s). (Phase 1b) II. To explore plasma and tumor immune biomarkers associated with efficacy to the study combination. (Phase 2) III. To determine if treatment emergent neuroendocrine transformation is present as a result of the treatment combination of enzalutamide plus decitabine. (Phase 2) IV. Evaluate changes in stem cell reprogramming factors and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)/ribonucleic acid (RNA) markers resulting from the treatment combination. (Phase 2)

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of decitabine followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-5 and enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.