Navitoclax in Relapsed or Refractory High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase Ib/II trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of navitoclax in combination with venetoclax and decitabine in treating patients with higher risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) that has come back after initial treatment or was not responsive to initial treatment. This study will also look at the effectiveness of the treatment combination and patient's quality of life while on these medications. Navitoclax is an oral drug that works as an inhibitor of the BCL-2 family of proteins, which are often overly expressed in a wide variety of cancers and are linked to tumor drug resistance. This drug blocks some of the enzymes that keep cancer cells from dying. Venetoclax is an oral drug that works as an inhibitor of BCL-2 proteins that works very similarly to navitoclax by blocking the action of a certain proteins in the body that helps cancer cells survive which helps to kill cancer cells. Decitabine is an intravenous drug. It is a hypomethylating agent which means it interferes with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation. DNA methylation is a major factor that regulates gene expression in cells, and an increase in DNA methylation can block the genes that regulate cell division and growth. When these genes are blocked the overall result allows or promotes cancer as there is no control over cell growth. Decitabine stops cells from making DNA and may kill cancer cells. Participation in this trial may improve the understanding of both chemotherapy response in MDS and mechanisms of resistance to current therapies.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Refractory Myelodysplastic Syndrome
BIOLOGICAL: Navitoclax|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Decitabine|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of navitoclax in combination with venetoclax and decitabine (Phase I), The final observed rate of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be calculated and from this the MTD will be determined., Within 30 days of the first dose of study treatment|Complete response (CR) rate (Phase II), A 90% confidence interval will be computed for the CR rate by cycle 4., Up to cycle 4 (each cycle is 28 days)
Number of dose-limiting toxicities (Phase I), Number of dose-limiting toxicities (Phase I), Within 30 days of the first dose of study treatment|Marrow Complete Response rate (mCR) (Phase II), Defined as per International Working Group (IWG) criteria., Up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient|Hematologic Improvement (HI) rate (Phase II), Defined as per IWG criteria., Up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient|Leukemia free survival (LFS) (Phase II), Defined as per IWG criteria, From the date of randomization to the date of diagnosis of AML or death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the median OS along with its corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., From study registration to death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient|Change in quality of life (QOL) (Phase II), Will be assessed by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire \[EORTC QLQ-C30\] and Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System \[PROMIS-Fatigue\])., At baseline|Change in quality of life (QOL) (Phase II), Will be assessed by Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System \[PROMIS-Fatigue\])., At 4 months|Change in quality of life (QOL) (Phase II), Will be assessed by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire \[EORTC QLQ-C30\], At study completion, assessed up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient|Change in quality of life (QOL) (Phase II), Will be assessed by Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System \[PROMIS-Fatigue\])., assessed up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient|Change in quality of life (QOL) (Phase II), Will be assessed by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire \[EORTC QLQ-C30\], study completion, assessed up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient
Expression levels of anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family members (Phase II), Assessed by intracellular flow cytometry to determine predictive value for response. Data will be analyzed with FlowJo software., At baseline and after triplet therapy, assessed up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient|Single cell gene expression (Phase II), Ribonucleic acid (RNA) will be isolated from pre-treatment and post-treatment CD19+ cells and used for gene expression profiles (microarray or RNA-Seq)., At baseline and after triplet therapy, assessed up to 2 years from enrollment of the last patient
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile leading to a recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of navitoclax in combination with venetoclax and decitabine. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the efficacy of combination therapy navitoclax, venetoclax and decitabine in patients with relapsed or refractory high-risk MDS after failure of hypomethylating agent and venetoclax. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To further evaluate the safety profile navitoclax in combination with venetoclax and decitabine. (Phase II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine relative expression levels of anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family members at baseline and after triplet therapy by intracellular flow cytometry to determine predictive value for response.

II. To compare single cell gene expression at baseline and after triplet therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of navitoclax followed by a phase II study.

NAVITOCLAX, VENETOCLAX, \& DECITABINE:

CYCLE 1: Patients receive navitoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 3-16 in combination with venetoclax PO QD on days 1-16, and decitabine intravenously (IV) on days 3-7. This cycle continues for 30 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow biopsy at baseline and day 30, and collection of blood samples at baseline and on days 1 and 15 of cycle.

CYCLE 2 AND BEYOND: Patients receive navitoclax PO QD on days 1-14 of each cycle in combination with venetoclax PO QD on days 1-14 of each cycle, and decitabine IV on days 1-5 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients who achieve a complete response (CR) or marrow complete response (mCR) continue on treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients who have hematologic improvement but who do not attain CR or mCR may continue treatment at the discretion of their treating physician in conjunction with the principal investigator (PI). Patients also undergo bone marrow biopsy on day 28 of cycles 2 and 4 and at end of treatment, as well as collection of blood samples on day 1 of each cycle and at the end of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 12 months. For survival follow-up, patients are followed for 2 years from enrollment of the last patient.