Pembrolizumab-based Therapy in Previously Treated High Grade Neuroendocrine Carcinomas
This is a pilot study of pembrolizumab-based therapy in previously treated extrapulmonary poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma
High Grade Malignant Neuroendocrine Carcinoma (Diagnosis)
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who demonstrated complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) radiographically according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 as assessed by investigator. The analysis will include all subjects treated (ITT) who received at least one dose of the study treatment. If the final study consists of both Part A and Part B, the analysis will be done separately for each part., Approximately 2 years
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the first day of study treatment with protocol therapy to the date of death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to summarize OS. Median OS and its 95% confidence interval will be obtained for Part A and B (if available) separately., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 32 months.|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of Response is defined as the time from the date of first response (CR or PR) until the date of disease progression or death. Duration of response will be reported for Part A and B (if available) separately. Only patients who have a demonstrated response will be used in final analysis., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 32 months.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival is defined as the time from the first day of study treatment with protocol therapy to the date of documented tumor progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, as determined by RECIST v1.1 for PFS. Subjects who did not progress or die will be censored on the date of their last evaluable tumor assessment. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to summarize progression median PFS with 95% confidence interval for Part A and B (if available) separately., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 32 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

1. Evaluate the best overall response rate (ORR) of pembrolizumab or pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (investigator-reported).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

1. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab-based therapy in this patient population.
2. To evaluate duration of response (DOR) in participants receiving pembrolizumab or pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy.
3. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) in participants treated with pembrolizumab or pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy (median PFS and 18 wk PFS).
4. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in participants receiving pembrolizumab or pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy.

OUTLINE:

Part A: Participants are treated with pembrolizumab alone. An adaptive Simon's two-stage design was used, and the overall plan hinges on the activity of single agent pembrolizumab in the first stage of Part A. If there is sufficient activity in the first stage of Part A, the study will expand to the second stage of Part A and forgo Part B. If there is insufficient activity in the first stage of Part A, the study will proceed to the first stage of Part B (pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy).

Part B: Participants are treated with pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy (physician's choice, paclitaxel or irinotecan). Patients with stable disease (SD) or better after 9 cycles (27 weeks) of pembrolizumab-based therapy will have the option to continue with pembrolizumab alone, unless the first partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) is noted at 27 weeks.

All participants will undergo a pre-treatment tumor biopsy (unless the tumor is inaccessible and/or a biopsy is not felt to be in the participant's best interest). Participants may continue study treatment until progressive disease (PD), unacceptable adverse events, inter-current illness that prevents further administration of treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the participant, the participant withdraws consent, pregnancy of the participant, noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements, participant receives 35 treatments (approximately 2 years) of pembrolizumab, or administrative reasons requiring cessation of treatment.