Toripalimab Plus Actinomycin-D As Fist-Line Treatment for GTN with FIGO Score 7
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of toripalimab plus actinomycin-D as fist-line treatment in patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia with FIGO score 7. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Whether toripalimab plus actinomycin-D as fist-line treatment can achieve a high complete response rate.
* Whether an equally high cure rate can be achieved by multi-drug chemotherapy as second-line treatment in patients who have failed fist-line treatment with toripalimab plus actinomycin-D.

Participants will receive toripalimab plus actinomycin-D. Treatment will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. Treatment will be completed after 4 consolidation cycles.
Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia
DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Actinomycin-D
Complete remission rate, The proportion of patients achieving complete remission. Complete remission is defined as normal serum β-hCG level measured for 4 consecutive weeks., up to one year
Objective response rate, The proportion of patients with complete or partial response according to serum β-hCG level., up to one year|Progression-free survival, The time from the treatment initiation to disease progression or death, whichever comes first. Disease progression is defined as any increase in serum β-hCG level from baseline after 2 cycles of treatment or the presence of new metastatic lesions., up to one year|Disease control rate, The proportion of patients with complete response, partial response, or stable disease according to serum β-hCG level., up to one year|Duration of response, The time from the first evidence of response to disease progression or death, whichever comes first., up to one year|Overall survival, The time from the treatment initiation to the date of death or last follow-up., up to one year|Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Determine frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by NCI CTCAE (Version 5.0) ., up to one year|Ovarian function, Determine ovarian function as assessed by anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), up to one year|Quality of life of cancer patients, Assessed by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30(EORTC QLQ-C30), up to one year|Cancer specific rehabilitation, Assessed by Cancer rehabilitation evaluation system-short form (CARES-SF), up to one year|Reproductive concerns after cancer, Assessed by Reproductive Concerns After Cancer (RCAC) scale, up to one year
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of toripalimab plus actinomycin-D as fist-line treatment in patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia with FIGO score 7.

Eligible Participants will receive toripalimab (200mg q2w intravenous) plus actinomycin-D (1.25mg/m2，2mg max dose, intravenous). After normalization of serum β-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG) levels, patients will receive 4 cycles of consolidation treatment. Treatment will be continued until completion of treatment, disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. The primary endpoint is complete remission rate (the proportion of patients achieving complete remission). Secondary endpoints include objective response rate (the proportion of patients achieving complete remission and partial remission), progression-free survival (time from the treatment initiation to disease progression or death, whichever comes first), disease control rate, duration of response, overall survival (time from the treatment initiation to the date of death or last follow-up), duration of response (time from the first evidence of response to disease progression or death, whichever comes first) safety, biomarker, ovarian function and quality of life.