Stereotactic Radiation Therapy and Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
This phase II trial studies the effectiveness of the combination of stereotactic radiation therapy and ipilimumab in patients with metastatic melanoma that has spread to four or fewer sites in the body (oligometastatic). Stereotactic radiation therapy is a type of external beam radiation therapy that uses special equipment to position the patient and precisely give a either a single large dose of radiation therapy to a tumor or several large doses of radiation therapy to a tumor using precision and accuracy that is guided by onboard daily imaging prior to radiation therapy. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some monoclonal antibodies find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving stereotactic radiosurgery together with ipilimumab may kill more tumor cells by causing addition melanoma antigens to be presented to the immune system.
Liver Metastases|Lung Metastases|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma|Tumors Metastatic to Brain
BIOLOGICAL: ipilimumab|RADIATION: stereotactic radiosurgery|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Rate of Progression-free Survival by mWHO Criteria, Calculated along with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals. Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., Time of study enrollment until the first documented date of disease progression, assessed up to 6 months
Rate of Progression-free Survival by irRC Criteria, Calculated along with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals. Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., Time of study enrollment until the first documented date of disease progression, assessed up to 6 months|Number of Participants With Grade 3 and Grade 4 Toxicities According to Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4, Frequency and severity of adverse events and tolerability of the regimen in each of the patient groups will be collected and summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 90 days after the last ipilimumab infusion|Frequency of Objective Response Rate, Defined as Complete Response + Partial Response, Measured by Computed Tomography (CT) Using mWHO Criteria, The response rate evaluated based on mWHO \& irRC criteria, Up to 12 weeks|Frequency of Objective Response Rate, Defined Using irRC, Up to 12 weeks|Rate of Local Failure, Time of study enrollment until the first documented date of failure within the irradiated field, assessed up to 10 years|Rate of Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., Time of study enrollment until the time of death, assessed up to 6 years
Change in Marker Levels Between Those With vs. Without the Clinical Improvement, Summarized univariately in a quantitative manner and also summarized by clinical outcome group (e.g. prog-free and alive at 6 months vs. not). Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships; e.g. side-by-side boxplots to assess differences., Baseline to week 50
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with oligometastatic melanoma treated with the combination of stereotactic ablative radiation therapy (SABR) (stereotactic radiosurgery) and ipilimumab in patients with oligometastatic melanoma using modified World Health Organization (mWHO) criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the 6-month progression-free survival of the combination of SABR and 3 mg/kg ipilimumab in patients with oligometastatic melanoma using immune related response criteria (irRC) criteria.

II. To evaluate the tolerability and safety of the combination. III. To evaluate the response rate based on mWHO \& irRC criteria. IV. To evaluate the local control rate. V. To evaluate the overall survival rate.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate changes in blood and serum markers: absolute lymphocyte count, T-cell activation markers, T-cell suppression markers, T-helper cells and related cytokines, T-regulatory (T-reg) markers, co-stimulatory molecules, and serum cytokines when SABR is added to the ipilimumab regimen.

II. Evaluate genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutations in key melanoma genes and their correlation with response, progression-free survival, and overall survival.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 in weeks 1, 4, 7, and 10. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 total doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At approximately 5-6 weeks, patients undergo stereotactic radiosurgery over 2-3 days per week. Patients with stable disease or confirmed partial or complete response after completion of ipilimumab therapy at week 12 may receive re-induction ipilimumab at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.