A Phase IB 2 Dose Trial of IRS-1 HSV C134 (IND 17296) Administered Intratumorally in Patients with Recurrent Malignant Glioma
The purpose of this study is to determine how safe and how well-tolerated the experimental study drug, C134 is when administered twice into the brain where the tumor is located. This is a Phase IB 2 dosing study. All the patients who take part in this study will receive the same type of experimental treatment. There is no "placebo" in this study. The patient will receive the dose of C134 administered, which will be added in the tumor infiltrated tissue in the area of the resection cavity. Anywhere from 4-12 patients are expected to take part in the study; the final number will depend on the safety results.
Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma (GBM)|Astrocytoma|Astrocytoma, Grade III|Astrocytoma, Grade IV|Gliosarcoma, Adult|Gliosarcoma of Brain
DRUG: C134|DRUG: C134
Safety of a two dose intracerebral injection of C134 virus, Adverse events will be monitored and any changes in status will be recorded for each patient as outlined in CTCAE v4.0 reporting requirements., Enrollment - 12 Month
Time to survival, Patients survival will be recorded (Kaplan-Meier), Enrollment - 12 Month|Time to progression, Patients will receive contrast-enhanced MRI to monitor progression (changes in tumor volume or tumor enhancement assessed by the iRANO criteria). As indicated in the criteria, biopsy and/or resection may be performed in instances of uncertainty. Determination of time to progression (in months) will be recorded for each patient and median progression-free survival will be calculated for the entire cohort (Kaplan-Meier)., Enrollment - 12 Month|Composition of the white blood cells, White blood cell subset analysis by FACS, as a percent of total white blood cell number., Enrollment - 12 Month|Measurement of HSV Titer, Detection and quantification of HSV antibody titer via ELISA, pfu/mL., Enrollment - 12 Month|Measure interferon levels, Intracellular lymphocyte interferon levels will be assessed by FACS analysis ng/mL, Enrollment - 12 Month
This study is divided into the following sections, also called phases: the Initial Screening Phase, Initial Treatment Phase, Initial Treatment Follow-up Phase, 2nd Treatment Screening Phase, 2nd Treatment Phase, 2nd Treatment Follow-up Phase. Before the subject can participate in the study, tests will be performed to make sure that the subject qualifies for the study. This is called the Initial Screening Phase. If the subject qualifies for the study they will then enter the Initial Treatment Phase which is the phase where they will receive the study drug and then enter the Initial Follow-up Phase. If there are signs of progression, the subject will be entered into the 2nd Treatment Phase.