Oncology - Bolstering Oral Agent Reporting Related to Distress
Individuals on oral chemotherapy (OC) often face many challenges requiring adequate informational support, monitoring, and management. This pilot randomized control trial (RCT) aims to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effects of a comprehensive OC intervention on medication adherence self-efficacy, medication adherence, and symptom distress.
Oral Chemotherapy
OTHER: Oral chemotherapy information and support
Feasibility and acceptability, Study feasibility assessed by the recruitment rate (percentage, dividing the total number of participants recruited throughout the study by the number of months recruitment occurred), retention rate (percentage, comparing the number of participants who complete baseline e-questionnaires to the number of participants who complete study exit e-questionnaires), response rate to study e-questionnaires (percentage, the number of completed follow-up e-questionnaire assessments for participants who complete the study), and uptake of intervention (percentage, calculated by comparing by number of participants who actually access the intervention to the total number who are given access).

Intervention acceptability assessed by intervention burden, intervention coherence, and perceived effectiveness using the Tariman et al. (2011) Acceptability e-scale for web-based patient-reported outcomes in cancer care. Mean scores range from 1 to 5, higher score indicating higher acceptability., Five months
Potential effects of intervention via medication adherence self-efficacy, medication adherence and symptom distress, Medication adherence self-efficacy by the Medication Adherence Self-Efficacy Scale (MASES) (Ogedegbe et al., 2003). Total scores range from 20 to 60, higher scores indicating higher medication adherence self-efficacy.

Medication adherence via Proportion of Days Covered (PDC), percentage representing the sum of the days' supply of a given drug divided by the number of days in the time period. Higher percentage indicating higher medication adherence.

Medication adherence self-report via the Medication Adherence Report Scale (MARS-5, Professor Rob Horne; Chan et al., 2020). Total scores range from 5 to 25, higher score indicating higher self-reported adherence.

Physical and psychosocial symptom distress measured via Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale Revised (ESAS-r) for anxiety, depression, drowsiness, fatigue, fear of cancer recurrence, lack of appetite, nausea, shortness of breath, sleep, wellbeing, and work. Each is rated from 0 to 10, 0 being none and 10 being the worst possible., Five months
Individuals on oral chemotherapy (OC) often face many challenges requiring adequate informational support, monitoring, and management. This pilot randomized control trial (RCT) aims to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effects of a comprehensive OC intervention on medication adherence self-efficacy, medication adherence, and symptom distress.