Chest Tube After a Video-assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery Pulmonary Wedge Resection
After performing VATS pulmonary wedge resections, a chest tube is routinely left in the pleural cavity to drain possible air leaks and fluid accumulations. Chest tubes after VATS pulmonary wedge resections are left in place a minimum of 1 day. However, this practice has no scientific foundations. The investigators believe it is possible to avoid the placement of a chest tube after this procedure in a great amount of patients. This is a randomized controlled clinical trial with analysis blinding in which the investigators want to compare the outcomes between installing a chest tube or not after VATS pulmonary wedge resections. The investigators will include consecutively patients with interstitial lung disease or indeterminate pulmonary nodules undergoing this procedure, at the participating institutions. The investigators calculated a sample size of 50 subjects in each group using pneumothorax \< 10% data from Luckraz et al and to determine a difference of hospital stay of 2 versus 1 day; DS(1.5), power = 0.9 and alpha = 0.05.
Lung Diseases, Interstitial|Pulmonary Nodule, Solitary
PROCEDURE: Do not leave a chest tube in the pleural cavity.|PROCEDURE: Do leave a chest tube in the pleural cavity.
Pneumothorax >10% / Hemothorax, 1 hour and 1-5 days postoperatively
Pain (Visual analogue scale), At days 1-5 of hospitalization and at 1 month|Surgical procedure duration, At the end of surgery|Hospital stay, At patient discharge
After performing VATS pulmonary wedge resections, a chest tube is routinely left in the pleural cavity to drain possible air leaks and fluid accumulations. Chest tubes after VATS pulmonary wedge resections are left in place a minimum of 1 day. However, this practice has no scientific foundations. The investigators believe it is possible to avoid the placement of a chest tube after this procedure in a great amount of patients. This is a randomized controlled clinical trial with analysis blinding in which the investigators want to compare the outcomes between installing a chest tube or not after VATS pulmonary wedge resections. The investigators will include consecutively patients with interstitial lung disease or indeterminate pulmonary nodules undergoing this procedure, at the participating institutions. The investigators calculated a sample size of 50 subjects in each group using pneumothorax \< 10% data from Luckraz et al and to determine a difference of hospital stay of 2 versus 1 day; DS(1.5), power = 0.9 and alpha = 0.05.