Immunotherapy Treating GI Cancer
The primary objectives are to evaluate the safety and efficacy of infusion of autologous gastro-intestinal (GI) cancer antigen-specific engineered immune effector cells (EIE).
Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: engineered immune cells
percentage of adverse effects after EIE cell injection, To assess the safety of autologous EIE cells in patients. The percentage of patients who have adverse effects will be evaluated by using the NCI CTCAE V4.0 criteria., up to one month
Rate of successful EIE generation, The percentage of successful EIE generation, which are derived from subjects and pass the safety test after standard culture procedures, viable for at least one preparation, will be evaluated., up to one month|Ability of EIE cells to reduce cancer burden, measurement of tumor marker in blood and examination of tumor size change, after 1 month from EIE cells infusion until 12 months after infusion|The anti-cancer effects, Objective response (complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)) are assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria. CR is disappearance of all lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., after 1 month from EIE cells infusion until 24 months after infusion
Gastro-intestinal (GI) cancer is becoming the top-ranked high mortality cancer in recent years. Every year, approximate 5,300,000 people in China are diagnosed with cancer, of which about 2,000,000 die each year, and esophagus cancer, gastric cancer and colorectal cancer account for \~50% of all GI cancer cases. GI cancer causes 500 thousand deaths a year. In China, nearly 85% of patients with cancer of the digestive tract are in middle to late stage at diagnosis. Regardless of the treatment, the five year survival rate is only 36%. GI cancers include cancer in the oral cavity, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine (duodenum, jejunum, ileum) and large intestine (cecum, colon, rectum). The main malignant tumors of the GI tract are esophageal, gastric, colorectal, liver, and pancreatic cancer.

Adoptive immunotherapy based on cytotoxic T lymphocytes reactive with specific antigens has proven to be effective in many studies. In vitro induction of cancer antigen-specific immune cells and genetic engineering of target specific immune cells have great potential for cancer eradication. This study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ex vivo manipulated EIE cells including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) modified immune cells in treating cancer. The primary study objectives are to evaluate the safety of the investigational product, autologous EIE cells, to subjects by intravenous and intratumoral injections. The secondary study objectives are (1) to evaluate the success rate of generating autologous EIE cells ex vivo, and (2) to determine the anti-cancer efficacy of the EIE cells.