Prevention of Irinotecan Induced Diarrhea by Probiotics
Irinotecan is one of key drug used in the treatment of colorectal cancer. The incidence of irinotecan induced diarrhea varies between 60-90%, with severe diarrhea in 20-40%. The main cause of diarrhea is one of irinotecan metabolites, SN-38 which is in the liver glucuronidated and subsequently expelled into the intestine. Due to the bacterial enzyme beta-D-glucuronidase in intestinal lumen it is deconjugated. This form causes direct damage of intestinal mucosa associated with malabsorption and the development of diarrhea. It is known that probiotic bacteria, reduce activity of intestinal beta-D-glucuronidase and therefore these bacteria could be applied in the prevention of diarrhea in patients treated by this food supplement. Given their low toxicity, good tolerability, probiotics may be an important part of supportive therapy. This is a first study aimed to determine the effectiveness of the probiotics in the prophylaxis of irinotecan induced diarrhea due to reduction intestinal beta-D-glucuronidase activity.
Colorectal Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Probiotic formula|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
Prevention of grade 3-4 diarrhea by probiotics in patients treated by irinotecan based chemotherapy, 2 years
Prevention of any grade of diarrhea, 2 years|Number of patients with any grade 3 or 4 toxicity or SAE related toxicity., Number of patients with any grade 3 or 4 toxicity or SAE related toxicity according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE)., 2 years|Number of patients with any grade gastrointestinal symptoms, Number of patients with any grade gastrointestinal symptoms (enteritis, colitis, constipation, abdominal distension, bloating, flatulence, gastritis, dyspepsia,nausea, vomiting) according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE., 2 years
Irinotecan is one of key drug used in the treatment of colorectal cancer. The incidence of irinotecan induced diarrhea varies between 60-90%, with severe diarrhea in 20-40%. The main cause of diarrhea is one of irinotecan metabolites, SN-38 which is in the liver glucuronidated and subsequently expelled into the intestine. Due to the bacterial enzyme beta-D-glucuronidase in intestinal lumen it is deconjugated. This form causes direct damage of intestinal mucosa associated with malabsorption and the development of diarrhea. It is known that probiotic bacteria, reduce activity of intestinal beta-D-glucuronidase and therefore these bacteria could be applied in the prevention of diarrhea in patients treated by this food supplement. Given their low toxicity, good tolerability, probiotics may be an important part of supportive therapy. This is a first study aimed to determine the effectiveness of the probiotics in the prophylaxis of irinotecan induced diarrhea due to reduction intestinal beta-D-glucuronidase activity.