Evaluating Combination of Nivolumab and Axatilimab in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
The goal of this clinical trial is to study the combination of nivolumab and axatilimab in patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin Lymphoma. This study will mainly look at if the combination works as expected.
Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Axatilimab|DRUG: Nivolumab
Objective response rate (ORR) as measured by Best Overall Response Rate (BOR) measured by the proportion of subjects achieving a confirmed PR and CR as defined by Lugano Criteria, evaluate the efficacy of combination of Axatilimab (SNDX-6352) and Nivolumab in the study population, At the end of 6 cycles of Treatment. Each cycle is 28 days
The frequency of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) characterized by type, severity (as defined by the NIH CTCAE, version 5.0), seriousness, duration, and relationship to study treatment., To assess the safety and tolerability of Axatilimab (SNDX-6352) and Nivolumab in the study population, up to 15 months|Progression-free survival (PFS) as defined as the time from study drug initiation to the time documented disease progression (as assessed by Lugano Criteria) or death from any cause., To assess progression-free survival (PFS), up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS) as defined as the time from registration until death from any cause., To assess overall survival in this study population, up to 3 years|Duration of response (DoR), defined as the interval of time from the date of initial documented response (PR or better per Lugano) to the time of progression from the best response, the start of a new therapy, or death from any cause., To assess the duration of response (DoR) of the study population., up to 3 years|TTNT (time to next treatment), defined as the interval of time from date of study drug initiation to start of subsequent therapy, To assess time to next treatment (TTNT) of the study population, up to 3 years|ORR as measured by lymphoma response to immunomodulatory therapy criteria (LYRIC)., To assess efficacy based on modified criteria for patients on immunotherapy, up to 3 years
This study is a phase II, proof-of concept, prospective, multi-center study of combination of nivolumab and Axatilimab (SNDX-6352) in subjects with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma. Nine evaluable patients will be enrolled and receive Axatilimab 3mg/kg Q4 weeks in combination with nivolumab 480mg Q4 weeks. If more than one DLT is observed during the DLT period (first two cycles) in the first 6 patients, the study drug dose will be reduced to 2mg/kg and additional patients (up to 6 at 2mg/kg dose) may be included to the study. This could result in maximum 12 patients for the entire study. The combination of Nivolumab and Axatilimab will be continued until progression/toxicity or a maximum of 12 months of treatment. The investigators expect that in patients who respond to this combination, the tumor microenvironment will shift towards immunocompetent phenotype within a few months of combination treatment. Thus, there may not be further benefit of continuing the combination for more than 12 months. If patients have responded to the combination, patients are able to continue anti-PD(L)1 off-study after 12 months as their tumor microenvironment might have reset for it to work better.

Safety Run-In A total of 6 to 9 subjects may be evaluated in Part 1 depending on the frequency of DLTs and the need for dose reductions. A dose de-escalation design will be used to determine the recommended phase 2 dose, while ensuring the safety and tolerability of the treatment. In this trial, the dose determined to be the maximum tolerated dose will be the recommended phase 2 dose for a potential future study. The study may test two dose levels of Axatilimab (SNDX-6352) as described in the protocol.