Adaptive Symptom Self-Management Immunotherapy Study
The use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), alone or in combination with other cancer treatments is increasing dramatically with immune-related adverse events (irAEs) common (90%) during ICI treatment. Most irAEs are symptomatic and symptom self-management with timely reporting of moderate or severe symptoms to health care providers (HCPs) may reduce irAE severity by early recognition and management, resulting in fewer treatment interruptions and unscheduled health services.
Breast Cancer|Colon Cancer|Lung Cancer|Skin Cancer|Rectum Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Automated Telephone Symptom Management (ATMS) and Telephone Interpersonal Counseling (TIP-C)|BEHAVIORAL: Active control comparator
Change in patient reported psychological distress in Interviews., Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) has been developed using sophisticated measurement techniques, tested with over 21,000 individuals, calibrated to produce t-scores based on the general population and are available in either English or Spanish. The available short forms have evidence of good reliability and validity. PROMIS-short form 8 for depression and anxiety will be administered at baseline and 17-week telephone interviews to provide greater detail and precision in the measurement of severity of these symptoms, as compared to three PRO-CTCAE items (anxious, discouraged, sad). Each question is rated on a five-point scale from 1=Never to 5=Always. A higher score indicates higher anxiety or depression.The study team chose 8-item short forms to minimize respondent burden while maintaining measurement precision., PROMIS short form 8 for depression and anxiety will be administered at baseline (week 0) and again at week 17 as part of the final follow-up.|Change in reported PRO-CTCAE Symptoms, Psychological distress and other symptoms will be measured weekly using PRO-CTCAE severity items at weeks 0-17. Severity is rated 0=none, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe, 4=very severe. The 3 items reflecting psychological distress are anxious, discouraged, and sad. Other items relevant to ICI treatment were selected from the PRO-CTCAE library for a total of 23 items (e.g., nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, swelling, rash, increased sweating, heart palpitations, etc.). In addition to PRO-CTCAE, the study team will use data on the grades of irAEs documented by clinicians in the HER. Each of 3 item sets, the three PRO-CTCAE items of psychological distress, 23 other PRO-CTCAE items, and clinician documented irAEs will be summarized into three toxicity indices (TIs). All grades of the included items will be ordered from highest to lowest, and the weighted sum will be calculated., PRO-CTCAE will be administered weekly at baseline (week 0) through week 17.
Change in cancer treatment interruptions, Cancer treatment interruptions (dose reductions and stoppages) along with their dates will be extracted from EHRs and summarized as the number and duration of temporary stoppages and dose reductions, and whether or not a premature permanent or temporary stoppage of the ICI occurred during the 17-week study period., Cancer treatment interruptions will be measured after the final week 17 follow-up and take into account the participant's time on study (consent date through week 17 interview date).|Change in unscheduled health care visits, Unscheduled health care visits, hospitalizations and emergency department visits will be summarized as the number of events and number of days spent in the hospital if admitted., Unscheduled health care visits will be measured at baseline and week 17.
Using a sequential multiple assignment randomized trial (SMART) design, the study team will initially randomize 286 diverse survivors (30% Hispanic) who are within 12 weeks of starting ICIs and who also have elevated psychological distress to an Automated Telephone Symptom Management (ATSM) or to an active control condition. ATSM consists of weekly telephone symptom monitoring using the Patient Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) items by an automated voice response technology. Participants are referred to a printed Handbook with information about symptoms, evidence-based self-management strategies, and when to report symptoms to HCPs. ATSM automatically sends a weekly symptom summary to HCPs. Active control survivors will receive automated symptom monitoring only with reports sent to HCPs. Survivors in ATSM whose psychological distress is still elevated for 2 consecutive weeks during weeks 2-8 (nonresponders) will be randomized for the second time to add TIPC for 8 weeks or continue with ATSM alone. The study team hypothesizes adding TIPC will improve self-efficacy for symptom self-management, including communication with HCPs and increase social support resulting in lower indices of psychological distress, other PRO-CTCAE symptoms, clinician-documented irAES (primary outcomes), and unscheduled health services use and ICI treatment interruptions (secondary outcomes). With total intervention time of 16 weeks, all survivors will be interviewed at baseline and week 17 post-intervention, and electronic health record data will be extracted for the participation period.

Specific aims:

Aim 1. Determine if primary and secondary outcomes over weeks 1-17 are lower (better) in the group created by the first randomization: the adaptive intervention that begins with ATSM with the need-based addition of TIPC vs. active control group.

Aim 2. Among those not responding to ATSM on psychological distress during weeks 2-8 who enter the second randomization, determine: a) if primary and secondary outcomes over weeks 8-17 are lower (better) in TIPC+ATSM vs. ATSM alone group; b) the extent to which the effects of adding TIPC to ATSM on primary and secondary outcomes are mediated by increased social support, self-efficacy for symptom management and for communication with HCP.

Aim 3. Explore which baseline characteristics of the survivor, cancer, and cancer treatment are associated with optimal primary and secondary outcomes resulting from three supportive care options: 1) symptom monitoring only with automated reports to HCPs (active control); 2) ATSM alone for 16 weeks; or 3) addition of 8 weeks of TIPC to ATSM if no response on psychological distress during weeks 2-8.