AB-1015, an Integrated Circuit T (ICT) Cell Therapy in Patients with Platinum Resistant Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
This is a multi-center, open-label phase 1 dose escalation trial that uses a modified 3+3 design to identify a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of AB-1015 cell product. Backfill cohorts will enroll additional subjects at doses deemed to be safe for a total enrollment of up to 12 subjects per each backfill cohort on the protocol.
Carcinoma, Ovarian Epithelial|Ovarian Neoplasms|Fallopian Tube Neoplasms|Peritoneal Neoplasms|Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial|Ovarian Diseases|Genital Neoplasm, Female|Abdominal Neoplasm|Recurrence
BIOLOGICAL: AB-1015
Incidence of adverse events and dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Toxicity grading will be evaluated according to the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 and monitoring of adverse events. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) events will be graded according to the criteria outlined in the protocol., Up to 2 years post treatment|Maximal tolerated dose of AB-1015, Will be determined by a 3x3 dose escalation study, Up to 21 days
Number of AB-1015 cells, Number of AB-1015 cells present in patients treatment with AB-1015, Up to 1 year post treatment|Evidence of anti-tumor activity, Assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Up to 2 years post treatment|Co-expression of ALPG and MSLN targets on tumor cells, Assessment by immunohistochemistry (or similar method), Up to 2 years post treatment
This study is intended for the patients who have been diagnosed with Epithelial Ovarian Cancer that either came back or did not improve after platinum treatments (platinum resistant). The purpose of this study is to test the safety of using a new treatment called Integrated Circuit T (ICT) cells (AB-1015 cells) in patients with ovarian cancer. This treatment has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.

The goal of this study is to calculate the maximum tolerated dose of the AB-1015 cells. T cells are part of the immune system that protect the body from infection and may help fight cancer. The T cells given in this study will come from the patient and will have a genetic circuit/logic gate put in them that makes them able to recognize alkaline phosphatase, germ line/placental (ALPG/P) and mesothelin (MSLN), 2 proteins on the surface of tumor cells. These logic-gated T cells may help the body's immune system identify and kill cancer cells while sparing normal healthy tissues from toxicity.

The AB-1015 cells are given intravenously, after completing 3 rounds of conditioning chemotherapy administered over 3 consecutive days. Conditioning chemotherapy prepares the body to receive the AB-1015 cells. If they continue to meet the eligibility criteria, AB-1015 cells will be given to them 2 days after the last conditioning chemotherapy round. A single infusion of the AB-1015 cells will be given to the subject intravenously.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed with serial measurements of safety, tolerability and response.

This is a research study to obtain new information that may help people in the future.