PEG-Interferon Alfa-2b and Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Kidney Cancer
RATIONALE: PEG-interferon alfa-2b may interfere with the growth of tumor cells. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It may also stop the growth of kidney cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving PEG-interferon alfa-2b together with sorafenib may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of PEG-interferon alfa-2b and sorafenib in treating patients with unresectable or metastatic kidney cancer.
Kidney Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: PEG-interferon alfa-2b|DRUG: Sorafenib|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|GENETIC: reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: flow cytometry|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum Tolerated Dose of PEG-interferon Alfa-2b and Sorafenib Tosylate, up to 2 months|Characterize the Toxicity of Peginterferon Alfa-2b and Sorafenib in Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma., up to 2 months
Progression-free Survival of Patients Receiving Peginterferon Alfa-2b and Sorafenib., up to 1 year|Response Rate of Patients Receiving Peginterferon Alfa-2b and Sorafenib., up to 1 year|Overall Survival, up to 1 year|Activation of Interferon-induced Transcription Factors in Immune Cell Subsets by Flow Cytometry and Correlation of This Information With Clinical Outcome, up to 1 year|Circulating Levels of IFN-γ and IL-5 for Determination of Th1/Th2 Status and CD4+, CD25+, and FoxP3 Cell Number (T Regs) in Peripheral Blood, Up to 1 year
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxicity of PEG-interferon alfa-2b and sorafenib tosylate in patients with unresectable or metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.

Secondary

* To determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* To evaluate, in a preliminary manner, the response rate and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* To evaluate the activation of interferon-induced transcription factors in immune cell subsets (including regulatory T cells \[T regs\]) using a novel flow cytometric assay and correlate this information with clinical outcome.
* To measure circulating levels of IFN-γ and IL-5 for determination of Th1/Th2 status and CD4+, CD25+, and FoxP3 cell number (T regs) in peripheral blood.

OUTLINE: Patients receive PEG-interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, and 50. Patients also receive oral sorafenib tosylate 2-3 times daily on days 15-56 of course 1 and on days 1-56 of all subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 56 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for correlative laboratory studies. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells are analyzed for STAT proteins (STAT1, STAT2, STAT3, STAT4, STAT5) and CD4+, CD25+, and FoxP3 regulatory T cells by flow cytometric assays. Samples are also analyzed for the presence of VEGF, VEGFR, IFN-γ, and IL-5 by ELISA assays; baseline expression of Jak-STAT signaling intermediates (Jak1, Tyk2, IFNAR, and IRF9) by immunoblot analysis; and interferon-stimulated gene expression by real time PCR and RT-PCR analysis.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.