Preoperative Bintrafusp Alfa in Operable Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder
PEBBLE is an open-label, international, multicentre, window of opportunity phase II trial that aims to evaluate the effects of short-term preoperative therapy with bintrafusp alfa in patients with histologically confirmed urothelial carcinoma requiring radical surgery with bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection. Eligible patients will receive 4 doses of bintrafusp alfa (1200mg flat dose) at 14 day intervals before undergoing radical surgery. Patients will attend study visits at 6, 12 and 24 weeks following their surgery. After the 24-week post-surgical visit, patients will enter a follow up phase during which they will be contacted annually for 2 years after their surgery to collect survival and disease status data. The efficacy of bintrafusp alfa will be assessed on CT/MRI scan images and tumour tissue samples collected at baseline and after treatment with bintrafusp alfa.
Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Bintrafusp alfa
Pathological complete response rate (pCRR), No microscopic evidence (pT0/Tis/Cis) of residual disease in the bladder based on histological evaluation of the resected bladder specimen collected during radical surgery, Post - treatment with 4 cycles of bintrafusp alfa (1 cycle = 14 days)
Dynamic changes in TGFb, T-effector signatures and CD8 count measured in tumour samples., Pre - and post - treatment with 4 cycles of bintrafusp alfa (1 cycle = 14 days)|Incidence, nature and severity of adverse events (AE) graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, From time of consent until the safety visit, an average of 22 weeks.|Disease free survival (DFS) defined as time between the date of enrolment to first evidence of relapse based on local investigator assessments or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS) defined as the time between the date of enrolment and death due to any cause., Up to 2 years
PEBBLE is an open-label, international, multicentre, window of opportunity phase II trial that aims to evaluate the effects of short-term preoperative therapy with bintrafusp alfa in patients with histologically confirmed urothelial carcinoma requiring radical surgery with bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection. Eligible patients will receive 4 doses of bintrafusp alfa (1200mg flat dose) at 14 day intervals before undergoing radical surgery. Patients will attend study visits at 6, 12 and 24 weeks following their surgery. After the 24-week post-surgical visit, patients will enter a follow up phase during which they will be contacted annually for 2 years after their surgery to collect survival and disease status data. The efficacy of bintrafusp alfa will be assessed on CT/MRI scan images and tumour tissue samples collected at baseline and after treatment with bintrafusp alfa.