Progressive Resistance Training Program in Head and Neck Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of a 12-week progressive resistance training (PRT) during concurrent chemoradiotherapy in head and neck cancer patients compared to usual care.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Progressive resistance training
Feasibility, The feasibility outcomes will be inclusion rate defined as the number of patients recruited from the number of eligible patients and completion rate defined as the number of participants able to complete the intervention.

Adherence to the exercise intervention will be evaluated via patient-reported training logs., up to 7 months
Change in LBM, Whole body LBM will be determined using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA)., up to 20 months|Weight loss, Patient will be weighed weekly during the 12-week PRT program; afterwards at each follow-up (2, 5, 9, and 13 months), up to 20 months|Number of patients with side-effects to treatment, Side-effects will be registered using Common Terminology Criteria for Advers Events v4.0 (CTCAE)., up to 7 months|Quality of Life, Up to 20 months|Change in physical function and strength, Change in muscle strength will be evaluated by 1 repetition maximum test (1RM) measured in kg.

Change in muscle power will be evaluated by Nottingham Power Rig and measured in watts and watt/kg.

Change in physical function will be evaluated by 30 second sit-to-stand test, arm curl test and stair climbing., Up to 20 months
Muscle biopsies, In order to establish energy-reserves in the muscles, up to 7 months|Blood samples, In order to identify systemic factors released during exercise, Up to 20 months
12 patients with head and neck cancer will be recruited to this trial. Entering a 12-week PRT program which will start one week before radiotherapy. The tested training program is a 12-week, supervised, group based, progressive resistance training program involving the major muscle groups of the body. The program has previously been found to successfully restore the loss of lean body mass (LBM) in head and neck cancer patients post-treatment. A group based approach will be used to facilitate a social and motivating training environment for the patients. This approach has previously been used for exercise interventions for lung cancer patients at our facility, and was highly appreciated by the patients.

In addition to baseline data (height, tumor stage, performance status, etc), the following parameters will be registered on a weekly basis: Weight, patient reported side effects, as well as a questionnaire on amount of physical activity and food intake.

Physical function and strength will be tested at baseline, after the course of chemoradiotherapy and at the end of the 12-week PRT programme, and at 2, 5, 9 and 13 months follow-up. At similar time points dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans for body composition will be performed using a Lunar iDXA (GE Healthcare).

Blood samples will be drawn at baseline, an additional three times during the first 6 weeks and then weekly in relation to training sessions, and at 2, 5, 9 and 13 months follow-up.

Patient reported quality of life (EORTC Quality of Life Questionaire (QLQ)-C30 and QLQ-H\&N35) will be registered at baseline, after 12-weeks PRT and during 5 and 13 months follow-up.

Study duration is expected to be 7 months for the pilot-trial, with a follow-up of additional 13 months after the last patient has completed the intervention.