Combination of SFRT, PD-L1 Inhibitor, and Anti-VEGF in Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PD-1 inhibitor plus anti-VEGFR has become the established standard first-line systemic treatment for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Despite an improved objective response rate (ORR) of around 30%, the majority of patients face HCC progression and liver failure. Developing a new combined treatment strategy to overcome resistance to anti-PD-L1 and anti-VEGF is essential to improve patient outcomes. Stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT) can enhance immune response through various mechanisms, and its immunomodulatory effect has been confirmed in multiple solid tumors. However, due to the limitation of the OAR tolerance dose, large-volume tumors are unsuitable for SBRT treatment. To overcome this issue, researchers have introduced the spatially fractionated radiation therapy (SFRT) mode, which allows for a highly uneven radiation dose distribution within the tumor volume. SFRT is an emerging radiotherapy technique with high clinical response rates and low radiation-related toxicity in large-volume solid tumors. Therefore, the investigators conducted this single-arm, single-arm, open-label study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SFRT combined with PD-1 inhibitors and anti-VEGFR in unresectable HCC. The primary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR), and secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), and toxicity.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Radiotherapy|PD-1 Inhibitors
RADIATION: Combination of SFRT, PD-L1 inhibitor, and Anti-VEGF
objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate will be ratepresented as a proportion of the total., 36 months after registration
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival and overall survival are evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier curve. Verified through one sample proportion test., 36 months after registration|Overall survival, Progression-free survival and overall survival are evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier curve. Verified through one sample proportion test., 36 months after registration|Adverse event (Toxicity), Toxicity will be evaluated using CTCAE version 5.0 and presented as a proportion of the total., 36 months after registration|Tumor marker response: AFP, Tumor marker is descriptive as statistics such as mean, standard deviation, and median for continuous data will be presented, and changes in values before and after treatment will be compared and evaluated using paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test., 36 months after registration
This is a single-arm, single-center, open-label study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SFRT combined with PD-1 inhibitors (Camrelizumab, Tislelizumab or Sintilimab) and anti-VEGFR (Apatinib or Lenvatinib) in unresectable HCC. Patients received intravenous PD-1 inhibitor 200mg(Camrelizumab, Tislelizumab, or Sintilimab) plus oral Apatinib 250 mg or Lenvatinib 12mg (for bodyweight ≥60 kg) or 8 mg/kg (for bodyweight \<60 kg) daily, and additional SFRT for primary liver tumor. PD-1 inhibitor is administered for 2 years or until disease progression or intolerance. Anti-VEGFR is continued until disease progression or intolerance. SFRT implementation plan is as follows: The GTV consists of 2-5 sub-target volumes, which are cylindrical shapes with a diameter of 1.6cm, a height of 2cm, and an interval of 3-5cm. The total volume of the GTV is about 8-20cc, and the distance between the GTV and the OARs is greater than 2cm. The prescribed dosage for each course of radiotherapy is 24 Gy in 3 daily fractions (8Gy x 3F), with a 3-week interval between courses (Q3W). The total courses of radiotherapy shall not be less than 2 (depending on the efficacy and cumulative dose of OARs). The primary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR), and secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), and toxicity.