Quality of Life (QoL) Assessment in Cancer Patients and Survivors With Dermatologic Conditions Using Dermatologic QoL Instruments
The purpose of this study is to see how skin conditions that are related to different kinds of cancer or cancer treatments affect a patient's overall well-being. Skin conditions are common in cancer patients and survivors. Sometimes, the skin condition is directly related to the cancer. Other times, these conditions are a side effect of cancer treatment. Patients in the study will be asked to fill out at least one questionnaire about how they feel about their skin condition. If the patient needs to be treated for their skin condition, they will be asked to complete the same questionnaire when they return for a follow-up visit. The investigators hope the study will improve our understanding of how cancer patients feel about their skin conditions. They also hope this study helps them learn how to improve the way we treat skin conditions in cancer patients.
Cancer|Dermatologic Conditions
BEHAVIORAL: Quality of Life (QoL) Assessment
Quality of Life (QoL) questionnaire, in cancer patients and survivors with dermatologic conditions. This is a nontherapeutic and nondiagnostic protocol to obtain quality of life assessments from cancer patients and survivors who have dermatologic conditions, whether related to cancer therapies, or directly related to the primary cancer diagnosis. Data will be collected by using one or more dermatology-specific QoL instruments based on the underlying skin condition/s., 5 years
The purpose of this study is to see how skin conditions that are related to different kinds of cancer or cancer treatments affect a patient's overall well-being. Skin conditions are common in cancer patients and survivors. Sometimes, the skin condition is directly related to the cancer. Other times, these conditions are a side effect of cancer treatment. Patients in the study will be asked to fill out at least one questionnaire about how they feel about their skin condition. If the patient needs to be treated for their skin condition, they will be asked to complete the same questionnaire when they return for a follow-up visit. The investigators hope the study will improve our understanding of how cancer patients feel about their skin conditions. They also hope this study helps them learn how to improve the way we treat skin conditions in cancer patients.