Docetaxel Combined With Ketoconazole in Treatment of Breast Cancer
Patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer and with measurable primary breast tumor will be treated with 70mg docetaxel combined with ketoconazole. Serial tumor biopsies and plasma samples will be taken for gene expression and proteomics studies to identify biomarkers that may predict for treatment response.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: docetaxel and ketoconazole
1. Evaluate the clinical response rate of 70mg docetaxel with ketoconazole in metastatic breast cancer., 4 months|2. Evaluate the pathological response rate in the primary tumor following four cycles of docetaxel and ketoconazole., 5 months
1. To study tumor genomics and proteomics and serum proteomics in breast cancer in response to docetaxel/ketoconazole., 2 years|2. To compare tumor genomics and proteomics and serum proteomics in breast cancer in response to docetaxel/ketoconazole to that induced by docetaxel alone in a prior study (HO B17/02)., 2 years|3. To correlate docetaxel pharmacokinetics with (1)Genetic polymorphisms of drug metabolizing enzymes(2)Drug toxicity & tumor response(3)Peripheral mononuclear cell gene expression profiles, 3 years|(4) To study ondansetron pharmacokinetics and correlate that with genetic polymorphisms, 3 years
We hypothesize that 70mg docetaxel co-administered with ketoconazole would result in similar clinical efficacy as conventional doses of docetaxel (75mg/m2 body surface area) in terms of clinical and pathological response rates in metastatic breast cancer. We further hypothesize that tumor genomic and proteomic changes and serum proteomic changes would correlate with tumor response. We are also looking to correlate drug pharmacokinetics with treatment toxicity, genotype of drug metabolizing enzymes and transporters, and peripheral mononuclear cell gene expression profiles. The primary objectives are to evaluate the clinical response rate of 70mg docetaxel with ketoconazole in metastatic breast cancer, and to evaluate the pathological response rate in the primary tumor following four cycles of docetaxel and ketoconazole.