Multi-Omics Noninvasive Inspection of TumOr Risk for Gastric Cancer
This is a prospective, case-control study intended to develop and validate a blood-based multi-omics assay and computational model for early detection of gastric cancer. Approximately 450 subjects who receive esophageogastroscopy (EGD) will be enrolled and assigned to three arms including gastric cancer, precancerous lesion, and healthy control based on the diagnosis of EGD and histological results. Cell free DNA will be extracted from peripheral blood of all participants and assayed by next-generation sequencing for biomarkers including somatic mutation, methylation, and chromosome instability signals. In the first stage a multi-omics models will be developed for classification between malignancy group and control groups, and between precancerous group and healthy control. Sensitivity and specificity of the model will be evaluated in an independent validation group in the second stage.
Gastric Cancer
DEVICE: ctDNA multi-omics test
The sensitivity and specificity of blood-based multi-omics assay for early detection of gastric cancer with comparison to EGD and/or histological diagnosis., 24 months
This is a prospective, case-control study intended to develop and validate a blood-based multi-omics assay and computational model for early detection of gastric cancer. Approximately 450 subjects who receive esophageogastroscopy (EGD) will be enrolled and assigned to three arms including gastric cancer, precancerous lesion, and healthy control based on the diagnosis of EGD and histological results. Cell free DNA will be extracted from peripheral blood of all participants and assayed by next-generation sequencing for biomarkers including somatic mutation, methylation, and chromosome instability signals. In the first stage a multi-omics models will be developed for classification between malignancy group and control groups, and between precancerous group and healthy control. Sensitivity and specificity of the model will be evaluated in an independent validation group in the second stage.