Non-pharmacological Treatments for Non-malignant and Malignant Pain
Chronic pain concerns one in four adults in Belgium. Because of the psychological and social repercussions, a biopsychosocial approach is necessary in order to improve the quality of life of people suffering from chronic pain. Non-pharmacological techniques such as hypnosis, self-care learning and music-therapy are gaining more and more interest in the scientific field. Indeed, several studies have shown a reduction in psychological distress and an improvement in global quality of life after having learned self-hypnosis/self-care. Furthermore, other studies focusing on music as a treatment for chronic pain highlight an analgesic effect of music over pain and a reduction of common comorbidities. Nevertheless, only few studies aim at comparing these techniques to each other. The aim of our study would be to compare a 7 months learning program of self-hypnosis/self-care, music-therapy/self-care, motivation to learn self-hypnosis/self-care in order to highlight the most efficient treatment for chronic pain. Furthermore, we will include another type of chronic pain i.e. cancer pain to understand if self-hypnosis/self-care's impact is different in the other type of chronic pain.
Comparison of Treatment for Chronic Non-malignant and Malignant Pain
BEHAVIORAL: Self-hypnosis/self-care|BEHAVIORAL: Music/self-care|BEHAVIORAL: Self-hypnosis/self-care motivation|BEHAVIORAL: Self-hypnosis/self-care malignant pain
Change in pain description, The impact of slef-hypnosis/self-care on pain description will be assessed by means of a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in sleep, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care upon the severity of insomnia will be assessed by means of the "Insomnia Severity Index" (Morin et al., 2001). Scale ranging from 0 (none) to 4 (very severe)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in anxiety, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on anxiety will be assessed by means of the subtest "anxiety" of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS, Zigmond \& Snaith, 1983). Scale ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (always)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in depression, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on depression will be assessed by means of the subtest "anxiety" of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS, Zigmond \& Snaith, 1983). Scale ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (always)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in pain disability, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on pain disability will be assessed by means of the "Pain Disability Index" (PDI, Tait et al., 1990). Scale ranging from 0 (no difficulties) to 10 (a lot of difficulties)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in attitudes and beliefs about pain, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on the attitudes and beliefs about pain will be assessed my means of the "Survey of Pain Attitudes" (SOPA, Jensen \& Karoly, 1987). Scale ranging from 0 (totally wrong) to 10 (totally right)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in quality of life, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on the quality of life will be assessed by means of the "Short Form-36"(SF-36, Ware et al., 1988). Each item is balanced to obtain a score between 0 (worst quality) to 100 (maximum quality)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in locus of control, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on the locus of control will be assessed my means og the "Multidimensional Health Locus of Control" (MHLC, Wallston et al., 1978). Scale ranging from 1 (no agreement) to 4 (agreement)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change of the impact of pain, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on the impact of pain in individual's life, quality of social support and general activity, will be assessed my means of the "Multidimensional Pain Index" (PDI, Kerns et al., 1985). Scale ranging from 0 (none) to 6 (a lot)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in generic health, The impact of self-hypnosis/self-care on generic health will be assessed by the "EuroQol 5 Dimensions" questionnaire (EQ-5D, Health Policy, 1990). Scale ranging from 1 (no problems) to 3 (extreme problems)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)|Change in health status, The impact of Self-hypnosis/self-care on global health status will be assessed by means of a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Scale ranging from 0 (worst health status) to 100 (best health status)., Day 0 (before the intervention), up to 7 months (right after the intervention), up to 13 months (6 months follow-up), up to 19 months (12 months follow-up)
Chronic pain concerns one in four adults in Belgium. Because of the psychological and social repercussions, a biopsychosocial approach is necessary in order to improve the quality of life of people suffering from chronic pain. Non-pharmacological techniques such as hypnosis, self-care learning and music-therapy are gaining more and more interest in the scientific field. Indeed, several studies have shown a reduction in psychological distress and an improvement in global quality of life after having learned self-hypnosis/self-care. Furthermore, other studies focusing on music as a treatment for chronic pain highlight an analgesic effect of music over pain and a reduction of common comorbidities. Nevertheless, only few studies aim at comparing these techniques to each other. The aim of our study would be to compare a 7 months learning program of self-hypnosis/self-care, music-therapy/self-care, motivation to learn self-hypnosis/self-care in order to highlight the most efficient treatment for chronic pain. Furthermore, we will include another type of chronic pain i.e. cancer pain to understand if self-hypnosis/self-care's impact is different in the other type of chronic pain.