Endostar Combined With Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy For Locally Advanced Cervical Carcinoma
A total of 120 patients with pathologically confirmed Locally advanced cervical carcinoma were enrolled. Patients were randomly divided into two groups, with 60 patients in each group. One group was treated with Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy combined with Endostar and the other group was treated with Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy. The short term efficacy and the toxic of these treatments were evaluated. The 1-year, 3-year, 5-year overall survival and progression-free survival of patients were analyzed. The investigators data may provide an alternative option for the treatment of Locally advanced cervical carcinoma with high efficacy and low toxicity.
Cervical Carcinoma
DRUG: Endostar|DRUG: DDP
short-time effect, 3 months after treatment, the subjects go into observation period. MRI/CT will be used for evaluating the carcinoma status., 3 months
Overall Survival, OS was calculated from the date of entry into the study to the date of death or the last follow-up visit., 3 years,5 years|Progression-Free Survival, PFS was calculated from the date of entry into the study to the date of first physical or radio-graphic evidence of disease progression, death or the last follow-up visit., 3 years,5 years
This study was a multicenter, randomized controlled clinical trial. A set of unified standards were used, including the clinical research program, inclusion criteria, exclusion criteria, chemoradiotherapy regimen and evaluation criteria. Nine medical centers participated in this study and 120 patients with pathologically confirmed Locally advanced cervical carcinoma were enrolled. These patients were randomly divided into two groups: concurrent chemoradiotherapy combined with Endostar group ( IMRT 45-50Gy, DDP 40mg/m2, per week for 5cycles, Endostar: 7.5mg/m2 d1-10, repeat every 15 days, for 4 cycles) and concurrent chemoradiotherapy group ( IMRT 45-50Gy, DDP 40mg/m2, per week, for 5cycles). After treatment, follow-up was performed every 3 months. The treatment toxicity, local control rate, distant metastasis-free survival, overall survival, progression-free survival were observed and assessed.