Safety and Efficacy of Selinexor in Combination With Pembrolizumab in Recurrent Advanced Melanoma
Approximately 40 participants with locally advanced or metastatic melanoma will be enrolled in 20 sites in the United States into 1 of the following 2 arms: Primary resistance to initial checkpoint inhibitor (CPI) therapy in Arm A and Acquired resistance to initial CPI therapy in Arm B. Participants who have disease progression (PD) after discontinuation of CPIs, especially in neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy, will be considered to have acquired resistance in this study. Participants will receive study treatment (Selinexor and Pembrolizumab) until PD, intolerable toxicity or withdrawal from the study, whichever occurs first.
Locally Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Assessed as Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). ORR was assessed by RECIST 1.1 as defined by the Investigator based on radiologic criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions, any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeter (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30 percentage (%) decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the date of randomization until the documentation of CR or PR, whichever occurs first (up to 24 months)
Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Per RECIST v 1.1, PFS was defined as time from date of first treatment to the date of first confirmed progressive disease (PD), assessed by RECIST 1.1 is objectively documented or death due to any cause. As per RECIST 1.1 criteria, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD), taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From the date of randomization until disease progression or death, due to any cause (up to 24 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from date of first study treatment until death due to any cause. If death event did not occur during the follow-up period, the participant was censored at the date of discontinuation from the study (i.e. withdrawal of consent), or date of last participating visit (e.g., a telephone contact with participant status being alive) on or before database cutoff date, whichever occurs first., From the date of first study treatment up to death (up to 24 months)|Complete Response Rate (CRR), Complete response rate was defined as percentage of participants who had achieved a complete response (CR) per RECIST 1.1. As per RECIST version 1.1, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions, any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) with reduced in the short axis to \<10 mm., Up to 101 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR) as Per RECIST v 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first occurrence of CR or PR until the first date of PD per RECIST version 1.1 or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions, any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD), taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From first occurrence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first (up to 24 months)|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control Rate (DCR) as Per RECIST v 1.1, Disease control rate was defined as percentage of participants who have a response of CR, PR, or at least 12 continuous weeks of stable disease (SD) as per RECIST v 1.1. As per RECIST v 1.1 before PD or initiating a new antineoplastic therapy, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions) taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Percentage values were rounded off., Up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious TEAEs, An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. A TEAE was defined as those AEs that develop or worsen after the first dose of study drug. TEAEs included both serious and non-serious TEAEs., From start of the study treatment up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Clinical Laboratory Parameters, Clinical laboratory parameters included clinical chemistry, hematology and urinalysis. Number of participants with clinically significant laboratory abnormalities which were deemed clinically significant by the investigator were reported., From start of the study treatment up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Vital Signs, Vital signs included body temperature, blood pressure (systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure). Measurements were made after the participant had been resting supine for a minimum of 5 minutes. The clinically significant change assessment was based on investigator's judgment. Number of participants with clinically significant change from baseline in vital signs values were reported., From start of the study treatment up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Physical Examination, Number of participants with clinically significant physical examination abnormalities including general appearance, dermatological, head, eyes, ears, nose, throat, respiratory, cardiovascular, abdominal, lymph nodes, musculoskeletal, and neurological examinations. Number of participants with clinically significant physical examination abnormalities which were deemed clinically significant by the investigator were reported., From start of the study treatment up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Severity of Adverse Events Assessed Using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0, AEs are graded using the following criteria using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse events v5.0: Grade 1: Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated; Grade 2: Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental ADL; Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self-care ADL; Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated; Grade 5: Death related to AE., From start of the study treatment up to 24 months
Approximately 40 participants with locally advanced or metastatic melanoma will be enrolled in 20 sites in the United States into 1 of the following 2 arms: Primary resistance to initial checkpoint inhibitor (CPI) therapy in Arm A and Acquired resistance to initial CPI therapy in Arm B. Participants who have disease progression (PD) after discontinuation of CPIs, especially in neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy, will be considered to have acquired resistance in this study. Participants will receive study treatment (Selinexor and Pembrolizumab) until PD, intolerable toxicity or withdrawal from the study, whichever occurs first.