Clinical Registry for Oligometastic Disease, Consolidation Therapy, Debulking Prior to Chemotherapy, or Re-Irradiation
This prospective protocol will enroll patients with pathologically confirmed solid malignancies who receive stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) for oligometastases, for consolidation after systemic therapy, prior to systemic therapy for the purposes of debulking, or in the re-irradiation setting. Increasing use of SBRT off of clinical trials in patients with malignancies of all histologies is being utilized in these settings. However, individualized outcomes and characteristics of treatments are not prospectively followed and not well documented. By instituting a registry of patients receiving SBRT in these settings it will be possible to determine trends in patterns of care and outcomes for refinement and justification of this treatment.
Cancer Patients Receiving Stereotactic Body RTX
RADIATION: SBRT
patterns of care, Prospectively enroll patients to one of four treatment categories who are to receive SBRT onto a registry to define patterns of care:

Group 1: Oligometastatic disease- all radiologic suspicious areas for viable disease to be treated

Group 2: Consolidation Therapy - only PET avid or progressive disease

Group 3: Norton-Simon Arm - SBRT prior to initial of planned further systemic therapy

Group 4: Re-Irradiation Arm-recurrence or failure within a previously irradiated volume., 5 years
Loco-regional control, Loco-regional control in sites treated via SBRT in the four treatment categories., 5 years|overall survival, To evaluate overall survival among patients in the four treatment categories., 5 years|Number of patients with toxicities, To evaluate the safety of SBRT in the four treatment categories: toxicities review, 5 years
Patients will be grouped into one of four treatment arms. Treatment intent must be specified at the time of registration.

OLIGOMETASTATIC ARM- The first treatment arm will be for patients with oligometastatic disease, which will be defined as a treatment with curative intent to less than or equal to six sites of disease on initial presentation of metastatic disease or within the context of the initial combined modality treatment regimen (e.g., after a chemotherapy or surgical phase of therapy). Patients in this treatment arm will receive a definitive, ablative dose of radiation intended to eradicate all residual gross tumor of "all" sites of disease. A variety of acceptable ablative fractionation schemes with variable ability to prevent normal tissue toxicity will be allowed. Further planned systemic therapy or surgery does not eliminate stratification into this group so long as the overall intent is curative.

CONSOLIDATION ARM- The second treatment arm will be for consolidation following systemic therapy. This approach is akin to the experience with consolidation with radiation with conventional radiation after systemic therapy for tumors like bulky lymphomas, etc. In this context, treatment will be directed towards PET-avid residual disease assuming them to harbor residual active disease or disease more resistant to systemic therapy. The treatment doses will be sub-ablative yet will still maintain radiobiologic potency for local control with the option in the future for further systemic therapy.

NORTON-SIMON ARM- The third treatment arm will enroll patients prior to receiving systemic therapy who require initial debulking of gross disease to enhance chemotherapy efficacy per the Norton-Simon hypothesis. (Patients who initially receive systemic therapy, with gross residual disease in less than or equal to 6 sites of disease, who then receive SBRT with planned further systemic therapy (targeted or cytotoxic) immediately following SBRT will be enrolled onto this arm)

RE-IRRADIATION ARM- The fourth treatment arm will enroll patients if they have had prior irradiation and suffered disease recurrence or failure within a previously irradiated volume. Prior irradiation can consist of external beam irradiation- conventional treatment, hypofractionated treatment, stereotactic radiation, or even brachytherapy