A Phase III Trial of With Marizomib in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
The standard of care for newly diagnosed glioblastoma includes surgery, involved-field radiotherapy, and concomitant and six cycles of maintenance temozolomide chemotherapy, however the prognosis remains dismal. Marizomib has been tested in patients with newly diagnosed and recurrent glioblastoma in phase I and phase II studies. In patients with recurrent glioblastoma, marizomib was administered as a single agent or in combination with bevacizumab (NCT02330562). Based on encouraging observations, a phase I/II trial of marizomib in combination with Temozolomide+Radiotherapy(TMZ/RT) followed by Temozolomide (TMZ) in newly diagnosed glioblastoma has been launched (NCT02903069) which explores safety and tolerability of this triple combination and which shall help to determine the dose for further clinical trials in glioblastoma. In this context, given that marizomib has been established as a safe addition to the standard TMZ/RT --\>TMZ, a phase III study is considered essential to establishing its impact on overall survival.
Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
DRUG: Marizomib|DRUG: Temozolomide|RADIATION: radiotherapy
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS): OS is defined as the number of days from date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. If a patient has not died, the data will be censored at the last date documented to be alive., From the date of randomization up to the date of death, assessed up to 49 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the number of days from date of randomization to the date of earliest disease progression based on Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria (by investigator) or to the date of death due to any cause, if disease progression does not occur. Patients for whom neither death nor progression have been documented were censored on the date of the last radiological assessment that the patient was progression-free. If a patient with no post-baseline radiological assessment then the data were censored at the date of randomization. Patients with two or more missing response assessments prior to a visit with documented disease progression (or death) were censored at the last visit where the patient was documented to be progression free. Patients who received new anti-cancer therapy or cancer-related surgery prior to progression or death were not censored at the last assessment where the patient was documented as progression free prior to the new therapy., From the date of randomization until the date of first objective progression or the date of patient's death whichever occurs first, assessed up to 49 months|Health-related Quality of Life (HRQol), HRQoL will be assessed with the EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) version 3., From randomization until progression, assessed up to 49 months|Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), MMSE is a brief, standardized tool to grade patients' neurocognitive function. It is an 11-question measure that tests five areas of neurocognitive function: orientation, registration, attention and calculation, recall, and language. The maximum score is 30 which corresponds to the best neurocognitive function. The patient's neurocognitive function are considered 'impaired' if the MMSE score is 26 or less and 'normal' if it is 27 or more. Since its creation in 1975, MMSE has been validated and extensively used in both clinical practice and research., From the date of randomization until end of treatment, assessed up to 49 months
The standard of care for newly diagnosed glioblastoma includes surgery, involved-field radiotherapy, and concomitant and six cycles of maintenance temozolomide chemotherapy, however the prognosis remains dismal. Marizomib has been tested in patients with newly diagnosed and recurrent glioblastoma in phase I and phase II studies. In patients with recurrent glioblastoma, marizomib was administered as a single agent or in combination with bevacizumab (NCT02330562). Based on encouraging observations, a phase I/II trial of marizomib in combination with Temozolomide+Radiotherapy(TMZ/RT) followed by Temozolomide (TMZ) in newly diagnosed glioblastoma has been launched (NCT02903069) which explores safety and tolerability of this triple combination and which shall help to determine the dose for further clinical trials in glioblastoma. In this context, given that marizomib has been established as a safe addition to the standard TMZ/RT --\>TMZ, a phase III study is considered essential to establishing its impact on overall survival.