Tamoxifen Citrate in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using tamoxifen citrate may fight cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well tamoxifen citrate works in patients with metastatic or recurrent breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: tamoxifen
Progression-free Survival by CYP2D6 Status in 2 Categories, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to progression or death, whichever occurs first. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to evaluate progression. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months up to 5 years
Progression-free Survival by CYP2D6 Status in 3 Categories, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to progression or death, whichever occurs first. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to evaluate progression. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months up to 5 years|Proportion of Patients Progression-free at 6 Months, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to evaluate progression. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Assessed every 3 months for 6 months|Proportion of Patients With Response, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to evaluate response. Either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) is considered as response. CR is defined as disappearance of all lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months up to 5 years|Endoxifen Concentration by Response, Endoxifen (ng/ml) was assessed at cycle 3.

Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to evaluate response. Either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) is considered as response. CR is defined as disappearance of all lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Endoxifen was assessed at cycle 3; response was assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival From 3 Months Post Registration, This is a landmark progression-free survival analysis at 3 months post registration. Only patients who were progression-free and alive at 3 months were included.

Progression-free survival in this analysis is defined as the time from 3 months post registration to progression or death, whichever occurs first. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to evaluate progression. Progression is defined as appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To correlate CYP2D6 (Cytochrome P450 2D6) score (0 vs 1-2) and progression-free survival (PFS)

Secondary

* To correlate CYP2D6 score (0 vs 1 vs 2) and PFS
* To correlate CYP2D6 score (0 vs 1-2) and the proportion of these patients who are progression-free at 6 months.
* To correlate endoxifen concentration with response
* To correlate CYP2D6 with response
* To correlate the presence of candidate estrogen receptor (ESR) 1 and 2 variant alleles, UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) 7, sulfotransferases (SULT) 1A1, other candidate genes and biomarkers to PFS and other tamoxifen related outcomes

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral tamoxifen citrate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicities.

Blood, plasma, and tissue samples are collected periodically for laboratory studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 5 years.