Pain Management Smartphone Application for Patients With Stage III-IV Head and Neck Cancer Undergoing Radiation Therapy
This pilot clinical trial studies a pain management smartphone application for monitoring pain in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer who are undergoing radiation therapy. The study is also open to patients with esophageal or lung cancer. A smartphone application may allow patients to assess their symptoms in a manner that is closer to real-time than having to recall pain episodes during once weekly on-treatment visits with a health care provider. This real-time monitoring may improve the timing and efficacy of interventions leading to better pain-control and quality of life.
Head and Neck Cancer|Pain|Lung Cancer|Esophageal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Telephone-Based Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Compliance characteristics of patients' use of the pain management smartphone application, Summaries of feasibility will be generated using rates (percentages). Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize patient ratings of satisfaction regarding the PMSA, instruction, usage, and future recommendation., Up to day 50
Number of additional OTVs prompted by usage of the application, The additional OTVs per patient will analyzed with descriptive statistics, such as frequency distributions, means, medians and measures of variability will be used to describe the OTV number changes., Up to day 50
Ability to obtain consumer input to determine the optimal way to address and monitor the patient's symptoms, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Obtain consumer input to determine the optimal way to address and monitor the patient's symptoms.

II. Train patients to use the pain management smartphone application (PMSA) and determine the compliance characteristics and the number of additional on-treatment visits (OTVs) prompted by usage of the application.

OUTLINE:

Selected patients are interviewed for input that will help guide the wording of questions of the PMSA. All patients/caregivers are then instructed to download the PMSA and are demonstrated how to properly use the application. Beginning on the first day of radiation therapy (day 1), patients are instructed to use the PMSA for the duration of their radiation therapy (up to day 50), although the timing may change based on the availability of the app.