CanScan; Community-based Registry to Assess, Address and advaNce SCreening for cANcer Prevention and Management
Early diagnosis of cancer allows for better treatment outcomes, higher survival rates, and lower costs of care. It is shown that cancer monitoring for cancer in at-risk populations is a key component in early diagnosis. The HMH Hennessey Institute for Cancer prevention and Applied Molecular Science (HICAP) is a newly founded institute, providing clinical services for cancer screening and risk assessment to the community, as well as research in cancer risk and prevention. The CanScan registry will prospectively collect data from participants in the form of questionnaires. The registry will also capture data that is collected as per non-research assessments, for participants who consent to participate. The registry will facilitate better understanding of cancer risk, screening, and diagnostics.
Cancer Risk
Rate of Pathogenic Germline Variants (PGV), Compare the number of detected PGVs as measured by a universal multi-gene panel, proactively, in a diverse community-based population of individuals. PGV rate will be compared to NCCN genetic testing criteria at baseline, and to longitudinal cancer outcomes., 10 years from study initiation as defined based on the date the first patient was enrolled.
Incidence of Cancer, The number of new cancer cases diagnosed in participants with specific PGV's (i.e. "at high risk" to develop cancer) compared to those without these markers (i.e. "low / average risk") over a period of ten years as described below., 10 years from study enrollment.|Genetic Risk Score (GRS), GRS is a score that includes demographic data, Family history, Medical history, Epidemiologic risk factors and data stemming from SOC biospecimens analysis. The purpose of this is to assess the association between PGV's, GRS's and the time to cancer diagnosis., 10 years from study enrollment|Environmental and Lifestyle Factors, We will evaluate the interaction between genetic markers and environmental/lifestyle factors (e.g., smoking, diet, physical activity) on cancer risk. This will be achieved by assessing environmental/lifestyle factors via questionnaires and correlating these with cancer incidence (Secondary Outcome 2), 10 years from study enrollment|Impact of Early Detection and Prevention on Cancer Outcomes, This study will evaluate the association between various preventive measures (e.g., regular screenings, lifestyle modifications) as reported via questionnaires and cancer outcomes (defined as overall survival, and disease-free survival)., 10 years from study enrollment
Early diagnosis of cancer allows for better treatment outcomes, higher survival rates, and lower costs of care. It is shown that cancer monitoring for cancer in at-risk populations is a key component in early diagnosis. The HMH Hennessey Institute for Cancer prevention and Applied Molecular Science (HICAP) is a newly founded institute, providing clinical services for cancer screening and risk assessment to the community, as well as research in cancer risk and prevention. The CanScan registry will prospectively collect data from participants in the form of questionnaires. The registry will also capture data that is collected as per non-research assessments, for participants who consent to participate. The registry will facilitate better understanding of cancer risk, screening, and diagnostics.