High-Dose Methotrexate in Treating Young Patients With Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as high-dose methotrexate work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Chemoprotective drugs, such as leucovorin calcium, may protect normal cells from the side effects of chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects, best way to give, and best dose of high-dose methotrexate in treating patients with solid tumors.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors|Sarcoma|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: methotrexate|OTHER: mass spectrometry|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated infusion time for high-dose methotrexate
Plasma biochemical evidence of the systemic effect of methotrexate in terms of changes in plasma homocysteine and methionine
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the maximum tolerated time to exposure to high-dose methotrexate when administered as a continuous infusion at a dose of 6 g/m² per 24 hours.
* To relate the methotrexate schedules investigated to the magnitude and duration of changes in plasma homocysteine and methionine.
* To relate evidence of the systemic effect of methotrexate through changes in plasma homocysteine and methionine to any hepatic, neurological, or antiproliferative toxicity observed in the study group.

OUTLINE: Patients receive a continuous infusion of high-dose methotrexate IV over 24, 30, 36, or 42 hours depending on time of study entry. Beginning at hour 42 or 48, patients receive leucovorin calcium IV every 6 hours for 3 days or until plasma methotrexate concentration is \< 0.2 µM. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study and analyzed for pharmacodynamic effects on plasma homocysteine and methionine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry techniques.