Alisertib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well alisertib works in treating patients with peripheral T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement or has not responded to treatment. Alisertib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-Cell Lymphoma|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma|Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma
DRUG: Alisertib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Objective Response Rate (Complete Responses (CR) + Partial Responses (PR)), Objective disease status is evaluated according to the 2007 revised Cheson et al. criteria. Complete Response(CR) is a complete disappearance of all disease with the exception of nodes. No new lesions. previously enlarged organs must have regressed and not be palpable. Bone marrow (BM) must be negative if positive at baseline. Normalization of markers. Partial Response(PR) is a 50% decrease in the SPD for up to 6 identified dominant lesions, including spleenic and hepatic nodules from baseline. No new lesions and no increase in the size of liver, spleen or other nodes., Up to 1 year after registration
Overall Survival (OS), Measure from date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., Up to 2 years after registration|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Measured from date of registration to date of first observation of progressive disease or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and without report of progressive disease are censored at date of last contact. Progressive disease is at least 50% increase in the sum of the product of the diameters (SPD) of target measurable nodal lesions over the smallest sum observed or ≥ 50% increase in the greatest transverse diameter (GTD) of any node \> 1 cm in shortest axis, or ≥ 50% increase in the SPD of other target measurable lesions over the smallest sum observed. New bone marrow involvement. New lesion \> 1.5 cm in longest axis, or ≥ 50% increase in GTD of any previously involved node with a diameter ≤ 1.0 cm in the short axis such that its longest axis is now \> 1.5 cm. Lymph nodes with long axis is \> 1.5 cm, or if the both the long and short axes are \> 1 cm. PET should be positive if positive PET at baseline., Up to 2 years after registration|To Evaluate the Safety and Tolerability of MLN8237 (Number of With Grade 3 Through Grade 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to MLN8237), Incidence of toxicity as assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. For each patient, worst grade of each event type is reported. Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life-threatening, Grade 5 = Fatal., Up to 1 year after registration
Aurora Kinase A Expression, To explore the association between pre-treatment aurora kinase A expression in tumor biopsies as measured by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and objective response rate in patients with PTCL treated with MLN8237, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the objective response rate (complete responses + partial responses) after treatment with alisertib (MLN8237) in patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

II. To assess overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) in this patient population.

III. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of MLN8237 treatment for this patient population.

IV. To explore the association between pre-treatment aurora kinase A expression in tumor biopsies as measured by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and objective response rate in patients with peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCL) treated with MLN8237.

IV. To investigate the copy number, mutational status, expression of aurora kinase (A, B, and C) and associated signaling pathways in PTCL utilizing tissue microarray analysis (TMA) before and after treatment with MLN8237.

V. To investigate changes in the serum cytokine profile pre- and post- aurora kinase Inhibitor treatment.

VI. To evaluate serum markers of apoptosis pre- and post- aurora kinase inhibitor treatment as pharmacodynamic markers of efficacy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 17 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years.