Cabozantinib and Pembrolizumab for the First-Line Treatment of Advanced Liver Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well cabozantinib and pembrolizumab work for the first-line treatment of patients with liver cancer who are not eligible for local therapy (i.e. advanced stage). Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some cell surface receptors and signaling pathways inside the tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer. Giving cabozantinib and pembrolizumab together may work better in treating patients with advanced liver cancer compared to cabozantinib or pembrolizumab alone.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage B Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage C Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Number of Participants With Objective Response (Complete or Partial Response), Will be assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 (by blinded central review). Assessment of objective response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 of target lesions by cross sectional imaging (either CT or MRI), defined as the following: 1.) Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions, Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD, Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, Stable Disease (SD): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Overall Response Rate is defined as percentage of CR + PR., Assessed at baseline, every 2 cycles until cycle 4, then every 3 cycles until disease progression, up to 10 months 16 days.
Number of Participants With Disease Control (Complete + Partial Response + Stable Disease), Will be assessed per RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST. Assessment of objective response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 of target lesions by cross sectional imaging (either CT or MRI), defined as the following: 1.) Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions, Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD, Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, Stable Disease (SD): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Overall Response Rate is defined as percentage of CR + PR., Assessed at baseline, every 2 cycles until cycle 4, then every 3 cycles until disease progression, up to 10 months 16 days.|Time in Months With Progression-free Survival, Defined as time from study registration to radiographic progression per RECIST v1.1 (blinded central assessment), clinical progression, or death of any cause., Assessed at baseline, every 2 cycles until cycle 4, then every 3 cycles until disease progression, up to 10 months 16 days.|Overall Survival Time in Months, Defined as time from study registration to death of any cause., Survival assessed from study registration through study completion, 10 months 16 days.|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5., Adverse events monitored from time of informed consent through the last follow-up visit or 30 days after the date of the last dose of cabozantinib or pembrolizumab treatment, whichever occurs last, up to 10 months 16 days
OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Disease assessment by imaging will be performed every 9 weeks.