Apalutamide Plus Cetrelimab in Patients With Treatment-Emergent Small Cell Neuroendocrine Prostate Cancer
Despite the low androgen receptor (AR) transcriptional activity of treatment-emergent small cell neuroendocrine prostate cancer, there is persistent AR expression observed in the majority of treatment-emergent small-cell neuroendocrine prostate cancer (t-SCNC) biopsies. This indicates that epigenetic dysregulation leads to reprogramming away from an AR-driven transcriptional program. Therefore, continuation of AR blockade in the form of apalutamide may provide additive benefit compared to immune checkpoint blockade alone. The investigators hypothesize that the combination of apalutamide plus cetrelimab will achieve a clinically significant composite response rate with sufficient durability of response in mCRPC patients with evidence of treatment-emergent small cell neuroendocrine prostate cancer
Small Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Prostate Cancer|Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Apalutamide|BIOLOGICAL: Cetrelimab
Composite Response Rate, The composite response rate is determined by a combination of a decline from baseline in serum PSA of \>= 50%, confirmed by repeat measurement ≥ 4 weeks later (PSA50) AND a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria confirmed by repeat scan ≥ 4 weeks later., Up to 2 years
Proportion of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events (AEs), Proportion of participants with an adverse event determined to be related to study treatment, and classified using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE version 5.0), Up to 2 years|Median Radiographic Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from initiation of study treatment until radiographic progression by Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria or death, whichever occurs first. Response required to determine median PFS must be confirmed by repeat measurement ≥ 4 weeks later., Up to 2 years|Proportion of Participants With a >=50% Decline in PSA, Defined as the proportion of participants with a demonstrated \>= 50% decline from baseline serum PSA confirmed by repeat measurement \>= 4 weeks after first time point at any time during the course of the study., Up to 2 years|Proportion of Participants With a >=90% Decline in PSA, Defined as the proportion of participants with a demonstrated \>= 90% decline from baseline serum PSA confirmed by repeat measurement \>= 4 weeks after first time point at any time during the course of the study., Up to 2 years|Median PSA Progression-free Survival (PFS), PSA progression-free survival is defined as the time from initiation of study treatment until PSA progression as determined by PCWG3 criteria or death, whichever occurs first. Response required to determine median PFS must be confirmed by repeat measurement ≥ 4 weeks later., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival Rate, The overall survival rate is the percentage of participants still alive from date of initiation of study treatment until death from any cause or censored at time of study closure., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate, From initiation of study treatment until maximal percent decline from baseline in sum of longest diameter (SLD) of target lesions by RECIST 1.1 criteria, confirmed by repeat scan ≥ 4 weeks later., Up to 2 years|Median Duration of Response, The length of time from a confirmed response per PCWG3 criteria until progression or death, whichever comes first., Up to 2 years
This is a phase 2, single arm, Simon's two-stage evaluation of the combination of apalutamide plus cetrelimab in patients with mCRPC and histologic and/or genomic evidence of treatment-emergent small cell neuroendocrine prostate cancer who have previously progressed on at least one prior androgen signaling inhibitor.

Participants may continue study treatment from the time of treatment initiation until confirmed radiographic progressive disease (PD) per PCWG3 and RECIST 1.1 criteria, unequivocal clinical progression, unacceptable toxicity, or patient withdrawal, whichever occurs first, for a maximum of 24 months.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the composite response rate as defined by achieving one or more of the following at any time point during study treatment:

1. Decline from baseline in serum PSA of \>= 50% (PSA50), confirmed by repeat measurement \>= 4 weeks later and/or
2. Objective response by RECIST 1.1 criteria

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine safety of the combination as determined by CTCAE version 5.0.

II. To determine the median radiographic progression-free survival by PCWG3 criteria.

III. To determine the PSA50 and decline from baseline in serum PSA of \>= 90% (PSA90) response proportion achieved.

IV. To determine the median PSA progression-free survival.

V. To determine the median overall survival.

VI. To determine the objective response rate and median duration of response by RECIST 1.1 criteria.

Patients will be followed up for safety evaluations 30 days and 100 days after treatment completion. Patients will be followed for overall survival every 90 days (+/- 30 days) from last dose of study treatment, until death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the study, whichever occurs first.