Virtual Reality Versus Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation on Postmastectomy Lymphedema
This study aimed to compare the therapeutic efficacy of VR and PNF on lymphedema and function in unilateral post-mastectomy lymphedema (UPML) patients. The patients were subdivided into two equal groups, 15 in each. Fifteen patients performed virtual reality-based exercises plus complete decongestive therapy, while the other fifteen patients performed proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation plus complete decongestive therapy. The volume difference between normal and affected limbs was calculated before and after eight sessions of treatment for both groups by using the circumferential method. And the upper limb function was assessed before and after eight sessions of treatment for both groups by using the Arabic version of the Quick DASH scale.
Postmastectomy Lymphedema
OTHER: virtual reality|OTHER: proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation|OTHER: complete decogestive therapy
lymphedema volume, turncated cone formula using circumferential measurement of both upper limbs, 4 weeks|upper limb function, quick-disability of arm, shoulder and hand (DASH) scale. minimum score is zero and maximum score is 44. higher score means worse outcome., 4 weeks
This study aimed to compare the therapeutic efficacy of VR and PNF on lymphedema and function in unilateral post-mastectomy lymphedema (UPML) patients. The patients were subdivided into two equal groups, 15 in each. Fifteen patients performed virtual reality-based exercises plus complete decongestive therapy, while the other fifteen patients performed proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation plus complete decongestive therapy. The volume difference between normal and affected limbs was calculated before and after eight sessions of treatment for both groups by using the circumferential method. And the upper limb function was assessed before and after eight sessions of treatment for both groups by using the Arabic version of the Quick DASH scale.