XL184 For Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma (MM) With Bone Disease
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial. Phase I clinical trials test the safety of an investigational drug. Phase I studies also try to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is still being studied and that research doctors are trying to find out more about it. It also means the FDA has not approved the drug for your type of cancer.

Cabozantanib (XL184) is a new drug that is being developed to treat cancer. The study drug cabozantinib works by inhibiting several different proteins which are believed to be involved in multiple myeloma growth, its ability to spread, and its ability to form new blood vessels. This drug has been used in other research studies and information from those other research studies suggests that this drug may help to slow or stop disease growth to bones and prevent cancer growth.

In this research study, we are looking to see how effective cabozantanib is in slowing or stopping disease growth to the bones as well as preventing your cancer from worsening. We are also looking for the highest dose of cabozantinib that can be given safely to patients who have multiple myeloma with bone disease.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Safety of Cabozantinib, To determine the safety of cabozantinib in patients with multiple myeloma with bone disease, 2 years
Changes in Biochemical Markers, Changes in biochemical markers of bone turnover, including serum bone specific alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, sclerostin, P1nP (procollagen type 1N propeptide) and urine N-telopeptide before treatment and end of cycle 2, 2 years|Effect of Cabozantinib on Bone Disease, To evaluate the effect of cabozantinib on bone disease as assessed by post-treatment changes on whole body FDG-PET/CT scan before treatment and end of cycle 2, 2 years|Objective Response per IMWG, Objective response according to the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG), 2 years|Pain Assessment, Pain will be assessed using the Pain Assessment Tool included in the appendix. The questionnaire will be administered at screening, day 1 of each cycle and end of treatment, 2 years
Since we are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have multiple myeloma, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of study drug. The dose you get will depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled in the study before you and how well they have tolerated their doses.

The study drug, cabozantinib, comes in the form of tablets which you will take by mouth. You will take your dose of cabozantinib once a day during each 28 day cycle.

Detailed instructions on how to take the study drug and which foods and drinks you will be prohibited from taking during the research study can be found in your study drug diary.

During Cycle 1, you will come into the clinic weekly (Day 1, 8, 15 and 22). For all other cycles, you will come into the clinic on Day 1 and 15.

A visit will be scheduled 30 days after you have finished or stopped taking the study drug so your doctor will be able to check your well being.