Blinatumomab and Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Poor-Risk Relapsed or Refractory CD19+ Precursor B-Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of blinatumomab when given with nivolumab alone or nivolumab and ipilimumab in treating patients with poor-risk CD19+ precursor B-lymphoblastic leukemia that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or has not responded to treatment (refractory). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as blinatumomab, nivolumab, and ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Recurrent B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia|Refractory B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Refractory Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Blinatumomab|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Number of Participants Experiencing Grade 3, 4, or 5 Adverse Events, Defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0. The highest grade experienced by the participant will be reported., Up to 5.5 years|Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities, Maximum tolerated dose was determined by the absence of dose limiting toxicity in each patient assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Dose Limiting Toxicities were evaluated during treatment; therefore, the time frame is from the first participant starting treatment to the last participant completing treatment., Up to 5.5 years
Count of Participants Responders With Minimal Residual Disease, Will be assessed by flow cytometry. Participants who have a clinical response (responders) were evaluated for minimal residual disease negative versus minimal residual disease positive. These are the participants with remission as provided in the Secondary Outcome #4., Up to 5.5 years|Number of Participants Achieving Remission, Remission includes participants achieving complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery by standard leukemia outcome measures., Up to 5.5 years|Duration of Response, Will be analyzed using the Kaplan Meier method. A sensitivity analysis may be performed to evaluate duration of response while excluding patients who go on to have an allogeneic-hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Time from measured response to progressive disease, death, or study end, assessed up to 2 years after treatment, Up to 5.5 years|Overall Survival, Determined from the first day of treatment on the study until death or last known follow up, assessed up to 2 years after completing treatment., Up to 5.5 years
Changes in Absolute Lymphocyte Count, To examine changes in absolute lymphocyte count before and after blinatumomab and immune checkpoint inhibitor(s) therapy in both peripheral blood and the bone marrow microenvironment. Timeframe is based on duration of treatment., About 1 year|Changes in Distribution of T Cell Subsets and Differentiation Status, Natural Killer (NK) Cells, and B Cells, Will be assessed by flow cytometry. The analyses of pre- and post-treatment peripheral blood and bone marrow specimens for immune parameters will be descriptive and graphical in nature. Data will be summarized for each patient group separately. Flow values at each time point will be summarized using geometric means and standard deviation. Differences in baseline values between patient subgroups will be explored using linear regression models. Timeframe based on duration of treatment., About 1 year|Changes in T Cell Co-signaling Receptors Expression, To explore changes in T cell co-signaling receptors expression in defined T cell subpopulations and their canonic transcription factor expression in both peripheral blood and bone marrow before and post-blinatumomab, and immune checkpoint inhibitor(s) therapy. Time frame based on duration of treatment., About 1 year|Changes in Expression of Co-signaling Molecules on Leukemia Blasts, To examine changes in expression of co-signaling molecules on leukemia blasts (CD10+/CD19+/CD34+) before and after treatment with blinatumomab and checkpoint inhibitors. Time frame based on the duration of treatment., About 1 year|Changes in Cytokines Levels in Serum, To examine the serum levels of cytokines before and after treatment with blinatumomab and checkpoint inhibitors, including the levels of sCTLA-4. Time frame based on duration of treatment., About 1 year|Characterization of T Cell Transcriptional Signature, To perform immune profiling of T cell repertoire and characterize T cell transcriptional signature before and after treatment. Time frame based on duration of treatment., About 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the blinatumomab given in combination with nivolumab alone, or in combination with both nivolumab and ipilimumab in subjects with poor-risk, relapsed or refractory CD19+ pre-B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or CD19+ mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL).

II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of blinatumomab plus nivolumab, and blinatumomab plus both nivolumab and ipilimumab and to further confirm the safety of the combination therapy in subjects with poor-risk, relapsed or refractory CD19+ pre-B cell ALL or CD19+ mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-leukemia activity of blinatumomab and nivolumab, and blinatumomab plus both nivolumab and ipilimumab, including the effects on minimal residual disease (MRD).

II. To assess preliminary anti-leukemia activity in expansion cohorts of patients with poor-risk, relapsed or refractory CD19+ precursor B-lymphoblastic leukemia, or CD19+ mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine changes in absolute lymphocyte count and distribution of T cell subsets (CD4+, CD8+, regulatory T cells \[Tregs\], effector T cells \[Teffs\]) and their differentiation status, natural killer (NK) cells, and B cells before and post-blinatumomab, and immune checkpoint inhibitor(s) therapy in both peripheral blood and the bone marrow microenvironment.

II. To explore changes in T cell co-signaling receptors expression in defined T cell subpopulations and their canonic transcription factor expression in both peripheral blood and bone marrow before and post-blinatumomab, and immune checkpoint inhibitor(s) therapy.

III. To examine changes in expression of co-signaling molecules on leukemia blasts (CD10+/CD19+/CD34+) before and after treatment with blinatumomab and checkpoint inhibitors.

IV. To examine the serum levels of cytokines before and after treatment with blinatumomab and checkpoint inhibitors, including the levels of sCTLA-4.

V. To perform immune profiling of T cell repertoire and characterize T cell transcriptional signature before and after treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a safety and tolerability study of blinatumomab given in combination with nivolumab alone, or in combination with both nivolumab and ipilimumab.

Patients receive blinatumomab intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 11 and then every 2 weeks for up to year. Some patients also receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 11 and then every 6 weeks for up to 1 year. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years.