Avelumab Plus Carboplatin-gemcitabine in Urothelial Carcinoma
Phase II Multicentre, randomized, open-label study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of avelumab with gemcitabine/carboplatin versus gemcitabine/carboplatin alone in patients with unresectable or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) who have not received prior systemic therapy and who are ineligible to receive cisplatin-based therapy.
Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: avelumab 10mg/kg with carboplatin/gemcitabine|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: carboplatin/gemcitabine alone
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as the sum of the complete and partial responses (CR+PR), (according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours \[RECIST criteria v1.1\] and iRECIST)., 24 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Time from randomisation to either documented disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs earlier)., 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time from randomisation to death from any cause. Patients still alive at the time of OS analysis will be censored on their last date of contact. Patients who withdraw from the study without having completed the withdrawal consent will be followed up to determine their status whenever possible.

For the purposes of this study, subjects should be evaluated every 6 weeks with the appropriate imaging technique according to each centre's routine practice, during the combined treatment, and every 9 weeks during the maintenance period. In case of cycle delay every 6 weeks should be maintained to avoid any bias in the assessment of the date of progression with the appropriate imaging studies for response evaluation. Response will be monitored as per the RECIST 1.1 criteria., 24 months|Duration of Response (DoR), Time from the first confirmation of objective response according to RECIST 1.1 criteria until disease progression or death., 24 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Incidence and severity of adverse events. AEs will be coded and evaluated using the National Cancer Institute, Common Toxicity criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) v4.03 toxicity criteria (if NCI-CTCAE are not applicable, the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities \[MedDRA\] will be used)., 24 months
Analysis of pathologic resistance mechanisms to treatment combination, Determination of resistance mechanisms in disease's biopsies, describing the pathologic features that may predict response or resistance to treatment., 24 months|Analysis of immunologic resistance mechanisms to treatment combination, Determination of resistance mechanisms in blood serum, describing the immunologic features that may predict response or resistance to treatment., 24 months|Analysis of genomic resistance mechanisms to treatment combination, Determination of PD-L1 expression in tumor infiltrating immune cells and in tumor cells (pre and post-treatment samples will be analyzed)., 24 months
The aim of this study is to evaluate if the response rates (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) are sufficiently high and the severe acute toxicity rates acceptably low. Patients must be cisplatin-ineligible as defined by consensus criteria (see Inclusion criteria). Patients who experience disease progression \>12 months following completion of a platinum-based adjuvant or neoadjuvant regimen will also be eligible for enrolment into the study.

Once it is confirmed that the subjects fulfil the eligibility criteria and have signed the informed consent form, they will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive avelumab in combination with gemcitabine/carboplatin or gemcitabine/carboplatin alone as follows:

* Arm A: patients will receive 2 cycles of induction avelumab 10mg/kg every 2 weeks followed by 6 cycles of carboplatin/gemcitabine plus avelumab (carboplatin 5AUC day +1, gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 day +1 and +8 and avelumab 10mg/kg day +15) every 3 weeks followed by avelumab monotherapy 10mg/kg every 2 weeks until progressive disease or intolerance.
* Arm B: patients will receive 6 cycles of carboplatin/gemcitabine (carboplatin 5AUC day +1, gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 day +1 and +8) every 3 weeks.

Random assignment of treatment will be stratified by the presence or absence of visceral metastasis and ECOG \< 2 versus ECOG 2.

All the patients enrolled in avelumab arm will receive avelumab monotherapy maintenance until disease progression or intolerable/unacceptable toxicity. Patients in the carboplatin-gemcitabine arm, will receive up to six cycles of treatment. Tumour evaluations will be scheduled every 6 weeks (±2 weeks) during carboplatin-gemcitabine treatment (in case of cycle delay this tumour evaluations every 6 weeks should be maintained to avoid any bias in the assessment of date of progression with appropriate imaging studies for response evaluation) and every 9 weeks thereafter until progressive disease (during this period, patients at arm A will be receiving avelumab maintenance treatment).

Patients with disease progression during the treatment phase will be withdrawn from the study and will receive their treatment according to the investigator's judgment and monitored to evaluate OS.

If a patient withdraws consent and refuses to receive more treatment, the patient must be followed up for survival. If a patient withdraws consent and refuses to continue in the study, the follow-up evaluations must be discontinued.

If at the moment of end of study there would be any patient still on maintenance treatment with avelumab, Sponsor will have commitment to provide the study drug in case patient is having clinical benefit.