CPI-613 in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Acinar Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Duct Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid
Overall Survival, Survival curves for OS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier techniques., From the first dose of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid to death, assessed up to 3 years
Response rate, The proportion of patients who are complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) will be presented. The proportion of responders will be estimated as the percent of patients who are CR or PR. A 95% confidence interval will be included., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival, Survival curves for PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier techniques., From the first dose of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid to disease progression (DP) or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Safety profile assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine initial estimates of overall survival (OS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine response rate. II. To determine progression free survival (PFS).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1-5 of week 1 (pre-course 1 only), days 1 and 4 of weeks 2 and 3 (course 1 only), and days 1 and 4 of weeks 1-3 (courses 2-6). Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.