Neoadjuvant Afatinib Window Study in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
The general objectives are to evaluate the pre-operative activity and the safety of afatinib in head and neck cancer and to explore the different downstream molecular pathways to identify tumor response and resistance mechanisms. The results from this study can be used to conduct a larger trial that would allow us to confirm or validate the hypotheses generated.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell of Head and Neck
DRUG: Afatinib|OTHER: Observation
Reduction of tumor Standardised Uptake Volume as assessed by FDGPET, Afatinib will be given orally for 2 weeks from the day of randomization until day -1 prior to surgery at a dose of 40 mg/day.Pre-treatment biopsies and blood samples will be harvested during the regular diagnosis staging procedure and at surgery.FDG-PET/CT-scan and MRIs will be performed before treatment (before day -15) and the day before surgery.The primary outcome measure is the reduction in the tumor standardised uptake volume as assessed by FDGPET, Baseline and after two weeks of treatment
Evaluation of tumour response to treatment by different imaging modalities like DWIMRI and DCEMRI, Response after 2 weeks of treatment, prior to surgery, evaluated by:

* RECIST v1.1 using conventional imaging
* Dynamic Contrast Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE MRI)
* Diffusion Weighted Imaging Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DWI MRI), Baseline and after two weeks of treatment
This is a randomized, multicenter early phase II trial exploring the pre-operative activity of afatinib vs. nontreatment. The study includes an early monitoring of the surgical co-morbidities for patients treated with afatinib and accrual may be stopped prematurely according to a pre-defined safety stopping rule.

Patients will be randomized with a 5:1 ratio, between the two arms: afatinib and 'no treatment'. It is intended to include a total of 30 eligible patients out of which 25 patients will be randomized into the afatinib arm.

Patients allocated to the 'no treatment' arm will mainly serve as a reference to interpret the results of the translational research part of the study although no formal comparison between the afatinib arm and the 'no treatment' arm is intended.

Patients will be first registered into the EORTC system after signing the informed consent form. The site will have to complete all the study related procedures within 4 weeks prior randomization and all eligibility criteria should be met before the patient can be randomized into the study.

The registration of patients will proceed with slots for patients which will be opened or closed based on the randomization of patients into the afatinib arm. Starting with 3 free slots, an additional slot will become available for each patient randomized to the 'no treatment' arm.

Registration will be paused after three completes the 4 week observation period after surgery. Similar action will be done after the next 3 patients have been entered into the afatinib arm.

Once the first 6 patients in the afatinib arm have been observed for surgical toxicities of grade ≥ 3 for 4 weeks following surgery, the slot system will cease to operate.