Effect of Symptom Management on Inflammation and Survival in Metastatic Lung Cancer
There is a growing body of evidence that implicates inflammation as a mechanism of disease progression and reduced survival in patients with advanced cancer. Elevated c-reactive protein levels have been shown to be associated with reduced performance status, specific cancer related symptoms and reduced overall survival. C-reactive protein levels are a surrogate for IL-6 expression. IL-6 is part of an inflammatory signature predicting cancer recurrence. VeriStrat速 is a multivariate test which measures protein expression related to a host/tumor interaction mediated by inflammation. The investigators hope to examine the relationship between quality of life outcomes per FACT-L survey and correlate them with changes in c-reactive protein levels and the VeriStrat速 status. The hypothesis of this study is that the remarkable survival benefit in the Temel study is mediated by reduced inflammation with improvement of symptom control.
Lung Neoplasms|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
Overall Survival, Overall survival from diagnosis until death from any cause, Patients will be followed for 5 years after enrolling last patient
Percentage of patients who convert from c-reactive protein 'high' (> 10 mg/L) to 'low' (<10 mg/L), 1. Baseline versus 4 months
2. Baseline versus 10 months
3. 4 months versus 10 months, 10 months|Quality of Life (QOL) indicators per FACT-L score and the following at baseline, 4 months and 10 months groups, 1. VeriStrat "Good" and CRP "low" (\<10 mg/L)
2. VeriStrat "Good" and CRP "high" (\>10 mg/L)
3. VeriStrat "Poor" and CRP "low" (\<10 mg/L)
4. VeriStrat "Poor" and CRP "high" (\>10 mg/L), 10 months|Change in VeriStrat status, Percentage of patients who convert from "poor" to "good", 10 months
There is a growing body of evidence that implicates inflammation as a mechanism of disease progression and reduced survival in patients with advanced cancer. Elevated c-reactive protein levels have been shown to be associated with reduced performance status, specific cancer related symptoms and reduced overall survival. C-reactive protein levels are a surrogate for IL-6 expression. IL-6 is part of an inflammatory signature predicting cancer recurrence. VeriStrat速 is a multivariate test which measures protein expression related to a host/tumor interaction mediated by inflammation. The investigators hope to examine the relationship between quality of life outcomes per FACT-L survey and correlate them with changes in c-reactive protein levels and the VeriStrat速 status. The hypothesis of this study is that the remarkable survival benefit in the Temel study is mediated by reduced inflammation with improvement of symptom control.