Study of Everolimus (RAD001) in Combination With Lenalidomide
The purpose of this study is to study the combination of two anticancer drugs, everolimus (RAD001) and lenalidomide in patients whose cancer is no longer responding to standard treatment or patients who are unable to tolerate the standard treatment for their cancer.
Solid Organ Malignancies|Adenoidcystic Carcinoma|Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Everolimus
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) at Each Dose Level, A standard 3 + 3 design was employed to study escalating doses of daily, orally administered lenalidomide and everolimus. Dose escalation to the next cohort required 0 of 3 or ≤1 of 6 patients with dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Five dose cohorts were planned starting at dose level one with lenalidomide 10 mg and everolimus 5mg in a 28-day cycle up to maximum doses of 25 and 10 mg, respectively., Within the first 28 days for DLT and throughout the duration of the study for safety.
The purpose of this study is to study the combination of two anticancer drugs, everolimus (RAD001) and lenalidomide in patients whose cancer is no longer responding to standard treatment or patients who are unable to tolerate the standard treatment for their cancer. The investigators seek to establish the safety of taking these two medications together and to determine the appropriate doses of the two drugs when given together as well as identify potential side effects when the drugs are administered together.

Another purpose of this study is to find out if the medication works for the patient's kind of cancer and side effects of the combination of RAD001 and lenalidomide by looking at the patient's response to the treatment. The investigators want to find out what effects, good or bad, the drugs have on the patient's cancer.

This study will also look at specific substances called biomarkers in the patient's blood and in the tumor tissue which are involved in the growth of tumor cells and determine if the levels of these biomarkers are related to the patient's response to treatment or development of side effects.

An expansion cohort is currently enrolling patients with adenoidcystic carcinoma, neuroendocrine and kidney cancer.