Working Memory Performance Among Childhood Brain Tumor Survivors
Children treated with radiation therapy for brain tumors are at risk for cognitive problems. These problems have typically been demonstrated on global cognitive measures including measures of intellectual functioning (IQ). Identification of specific areas of impairment can assist in isolating vulnerable brain areas and developing targeted interventions.

In this study, we assess brain tumor survivors, solid tumor controls and healthy sibling controls using measures of working memory (online maintenance and manipulation of information) in order to identify a specific cognitive process that may underlie the observed decline in IQ. We are also exploring relationships among working memory performance with IQ, clinical characteristics and a specific genetic factor of interest.
Brain Tumors
BEHAVIORAL: Series of tests/questionnaires
Performance on experimental working memory measures (computerized self-ordered pointing tasks), Collected during one time cross-sectional assessment.
Abbreviated IQ (WASI), episodic memory measures (computerized word and face recognition tasks) and parent questionnaires of executive (BRIEF) and adaptive (ABAS-II) functioning., Collected during one time cross-sectional assessment.
This is a cross-sectional controlled study of brain tumor survivors treated at St. Jude with conformal radiation therapy. Brain tumor survivors (n= 50, solid tumor survivors (n=40), and healthy sibling controls (n= 40) are evaluated once only with laboratory measures of cognitive skills (working memory, episodic memory and estimated IQ) and parental questionnaires (executive and adaptive functions). We also use buccal (cheek) swabs to gather samples for DNA extraction. We hypothesize: brain tumor survivors will perform significantly worse than solid tumor and healthy controls on measures of working memory, working memory will correlate significantly with IQ, working memory will be associated with parent report of executive functions and a specified genotype related to dopamine metabolism will be associated with working memory impairment.