Safety and Efficacy Study of Chemotherapy Plus Apatinib as Second-line Therapy in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of apatinib in combination with second-line FOLFOX or FOLFIRI for metastatic colorectal cancer in patients with disease progression during or after first-line therapy.
Colorectal Cancer|Chemotherapy|Angiogenesis
DRUG: Chemotherapy + Apatinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) \[according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v). 1.1\] or death due to any cause, whichever was first. PD is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). Participants who died without a reported prior progression were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who did not progress or were lost to follow-up were censored at the day of their last radiographic tumor assessment., 2 years
Percentage of Participants Achieving an Objective Response (Objective Response Rate), The objective response rate is equal to the proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of partial response or complete response (PR + CR). Response was defined using RECIST, v. 1.1 criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions; PR was defined as having at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameter., 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time in months from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the cut-off date, OS was censored at the last known date alive., 2 years
Angiogenesis is an important therapeutic target in metastatic colorectal carcinoma. Apatinib is a potent oral inhibitor of the intracellular domain and emerging as original antiangiogenic opportunities. We assessed the efficacy and safety of apatinib in combination with second-line FOLFOX or FOLFIRI for metastatic colorectal cancer in patients with disease progression during or after first-line therapy.