Fulvestrant Plus Anlotinib in HR(+)/HER2(-) Metastatic Breast Cancer With FGFR Mutation
Previous studies have shown that the FGF signaling pathway is closely related to endocrine therapy resistance in breast cancer, but there is not sufficient evidence for the combination of endocrine therapy and FGFR inhibitors. Anlotinib is a highly effective VEGFRs, FGFRs, PDGFRs multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Therefore, we conducted this single-arm, single-center phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and the safety of anlotinib combined with fulvestrant in patients with metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer patients with FGFR mutation and resistance to aromatase inhibitor therapy, to provide new treatment options for these patients.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Fulvestrant plus Anlotinib
Clinical benefit rate (CBR), Response and progression will be evaluated using RECIST 1.1. Evaluation will occur every 3 months till progression or termination of the study. CBR is defined as ratio of participants who have stable disease for over 24 weeks., 24 weeks
Progression free survival (PFS), Time from the date of treatment to the date of tumor progression, 1 year|Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of best overall response of either complete or partial response., 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Time from the date of treatment to the date of death., 3 years|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, Number of participants with adverse events related to the treatment., 1 year|The quality of life, Using EORTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer) QLQ-BR23 scale. The minimum and maximum values are 0 and 100, respectively. Higher scores mean better outcome., 1 year
Endocrine therapy resistance is an unsolved problem in the treatment of HR+/HER2- metastatic breast cancer. Previous studies have shown that the FGF signaling pathway is closely related to endocrine therapy resistance in breast cancer, but there is not sufficient evidence for the combination of endocrine therapy and FGFR inhibitors. Anlotinib is a highly effective VEGFRs, FGFRs, PDGFRs multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which can effectively block the migration and proliferation of endothelial cells and reduce tumor microvessel density. The drug inhibits VEGFRs, FGFRs, PDGFRs to exert anti-angiogenesis effects and to achieve anti-tumor effects. Therefore, we conducted this single-arm, single-center phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and the safety of anlotinib combined with fulvestrant in patients with metastatic HR-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer patients with FGFR mutation and resistance to aromatase inhibitor therapy, to provide new treatment options for these patients.