Bridge: Proactive Psychiatry Consultation and Case Management for Patients With Cancer
The purpose of this research is to understand if it is helpful for patients with mental illness to be connected to a psychiatrist and case manager at the time of cancer diagnosis.
Cancer|Severe Major Depression|Schizophrenia|Bipolar Disorder|Lung Cancer|Breast Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer
OTHER: Proactive Psychiatry Consultation (PPC)|OTHER: Enhanced Usual Care (EUC)
Disruptions in Cancer Care, The number of patients who experience clinically relevant disruptions in cancer care (e.g. delay to cancer diagnosis or treatment, deviation from stage-appropriate cancer treatment, or interruption in planned treatment)., 6 months from study enrollment
BPRS (24), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) 24

24-item instrument where the rater enters a number for each symptom. Each symptom construct is rated on a Likert scale from 1 (NOT PRESENT) - 7 (EXTREMELY SEVERE). The sum of all 24 items is then calculated to a maximum score of 168 (24X7=168). The minimum score is 24 and the maximum score is 168. The higher the score, the more psychiatrically impaired the patient is. Higher scores mean worse psychiatric symptoms., Week 0, Week 12, Week 24|PHQ-9, Patient Health Questionnaire-9 is a 9-item instrument that measures patient depression where a score of 1-4 indicates minimal depression, 5-9 Mild depression, 10-14 Moderate depression, 15-19 Moderately severe depression, 20-27 Severe depression. The minimum score is 1 and the maximum score is 27., Week 0, Week 6, Week 12, Week 24
It is challenging to cope with cancer. The investigators want to understand if it is helpful for patients with serious mental illness (SMI) to be connected to a psychiatrist and case manager when cancer is diagnosed. Many people with illnesses like major depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder face barriers to receiving high quality cancer care. It can be difficult to get to appointments, have many different doctors, and experience depression or worry. Better communication between the patient, the oncology team, and mental health providers may improve care. As for all patients, it is important for people with mental illness to have access to high quality cancer treatment that is patient-centered and coordinated. Having a case manager and psychiatrist at the cancer center who collaborates with the oncology team starting at cancer diagnosis may help patients to receive the cancer care that they need.

This study includes a single-arm open pilot (n=8) to pilot patient and caregiver measures and refine the intervention manual; a run-in period (n=6) to pilot the randomized trial procedures; and a randomized controlled trial (n=120) to compare the impact of the Bridge model with enhanced usual care on disruptions in cancer care.