Evaluation of Length and Quality of Prostate Biopsies Taken by a New Biopsy Needle
Patient-blinded randomized controlled trial evaluating length and quality of prostate biopsies taken by a novel biopsy needle.
Prostate Cancer (Diagnosis)
DEVICE: Novel needle (18 G, 25 cm with 19 mm sample notch) in a new actuator.|DEVICE: Standard Tru Cut biopsy needle (Argon 18G, 25 cm biopsy needle with a 19 mm sample notch) in a standard actuator (Möller Medical Blue RBG-1000-10-1000)
Prostate biopsy length (measured by pathologist), Length of biopsy specimen in millimeters, within 21 days post biopsy
Prostate biopsy fragmentation, The number of sections the biopsy specimen is made of, within 21 days post biopsy|General appearance of biopsy assessed by pathologist (biopsy quality), General quality of biopsy specimen on a scale from 0-3 (no biopsy, poor, good, excellent), within 21 days post biopsy|Prostate biopsy length (measured in biopsy needle chamber), Length of biopsy specimen in millimeters, within 21 days post biopsy|Prostate biopsy length (measured after removal from biopsy chamber), Length of biopsy specimen in millimeters, within 21 days post biopsy
Pain from biopsy sampling, Numeric rating Pain Scale rating from 0-10, At the time of biopsy sampling|14 day complications, Any complications related to the biopsy (example infection, bleeding), 14 days after biopsy|30 day complications, Any complications related to the biopsy (example infection, bleeding), 30 days after biopsy
Prostate biopsy is the golden standard for prostate cancer diagnosis. Transrectal prostate biopsy (TRUSbx) is the most widely used technique. The biopsy chamber of the Tru Cut needle is in general 19 mm. However, it is on average filled only with 13 mm of tissue. Biopsy length is strongly correlated with diagnostic accuracy of prostate cancer.

Additionally, TRUSbx has a high risk of infection due to bacteria being brought across the colon wall. The investigators have shown that a new needle design reduces this bacterial transfer in an ex vivo setting and a previous trial (NCT049091230) has shown non inferior biopsy length when compared to the standard Tru Cut needle. A further improvement of the needle has now been designed aiming to increase biopsy length and quality, with the possible potential to improve prostate cancer diagnosis. This is the first human pilot aiming to evaluate if biopsy length of the novel needle is superior to a standard Tru Cut biopsy needle in prostate biopsy.