Rational EpigenetiC Immunotherapy for SEcond Line Therapy in Patients With NSCLC: PRECISE Trial
The purpose of this study is to assess whether treatment with the study drug tetrahydrouridine-decitabine (THU-Dec) in combination with nivolumab is more effective than treatment with nivolumab alone in patients with NSCLC.

Decitabine is an investigational (experimental) drug that works by depleting DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1). DNMT1 is an enzyme, or protein that causes chemical changes, often increased in cancer. Blocking DNMT1 has been shown to reduce tumor formation. Decitabine is experimental in this study because it is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for patients with lung cancer. Decitabine is approved by the FDA for treating patients with a blood disease called myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS, a condition where the bone marrow does not make blood cells normally).

THU is an investigational (experimental) drug that works by blocking an enzyme that breaks down decitabine. This enzyme is highly expressed in solid tissues of the body, limiting the distribution of decitabine into these tissues, including solid cancer tissues. So, THU will increase the time cells are exposed to decitabine. The idea is that THU will also increase the time that the lung cancer cells are exposed to decitabine. THU is experimental because it is also not approved by the FDA, although it has been extensively used in clinical trials, including several cancer trials.
Lung Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: oral decitabine|DRUG: Tetrahydrouridine
Objective Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1), Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of all randomized subjects whose best overall response (BOR) from baseline is either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1 criteria. BOR is determined by the best response designation recorded between the date of randomization and the date of objectively documented progression or the date of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first. For subjects without documented progression or subsequent anticancer therapy, all available response designations will contribute to the BOR determination. For subjects who continue treatment beyond progression, the BOR should be determined based on response designations recorded at the time of the initial RECIST 1.1 defined progression., Up to 52 weeks after beginning therapy
Time-to-Progression, Time-to-Progression defined as the time from randomization to the date of the first documented tumor progression (per RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause. Subjects who die without a reported prior progression will be considered to have progressed on the date of their death. Subjects who did not progress or die will be censored on the date of their last evaluable tumor assessment. Subjects who did not have any on study tumor assessments and did not die will be censored on the date they were randomized. Subjects who started any subsequent anti-cancer therapy without a prior reported progression will be censored at the last evaluable tumor assessment prior to initiation of the subsequent anti-cancer therapy. Progression will be assessed every 6 weeks (from the first on-study radiographic assessment) until disease progression is noted., Up to 77 weeks after beginning treatment|Overall Survival, Overall survival: It is defined as the time from randomization to the date of death. A subject who has not died will be censored at last known date alive. Overall survival (OS) will be followed continuously while subjects are on the study drug., Up to 171 weeks after beginning treatment|Overall Survival - Long Term Follow-up (LTFU), Survival LTFU is planned to be done until death or withdrawal of consent, or until the final clinical trial report is published, Up to 5 years from end of treatment
Primary objective: To determine if non-cytotoxic oral THU-Dec when combined with nivolumab can improve objective response rates of nivolumab

Secondary objectives:

i) To evaluate clinical efficacy end points and toxicity of oral THU-Dec when combined with nivolumab ii) evaluate the induction of a T-cell response in patients with metastatic NSCLC iii) To evaluate hypotheses regarding mechanisms of resistance and predictive biomarkers for response to nivolumab

Study design: This is a Phase 2 randomized two arm trial of nivolumab alone or in combination with THU-Dec, in previously treated patients with stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC). The primary goal of this trial is to compare the efficacy of oral THU-Dec as a way of enhancing the anti-tumor immune response to nivolumab to that of nivolumab alone. The primary efficacy endpoint is overall RECIST-defined response. To accomplish this goal 60 patients will be randomized 2:1 to THU-Dec plus nivolumab or nivolumab only respectively.