Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy Based Treatment for Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Extensive Portal Vein Tumor Thrombosis
Macrovascular invasion (MVI) is common in HCC, Portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) is the most common form of MVI in HCC, with an incidence ranging from 44 to 62.2%. About 10% to 60% of HCC patients have PVTT at the time of diagnosis. the prognosis for those with PVTT remains poor, as their median survival is only 2-4 months via supportive care. There is currently no widely-accepted consensus for the management of HCC with PVTT. According to some guidelines in Europe and America, HCC with PVTT is regarded as Stage C per Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Staging system, and sorafenib alone is recommended as the treatment of choice. This study is to analyze the safety and efficacy of radiotherapy of hepatocellular carcinoma patients with portal vein tumor thrombosis.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable|Portal Vein Tumor Thrombosis|Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy
RADIATION: stereotactic body raiotherapy
overall survival, The time from the patient received treatment to died from any cause, from enrollment to death (for any reason).assessed up to 12 months
objective response rate, complete or partial response after treatment, from enrollment to progression or death (for any reason),assessed up to 12 months
Macrovascular invasion (MVI) is common in HCC, Portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) is the most common form of MVI in HCC, with an incidence ranging from 44 to 62.2%. About 10% to 60% of HCC patients have PVTT at the time of diagnosis. the prognosis for those with PVTT remains poor, as their median survival is only 2-4 months via supportive care. There is currently no widely-accepted consensus for the management of HCC with PVTT. According to some guidelines in Europe and America, HCC with PVTT is regarded as Stage C per Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Staging system, and sorafenib alone is recommended as the treatment of choice. This study is to analyze the safety and efficacy of radiotherapy of hepatocellular carcinoma patients with portal vein tumor thrombosis.