Genetically Modified T-cell Immunotherapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Persistent/Recurrent Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of genetically modified T-cells after lymphodepleting chemotherapy in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm that has returned after a period of improvement or has not responded to previous treatment. An immune cell is a type of blood cell that can recognize and kill abnormal cells in the body. The immune cell product will be made from patient or patient's donor (related or unrelated) blood cells. The immune cells are changed by inserting additional pieces of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (genetic material) into the cell to make it recognize and kill cancer cells. Placing a modified gene into white blood cells may help the body build an immune response to kill cancer cells.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia|Early Relapse of Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Late Relapse of Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Interleukin-3 Receptor Subunit Alpha Positive|Minimal Residual Disease|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Autologous CD123CAR-CD28-CD3zeta-EGFRt-expressing T Lymphocytes|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic CD123CAR-CD28-CD3zeta-EGFRt-expressing T-lymphocytes|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) defined as any grade 3 or higher toxicity as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Rates and associated 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated. Tables will summarize all toxicities and side effects by attribution of treatment, dose, time-post treatment, organ and severity. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., 28 days|Incidence of adverse events as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Rates and associated 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated. Tables will summarize all toxicities and side effects by attribution of treatment, dose, time-post treatment, organ and severity. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to 15 years|Disease response (CR or CRi), Rates and associated 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to 15 year post-treatment
Engraftment of transferred CD123+ CAR T cells, Rates and associated 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Day 28|CAR123-specific antibody level, Rates and associated 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to 15 years|Duration of response, Will provide descriptive statistics. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to 15 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Rates and associated 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated for PFS 6mo. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to 15 years|Survival, Rates and associated 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated for 1 year OS. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to 15 years
Number of CD123+ normal cells in peripheral blood and bone marrow, Percents and counts will be calculated. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to day 14|Number of peripheral blood cell subsets in hematopoietic stem cell compartment, Percentages and counts will be calculated. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to day 14|Proof of elimination of CD123+ CAR T cells, Rates and associate 95% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated. Descriptive statistics and graphical methods will be used to describe T cell numbers and percentages over time. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to day 14|Number of CD123+ leukemic cells in peripheral blood and bone marrow, Percents and counts will be calculated. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to day 14|Number of peripheral blood cell subsets in progenitor cell compartment, Percentages and counts will be calculated. Analysis will be done separately for each disease arm., Up to day 14
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To examine the anti-tumor activity and safety of administering ex vivo expanded T cells that are genetically modified using a self-inactivating (SIN) lentiviral vector to express a co-stimulatory CD123-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) as well as a truncated EGFR (CD123CAR-CD28-CD3zeta-EGFRt+ T cells \[CD123+ CAR T cells\]) following lymphodepletion for patients with CD123+ relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (arm 1), or CD123+ persistent or recurrent Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm (BPDCN) (arm 2). II. To determine the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) for both arms (AML and BPDCN). SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To assess activity in the form of CD123+ CAR T cell persistence, 6 month progression free survival (PFS 6mo) rate, and 1 year overall survival (OS) rate, and describe the immunogenicity of CD123R(EQ)28zeta/EGFRt+ T cells. TERTIARY OBJECTIVES: I. To assess impact on hematopoiesis, change from baseline in numbers of CD123+ blood cells, CD123 expression on malignant cells and hematopoietic cells, and the clinical efficacy of EGFRt mediated CAR T cell ablation.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of autologous or allogeneic (related or unrelated donor) CD123+ CAR T cells. Patients undergo a lymphodepleting regimen 3-10 days prior to CD123+ CAR T cell infusion as determined by the principal investigator and the protocol team. Patients receive either cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -4 and/or -3; fludarabine phosphate and cyclophosphamide IV on days -5 to -3; fludarabine phosphate IV on days -5 to -3 and cyclophosphamide IV on days -4 and/or -3. Patients receive autologous or allogeneic CD123+ CAR T cells IV over 15 minutes on day 0. Patients with evidence of disease at \> 28 days, continuing expression of the CD123 antigen, and not having experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) may receive a second infusion of CD123+ CAR T cells after 28 days. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 24 hours, then every 2 days for up to 14 days, every week for 1 month, every month for 1 year and then yearly for 15 years.