Study of PCLX-001 in R/R Advanced Solid Malignancies and B-cell Lymphoma
This is a phase I dose-escalation study of oral PCLX-001, conducted in a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, non-controlled design. The study is comprised of two parts: Part A (single-agent dose escalation) and Part B (single-agent expansion cohorts).
B-cell Non Hodgkin Lymphoma|Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: PCLX-001 - 20mg|DRUG: PCLX-001 - 40mg|DRUG: PCLX-001 - 70mg|DRUG: PCLX-001 - 100mg|DRUG: PCLX-001 - 140mg|DRUG: PCLX-001 - 210mg|DRUG: PCLX-001 - 280mg
To Determine, During the Dose Escalation Phase, the Recommended Dose of PCLX-001 for the Dose Expansion Phase of the Trial., The recommended dose will be the dose level below that for the cohort in which maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was reached/exceeded. MTD will have been reached when 2 or more patients in a cohort experience DLT., Through study completion, an average of ~90 days
This is a phase I dose-escalation study of oral PCLX-001, conducted in a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, non-controlled design. The study is comprised of two parts: Part A (single-agent dose escalation) and Part B (single-agent expansion cohorts).

For Part A dose-escalation, patients will be enrolled in cohorts of 3 to 6 patients to each dose level. A new dose level cannot open to accrual until toxicity has been determined in the preceding dose level (i.e. all patients have completed their first cycle of therapy and data for all patients in that dose level have been reviewed at a safety cohort review meeting). Six patients will be treated at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase II dose (RP2D). If required, the MTD cohort may be expanded by an additional 10 patients for further toxicity and response assessment. The MTD cohort expansion may be restricted to B-cell lymphoma or advanced solid tumours to ensure there is proper distribution during dose escalation.

For Part B (single agent expansion cohorts), two expansion cohorts (N=20 each) will be opened to determine the preliminary clinical activity of PCLX-001 at the RP2D:

* Expansion Cohort A: Participants with advanced solid malignancies showing preclinical sensitivity or molecular markers of sensitivity to PCLX-001. This includes breast, nonsmall cell lung (NSCLC), small-cell lung (SCLC), colorectal (CRC), and bladder cancers
* Expansion Cohort B: Participants with relapsed/refractory (R/R) B-cell lymphoma: diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), high grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBL), follicular lymphoma (FL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), and Burkitt lymphoma. Transformed large B-cell lymphoma will also be included.