Evaluating Cell Damage in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Myelodysplastic Syndromes, or Fanconi Anemia; in Patients Who Were Exposed to Alkylating Agents; and in Healthy Volunteers
RATIONALE: Studying samples of bone marrow from patients with cancer and from healthy volunteers in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about changes that occur in bone marrow stromal (connective tissue) cells. It may also help doctors understand the effects of alkylating agents on bone marrow stromal cells.

PURPOSE: This laboratory study is evaluating stromal cells in patients with acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, or Fanconi anemia; in patients who were exposed to alkylating agents; and in healthy volunteers.
Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
GENETIC: cytogenetic analysis|GENETIC: fluorescence in situ hybridization|OTHER: flow cytometry|PROCEDURE: biopsy
Abnormal stromal function
Clonal progenitors resistant to selected extracellular apoptotic cells|Comparison of stromal function between secondary vs primary acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes|Influence of cytotoxic agents on supportive function of the bone marrow stroma|Reduction of cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in hematopoietic progenitor cells and stromal cells with use of cytoprotective agents
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine abnormal stromal function in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), or Fanconi anemia; in patients who were exposed to alkylating agents; and in healthy volunteers.

Secondary

* Determine whether clonal progenitors from patients with secondary AML or MDS are resistant to selected extracellular apoptotic cues.
* Determine whether stromal function in patients with secondary AML or MDS is more aberrant than stromal function in patients with primary AML or MDS.
* Determine whether cytotoxic agents known to induce secondary MDS or AML influence the supportive function of the bone marrow stroma.
* Determine whether cytoprotective agents reduce both cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in hematopoietic progenitor cells and stromal cells.

OUTLINE: Patients and healthy volunteers undergo bone marrow sample collection. Progenitor cells are grown in culture. Cell survival is quantified by flow cytometric and cytogenetic analysis, sister chromatid exchange, and FISH for chromosome 11 changes (for etoposide-exposed samples only).

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients and healthy volunteers will be accrued for this study.