The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society (LLS) National Research Registry
The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society (LLS) has built a National Research Registry to evaluate real world experiences and medical outcomes for people with blood cancer, before, during, and after blood cancer treatments.
Blood Cancer
OTHER: any/all treatments for blood cancer
LLS will monitor outcomes of people being treated for blood cancer., . The LLS National Research Registry will collect data on up to 1000 research subjects, over up to 10 years, storing that data, including protected health information (PHI) and images, in secure databases, and share de-identified summary data with research partners (like academic researchers, advocacy groups, and pharmaceutical companies) that are advancing treatments for blood cancer. Participation in The LLS National Research Registry may not give research subjects any immediate benefit. It is hoped the knowledge gained from data collected in The LLS National Research Registry will benefit people with blood cancers in the future using this information for research purposes, directed at blood cancers and associated comorbidities., 10 years
The LLS National Research Registry is a real-world experiences and outcomes research registry; a collection of patient information and medical data, over time, about people who have a particular disease or condition, or who receive a particular treatment.

The LLS National Research Registry Protocol will:

1. Answer research questions using data collected from people with blood cancers. Such research involves analyses of subject profile information completed by subjects and medical records data.
2. Obtain permission from LLS National Research Registry research subjects to have Ciitizen, a third-party engaged by LLS, act as their proxy to retrieve full medical record data including images at no cost to research subjects. Note: Patient can choose to upload their medical records into their account, directly.
3. Obtain permission from LLS National Research Registry research subjects to share summary data with research partners (like academic researchers, advocacy groups, and pharmaceutical companies) that are advancing treatments for blood cancer. "Summary data" represents the important elements of medical record data, coded for research use, with personal identifiers like name, address, and phone number removed.
4. Obtain permission from LLS National Research Registry research subjects to be contacted from time to time, for them to provide updated medical information.