A Study of mDCF in Combination or Not With Atezolizumab in Advanced Squamous Cell Anal Carcinoma
SCARCE is a non-comparative randomized, 2:1 phase II study. The purpose of this study is to assess the progression-free survival rate at 12 months. (evaluation according with RECISTv1.1 criteria).

For all patients, CT scan will be planned at baseline, and every 8 weeks until 12 months from randomization (or disease progression), and every 12 weeks thereafter.

PET scan will be performed at baseline, at the end of mDCF treatment, and at 12 months after randomization (in absence of disease progression).

CT scan and PET scan will be collected for a centralized review.
Anal Cancer
DRUG: MPDL3280A|DRUG: mDCF
Progression free survival rate (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of first progression (local, regional, metastatic, second cancer) or death regardless of the cause. Patients alive without progression will be censored at the time of the latest news, at 12 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS will be calculated between the date of randomization and the date of death from any cause. . Alive patients or lost to follow-up at the time of the analysis will be censored at the date of last follow-up., within 3 years after the initiation of the treatment|Progression free survival, PFS will be defined as the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of first progression (local, regional, metastatic, second cancer) or death regardless of the cause, within 3 years after the initiation of the treatment|Quality of life related to heath, EORTC-QLQ-C30, From the randomization to patient death or for maximum 3 years|Objective response rate (ORR), Evaluated by RECIST criteria version 1.1, within 3 years after the initiation of the treatment|Tolerance graded according to National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [NCI-CTCAE] criteria v4.03, graded according to National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI-CTCAE\] criteria v4.03, within 3 years after the initiation of the treatment
Squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal (SCCA) is a rare disease, its incidence increases worldwide and no standard therapy is currently available to treat metastatic or relapsing cases. SCCA is mostly induced by human papillomavirus (HPV) infections with HPV-related oncoproteins (E6 and E7) expressed in more than 90% of cases.

Based on the preliminary results of the Epitope-HPV02 study and although it provide proof of concept data on taxane-based chemotherapy efficacy in SCCA, complete responses observed after 6-8 cycles of chemotherapy has not translated into long-term remissions .

Combining immunogenic chemotherapy with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 might be a convenient way to increase the diversity of antigens released by tumor and T cells.

So for the SCARCE study, we hypothesized that combination of mDCF (8 cycles) with MPDL32801 (12 months) might induce synergy and improve the rate of long-term PFS rate.

The aim of the SCARCE study is to provide a valuable proof of concept to establish immunogenic chemotherapy and anti-PDL1 as a standard of care for SCCA patients with poor clinical outcomes and to take advantage of the presence of HPV antigens in most patients (HPV 16 and 18 genotypes are involved in 90% of SCCA) to set up a specific immunomonitoring program based on tumor samples and blood-derived lymphocytes to better understand the potential synergisms between immunogenic chemotherapy and anti-PDL1 and to identify valuable biomarkers of treatment efficacy.