Effects of Latin Dancing on Sleep Quality in Hispanic Cancer Survivors
The primary objective is to assess the feasibility, acceptability and explore the impact of a culturally appropriate Latin Dance intervention vs. Usual Care on sleep quality for Hispanic cancer survivors.

Secondary objectives are to examine the preliminary efficacy of a culturally appropriate Latin Dance intervention on secondary cancer- and treatment-related side effects (e.g., Quality of Life, distress, insomnia, fatigue).
Cancer Survivorship|Sleep Disturbances
BEHAVIORAL: Latin Dance
Feasibility of the Intervention, Feasibility in this study will include recruitment rates and retention rates of participants, 8 weeks|Treatment Perception Questionnaire (Acceptability of Intervention), Acceptability is defined as at least 80% of participants in the Latin Dance group agreeing or strongly agreeing that the intervention was acceptable via the Treatment Perceptions Questionnaire (TPQ). The TPQ consists of 10 statements about treatment satisfaction on a Likert-type scale from 0 (strongly disagree) to 4 (strongly agree). Average scores ≥ 3 indicated acceptable satisfaction., Post-intervention (at approximately 8 weeks)|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Changes in sleep quality will be assessed pre and post-intervention with the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The PSQI measures sleep quality with a total score ranging from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse sleep quality., Baseline and post-intervention (approximately 8 weeks)
Functional Outcomes for Cancer Therapy - General, Quality of Life will be assessed via the Functional Outcomes for Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G). This measure consists of 27 items designed to measure four domains of quality of life in cancer patients: physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being. Coefficients of reliability and validity are uniformly high. The physical, social, and functional domain scores range from 0-28 with higher scores indicating better quality of life. The emotional domain score ranges from 0 - 24 with higher scores indicating better quality of life. The FACT-G total score ranges from 0 - 108, with higher scores indicating better quality of life., Baseline and post-intervention (approximately 8 weeks)|Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness - Fatigue, Fatigue will be assessed with the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness - Fatigue (FACIT-F) Scale. Higher scores indicate less fatigue (score range=0-52)., Baseline and post-intervention (approximately 8 weeks)|Brief Symptom Inventory - 18, Distress (depression and anxiety) will be measured using the Brief Symptom Inventory-18 (BSI-18). Items are summed to calculate the raw score, range 0-72. Raw scores can be converted to T-scores, based on US population norms. Participants with T-scores that are ≥ 63 are considered a "case," and may need professional help. Somatization Scale: Raw score range 0-24, with 24 indicating high somatization. Depression Scale: Raw score range 0-24, with 24 indicating high depression. Anxiety Scale: Raw score range 0-24, with 24 indicating high anxiety., Baseline and post-intervention (approximately 8 weeks)|Insomnia Severity Index, Insomnia will be assessed with the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). A 5-point Likert scale of 7 questions is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia., 8 weeks|Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Duration Via Actigraphy, Actigraphy will measure the number of minutes of actual sleep., 2 weeks (worn for 1 week at Baseline and 1 week at post-intervention)|Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Wake After Sleep Onset Via Actigraphy, Actigraphy will measure total minutes of wake time after sleep onset., 2 weeks (worn for 1 week at Baseline and 1 week at post-intervention)|Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Efficiency via Actigraphy, Actigraphy will measure the percent of time actually slept compared to intended time sleeping., 2 weeks (worn for 1 week at Baseline and 1 week at post-intervention)|Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Latency Via Actigraphy, Actigraphy will measure the minutes it takes for the participant to fall asleep., 2 weeks (worn for 1 week at Baseline and 1 week at post-intervention)|Charleson Comorbidity Index, The Charleson Comorbidity Index consists of 19 items, each with an assigned weight from 1 to 6 according to the relative risk of dying within a year. In general, the absence of comorbidity is considered: 0-1 points; low comorbidity: 2 points; and high comorbidity: ≥3 points., Baseline and post-intervention (approximately 8 weeks)|Physical Activity Daily Diaries, The physical activity daily diary is designed to gather information about participants' daily physical activity patterns., Physical activity daily diaries will be completed beginning 1 week pre-intervention, completed throughout the 8-week intervention, and 1-week post-intervention.|Sleep Daily Diaries, The sleep diary is designed to gather information about participants' daily sleep patterns., Sleep daily diaries will be completed beginning 1 week pre-intervention, completed throughout the 8-week intervention, and 1-week post-intervention.
In this feasibility Randomized Control Trial (RCT) study, the investigators will assess the feasibility, acceptability, and explore the impact of a Latin dance intervention vs usual care on sleep quality among Hispanic survivors.

Study Aims:

Aim 1: Develop a culturally appropriate Latin dance intervention for Hispanic cancer survivors using a bidirectional community engagement approach. Using iterative qualitative feedback from Hispanic cancer survivors, the investigators will develop a Latin dance intervention for Hispanic cancer survivors.

Aim 2: Assess the feasibility and acceptability of a culturally appropriate Latin Dance intervention for Hispanic cancer survivors.

Aim 3: Provide preliminary evidence of the efficacy potential of a culturally appropriate Latin Dance intervention vs. usual care on subjective and objective sleep quality for Hispanic survivors.