Study To Evaluate The Safety, Tolerability And Immunogenicity Of 4 mg Of ITI-3000 In Patients With Polyomavirus-Positive Merkel Cell Carcinoma (MCC)
This Phase I clinical trial will evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of 4 mg doses of ITI-3000 in participants with polyomavirus-positive Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC).
Merkel Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: ITI-3000
Number of participants with Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs)., Number of participants that experience any Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs)., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Number of occurrences of Adverse events/Serious Adverse Events that will be assessed for severity according to the NCI CTCAE, version 5.0., Number of occurrences of Adverse events/Serious Adverse Events that will be assessed for severity according to the NCI CTCAE, version 5.0., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Number of participants with changes from baseline in physical exam findings., Number of participants with changes from baseline in physical exam (e.g. weight, height, etc.) findings., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Number of participants with changes from baseline in hematology lab results., Number of participants with changes from baseline in hematology lab results (e.g. Hgb, PLT CT, Hct, RBC, etc.)., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Number of participants with changes from baseline in chemistry lab results., Number of participants with changes from baseline in chemistry lab results (e.g. Alb, ALK, CO2, BUN, Glu,etc.) ., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Number of participants with changes from baseline in urinalysis lab results., Number of participants with changes from baseline in urinalysis lab results (e.g. SPG, pH, TP, Glu, etc.) ., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Number of participants with changes from baseline vital signs., Number of participants with changes from baseline vital signs (e.g. body temp, BP, RR, etc.) ., Through study completion, up to 12 months.
Exploratory endpoints include immune assessments for anti-MCPyV T-cell response, Changes in titers from baseline., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Exploratory endpoints include immune assessments anti- MCPyV LT antibodies, Changes in titers from baseline., Through study completion, up to 12 months.|Exploratory endpoints include immune assessments for anti-MCPyV oncoprotein antibodies, Changes of anti-MCPyV oncoprotein antibodies from baseline., Through study completion, up to 12 months.
This is a single dose design examining 4 mg dose of the DNA vaccine ITI-3000 in participants who were diagnosed with polyomavirus-positive MCC, histologically confirmed by an expert pathologist on standard clinical staining, that may have been supplemented by specific staining for Cytokeratin 20 (CK20) and/or other markers used to distinguish MCC.

Evidence of Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) in the tumor at initial presentation (pre-therapy) can be provided by a positive anti-MCPyV oncoprotein antibody AMERK Test.

Participants in the study are those who are both diagnosed and have completed standard of care (SOC) surgical and/or radiation therapy at least 1 year prior to enrollment in the study and have no evidence of active disease (NEAD). Participants those who were previously diagnosed with MCC, and had recurrence and also exhibited no evidence of active disease (NEAD) for more than 2 years prior to enrollment in the study.

NEAD is confirmed by physical examination, a negative AMERK test (\<74 STU) in participants with a prior positive AMERK test, or significantly decreased, stable AMERK titers in 2 or more consecutive draws compared to prior positive AMERK test at the time of diagnosis, in the setting of a negative computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis or PET-CT within 3 months of enrollment into the study.

Eight participants will be enrolled at 4 mg total DNA dose to assess safety, tolerability, and immunologic response to the ITI-3000 vaccine.