NBTXR3, Radiation Therapy, and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This phase II trial investigates the effect of NBTXR3, radiation therapy, and pembrolizumab in treating patients with head and neck squamous cancer that has come back (recurrent) or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). NBTXR3 may cause cell destruction when activated by radiation. Radiation therapy, such as stereotactic body radiation therapy, uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method may kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period and cause less damage to normal tissue. And hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving NBTXR3, radiation therapy, and pembrolizumab may kill more tumor cells.
Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Hafnium Oxide-containing Nanoparticles NBTXR3|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median times and 95% the determination of best objective response., Time from NBTXR3 injection to local, regional or distant failure or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Local failure, Will be defined as evidence of disease recurrence or progression by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 and/or histologically confirmed within 2 cm of the radiation planning target volume (PTV)., Up to 2 years|Regional failure, Will be defined as evidence of disease recurrence or progression by RECIST version 1.1 and/or histologically confirmed that is 2 cm or more outside the PTV and within the organ that received stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT)., Up to 2 years|Distant failure, Will be defined as occurrence of new metastatic lesion(s) that were not identified at baseline (prior to NBTXR3 injection) or evidence of disease progression in metastatic sites identified at baseline that are outside of the organ receiving SBRT. Evidence of disease should be confirmed by RECIST version 1.1 and/or histologically., Up to 2 years|Objective response rate, Will be assessed per RECIST version 1.1, for the target and non-target lesion(s). Best response will be assessed as well., Up to 2 years
Duration of response, Time from first documented complete or partial response to radiographically confirmed disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Up to 2 years, Time from NBTXR3 injection to death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Treatment related acute and late onset toxicities, Will be defined as any grade \>= 3 adverse event, excluding dermatitis and mucositis as per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate tumor response of hafnium oxide-containing nanoparticles NBTXR3 (NBTXR3) activated by radiation therapy (RT) in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with recurrent/metastatic (R/M) head and neck squamous cell cancer (HNSCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess unacceptable treatment-related toxicity of NBTXR3 activated by RT in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with R/M HNSCC.

II. To assess the safety profile of NBTXR3 activated RT in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with R/M HNSCC.

III. To evaluate time-to-event outcomes of NBTXR3 activated by RT in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with R/M HNSCC.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To associate radiomic measurements with outcomes of treatment with NBTXR3 activated by RT in combination with pembrolizumab.

II. To evaluate biomarkers of response in subjects treated with NBTXR3 activated by RT in combination with pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive hafnium oxide-containing nanoparticles NBTXR3 via injection intratumorally or intranodally on day 1. Beginning as early as day 3 and within 8 days of NBTXR3 injection, patients undergo stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) every other day (QOD) or hypofractionated RT once daily (QD) over 1-2 weeks at the discretion of the treating radiation oncologist. Starting on the same day as radiation therapy, patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 3 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 weeks for 2 years.