Study Assessing the Efficacy and Safety of Alpelisib Plus Fulvestrant or Letrozole, Based on Prior Endocrine Therapy, in Patients With PIK3CA Mutant, HR+, HER2- Advanced Breast Cancer Who Have Progressed on or After Prior Treatments
Study assessing the efficacy and safety of alpelisib plus fulvestrant or letrozole, based on prior endocrine therapy, in patients with hormone receptor (HR) positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer (aBC), harboring PIK3CA mutations, who have progressed on or after prior treatments.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Alpelisib|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Goserelin|DRUG: Leuprolide
Core Phase: Percentage of Participants Who Were Alive Without Disease Progression at 6 Months, Percentage of participants who were alive without disease progression at 6-month follow-up based on local investigator assessment per RECIST v1.1 in Cohort A, Cohort B and Cohort C. Participants who progressed, died, or discontinued study before 6 months were counted as a failure., At 6 months
Core Phase: Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of study medication to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause occurring in the study. PFS was assessed based on local investigator's assessment according to RECIST v1.1. PFS was censored if no PFS event was observed before the cut-off date. The censoring date was the date of last adequate tumor assessment before the cut-off date. If a PFS event was observed after two or more missing or non-adequate tumor assessments, then PFS was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment.

PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose to date of first documented progression or death, up to 46 months|Core Phase: Progression Free Survival on Next Line Treatment (PFS2), PFS2 is defined as time from the date of first dose of study medication to the date of first documented progression on next-line therapy or death from any cause. The first documented progression on next-line treatment is based on investigator assessment of progressive disease.

PFS2 was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose to date of first documented progression on next-line therapy or death, up to approximately 55 months|Core Phase: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on local investigator's assessment according to RECIST v1.1 in each cohort.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions and all non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm and all lymph nodes assigned as non-target lesions must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to 46 months|Core Phase: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as the percentage of participants with a BOR of CR or PR or an overall lesion response of stable disease (SD) or Non-CR/ Non-PD lasting ≥ 24 weeks based on local investigator's assessment according to RECIST v1.1.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions and all non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm and all lymph nodes assigned as non-target lesions must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to 46 months|Core Phase: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is the time from the date of first documented response (confirmed CR or PR based on local investigator's assessment according to RECIST v1.1) to the date of first documented progression or death due to underlying cancer.

Subjects continuing without progression or death due to underlying cancer were censored at the date of their last adequate tumor assessment.

DOR was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first documented response to first documented progression or death, up to 33.3 months|Core Phase: Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time of start of treatment to date of death or lost to follow-up. If a subject was not known to have died, then the OS data was censored at the date of the last known alive status for the patient., From date of first dose and up to approximately 55 months|Extension Phase: Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit as Assessed by the Investigator During the Extension Phase, Percentage of participants with clinical benefit as assessed by the Investigator at scheduled visits during the extension phase, From end of core phase up to 12 months
This is a phase II, multicenter, open-label, three-cohort, non-comparative study of alpelisib plus endocrine therapy (either fulvestrant or letrozole) in patients with HR+, HER2- aBC harboring PIK3CA mutation(s) in the tumor whose disease has progressed on or after prior treatments.

The study includes two phases:

* Core Phase: includes treatment phase for all patients from First Patient First Treatment (FPFT) until 18 months post Last Patient First Treatment (LPFT) + 1 month Safety follow-up (total 19 months post LPFT)
* Extension Phase: includes treatment phase starting at the end of the treatment Core Phase up to 36 months. The extension treatment phase is only for patients who are continuing to benefit from treatment at the end of the Core Phase and are not eligible for PSDS (Post-Study Drug Supply) in their country based on local regulations. Patients will continue on their existing treatment assigned in the Core Phase. If PSDS becomes available for a patient, the patient should be discontinued from the study and access treatment via PSDS. During the Extension Phase there will be no per protocol efficacy assessments other than physician's determination as per standard of care of whether or not the patient is continuing to derive clinical benefit from the study treatment.

Patients who are benefiting from treatment and are eligible for PSDS will exit the trial at the end of the Core Phase.

After discontinuation of study treatment, all patients will be followed for safety for at least 30 days except in case of death, loss to follow-up or withdrawal of consent.

During the Core Phase only: If a patient discontinues study treatment for reasons other than documented disease progression, death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of consent for efficacy follow-up, tumor assessments should continue to be performed until documented disease progression, death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawn consent to efficacy follow-up or end of study (Post-treatment efficacy follow-up). Moreover, all participants will be followed for survival status (after progression) regardless of treatment discontinuation reason (except if consent is withdrawn, death or patient is lost to follow-up) until death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of consent for survival follow-up or end of the Core Phase