Evaluation of a Psychological Capital Intervention to Alleviate Burnout and Regulate Immunity Among Oncology Nurses
Burnout appears to be highly prevalent among oncology nurses, which was a problem not only for the nurses themselves but for the patients for whom they provide care. How to mitigate and prevent burnout and improve nursing performance outcomes is an urgent problem for nursing manager.

In a sample of 99 oncology nurses, immunological characteristics were compared to burnout scores. In a randomized trial, 90 oncology nurses suffering burnout were randomized to receive psychological capital intervention or routine psychological care. Participants were assessed before and after treatment using measures of burnout, psychological capital and immunological characteristics.
Burnout|Psychological
BEHAVIORAL: psychological intervention based on psychological capital
scores on Maslach Burnout Inventory-General Survey (MBI-GS), change of the MBI scores, which ranges from 0 to 6, with higher scores indicating more severe burnout., baseline and 6 months
scores on Positive psychological capital Questionnaire (PPQ),, change of the PPQ scores, , which ranges from 1 to 6, with higher scores indicating higher level of psychological capital., baseline and 6 months
Burnout appears to be highly prevalent among oncology nurses, which was a problem not only for the nurses themselves but for the patients for whom they provide care. And burnout-associated biomarkers remain controversial, and their potential roles in burnout are still unclear.

This study was a randomized controlled trial in which the independent variable was group psychological intervention, while the dependent variables were pre- and post-intervention scores on the Maslach burnout inventory and on the psychological capital scale, as well as values for various immunological indicators. In Stage 1 of the study, recruited subjects completed the psychological capital questionnaire and blood was sampled. In Stage 2, the research team administered a custom-designed psychological capital intervention (PCI) to part of the sample, while the other part received routine care . The PCI group received 1 h of counseling twice weekly for a total of 24 weeks in total. In Stage 3, the PCI and control groups completed the questionnaires again and provided blood samples.