Performance Assessment of the Fluorescence Technique Alone in the Search for the Sentinel Node in Breast Surgery
Cohort, interventional, multicenter, non-randomized study to compare the performance of the ICG fluorescence technique (ICG) alone to the combined ICG + isotopic technique in the detection of sentinel node.

Comparison of the performances of two techniques used in current practice, without modification of the patients' care plan. Indeed, all patients receive both techniques, but the protocol allows to standardize the collection of the performances of each of the two techniques in order to compare them.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Standardization of the sentinel node detection procedure
Diagnostic performance (Sensitivity and Specificity) of the indocyanine green fluorescence (ICG) method, The main objective is to evaluate the diagnostic performance (Sensitivity and Specificity) of the indocyanine green fluorescence (ICG) method alone as a sentinel node marker in non-metastatic breast cancer, compared to the method coupling technetium-99m isotopic research (TC) to fluorescence (Gold Standard in the study centers).

The suspicious node bundles, which will have been removed after identification by 1) ICG alone, 2) TC alone or 3) manually, can be classified in a contingency table, according to the first method (the sequence) with which they are detected.

The Sensitivity / Specificity pair will then be used to :

1. Estimate the area under the curve (AUC) of the ICG method alone, and its 95% confidence interval.
2. Estimate the positive and negative predictive values of ICG alone, using the prevalence of metastatic lesions., At time of surgery
Frequency and factors associated with the occurrence of false negatives (FN) related to the use of ICG alone (fluorescence tracking failure alone), The number and percentage of lymph node packages detected only by isotopic method. Analysis of the factors (patient characteristics such as total mastectomy vs. partial mastectomy, obesity, tumor location in the mammary gland) associated with the occurrence of these false negatives, using a multivariate logistic regression model., At time of surgery|Frequency of detection on table by multispectral camera, of ganglions first detected only by isotopic method., Number and percentage of ganglion bundles detected only by isotopic method, among which we will finally find a marking with the multispectral camera., At time of surgery|Causes of premature use of the isotope method (moving to the second stage of tracking) before the first stage of tracking (ICG method) has been completed., Frequencies of pre-identified causes of premature isotopic use during the first stage of the axillary procedure. The pre-identified causes are the follows:

* Poor skin visualization
* Operative difficulty with persistence of a fluorescent signal
* Loss of fluorescent signal
* Loss of surgeon patience
* Other., At time of surgery|Surgeon's perception of the usefulness and self-perceived satisfaction of ICG method alone, compared with the combined technique (ICG+TC)., Description of the surgeon's self-perceived satisfaction with the use of the ICG alone, using individualized 10-point Likert scales (0 = not at all useful/satisfied; 10 = quite useful/satisfied)., At time of surgery|Interest of the ICG technique alone compared to the combined technique for the detection of metastases., Diagnostic performance of ICG method to identify sentinel node will be associated with the frequency of detection of metastases (weighted by the number of nodes present in the lymph node packages sent to pathology) in order to evaluate the diagnostic performance of this method as sentinel metastatic node marker., Upon receipt of the anatomopathology results
Cohort, interventional, multicenter, non-randomized study to compare the performance of the ICG fluorescence technique (ICG) alone to the combined ICG + isotopic technique in the detection of sentinel node.

Comparison of the performances of two techniques used in current practice, without modification of the patients' care plan. Indeed, all patients receive both techniques, but the protocol allows to standardize the collection of the performances of each of the two techniques in order to compare them.