YF476 and Type I Gastric Carcinoids (Norway)
The aim of the study is to find out if the experimental medicine, YF476, can make gastric carcinoids, a rare type of stomach tumour, shrink and disappear. Gastric carcinoids occur mainly in patients with chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG), a condition in which the acid-producing cells in the lining of the stomach can't make acid. Acid production is controlled by gastrin, a hormone (chemical messenger) that's released into the bloodstream. If the stomach can't make acid, blood levels of gastrin rise. High blood levels of gastrin in patients with CAG can cause other cells (ECL cells) in the lining of the stomach to grow and, over the years, to give rise to gastric carcinoids. Gastric carcinoids are usually benign, but they can become malignant. Therefore, patients with CAG and gastric carcinoids have the inside of their stomach checked regularly, by gastroscopy, to see if the gastric carcinoids need removing surgically. A gastroscope is a thin (1 cm), flexible tube at end of which is a mini video camera, which enables the user to inspect the lining of the stomach and a 'snare' to take samples of tissue (biopsies). YF476 (netazepide) is a gastrin receptor antagonist (blocks the effects of gastrin), so it's a potential new medical treatment for gastric carcinoids in patients with CAG. Up to 10 of these patients will take YF476 daily for up to 12 weeks. They'll make up to seven outpatient visits for tests, including checks on the safety of YF476 and up to four gastroscopies. At each gastroscopy, the gastric carcinoids will be measured and biopsies taken for laboratory tests. Patients will take up to 24 weeks to finish the study.
Chronic Atrophic Gastritis|Hypergastrinemia|Type I Gastric Carcinoids
DRUG: YF476
Visual assessment of the number of gastric carcinoids., 2 years|Visual assessment of the size of gastric carcinoids, 2 years|Visual assessment of the distribution of gastric carcinoids., 2 years
Safety and tolerability of YF476, as judged by medical examinations, vital signs, ECG, safety tests of blood and urine, and adverse events., 2 years|Histologic grading of biopsies., 2 years|Plasma concentrations of YF476., 2 years|Plasma or serum concentrations of biomarkers such as gastrin and chromogranin A (CgA), 2 years
The aim of the study is to find out if the experimental medicine, YF476, can make gastric carcinoids, a rare type of stomach tumour, shrink and disappear. Gastric carcinoids occur mainly in patients with chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG), a condition in which the acid-producing cells in the lining of the stomach can't make acid. Acid production is controlled by gastrin, a hormone (chemical messenger) that's released into the bloodstream. If the stomach can't make acid, blood levels of gastrin rise. High blood levels of gastrin in patients with CAG can cause other cells (ECL cells) in the lining of the stomach to grow and, over the years, to give rise to gastric carcinoids. Gastric carcinoids are usually benign, but they can become malignant. Therefore, patients with CAG and gastric carcinoids have the inside of their stomach checked regularly, by gastroscopy, to see if the gastric carcinoids need removing surgically. A gastroscope is a thin (1 cm), flexible tube at end of which is a mini video camera, which enables the user to inspect the lining of the stomach and a 'snare' to take samples of tissue (biopsies). YF476 (netazepide) is a gastrin receptor antagonist (blocks the effects of gastrin), so it's a potential new medical treatment for gastric carcinoids in patients with CAG. Up to 10 of these patients will take YF476 daily for up to 12 weeks. They'll make up to seven outpatient visits for tests, including checks on the safety of YF476 and up to four gastroscopies. At each gastroscopy, the gastric carcinoids will be measured and biopsies taken for laboratory tests. Patients will take up to 24 weeks to finish the study.