Anlotinib Combined With mXELIRI as Second-line Treatment of Advanced Colorectal Cancer
1. Determine the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) and / or phase II recommended dose (RP2D) of the allotinib combined mXELIRI protocol.
2. To evaluate the safety and tolerance of the combination of anlotinib and mXELIRI in the second-line treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer
Advanced Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Anlotinib Hydrochloride
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The main side effects of drugs are the main reasons for limiting the increase of the dose of chemotherapy drugs, which are dose limiting toxicity of chemotherapy drugs, Through study completion, up to 24 months|Phase II clinical recommended dose (RP2D), When the minimum number of patients is included in the dose increasing phase, the recommended dose of phase 2 can be determined accurately and quickly, each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD|Objective response rate, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1.prior to progression or any further therapy., Through study completion, up to 24 months
Progression free survival, Progress free survival defined as the time from first dose of study treatment until the first date of either objective disease progression or death due to any cause, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time until death due to any cause, From date of enrollment until death, assessed up to 24 months|Disease control rate, Defined as the proportion of patients with a documented complete response, partial response, and stable disease (CR + PR + SD) based on RECIST 1.1, Through study completion, up to 24 months|Duration of remission, The time from the first time that CR or PR (no matter which one is measured first) is measured to the first time that disease recurrence or progression is truly recorded, Through study completion, up to 24 months|Score of quality of Life, The changes of clinical symptoms and objective examination results of tumor patients before and after treatment were observed and scored. According to the requirements of quality of life scale, the scoring results of each field of the scale were recorded in ECRF, From date of enrollment until death, assessed up to 24 months
This study consists of two phases, the dose-escalation phase, and the expansion phase. 9-12 patients with advanced colorectal cancer will be included in the dose escalation study. Patients who met the inclusion criteria would be treated with anlotinib QD for 2 weeks, and then stopped for 1 week, combined with mXELIRI. Every 21 days was a treatment cycle. Safety information was collected until the disease progression or intolerable toxicity, so as to determine the MTD and / or RP2D of anlotinib combined with irinotecan in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. The study adopted the traditional 3+3 design .

The primary outcome in dose-expansion phase was objective response rate(ORR).