99mTc-rhAnnexin V-128 Imaging and Cardiotoxicity in Patients With Early Breast Cancer
This was a single center, proof-of-concept (PoC), Phase II study. Patients with histologically confirmed early stage (Stage I, II or III) HER-2 negative breast cancer and scheduled to receive doxorubicin-based (neo)adjuvant therapy to be followed by paclitaxel or docetaxel as per clinical practice. The planned doxorubicin-based chemotherapy treatment consisted of doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 in combination with cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 (AC) intravenous (IV) every 2 or 3 weeks for 4 cycles. Patients were scheduled for CMRI and 99mTc-rhAnnexin V-128 imaging (planar and SPECT / CT) at the following visits:

1. Screening/baseline, i.e. 2 weeks prior to initiating AC treatment (Visit 1)
2. After the 2nd and before the 3rd cycle of AC treatment (Visit 2)
3. After the 4th cycle of AC treatment and within 2 weeks (Visit 3)
4. At 12 weeks after the 4th cycle of AC treatment (Visit 4). The imaging procedures were conducted and analyzed. Bloodwork for cardiotoxicity biomarkers (troponin, N terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide \[NT-proBNP\]) was performed at each visit.
Breast Cancer|Doxorubicin Induced Cardiomyopathy
RADIATION: 99mTc-rhAnnexin V-128
Part I / Proof of Concept (PoC): Number of Participants Evaluated for Imaging Feasibility, The feasibility of imaging apoptotic activity using 99mTc-rhAnnexin V-128 was assessed in the first 10 patients who enrolled and completed the PoC phase of the study by the data monitoring committee (visual image review and consensus). The three reviewers of the DMC did an independent visual assessment of the images using a 1 to 4 point grading system: each observer reviewed the images of each patient and scored either 1 or 2 (uptake was less than or equal to blood pool), these images were considered normal; 3 was equivocal and four equalled abnormal. Only descriptive analysis performed., Day 0 (Baseline)
99mTc-rhAnnexin V-128 Myocardial Uptake, Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT)/Computed Tomography (CT) scans of the thorax were acquired with a dual head SPECT/CT gamma camera with low-energy high-resolution collimators at 1 and 2 hours post-injection at each collection time point and were to be compared to Baseline. Myocardial uptake was measured from regions of interest (ROIs) placed over the myocardium on the SPECT images coregistered with the corresponding CT images for anatomic delineation. Myocardial uptake was expressed either in absolute units (% injected dose/g) or as a standardized uptake value (SUV). Only descriptive analysis performed., 60 and 120 minutes post injection at: Day 0 (Baseline), Visit 2 (After the 2nd and before the 3rd cycle of doxorubicin), Visit 3 (After the 4th cycle of doxorubicin and within 2 weeks), Visit 4 (12 weeks after the 4th cycle of doxorubicin)|Changes in Left Ventricular (LV) Function, The worsening of LV function was to be assessed by comparing cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMRI) left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) after the 2nd and the 4th cycle of doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy (AC) treatment and after 12 weeks of the last dose of doxorubicin compared to Baseline. Only descriptive analysis performed., Day 0 (Baseline), Visit 2 (After the 2nd and before the 3rd cycle of doxorubicin), Visit 3 (After the 4th cycle of doxorubicin and within 2 weeks), Visit 4 (12 weeks after the 4th cycle of doxorubicin)|Changes in the Cardiotoxicity Biomarkers (Troponin and NT-proBNP), The differences of LV function after the 2nd and the 4th cycle of doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy (AC) treatment and after 12 weeks of the last dose of doxorubicin compared to Baseline were to be correlated with the changes in cardiotoxicity biomarkers: Troponin and N Terminal pro B-type Natriuretic Peptide (NT-proBNP). Only descriptive analysis performed., Day 0 (Baseline), Visit 2 (After the 2nd and before the 3rd cycle of doxorubicin), Visit 3 (After the 4th cycle of doxorubicin and within 2 weeks), Visit 4 (12 weeks after the 4th cycle of doxorubicin)
Overall, it was planned to recruit 30 adults with early stage breast cancer. The first 10 patients were to be enrolled in the PoC phase of the study to assess the potential of 99mTc-rhAnnexin V-128 in terms of imaging quality, uptake and medical relevance. Based on the results of the first 10 patients, the DMC was to decide whether to terminate the study or continue to the Phase II and enroll the next 20 planned patients. The maximum study duration was 26 (±4) weeks per patient (including the screening and follow-up periods).

The sponsor decided to terminate the study earlier than planned due to strategic decisions to focus the AAA development portfolio on oncology theragnostics and not based on safety concerns.