Effect of Intravaginal Prasterone on Symptoms of Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause (GSM) in Women in Menopause With Previous Breast Cancer
The goal of this interventional study is to evaluate the effect of Intravaginal Prasterone for the treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of genitourinary syndrome (GSM) due to natural, surgical or treatment-induced menopause and the effect on the quality of life, including sexual function and mood well-being, in women with Breast Cancer. A sample size of 95 patients will be needed to show that the proportion of women showing symptom improvement is greater than 50%. Subjects will be followed up at four weeks and twelve weeks of treatment. One and three-month outcomes will be provided after the end of treatment. Comparison between menopausal women with previous breast cancer that have finished hormonal therapy or with ER negative breast cancer and women currently under endocrine therapy with AIs will be performed.
Women With Breast Cancer
DRUG: Prasterone (DHEA)
Establish subjective improvement in genitourinary symptomatology at intervals marked by the study, To establish the improvement in vulvovaginal and urinary symptoms, by subjective evaluation at baseline, at 12 weeks and after 1 and 3 months after the end of the treatment. Establish tissue trophism improvement through gynecological evaluation, the use of validated scales (Vaginal Health Index), and determination of the maturation index on vaginal spatula, measure serum estradiol during and after treatment, From enrollment to after 3 months after the end of treatment|evaluation of vulvovaginal and urinary symptoms, evaluation of vaginal dryness, dyspareunia, pruritis, burning and dysuria with a 0 to 4 score (0: absence, 1: mild, 2: moderate, 3: severe, 4: very severe), 6 months|improvement in vaginal signs, To establish the improvement in vaginal signs using the Vaginal Health Index Scale (VHI), 6 months|evaluation fo maturation index, To assess the maturation index (as percentage of superficial, intermediate and parabasal cells) in the vaginal mucosa, 6 months|grade of satisfaction, To report the grade of satisfaction as measured by the Global Response Assessment at the end of the study, 6 months
The goal of this interventional study is to evaluate the effect of Intravaginal Prasterone for the treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of genitourinary syndrome (GSM) due to natural, surgical or treatment-induced menopause and the effect on the quality of life, including sexual function and mood well-being, in women with Breast Cancer. A sample size of 95 patients will be needed to show that the proportion of women showing symptom improvement is greater than 50%. Subjects will be followed up at four weeks and twelve weeks of treatment. One and three-month outcomes will be provided after the end of treatment. Comparison between menopausal women with previous breast cancer that have finished hormonal therapy or with ER negative breast cancer and women currently under endocrine therapy with AIs will be performed.