Donor-Derived EBV-Specific T Cells for Life Threatening EBV-lymphoma (OLIP-EBV-TCL-01-HMR01)
Single-patient trial aiming to provide immunological consolidation following allogeneic stem cell transplantation to a young adult patient suffering from a systemic EBV-positive lymphoma of childhood.
EBV Associated Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: EBV-specific T cells
Safety of a donor-derived EBV-specific T-cell line as assessed clinically by the lack of graft-versus-host host (GVHD)., Evaluate the safety in terms of occurrence of graft-versus-host disease of a donor-derived allogeneic EBV-specific T-cell line generation and infusion in a patient suffering from a life-threatening EBV-related disease who received an allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Acute GVHD symptoms will be scored using MAGIC criteria using scores from 0 to IV, IV being the most severe involvement) on skin, liver and gastro-intestinal tract. Chronic GVHD symptoms will be score using the NIH consensus scale (0 to 3, 3 being the most severe) on the following organs skin, mouth, eyes, GI tract, liver, lungs, joints and fascia, and genital tract., 1 year
Clinical response, Disease recurrence as assessed by imaging (PET scanning), 1 year|Immune reconstitution to EBV, Measurement of viral titers (nucleic acid testing) and peripheral blood ELISpot measurements, 1 year
Following a presumed primary EBV infection, a 19 year old female patient rapidly suffered systemic inflammatory response, hemophagocytosis, multi-organ failure and evidence of EBV+ T-cell lymphoma.

The patient was aggressively treated and responded to SMILE-based chemotherapy. Once complete response was ascertained by PET imaging, the patient underwent myeloablative HLA-matched unrelated allogeneic stem cell transplantation (cyclophosphamide 60mg/Kg, total body irradiation - 12Gy with anti-thymocyte globulin). The stem cell donor had a positive serology for EBV (IgG).

The patient's EBV titer was weakly positive at the time of transplantation. A decision was made to offer consolidative treatment consisting of donor-derived ex vivo expanded EBV-reactive T cells following transplantation.

A EBV-specific T-cell line was manufactured from a portion of the cryopreserved G-CSF mobilized peripheral graft after appropriate authorizations were obtained.

The patient suffered a severe episode of intestinal graft-versus-host disease early following transplantation but received a first dose of EBV-reactive T cells (20x10e6 T cells/meter square of body surface area 5 months post-transplantation