A Single-arm Trial of Atezolizumab/Platinum/Etoposide for the Treatment of Advanced Large-cell Neuroendocrine Cancer of the Lung
This phase II clinical trial evaluates the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Atezolizumab in addition to standard of care chemotherapy (Platinum/Etoposide) in LCNEC.
Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Lung
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Overall survival, To assess the efficacy of Atezolizumab in addition to standard of care chemotherapy (Platinum/Etoposide) in LCNEC as measured by overall survival., appr. 72 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), According to RECIST v1.1 as assessed by local investigator., appr. 72 months|Immune Objective Response Rate (iORR), According to iRECIST as assessed by local investigator., appr. 72 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), According to RECIST v1.1 as assessed by local investigator., appr. 72 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), appr. 72 months|Immune Progression Free Survival (iPFS), appr. 72 months|Duration of Response (DoR), appr. 72 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) rate at one year, 1 year|Immune Progression Free Survival (iPFS) rate at one year, 1 year|Overall survival at one year, 1 year|Incidence, intensity, seriousness, relationship to Atezolizumab, and outcome of adverse events graded according to NCI CTCAE (v5.0)., appr. 72 months
Secondary efficacy endpoints in defined molecular subtypes (NSCLC-type / SCLC-type), appr. 72 months|Quality of Life assessed by EORTC QLQ-C30., appr. 72 months|Quality of Life assessed by EORTC QLQ-LC13., appr. 72 months|Immune Effectors, Changes in cellular and humoral immune effectors in peripheral blood and their correlation with response., appr. 72 months|Mutational Landscape, Mutational landscape of LCNEC in comparison to SCLC as well as squamous and Adenocarcinoma of the lung. The analysis will be using whole genome sequencing., appr. 72 months|Tumor DNA (tDNA) level, Dynamics of circulating tumor DNA levels (changes from baseline)., appr. 72 months|Therapy Resistance, Mechanisms of therapy resistance (changes of immune invasion and mutational landscape in tumor re-biopsy upon progression)., appr. 72 months
This phase II clinical trial evaluates the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Atezolizumab in addition to standard of care chemotherapy (Platinum/Etoposide) in LCNEC.