Quest to Analyze One Thousand Humans Meditating
This study will be focused on assessing the molecular, physiological, and emotional correlates of an intensive meditation experience in the context of a retreat setting in a large 2000 plus-person cohort comprised of healthy and clinical populations.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)|Angina, Stable|Anxiety|Asthma|Atrial Fibrillation|Cancer Brain|Cancer, Breast|Cancer Colon|Cancer, Lung|Cancer, Ovarian|Cancer Prostate|Cancer Skin|Throat Cancer|Lymphoma|Cancer, Thyroid|Cancer, Other|Cerebral Palsy|Chronic Fatigue Syndrome|Cluster Headache|Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)|Chronic Kidney Diseases|Crohn Disease|Deafness|Depression|Diabetes|Eczema|Epilepsy|Fibroids|Fibromyalgia|Heart Failure|Hypertension|Hyperthyroidism|Hypothyroidism|Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS)|Infertility|Lyme Disease|Macular Degeneration|Migraine|Multiple Allergies|Multiple Sclerosis|Osteoarthritis|Osteoporosis|Ovarian Cysts|Parkinson Disease|Phantom Limb Pain|Psoriasis|Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)|Rheumatoid Arthritis|Sjogrens Disease|Spinal Cord Injury|Spinal Stenosis|Stroke|Tension Headache|Tinnitus|Ulcerative Colitis
BEHAVIORAL: Advanced multi-component meditation practice
Effect of Meditation in an Advanced Retreat Setting on Heart Rate Variability in a Global Population, In Phases 1, 2, and 3 of this study, heart rate data will be collected using a Garmin wrist device at the beginning of the meditation retreat and continuously for up to ten months after the retreat. Beat-to-beat interval data will be used to calculate heart rate variability. Time domain measures will include the mean of R-R intervals (mRR), standard deviation of all R-R intervals (SDRR), root mean square of successive R-R differences (RMSSD), and the percentage of R-R intervals that vary by at least 50 ms (pRR50). Frequency domain measures will include very low frequency (VLF), low frequency (LF), and high frequency (HF) measures., 4 years|Effect of Meditation in an Advanced Retreat Setting on the Gut Microbiome and Metabolites in a Global Population., In Phases 1, 2, and 3 of this study, metagenomic analysis will be carried out on stool samples collected before and after the retreat. This analysis will assess changes in gut microbes and metabolites as a function of multiple variables, including age and sex., 4 years|Effect of Meditation in an Advanced Retreat Setting on the Multi-omic Expression of Genes, Proteins, and Metabolites in the Blood in a Global Population, In Phases 2 and 3 of this study, an integrative analysis of multi-omic assessments will be carried out in whole blood and plasma samples collected before and after the retreat. Whole blood will be analyzed for gene expression while proteomic and metabolomic analysis will be carried out in blood plasma., 4 years|Effect of Meditation in an Advanced Retreat Setting on Physical and Emotional Health outcomes in a global population., In Phases 1, 2, and 3 of this study, physical and emotional states will be assessed using the Short Form (SF)-36 self-report survey instrument. This scale includes measures for the following domains: bodily pain, general health, mental health, physical functioning, role emotional, role physical, social functioning, and vitality. Data will be reported as the average percent change from baseline to follow-up for each domain. When necessary, data will be rescaled such that positive values will indicate improvement from pre- to post-retreat., 4 years
Assess the Effect of Meditation in an Advanced Retreat Setting on Physical and Emotional Health for Multiple Disease States, In Phases 1, 2, and 3 of this study, demographic data will be collected to assess the health status of each study subject including all physical and emotional conditions. Physical and emotional health will be assessed using the Short Form (SF)-36 self-report survey instrument. This scale includes measures for the following domains: bodily pain, general health, mental health, physical functioning, role emotional, role physical, social functioning, and vitality. Data will be reported as the average percent change from baseline to follow-up for each domain. When necessary, data will be rescaled such that positive values will indicate improvement from pre- to post-retreat., 4 years|Assess the Effect of Meditation in an Advanced Retreat Setting on the Gut Microbiome and Metabolites for Multiple Disease States, In Phases 1, 2, and 3 of this study, metagenomic data generated in Primary Outcome #2 will be stratified by health condition. These data will highlight specific changes in gut microbes and metabolites resulting from the meditation retreat., 4 years|Assess the Effect of Meditation in an Advanced Retreat Setting on the Differential Expression of Genes, Proteins, and Metabolites in Blood for Multiple Disease States, In Phases 2 and 3 of this study, transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic data generated in Primary Outcome #3 will be stratified by health condition. These data will highlight specific changes in gene expression, protein expression, and metabolites resulting from the meditation retreat., 4 years
Meditation and other mind-body interventions (MBIs) have been shown to have a range of health benefits, including an improved stress response, a reduction in inflammatory processes, and an enhanced innate immune response. While several studies on MBIs have been carried out to assess metabolomic, transcriptomic, epigenomic, or physiological outcomes, comprehensive studies including all of these components have not been reported. In addition, most studies have been small, comprised of less than 100 research subjects.

One particular area of meditation research that remains largely unexplored is the gut. A bi-directional communication occurs between the gut and the brain, thus, the gut microbiota can influence behavior, resulting in psychosocial stress and negatively impacting the microbiome. One would predict, then, that meditation-based reductions in stress would have positive effects on gut microbial makeup. Importantly, diseased states are characterized by specific gut microbiome profiles, thus, one can use the microbiome to assay for meditation-induced changes in these states.

In this study, a comprehensive multi-omic analysis will be carried out to determine the effect of an immersive 7-day meditation experience in a retreat setting in a large 2000+ person cohort. Metagenomic analysis will be performed on the gut microbiome, including healthy and clinical populations, to assess disease-specific improvements (Phase 1). In addition, Garmin wearable technology will be used to collect biometric health data, including heart rate, sleep, stress, and activity, for up to 10 months after the meditation retreat (Phase 1). In Phase 2 of this study, the biological analyses will be expanded to include blood and urine. Taken together, these data will be coupled with self-report surveys of physical and emotional health and integrated into a machine-learning platform to assess microbiome shifts tied with epigenetics, proteomics, metabolomics, transformational language, and improvements in health.

The advanced week-long meditation retreat will include approximately 25 hours of instruction and 35 hours of meditation. The meditations will include elements of focused attention, non-dual awareness, and loving kindness compassion techniques. While these meditations are unique to this meditation teacher, they are centered around Kundalini and Vipassana techniques. The meditations will be carried out seated, standing, lying down, and walking. The retreat setting allows for controlling many variables, including sleep schedule, meditation schedule, and diet.