Transanal Irrigation to Prevent Major Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
Bowel dysfunction after rectal cancer resection comprises a vast array of bowel symptoms and associated quality-of-life impairment, collectively termed as low anterior resection syndrome (LARS). There are 40%-60% patients who suffer from major LARS after sphincter-preserving surgery. No consensus exists for LARS treatment or prevention. Transanal irrigation (TAI) was reported to play a helpful role in the management of major LARS and fecal incontinence. However, the preventive effect and daily accessibility need further confirmation. In this randomized trial, TAI compared with best support treatment, is used in patients who received curative low anterior resection for rectal cancer with diverting stoma, after completion of the stoma reversal. The primary outcome is the occurrence of major LARS after 6 months of the treatment.
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Transanal irrigation|OTHER: Best supportive therapy
Number of participants with major low anterior resection syndrome score (LARS score), at the time of 6 months since the start of treatment
Quality of life impairment assessed by Short Form 36 (SF-36), Quality of life will be assessed by Short Form 36 (SF-36) health questionnaire., at the time of 6, 12 months since the start of treatment|Number of participants with major low anterior resection syndrome score (LARS score), at the time of 1, 3, 12 months since the start of treatment|Bowel function impairment, Bowel function will be assessed by Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre Bowel Function Instrument (MSKCC BFI). Stool frequency will be recorded in the day and night., at the time of 6, 12 months since the start of treatment|Fecal continence impairment, Fecal incontinence will be assessed by Wexner incontinence scale., at the time of 6, 12 months since the start of treatment
Anorectal function impairment, Anorectal function will be assessed by anorectal manometry., at the time of 6 months since the start of treatment
Bowel dysfunction after rectal cancer resection comprises a vast array of bowel symptoms and associated quality-of-life impairment, collectively termed as low anterior resection syndrome (LARS). There are 40%-60% patients who suffer from major LARS after sphincter-preserving surgery. No consensus exists for LARS treatment or prevention. Transanal irrigation (TAI) was reported to play a helpful role in the management of major LARS and fecal incontinence. However, the preventive effect and daily accessibility need further confirmation. In this randomized trial, TAI compared with best support treatment, is used in patients who received curative low anterior resection for rectal cancer with diverting stoma, after completion of the stoma reversal. The primary outcome is the occurrence of major LARS after 6 months of the treatment.