Metformin Hydrochloride and Doxycycline in Treating Patients With Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well metformin hydrochloride and doxycycline work in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma that can be removed by surgery. Metformin hydrochloride may reduce the metabolic activity of cancer cells and of surrounding supportive tissue. Doxycycline may minimize toxic side effects of anti-cancer therapy. Giving metformin hydrochloride and doxycycline may work better in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Larynx|LIP|Oral Cavity|Pharynx
DRUG: Metformin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Doxycycline|DRUG: Metformin +Doxycycline
Change in percent of CFS expressing CAV-1 at an intensity of 1+ or greater assessed in tumor-associated stroma cells by immunohistochemistry (IHC), Within-patient change in IHC scores will be analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Comparisons will be made between pretreatment and post-treatment within each of the cohorts, Baseline to 30 days after last drug dose
Incidence of adverse events as assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Safety will be provided in descriptive tables., Up to 30 days after last drug dose|Change in percent of tumor cells expressing MCT4, that are TUNEL positive and that express BGAL, Analysis will be performed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Baseline to 30 days after last drug dose|Change in percent of tumor cells expressing MCT4, that are TUNEL positive and that express MCT1, Analysis will be performed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Baseline to 30 days after last drug dose|Change in percent of tumor cells expressing MCT4, that are TUNEL positive and that express MCT4, Analysis will be performed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Baseline to 30 days after last drug dose|Change in percent of tumor cells expressing MCT4, that are TUNEL positive and that express TOMM20, Analysis will be performed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test., Baseline to 30 days after last drug dose
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if treatment with metformin hydrochloride (metformin), doxycycline, or a combination of metformin and doxycycline can increase the percentage of stromal cells that express CAV1 in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of metformin, doxycycline, or metformin and doxycycline treatment on the percentage of tumor cells that are apoptotic as determined by the TdT-Mediated dUTP Nick End Labeling Assay (TUNEL) assay, and express MCT4, MCT1, BGAL, and TOMM20 in squamous carcinoma of head and neck region tumor cells.

II. To assess safety and tolerability of metformin, doxycycline, or metformin and doxycycline treatment in subjects with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of metformin, doxycycline, or metformin and doxycycline therapy on the metabolic profile of cancer cells and stroma using mass spectroscopy imaging (MSI) on paired samples, comparing metabolite profiles in the pre-treatment and post-treatment tumor samples.

II. To assess the effect of metformin, doxycycline, or metformin and doxycycline therapy on the metabolic state of the patient as characterized serologically by: erythrocyte sedimentation rate, exosome evaluation, metabolomics profile, and micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression profiles and physiologically by performing a nutritional assessment via a nutritionist-mediated 3-day dietary recall and comparing a patient's estimated dietary intake against their estimated caloric needs.