A Phase I Prevention Study of Atorvastatin in Women at Increased Risk for Breast Cancer
Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming. The use of atorvastatin (Lipitor) may prevent breast cancer. This randomized phase I trial is studying the best dose of atorvastatin in preventing breast cancer in women at increased risk for breast cancer.
Atypical Ductal Breast Hyperplasia|Breast Cancer|Ductal Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Lobular Breast Carcinoma in Situ
DRUG: atorvastatin calcium|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Atorvastatin induced changes in proliferation rate measured by Ki-67, A single proliferation rate at each time period is calculated for each participant based on the proportion cells expressing KI-67., Baseline to 3 months
Cytologic evaluation of FNA samples, Baseline|Cytologic evaluation of FNA samples, 3 months|Proliferation and apoptosis analysis of FNA samples, Baseline|Proliferation and apoptosis analysis of FNA samples, 3 months|Inflammatory and lipid profile markers, Up to 3 months|Genotypic analysis, Baseline|Measurement of atorvastatin and its metabolites in serum and breast tissue, Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the minimum biological effective dose (MBED) of atorvastatin required to induce modulation in the proliferation marker, Ki-67, in breast tissue of women who are at high risk to develop breast cancer. We will evaluate pre- and post atorvastatin treatment (4 dose levels) expression of Ki-67 in samples obtained via FNA from breast tissue of women at high risk for breast cancer. This specific aim tests the hypothesis that treatment with atorvastatin will induce a decrease in Ki-67.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate atorvastatin induced modulation of breast cancer biomarkers markers (EGFR, P-EGFR, ER, p21, p27, bcl-2, CC3, cytology) and drug related markers (LXR, total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, CRP) in women who are at high risk to develop breast cancer.

II. To determine plasma and tissue levels of atorvastatin and two of its hydroxylated metabolites (ohydroxyatorvastatin and p-hydroxyatorvastatin) in women who are treated with atorvastatin and to correlate these levels with Ki-67 levels. III. To correlate changes in Ki-67 and the above-described panel of biomarkers with HMG-CoA reductase genotype.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

ARM I: Participants receive oral atorvastatin once daily for 3 months.

ARM II: Participants receive oral atorvastatin (at a higher dose than in arm I) once daily for 3 months.

ARM III: Participants receive oral atorvastatin (at a higher dose than in arm II) once daily for 3 months.

ARM IV: Participants do not receive treatment. Participants undergo blood sample collection and fine needle aspiration of breast tissue at baseline and at 3 months for correlative biomarker studies.