A Study of First-Line Olomorasib (LY3537982) and Pembrolizumab With or Without Chemotherapy in Patients With Advanced KRAS G12C-Mutant Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess if adding LY3537982 in combination with standard of care anti-cancer drugs is more effective than standard of care in participants with untreated advanced NSCLC. NSCLC must have a change in a gene called KRAS G12C. Study participation, including follow-up, could last up to 3 years, depending on how you and your lung cancer are doing.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: LY3537982|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Dose Optimization and Safety Lead-In Part B: Number of Participants with a Treatment Emergent Adverse Event(s) (TEAE), Dose Optimization and Safety Lead-In Part B: Number of Participants with a TEAE, Randomization to first documented progression of disease or death from any cause. (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 by blinded independent central review (BICR), Randomization to first documented progression of disease or death from any cause. (Estimated as approximately 1 year)
Part A and Part B: Overall Survival (OS), Part A and Part B: OS, Randomization to date of death from any cause. (Estimated as up to 3 years)|Part A and Part B: Overall Response Rate (ORR): Percentage of Participants who Achieve a Best Overall Response (BOR) of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), ORR per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, Randomization to disease progression or death. (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, Date of first evidence of CR or PR to date of disease progression or death from any cause. (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Disease Control Rate (DCR): Percentage of Participants who Achieve a BOR of CR, PR, or Stable Disease (SD), DCR per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, Randomization to disease progression or death from any cause. (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Time to Response (TTR), TTR per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, Time from randomization until the date that measurement criteria for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) are first met (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Intracranial Overall Response Rate (ORR), Intracranial ORR per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, Randomization to intracranial disease progression or death. (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Intracranial Duration of Response (DoR), Intracranial DoR per RECIST v1.1 by BICR, Date of first evidence of CR or PR to date of intracranial disease progression or death from any cause. (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: PFS2, Part A and Part B: PFS2 by Investigator, Randomization to disease progression on next line of treatment or death from any cause (Estimated as approximately 1 year|Part A and Part B: Changes in NSCLC-related symptoms as measured by NSCLC-SAQ, NSCLC-related symptoms are assessed by the NSCLC-SAQ total score, which is computed as the sum of the 5 domains (7 questions) and ranges from 0 to 20. The total score will be calculated if all 7 questions are completed. Higher scores indicate more severe symptomatology., Randomization through end of treatment (Estimated as approximately 1 year)]|Part A and Part B: Time to Worsening of NSCLC-related Symptoms as Measured by NSCLC Symptom Assessment Questionnaire (NSCLC-SAQ), NSCLC symptoms will be assessed using the 7-item NSCLC-SAQ. The NSCLC-SAQ measures overall symptom severity of NSCLC, including cough, pain, dyspnea, fatigue, and poor appetite. Response options range from 0) "Not at all" to 4) "Always" or from 0) "Never" to 4) "Always." The total score ranges from 0-20. Higher scores represent worse symptoms., Randomization through end of treatment (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Changes in physical function, as measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Physical Functioning subscale and IL19, Physical function is assessed by EORTC-QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning scale or IL19. The physical function score is calculated by generating the raw score: (Q1+Q2+Q3+Q4+Q5)/5; and then generating the transformed score: (1-((raw score-1)/3)) x 100. The score ranges from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate better physical function., Randomization through end of treatment (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Time to Deterioration in Physical Function, as Measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Physical Functioning Subscale and IL19, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-question patient-reported instrument used to assess multidimensional health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in cancer patients. Physical functioning is measured by the EORTC-QLQ-30 Physical Function Scale (five items). Response options range from 1) "Not at all" to 4) "Very much." The sum score is linearly transformed to the range 0 - 100. Higher scores represent better physical function., Randomization through end of treatment (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Proportion of Time with High Side-Effect Burden, as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General Item 5 (FACT-GP5), FACT-GP5 is a single-item, patient-reported instrument for assessing overall treatment side-effect burden. Response options range from 0) "Not at all" to 4) "Very much." Higher scores represent higher symptom burden., Randomization through end of treatment (Estimated as approximately 1 year)|Part A and Part B: Change from Baseline in Overall Health-related Quality of Life, as Measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Health Status/Quality of Life Subscale, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-question patient-reported instrument used to assess multidimensional HRQoL in cancer patients. Overall HRQoL is measured by the EORTC QLQ-30 Global Health Status/Quality of Life Subscale (two items). Response options range from 1) "very poor" to 7) "excellent." Scores are linearly transformed to the range 0 - 100. Higher scores represent better overall HRQoL., Randomization through end of treatment (Estimated as approximately 1 year)
Dose Optimization, Part A, and Part B are randomized. Safety Lead-In for Part B is single arm, non-randomized.