Phase II Study of Moderate-dose Hypofractionated RT Combined With Tislelizumab for HCC With Diffuse Tumor Thrombosis
This is a single-center, single-arm, open-label study that includes patients meeting the inclusion criteria (liver-GTV volume \< 700ml or estimated liver-GTV V5 \< 300ml) with hepatocellular carcinoma with diffuse tumor thrombosis involving both left and right lobes. All lesions receive moderate-dose hypofractionated intensity-modulated radiotherapy, with a gross tumor dose of 25Gy/5f, and a maximum dose of 35Gy/5f at the tumor center. One week before or during the radiotherapy, patients receive concurrent Tislelizumab at a dose of 200mg. Subsequently, Tislelizumab is administered intravenously every 3 weeks. Follow-up examinations are conducted 1-3 months post-radiotherapy. Lenvatinib 4mg may be used for maintenance therapy with Tislelizumab if there are no contraindications. Maintenance therapy is continued until disease progression or intolerance. The primary endpoint is median overall survival (mOS), and secondary endpoints include objective response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS), and toxicity.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Radiotherapy|Tislelizumab|Tumor Thrombosis
RADIATION: Moderate-dose Hypofractionated Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy|DRUG: Tislelizumab
Median Overall Survival, Median Overall Survival (mOS) is defined as the median of Overall Survival (OS). OS is defined as the time from the end of radiotherapy to death from any cause, 24 months
Objective Response Rate, Treatment response was defined as the best response in 3 months after radiotherapy. ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who met the complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) criteria as defined by the modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST) and RECIST 1.1, Assessment in 1 to 3 months after radiotherapy|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the end of RT until tumor progression or death from any cause., 24 months|Toxicity, Toxicity is assessed and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 (CTCAE 5.0)., up to 24 months
This is a single-center, single-arm, open-label study that includes patients meeting the inclusion criteria (liver-GTV volume \< 700ml or estimated liver-GTV V5 \< 300ml) with hepatocellular carcinoma with diffuse tumor thrombosis involving both left and right lobes. All lesions receive moderate-dose hypofractionated intensity-modulated radiotherapy, with a gross tumor dose of 25Gy/5f, and a maximum dose of 35Gy/5f at the tumor center. One week before or during the radiotherapy, patients receive concurrent Tislelizumab at a dose of 200mg. Subsequently, Tislelizumab is administered intravenously every 3 weeks. Follow-up examinations are conducted 1-3 months post-radiotherapy. Lenvatinib 4mg may be used for maintenance therapy with Tislelizumab if there are no contraindications. Maintenance therapy is continued until disease progression or intolerance. The primary endpoint is median overall survival (mOS), and secondary endpoints include objective response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS), and toxicity.