Gemcitabine Plus Erlotinib in RASH-positive Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
In the current study it is examined whether patients with good risk factors (age \<75 years, total serum bilirubin \< 1,5xULN, no history of cardiovascular diseases) treated with gemcitabine and erlotinib who developed skin rash of any grade during the first 4 weeks of treatment have a comparable outcome as patients who receive FOLFIRINOX.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Folinic Acid|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: 5-FU
1-year Survial rate of "good-risk" patients, 1-year Survial rate of "good-risk" patients of patients under gemcitabine plus erlotinib with RASH, Follow-Up Phase (1.5 years)
Evalutation of overall response rate, disease control rate and progression free survival, Evaluation of Parameters by RASH positve and negative patients:

* ORR
* DCR
* PFS
* OS, Approximately 12 months|Evaluation of adverse events, Assesment with NCI-CTCAE V4.0 Evalutation of side effects including picture documentation of skin-rash, Treatment Phase (1.5 Years)|Translational Projects, * Evaluation of Parameters for EGFR signal transduction
* Evaluation Molecularbiological Parametrs of RASH
* Picture Documentation of RASH. Corellation with clinical and molecularbiological Parameters, Approximately 24 months
The study by Burris et al. 1997 revealed a superiority of gemcitabine vs. 5-FU in terms of improvement of general condition, pain symptoms and overall survival in patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Subsequently, gemcitabine was established as a standard treatment for locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer.

In a series of studies gemcitabine was combined with other chemotherapeutic agents or targeted therapies. For the first time, the PA.03 study showed a significant improvement of overall survival. Patients who were treated with gemcitabine plus erlotinib had a survival of 6.24 months, compared with 5.91 months for those treated with gemcitabine plus placebo (HR 0.82, 95% CI 0.69-0.99, p=0.038). The one-year-survival rate was 23% for gemcitabine plus erlotinib vs. 17% for gemcitabine plus placebo.

In a subgroup analysis of the PA.03 study, patients developing a skin rash NCI CTC ≥ grade 2 had an advanced survival (one-year-survival rate 43%) vs. those with grade 1 or 0 (one-year-survival rate 16% and 9%, respectively). Later studies confirmed the correlation between skin rash and survival.

While patients developing a skin rash of any grade seem to profit most from treatment with erlotinib, the prognosis for those without rash is rather dismal. In this population, survival varied between 3.3 and 4.8 months in clinical trials (Verslype et al. 2009, Boeck et al. 2010, Manzano et al. 2010). In this patients, a modification of the treatment strategy should be considered. Which kind of treatment might lead to optimal results in these patients is not yet clear.

In patients with excellent general condition complying with further prerequisits (age \<75 years, total serum bilirubin \< 1,5xULN, no history of cardiovascular diseases) the French Prodige study-group could show a statistical superiority for the gemcitabine-free FOLFIRINOX-scheme in terms of overall survival, progression free survival and response rate compared to gemcitabine alone. However, this superiority was gained at the expense of treatment tolerability. During treatment with FOLFIRINOX a grade 3-4 neutropenia was observed in 5.4% and a grade 3-4 diarrhea in 12.7% of patients (Conroy et al. 2011). For patients who comply with the above-named criteria FOLFIRINOX is considered an established standard of care.

If a comparable efficacy of gemcitabine plus erlotinib with the published FOLFIRINOX data can be seen in the selected population, this would favour, due to the worse tolerability of FOLFIRINOX, the use of gemcitabine plus erlotinib.

In summary, the following selections are conducted during the study:

1. Selection due to the inclusion criteria for treatment with FOLFIRINOX provided by Conroy et al.
2. Selection due to the development of a skin rash within four weeks of treatment
3. No signs of clinical tumour progression within the run-in phase within the first four weeks of treatment

Patients who do not develope a skin rash of any grade should be treated with FOLFIRINOX. The efficacy of FOLFIRINOX in rash-negative patients has not yet been investigated.