Neoadjuvant Encorafenib, Binimetinib and Cetuximab for Patients With BRAF V600E Mutated/pMMR Localized Colorectal Cancer
AIO-KRK-0420 NeoBRAF is a single arm, multicenter, phase II trial with neoadjuvant encorafenib, binimetinib and cetuximab for patients with BRAF V600E mutated/pMMR localized colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer|Colon Cancer|BRAF V600E|BRAF V600 Mutation|Localized Cancer
DRUG: Binimetinib
Tumor regression grade (TRG), Tumor regression will be centrally graded according to the grading system developed by Dworak et al (Dworak, Keilholz et al. 1997)., immediately after the surgery
Safety and tolerability (acc. to NCI CTC AE v5.0) incl. vital signs, clinical parameters and overall feasibility of the regimen, Safety assessments will include physical examinations including visual and skin assessment as well as vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate), performance status (ECOG), clinical laboratory profile, 12-lead ECG and ECHO, ophthalmologic assessment, concomitant medication/therapies/procedures and adverse events. All observed adverse events will be graded according to NCI CTCAE v5. Adverse events will be analysed overall and concerning their potential relationship to study treatment and surgical intervention. Serious adverse events (SAE) will be analysed in the same way., max 54 months|Perioperative morbidity and mortality, Perioperative morbidity and mortality are defined as prolongation of hospitalization (discharge \>20 days after surgery), re-hospitalization or reoperation under general anaesthesia within 30 days of surgery or death during surgery or within 30 days of surgery; Other severe postoperative complications within 30 days of surgery including surgery-associated bleeding with replacement ≥ 4 units of erythrocyte concentrates, transient liver failure, defined as a bilirubin level \>10 mg/dL lasting \> 7 days, renal failure requiring dialysis, respiratory failure with renewed necessary mechanical ventilation or \>26 h, necessary mechanical ventilation, deep venous thromboembolism, cardiac failure, major impaired wound healing necessitating re-operation or prolonging hospitalization (discharge \>20 days after surgery); \>8 weeks delay of surgery due to study treatment-related toxicity; and further., max 24 months|R0-resection rate, The R0 resection rate will be determined as the rate of R0 resections out of all resected patients. In addition, the R1 and/or R2 resection rates will be determined., max 24 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) according to RECIST v1.1, Response rate to preoperative treatment will be assessed according to RECIST v1.1., max 54 months|Disease free survival, Disease free survival will be determined as time from start of study treatment to date of first observed disease recurrence (either local or distant) or death from any cause., max 54 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival will be determined as time from start of study treatment to date of death from any cause., max 54 months|Translational research 1, Correlation of quantitative BRAF V600E levels (measured by ddPCR) with TRG, max 54 months|Translational research 2, Evaluation of mechanism of relative resistance in patients with less response (evaluated by tumor and liquid biopsy NGS profiling at baseline and after treatment), max 54 months|Translational research 3, Comparison of ctDNA clearance and TRG with a BRAF mutant/pMMR cohort from the planned neoadjuvant PROTECTOR study receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy, max 54 months
This is a single arm, multicenter, phase II trial for patients with unresected BRAF V600E mutated/pMMR localized colorectal cancer (CRC). Patients enrolled will be treated with neoadjuvant encorafenib (300mg QD), binimetinib (45mg BID) and cetuximab (500mg/m² biweekly) for 8 weeks. Neoadjuvant treatment will be followed by surgery. First Endpoint is TRG (Tumor-Regression-Grade) which will be analyzed centrally. Patients with TRG\>1 will receive adjuvant treatment with encorafenib (300mg QD), binimetinib (45mg BID) and cetuximab (500mg/m² biweekly) for up to 16 weeks. For patients with TRG\<2 EOT will be reached 4-6 weeks after last dosage of encorafenib, binimetinib and cetuximab and further treatment is at investigator discretion (CAPOX recommended). All subjects will be followed every 3 months after surgery for up to 4 years after start of recruitment.