Safety and Efficacy of Ingenol Mebutate Gel 0.015% for Treatment of AK on the Face in Solid Organ Transplant Recipients
This is a single arm, open-label interventional study of ingenol mebutate 0.015% in solid organ transplant recipients. The investigators plan to treat 20 subjects, 10 kidney transplant recipients and 10 lung transplant recipients. The investigators have selected these two populations as the represent the spectrum of solid organ transplantation: kidney transplant recipients are the largest transplant population, but have lower levels of immunosuppression and skin cancer risk. Lung transplant recipients have the highest burden of skin cancer and actinic keratoses.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: ingenol mebutate gel 0.015%
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, To evaluate the safety of ingenol mebutate gel 0.015% on the face in solid organ transplant recipients, From screening to Day 57 or study early termination if applicable
Number of Participants With a Reduction of Actinic Keratosis, To evaluate the efficacy of ingenol mebutate for reduction of actinic keratoses on the face in organ transplant recipients., Day 57 (assessed at screening, day 1, day 29, day 57, and study early termination if applicable, clearance at day 57 reported)|Participant's Local Skin Response Grading Scale, To investigate the local skin response to ingenol mebutate in organ transplant recipients. Local skin reaction (LSR) will be graded by visual assessment on a 4 point scale where 0=none, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe. Each of the following four reactions will be graded: erythema, vesiculation/postulation, crusting/scabbing/erosion, and edema/swelling. A composite score will be calculated (range 0-16). A high LSR indicated a worse outcome. LSR assessment will be performed at days 1, 8, 29, and 84., Day 1, Day 4 (assessed at screening, day 1, day 4, day 29, day 57, and study early termination if applicable, results at day 1 and day 4 reported)
Actinic keratoses (AK) are patches of dysplastic keratinocytes arising in sun-damaged skin. These lesions are precursors to cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and are treated to prevent progression to SCC. First-line therapy for AK include cryotherapy and curettage, which target clinically visible lesions but do not address the subclinical lesions in the field of ultraviolet radiation damage. Field therapy includes topical chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and photodynamic therapy. Ingenol mebutate is the active compound found in Euphorbia peplus sap, and has been approved for treatment of AK in immunocompetent patients. Ingenol mebutate 0.015% is favored over other topical treatments for treatment of AK on the face due to the brief treatment course, high clearance rate, and resolution without sequelae.

Solid organ transplant recipients (OTR) have a high incidence of AK and high risk of developing SCC, and require frequent field therapy. In addition, OTR generally have a higher burden of AK and require treatment of a larger surface area than the 25 cm2 area labeled for ingenol mebutate 0.015%. The investigators plan to investigate the safety and efficacy of ingenol mebutate 0.015% in OTR, with a treatment area up to 100cm2.

This is a single arm, open-label interventional study of ingenol mebutate 0.015% in solid organ transplant recipients. The investigators plan to treat 20 subjects, 10 kidney transplant recipients and 10 lung transplant recipients. The investigators have selected these two populations as the represent the spectrum of solid organ transplantation: kidney transplant recipients are the largest transplant population, but have lower levels of immunosuppression and skin cancer risk. Lung transplant recipients have the highest burden of skin cancer and actinic keratoses.