A Dose-escalation Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacokinetics of GDC-0032 in Combination With Docetaxel or With Paclitaxel in Patients With HER2-negative Locally Recurrent or Metastatic Breast Cancer or Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study designed to assess the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of oral GDC-0032 administered in combination with either docetaxel or with paclitaxel. Patients treated with the GDC-0032 and docetaxel have HER2-negative locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer or non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Patients treated with the GDC-0032 and paclitaxel combination have human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. There are two potential stages within each arm of this study: a dose-escalation stage (Stage 1) and a dose-expansion stage (Stage 2). Once the maximum tolerated dose of GDC-0032 in a given arm has been established from dose escalation, additional patients with each combination will be enrolled in Stage 2.
Breast Cancer, Non-small Lung Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: GDC-0032|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Safety: Incidence of adverse events, Approximately 3 years|Safety: Incidence of dose limiting toxicities, Up to 28 days
Area under the curve from time 0 to the last measurable concentration (AUC0-last), Up to 28 days|Time to maximum observed plasma concentration (Tmax), Up to 28 days|Maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax), Up to 28 days|Minimum observed plasma concentration (Cmin), Up to 28 days|Objective response according to RECIST v1.1, Approximately 3 years|Duration of response according to RECIST v1.1, Approximately 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) according to RECIST v1.1, Approximately 3 years
This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study designed to assess the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of oral GDC-0032 administered in combination with either docetaxel or with paclitaxel. Patients treated with the GDC-0032 and docetaxel have HER2-negative locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer or non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Patients treated with the GDC-0032 and paclitaxel combination have human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. There are two potential stages within each arm of this study: a dose-escalation stage (Stage 1) and a dose-expansion stage (Stage 2). Once the maximum tolerated dose of GDC-0032 in a given arm has been established from dose escalation, additional patients with each combination will be enrolled in Stage 2.