3-AP and High-Dose Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Hematologic Malignancies
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine, work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. 3-AP may help cytarabine kill more cancer cells by making them more sensitive to the drug. This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of 3-AP when given with high-dose cytarabine in treating patients with advanced hematologic malignancies
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: triapine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD defined as the dose preceding that at which greater than or equal to 2 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity assessed using NCI CTCAE version 3.0, 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of 3-AP (Triapine) administered with high-dose cytarabine in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the clinical activity of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine the effect of treatment with 3-AP (Triapine) on intracellular levels of cytarabine in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 3-AP (Triapine).

Patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV over 2 hours on days 1-5 and 3-AP (Triapine) IV over 2 hours on days 2-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients in each stratum receive escalating doses of 3-AP (Triapine) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Patients are followed for up to 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-48 patients (3-24 per stratum) will be accrued for this study within 15-24 months.