Immunogenicity of Fluzone HD,A High Dose Influenza Vaccine, In Children With Cancer or HIV
This is an open label-study of Fluzone HD, a high-dose form of trivalent, inactivated influenza vaccine (TIV), vs. Fluzone, a standard-dose form of TIV. Subjects with cancer or HIV will be vaccinated twice with one of the two vaccines and evaluated for development of immune responses.
HIV|Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Fluzone High Dose Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Fluzone Standard Dose Vaccine
Rate of Seroconversion After 1 Dose of Vaccine, The immune response of Fluzone HD to Fluzone was determined using the hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) assay to each of the 3 antigens contained in the vaccine: H1, H3 and B. Seroconversion was defined as a post-vaccine HAI titer ≥40 if baseline was \<10, or a 4-fold rise in HAI titer if the baseline ≥10., at least 21 days after first dose, which is given at the time of baseline evaluation visit, and prior to second dose|Rate of Seroprotection After 1 Dose of Vaccine, The immune response of Fluzone HD to Fluzone was determined using the hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) assay to each of the 3 antigens contained in the vaccine: H1, H3 and B. Seroprotection was defined as a post-vaccine HAI titer ≥40., at least 21 days after first dose, which is given at the time of baseline evaluation visit, and prior to second dose|Number of Participants Achieving Seroprotection After Second Dose of Vaccine, The immune response of Fluzone HD to Fluzone was determined using the hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) assay to each of the 3 antigens contained in the vaccine: H1, H3 and B. Seroprotection was defined as a post-vaccine HAI titer ≥40., 21 to 42 days after second dose
Number of Participants Reporting Grade 3 and Grade 4 Adverse Events Possibly, Probably, or Definitely Attributable to Fluzone or Fluzone HD, Number of participants reporting grade 3 and grade 4 adverse events possibly, probably, or definitely attributable to Fluzone or Fluzone HD., From initial vaccine administration through up to 8 months|Rate of Sero-conversion for 1 Dose vs. 2 Doses of Fluzone HD, The rate of seroconversion to the 3 antigens contained in the vaccine was determined by hemagglutination-inhibition test and was compared by disease.

The immune response of 1 dose vs. 2 doses of Fluzone HD was determined using the hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) assay to each of the 3 antigens contained in the vaccine: H1, H3 and B. Seroconversion was defined as a post-vaccine HAI titer ≥40 if baseline was \<10, or a 4-fold rise in HAI titer if the baseline ≥10., at least 21 days after each dose of vaccine|Rate of Sero-conversion for 1 Dose vs. 2 Doses of Fluzone SD, The rate of seroconversion to the 3 antigens contained in the vaccine was determined by hemagglutination-inhibition test and was compared by disease.

The immune response of 1 dose vs. 2 doses of Fluzone SD was determined using the hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) assay to each of the 3 antigens contained in the vaccine: H1, H3 and B. Seroconversion was defined as a post-vaccine HAI titer ≥40 if baseline was \<10, or a 4-fold rise in HAI titer if the baseline ≥10., at least 21 days after each dose of vaccine|Rate of Vaccine Response by Seroconversion Compared by Absolute Lymphocyte Count (ALC), The relationship between baseline lymphocyte numbers/function and robustness of the immune response will be described through descriptive analysis of relationships between pre-defined variables., ALC at baseline and vaccine response at least 21 days after last dose of vaccine|Rate of Vaccine Response by Seroprotection Compared by Absolute Lymphocyte Count (ALC), The relationship between baseline lymphocyte numbers/function and robustness of the immune response will be described through descriptive analysis of relationships between pre-defined variables., ALC at baseline and vaccine response at least 21 days after last dose of vaccine|Number of Local Reactogenicity Events After First Dose, Number of moderate or greater local reactogenicity events associated with the administration of Fluzone or FluzoneHD. Local reactions were defined as pain, redness, or induration., First 14 days after vaccination|Number of Local Reactogenicity Events After Second Dose, Number of moderate or greater local reactogenicity events associated with the administration of Fluzone or FluzoneHD. Local reactions were defined as pain, redness, or induration., First 14 days after vaccination|Number of Systemic Reactogenicity Events After First Dose, Number of moderate or greater systemic reactogenicity event associated with the administration of Fluzone or FluzoneHD. Systemic reactions were defined as muscle ache, fatigue, or fever., First 14 days after vaccination|Number of Systemic Reactogenicity Events After Second Dose, Number of moderate or greater systemic reactogenicity event associated with the administration of Fluzone or FluzoneHD. Systemic reactions were defined as muscle ache, fatigue, or fever., First 14 days after vaccination|Comparison of Geometric Mean Titer (GMT) by HAI, Serum antibody levels expressed as the reciprocal of the dilution needed to inhibit hemagglutination in vitro., Pre-vaccination, post-vaccination and 9 months after vaccination|Comparison of Geometric Mean Ratios (GMR) by HAI, GMTs compared to each other as a ratio of the pre- and post-vaccine titers and as the ratio post-last dose to 9 months later.

GMRs were compared pre- to post-vaccination and post- vaccination to 9 months later., Pre-vaccination, post-vaccination and 9 months after vaccination
The primary objectives of this study are to compare the immune response of Fluzone HD, a high-dose, trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV), to Fluzone, a standard-dose TIV, in children with cancer and in children with HIV.

The secondary objectives of this study are to:

* Describe the safety and reactogenicity of high-dose and standard-dose TIV.
* Compare the immunogenicity induced by 1 dose, compared to 2 doses, of high-dose and standard-dose TIV.
* Describe the relationship between baseline lymphocyte numbers/function and robustness/durability of the immune response.