A Study of Enhancing Drug Prophylaxis of Venous Thromboembolism in Chinese Colorectal Cancer Surgery
This project intends to conduct a multicenter, prospective, observational cohort study, aiming to explore the impact of the timing of pharmacological thromboprophylaxis initiation on postoperative bleeding risk and the effectiveness of venous thromboembolism (VTE) prevention in Chinese patients after colorectal cancer (CRC) surgery. The research outcomes of this project could provide valuable insights for optimizing the prevention and management of VTE after CRC surgery.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Nardraparin calcium injection|DRUG: Nardraparin calcium injection
VTE events within 28 days after surgery, Patients were followed up for VTE events, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary thromboembolism (PE), within 28 days after surgery. Diagnosis of DVT: The lower limb is examined based on clinical symptoms (swelling and pain in the lower limb, tenderness in the back of the lower limb and/or in the inner thigh) and/or by color ultrasound or venography. The diagnosis of PE is based on clinical findings (dyspnea and shortness of breath), laboratory tests (plasma D-dimer), and CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA). Vte events were evaluated at 7 and 28 days after surgery. If a patient develops a VTE event, the patient is treated with VTE and assessed for thrombotic progression by ultrasound in both lower limb veins after 2 weeks., 7 and 28 days after surgery
Any bleeding event within 28 days after surgery, Patients were followed up for any bleeding events within 28 days after surgery, including major and minor bleeding events. According to the International Society of Thrombosis and Hemostasis Standards (ISTH standards). All patients were followed up at 1, 7, and 28 days after surgery through inpatient or outpatient follow-up and bleeding investigation., 1，3，7 and 28 days after surgery
This project intends to conduct a multicenter, prospective, observational cohort study, aiming to explore the impact of the timing of pharmacological thromboprophylaxis initiation on postoperative bleeding risk and the effectiveness of venous thromboembolism (VTE) prevention in Chinese patients after colorectal cancer (CRC) surgery. The research outcomes of this project could provide valuable insights for optimizing the prevention and management of VTE after CRC surgery.