Acceptability and Performance of a Mobile Optical Biopsy Technology for Gastrointestinal Cancer Screening
The investigators have a current trial in China and the US which provides significant support for the safety, cost-effectiveness, accuracy and efficiency of a high resolution microendoscope (HRME)-guided approach in the hands of experienced clinicians. To improve functionality, portability and broader use of this device by non-experts, the investigators recently developed a prototype marHRME platform with an automated, augmented reality (AR)-interpretation that provides an overlaid endoscopic + micro-endoscopic view, facilitating diagnosis and biopsy targeting.
Suspected or Known Squamous Cell Neoplasia|Prior History of Squamous Cell Dysplasia and /or Neoplasia
DRUG: Proflavine|DEVICE: Mobile, Augmented High Resolution Microendoscope
Diagnostic yield, The number of neoplastic biopsies/total number of biopsies obtained in patients who received biopsies., Day 1|'Patient saved', The number of patients who received no biopsies., Day 1|Procedure time, Total procedure time added by the HRME imaging., During Procedure
Clinical impact, The number of cases that a change in clinician plan of action was noted from LCE interpretation only to LCE+HRME interpretation., Day 1
Performance Characteristics, Comparison of accuracy of HRME to LCE for the prediction of squamous esophageal neoplasia using histopatholgy as the gold standard., Day 1
The investigators' hypothesis is that this mobile device with automated, AR optical biopsy diagnoses can efficiently and accurately facilitate endoscopic cancer detection in low to middle income countries (LMICs) with less experienced providers and is acceptable to providers and patients.

Objective 1: The investigators' first objective is to evaluate the marHRME technology in terms of performance, efficiency, and impact. In a single-arm, feasibility study (n=50) of high-risk subjects undergoing Lugol's chromoendoscopy (LCE) followed by marHRME for esophageal squamous cell neoplasia (ESCN) screening, the investigators will evaluate the diagnostic performance and efficiency of this automated optical biopsy device.

The investigators' main hypothesis is that the marHRME will:

1. increase the accuracy of Lugol's endoscopy (LCE), other exploratory hypotheses are
2. increase the accuracy of marHRME among novices and be non-inferior to experts,
3. increase user confidence among experts and novices and, subsequently,
4. increase the efficiency and impact of LCE by reducing biopsies and second procedures.

For performance for marHRME vs. Standard of Care, the investigators will compare the accuracy of the marHRME + LCE vs. LCE alone to the gold-standard histopathology (expert GI pathologist). For performance of the Machine vs. Man, the investigators will compare accuracy of the marHRME software read to novice and expert clinicians' subjective read to gold-standard histopathology. For clinician confidence and clinical impact, the investigators will determine the clinician's confidence level in the software diagnosis and the potential clinical impact of this diagnosis among novice and expert endoscopists using marHRME.

Objective 2: The investigators' secondary objective is to evaluate the acceptability of the technology among patients and providers. All patients participating in the study will be invited to participate in a brief (20 min) interviewer-administered survey prior to undergoing endoscopy to assess attitudes and barriers to marHRME, and a follow-up interview (7 days post-procedure) to determine experiences and acceptability. Informed consent and the initial interview will be conducted in a private clinic room by trained study staff from the Brazilian team using a brief Portuguese-language survey. The follow-up interview will occur by phone, after a routine follow-up call by clinical staff.

The endoscopists and trainees participating in the feasibility study will be invited to participate in a series of questionnaires and in- depth interviews administered at different time points of the study to assess provider acceptance. Informed consent will be obtained prior to the first interview. Clinicians will answer a brief questionnaire to assess acceptance of marHRME prior to undergoing raining, after training, and after conducting 25 procedures. After 25 procedures, endoscopists and trainees will participate in a 30- minute semi-structured interview to assess marHRME experience. The interviews will be audio recorded, professionally transcribed, and translated (Portuguese to English) for coding and analysis.