Pembrolizumab and XL888 in Patients With Advanced Gastrointestinal Cancer
This phase Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of Hsp90 inhibitor XL888 when given together with pembrolizumab in treating patients with advanced gastrointestinal cancer that has spread to other places in the body. XL888 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may block tumor growth in different ways by targeting certain cells. Giving XL888 with pembrolizumab may work better in treating patients with gastrointestinal cancer.
Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Colorectal Carcinoma|Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage III Colorectal Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIIA Colorectal Cancer|Stage IIIB Colorectal Cancer|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer|Stage IVA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer|Stage IVB Pancreatic Cancer|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma
DRUG: XL888|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Recommended phase II dose of the combination of XL888 and pembrolizumab as assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Summary statistics will be presented. Toxicities will be presented as worst toxicity per patient and will be reported as percent toxicity., Cycle length 21 days. Outcome determined on day 22 (after completion of cycle 1)
Overall response rate as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, RECIST version 1.1 will be used in this study for assessment of tumor response. While either CT or MRI may be utilized, as per RECIST 1.1, CT is the preferred imaging technique in this study., Up to 2 years after cycle 1, day 1. Cycle length is 21 days.|Overall survival, Once a subject experiences confirmed disease progression or starts a new anti-cancer therapy, the subject moves into the survival follow-up phase and should be contacted by telephone every 12 weeks to assess for survival status until death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the study, whichever occurs first., Up to 1 year after cycle 1, day 1. Each cycle is 21 days.|Progression free survival, Summary statistics will be presented., Up to 6 months after cycle 1, day 1. Each cycle is 21 days|Response duration as assessed by RECIST 1.1, Summary statistics will be presented., Up to 2 years after cycle 1, day 1. Each cycle is 21 days.
Immune profile effects of pembrolizumab and Hsp90 inhibitor XL888 assessed in serum and tumor biopsies, Summary statistics will be presented., Up to 2 years after cycle 1, day 1. Each cycle is 21 days.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the recommended phase II dose for the combination of XL888 and pembrolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Define the toxicity profile of the combination of XL888 and pembrolizumab.

II. Evaluate the activity of the combination of XL888 and pembrolizumab in previously treated patients with gastrointestinal tumors.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the effect of the combination on the immune profile in the serum and in tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of Hsp90 inhibitor XL888.

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and XL888 orally (PO) on day 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, and 18. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and periodically thereafter.