Combination Chemotherapy Plus Bevacizumab With or Without Oxaliplatin in Treating Older Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies how well combination chemotherapy plus bevacizumab with or without oxaliplatin works in treating older patients with colorectal cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may block tumor growth in different ways by targeting certain cells. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether combination chemotherapy plus bevacizumab is more effective with or without oxaliplatin in treating colorectal cancer.
Cognitive/Functional Effects|Colorectal Cancer|Neurotoxicity
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: oxaliplatin
Progression-Free Survival, Progression was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Progression free survival was defined as the time (in months) from the date of randomization to the date of documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Patients were followed until progression (and progression was declared) regardless of whether the patient was on the first line treatment or not. Patients who progress following a missed scan will have their date of progression back-dated to the date of missing scan. Patients without a progression who are still alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of last follow-up., Up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time (in months) from randomization to death., Up to 5 years|Response Rate, Defined as the Percentage of Patients in Each Arm Who Have an Objective Status of Complete Response or Partial Response, Confirmed by a Second Assessment Measured at Least 6 Weeks From the Initial Assessment, Response was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria:

* Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions;
* Partial Response (PR) 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions;
* Progressive Disease (PD): 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions;
* Stable Disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria.

Response rate is reported as the percentage of participants who achieved Complete Response or Partial Response., Up to 5 years|Number of Participants With Grade 3 Adverse Events At Least Possibly Related to Treatment, Adverse events were assessed using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 42 days after treatment discontinuation
Change in Geriatric/Frailty Using the North Central Cancer Treatment Group (NCCTG) Brief Frailty Inventory and the Rockwood Frailty Index Physician and Patient-reported Items, The various measures of geriatric/frailty (Canadian Geriatric Society \[CGSA\], Rockwood, and NCCTG measures) will be compared head to head using Bland-Altman methods to assess the differences between clinician and patient reported frailty and the relative information obtained from the various assessments. This will be the first head to head comparison of its type to assess geriatric/frailty measures., Baseline to 42 days after termination of study treatment|Change in QOL Using the Fatigue/Uniscale Assessment, Linear Analog Self-Assessment (LASA), and the European Quality of Live Five Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-5D), A cut-point of 5 or lower on the overall QoL question will be defined to be the primary cut-off for analysis as that has been demonstrated to represent clinically deficient QoL., Baseline to up to 42 days after termination of study treatment|Proportion of Patients Reporting Satisfaction Using the Was It Worth IT (WIWI) Questionnaire, WIWI will be summarized descriptively to identify the number of patients who were satisfied with each treatment and indications for improvements therein. Proportion of patients' satisfaction will be compared between treatments by a Fisher's exact test. The impact of the clinical trial on patient QOL will be summarized via means and standard deviations and compared between treatment arms via a Wilcoxon rank sum test., Baseline to up to 42 days after termination of study treatment|Overall Incidence of Grade >= 3 Toxicity in Elderly Patients, A logistic regression model will be used to determine the odd ratios for the occurrence of grade 3 + toxicity with a 95% confidence interval, and the overall association will be assessed by a likelihood ratio test with a two-sided alpha level of 0.05. As a secondary analysis, a multivariate logistic model will be applied including covariates for treatment arm and the stratification factors: age, PS and metastatic sites., Up to 42 days after discontinuation of treatment|Prognostic Single-nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) for Grade 3+ Hypertension, Logistic regression models and conditional inference trees (or more generally conditional random forests) will be used to construct multi-variable models based on the SNPs identified as interesting., Up to 42 days after treatment discontinuation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of elderly patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma who are randomized to receive fluoropyrimidine (fluorouracil)-based therapy plus bevacizumab, with or without oxaliplatin.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. In a prospectively planned pooled analysis with a similar trial to be conducted by the Japanese Clinical Oncology Group (JCOG), evaluate and compare the overall survival (OS) of elderly patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma who are randomized to receive fluoropyrimidine-based therapy plus bevacizumab, with or without oxaliplatin.

II. To assess and compare response rates and adverse events of elderly patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma randomized to receive fluoropyrimidine-based therapy plus bevacizumab, with or without oxaliplatin.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms and assigned to treatment groups based on physician decision for fluoropyrimidine.

ARM A: Patients receive either 5FU/LV or Capecitabine, plus BEV. 5FU/LV + BEV is comprised of 5FU IV over 46-48 hours, LV calcium IV over 2 hours, and BEV IV over 10-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Capecitabine + BEV is comprised of capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14 and BEV IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive either mFOLFOX7 plus BEV, or Capecitabine + OXAL (XELOX) plus BEV. mFOLFOX7 + BEV is comprised of OXAL IV over 2 hours, LV calcium IV over 2 hours, and 5FU IV over 46-48 hours on day 1. Patients also receive BEV IV over 10-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. XELOX + BEV is comprised of OXAL IV over 2 hours on day 1 and capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14. Patients also receive BEV IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.