Positron Emission Tomography in Women With Advanced HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures, such as copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab-labeled PET, may help doctors to plan a better treatment

PURPOSE: This pilot trial is studying copper Cu 64-tetra-azacyclododecanetetra-acetic acid (DOTA)-trastuzumab-labeled positron emission tomography (PET) in women with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography|RADIATION: copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|OTHER: Immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|GENETIC: mutation analysis
Tumor Uptake of 64Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab After 24 Hours, Comparison of uptake between the HER2+ and HER2- groups, treating SUVmax measurements for individual tumors as independent observations. Statistical significance of differences in SUVmax between patient groups was assessed via a nonparametric (Wilcoxon rank-sum) test.

Radiolabel uptake for tumors was measured in terms of single-voxel maximum SUV (SUVmax; SUV = tissue activity per mL x body weight \[g\]/injected activity decay-corrected to time of scan)., 24 hours after injection of 64 CU-DOTA-trastuzumab|Tumor Uptake of 64Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab After 48 Hours, Comparison of uptake between the HER2+ and HER2- groups, treating SUVmax measurements for individual tumors as independent observations. Statistical significance of differences in SUVmax between patient groups was assessed via a nonparametric (Wilcoxon rank-sum) test.

Radiolabel uptake for tumors was measured in terms of single-voxel maximum SUV (SUVmax; SUV = tissue activity per mL x body weight \[g\]/injected activity decay-corrected to time of scan)., 48 hours after injection of 64 CU-DOTA-trastuzumab
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the dose of pre-administered cold antibody that optimizes image quality of 64Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab PET without increasing the radiation dose to the heart in women with metastatic HER2 positive breast cancer.

II. Determine whether tumor uptake on 64Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab PET correlates with tumor expression of HER2 in women with metastatic disease.

III. Perform an exploratory analysis of the relationship between uptake on 64Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab PET, HER2 overexpression, and inactivation of the PI3K/Akt pathway.

OUTLINE:

This is a part one dose-determining study followed by a part two study. PART ONE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 dose levels. Patients undergo a PET scan 24-48 hours after injection of 64 Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab. PART TWO: Patients undergo a PET scan 24-48 hours after injection of 64 Cu-DOTA-trastuzumab at the optimal dose as determined in part one of the study.