Predictive Model for Pain After TACE
The main aim of this study was to analyze the risk factors that helped to predict the pain after transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).This was a prospective observational study enrolled all hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients undergoing TACE in our hospital. Pain score at rest was assessed after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Independent variables such as age, gender, tumor location, tumor size and number, drug delivery method and presence of portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) were recorded and analyzed.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), After local anesthesia with an injection of 10 mL of 2% lidocaine, all the patients enrolled in this study received percutaneous femoral artery puncture. An arterial catheter was inserted into the femoral artery and subsequently placed in the hepatic artery. Then, a conventional TACE or a DEB-TACE procedure was performed. After TACE, all patients received supportive treatment including antiemetics, liver protection, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs., 0 hour after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)|Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), After local anesthesia with an injection of 10 mL of 2% lidocaine, all the patients enrolled in this study received percutaneous femoral artery puncture. An arterial catheter was inserted into the femoral artery and subsequently placed in the hepatic artery. Then, a conventional TACE or a DEB-TACE procedure was performed. After TACE, all patients received supportive treatment including antiemetics, liver protection, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs., 2 hour after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)|Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), After local anesthesia with an injection of 10 mL of 2% lidocaine, all the patients enrolled in this study received percutaneous femoral artery puncture. An arterial catheter was inserted into the femoral artery and subsequently placed in the hepatic artery. Then, a conventional TACE or a DEB-TACE procedure was performed. After TACE, all patients received supportive treatment including antiemetics, liver protection, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs., 4 hour after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)|Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), After local anesthesia with an injection of 10 mL of 2% lidocaine, all the patients enrolled in this study received percutaneous femoral artery puncture. An arterial catheter was inserted into the femoral artery and subsequently placed in the hepatic artery. Then, a conventional TACE or a DEB-TACE procedure was performed. After TACE, all patients received supportive treatment including antiemetics, liver protection, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs., 6 hour after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)|Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), After local anesthesia with an injection of 10 mL of 2% lidocaine, all the patients enrolled in this study received percutaneous femoral artery puncture. An arterial catheter was inserted into the femoral artery and subsequently placed in the hepatic artery. Then, a conventional TACE or a DEB-TACE procedure was performed. After TACE, all patients received supportive treatment including antiemetics, liver protection, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs., 12 hour after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)|Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), After local anesthesia with an injection of 10 mL of 2% lidocaine, all the patients enrolled in this study received percutaneous femoral artery puncture. An arterial catheter was inserted into the femoral artery and subsequently placed in the hepatic artery. Then, a conventional TACE or a DEB-TACE procedure was performed. After TACE, all patients received supportive treatment including antiemetics, liver protection, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs., 24 hour after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)
The main aim of this study was to analyze the risk factors that helped to predict the pain after transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).This was a prospective observational study enrolled all hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients undergoing TACE in our hospital. Pain score at rest was assessed after TACE by the patients themselves using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Independent variables such as age, gender, tumor location, tumor size and number, drug delivery method and presence of portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) were recorded and analyzed.