Grid Therapy for Tumors of the Head, Neck, Thorax, Abdomen, Pelvis and Extremities.
This study is an observational registry study evaluating the clinical outcomes of grid therapy. Subjects will be screened at outpatient clinic visit appointments and interested qualified subjects will be consented and offered participation in this study. Once consent has been obtained, baseline adverse event and QOL data will be collected and subjects will undergo grid therapy and follow-up at 2-4 weeks (for toxicity), and 3-6 months (for toxicities and radiographic control) then per clinical discretion up to 1 year. Patients will be evaluated according to the physician's standard practice and discretion. Patient data will be drawn from the patients' medical records and reported by means of a web-based electronic data collection (EDC) system. Patients will be considered "on study" until 60 months of observation has occurred, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up, or study closure. See below for the clinical visit flowchart for data collected at baseline and standard clinic visits.
Radiation Therapy Complication|Tumor Neck|Tumor Abdomen
RADIATION: Spatially Fractionated Radiation (GRID) Therapy
Local/radiographic control rate, Assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), a standard system to measure how cancer responds to different treatments, including chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and radiation therapy. The local/radiographic control rate will be estimated overall and by palliative/definitive patient status in patients treated with grid therapy., 3-6 months
To describe the adverse event profile (acute and late) of grid therapy by assessment of grade 3 or higher adverse events, Assessed by the number of grade 3 or higher adverse events (acute and late) that occur after grid therapy. Adverse events will be defined based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 criteria., through study completion, approximately 5 years|Overall survival after grid therapy, Overall survival is defined as the length of time from either the date of diagnosis or the start of treatment that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., through study completion, approximately 5 years|Local/regional progression after grid therapy, Assessed by the number of patients to have local and/or regional progression after grid therapy. Local progression is defined as cancer recurring in the same place as the original cancer or very close to it. Regional progression is defined as cancer/tumor that has grown or spread into lymph nodes or tissues near the original cancer., through study completion, approximately 5 years|Recurrence rate, Number of patients to have tumor recurrence after grid therapy, through study completion, approximately 5 years|Distant disease control, Distant disease control is defined as cancer that has spread from the original (primary) tumor to distant organs or distant lymph nodes., through study completion, approximately 5 years|Planning and delivery of grid therapy., Total amount of time taken for planning and delivery of grid therapy, 5 years
This study is an observational registry study evaluating the clinical outcomes of grid therapy. Subjects will be screened at outpatient clinic visit appointments and interested qualified subjects will be consented and offered participation in this study. Once consent has been obtained, baseline adverse event and QOL data will be collected and subjects will undergo grid therapy and follow-up at 2-4 weeks (for toxicity), and 3-6 months (for toxicities and radiographic control) then per clinical discretion up to 1 year. Patients will be evaluated according to the physician's standard practice and discretion. Patient data will be drawn from the patients' medical records and reported by means of a web-based electronic data collection (EDC) system. Patients will be considered "on study" until 60 months of observation has occurred, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up, or study closure. See below for the clinical visit flowchart for data collected at baseline and standard clinic visits.