Natural History Study of Individuals With Autism and Germline Heterozygous PTEN Mutations
The purpose of this study is to determine cross-sectional and longitudinal medical, behavioral, and cognitive differences between PTEN ASD and other groups, as well as to identify cognitive, neural systems, and molecular biomarkers specific to PTEN ASD. In addition, this study will be creating and maintaining a biorepository and linked phenotypic database for PTEN ASD.
PTEN|ASD|Autism|Macrocephaly|PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome
Change in verbal abilities at 12 months, Verbal and non-verbal ability will be evaluated using Stanford Binet -5 or Mullen Scales of Early Learning (MSEL) at 12 months, 12 months|Change in communication ability at 12 months, Communication ability will be evaluated using composite score of the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test (PPVT-4)., 12 months|Change in communication ability at 12 months, Communication ability will be evaluated using composite score of the Expressive Vocabulary Test (EVT-2) at 12 months., 12 months|Change in verbal abilities at 24 months, Verbal and non-verbal ability will be evaluated using Stanford Binet 5 or Mullen Scales of Early Learning (MSEL) at 24 months, 24 months|Change in visual perception at 12 months, Visual perception will be measured using the Beery Developmental Test of Visuomotor Integration (VMI) at 12 months, 12 months|Change in working memory at 12 months, Working memory will be evaluated using the Stanford Binet 5 at 12 months, 12 months|Change in processing speed at 12 months, Processing Speed will be measured using the Processing Speed Index from the Weschler Intelligence Scales at 12 months, 12 months|Change in working memory at 24 months, Working memory will be evaluated using the Stanford Binet 5 at 24 months, 24 months|Change in processing speed at 24 months, Processing Speed will be measured using the Processing Speed Index from the Weschler Intelligence Scales at 24 months, 24 months|Change in visual perception at 24 months, Visual perception will be measured using the Beery Developmental Test of Visuomotor Integration (VMI) at 24 months, 24 months|Change in communication ability at 24 months, Communication ability will be evaluated using composite score of the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test (PPVT-4) at 24 months, 24 months|Change in communication ability at 24 months, Communication ability will be evaluated using composite score of the Expressive Vocabulary Test (EVT-2) at 24 months., 24 months
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are a set of neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by social communication/interaction impairments and restricted/repetitive behaviors. ASD associated with germline heterozygous PTEN mutations (PTEN ASD) is a genetically defined sub-group that, may be one of the more prevalent genetic disorders contributing to ASD (0.5-2%). The purpose of this research study is to carefully track the phenotypic and molecular characteristics of PTEN ASD and identify biomarkers for intervention studies.

Individuals with PTEN ASD, with macrocephalic ASD without a PTEN mutation (macro-ASD), healthy controls, and individuals with PTEN mutations without ASD (PTEN no-ASD) will be asked to participate in this study if they are 18 months and older. Both males and females will be asked to participate. Additionally, to be eligible for study participation, individuals' primary communicative language must be English.

The study involves 3 on site visits over the course of two years. Study visits will vary in length from about 4 hours to 6 hours. Study visits involve a physical exam, medical history questions, neuropsychological assessments, and a blood draw done for laboratory studies. A subset of participants between the ages of 2 and 11 years old will take part in the EEG portion of the study. Individuals who have a clinically indicated MRI will have an option to provide routine clinical scans for analysis.