Factors Influencing Adherence to Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer and the leading cause of cancer death in women. Adjuvant endocrine therapy (AET) reduces the risk of disease recurrence and mortality in women with hormone-dependent breast cancer. This cross-sectional study aims to investigate adherence to AET and identify factors associated with adherence in the Republic of Croatia. The level of adherence, beliefs about medicines, and quality of life with AET will be investigated with validated instruments in the form of an anonymous survey. Given the available data on suboptimal adherence to AET in Europe and globally, it is clear that there is a need for investigating adherence in Croatia which hasn't been done so far. Each country, population, and health system has its own characteristics, and understanding the experience of using AET and identifying associated psychosocial factors could help in developing specific interventions supporting women and improving AET adherence.
Adherence, Treatment
DRUG: Survey using a questionnaire.
Patient adherence to adjuvant endocrine therapy assessment: Measurement of the level of adherence to adjuvant endocrine therapy, The overall aim of the study is to determine the proportion of women adherent to oral adjuvant endocrine therapy (AEL) after the diagnosis of breast cancer in Croatia, as well as to investigate the association between AEL adherence, medication beliefs, quality of life, sociodemographic, and clinical factors., Day 1.
Beliefs About Medicines, Investigate medication beliefs using the Medication Beliefs Questionnaire (BMQ)., Day 1.|Prevalence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events as assessed by FACT-ES, Examine the quality of life using the Quality of Life Questionnaire with endocrine symptoms (FACT-ES)., Day 1.
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer and the leading cause of cancer death in women. Adjuvant endocrine therapy (AET) reduces the risk of disease recurrence and mortality in women with hormone-dependent breast cancer. This cross-sectional study aims to investigate adherence to AET and identify factors associated with adherence in the Republic of Croatia. The level of adherence, beliefs about medicines, and quality of life with AET will be investigated with validated instruments in the form of an anonymous survey. Given the available data on suboptimal adherence to AET in Europe and globally, it is clear that there is a need for investigating adherence in Croatia which hasn't been done so far. Each country, population, and health system has its own characteristics, and understanding the experience of using AET and identifying associated psychosocial factors could help in developing specific interventions supporting women and improving AET adherence.