A Phase 2 Study of Osimertinib in Combination With Selumetinib in EGFR Inhibitor naïve Advanced EGFR Mutant Lung Cancer
This research study is studying a combination of two targeted therapies as a possible treatment for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with an EGFR mutation.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Osimertinib (Tagrisso)
* Selumetinib
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Osimertinib|DRUG: Selumetinib
Best Objective Response, RECIST1.1 measurements of CT scans will be measured during treatment to determine the objective response rate for patients being treated with combination osimertinib and selumetinib. A response rate and a 95% confidence interval will be calculated., 2 years
Progression Free Survival, Time from registration to documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to determine the progression-free survival of patients enrolled on protocol and treated with combination osimertinib and selumetinib., 2 years|Overall Survival, Survival follow-up with clinic visits or phone calls will be used to monitor for overall survival, from the time of study randomization to death from any cause. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to calculate overall survival., 2 years|Tolerability Proportion, Proportion of patients able to continue the treatment combination for at least 6 months, 2 years|Toxicity Grading, If a participant experiences toxicity it will be graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 criteria., 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drugs work in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied.

The EGFR gene produces a protein that helps cells divide. Specific changes or a mutation in the genetic information causes abnormal cell division and can lead to lung cancer. Patients who have NSCLC with an EGFR gene mutation can be treated by drugs called EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs). They may stop (or "inhibit") the effect of the mutation in the EGFR gene.

Osimertinib alone has been shown to benefit some patients who have received prior treatment for their EGFR-mutant NSCLC. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the combination of Osimertinib and Selumetinib as a treatment for any disease, but it has been investigated in other clinical trials.

The main purpose of the study is to look at information on any potential side effects that this drug combination may cause and collect data about how your cancer responds to the combination of drugs.

Specific TKIs have been approved by the FDA for first-line treatment of NSCLC patients with an EGFR mutation.