Eribulin With Trastuzumab as First-line Therapy for Locally Recurrent or Metastatic HER2 Positive Breast Cancer
This is a multicenter phase 2 study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of eribulin mesylate in combination with trastuzumab as first line treatment in female subjects with locally recurrent or metastatic human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2) positive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate
Objective Response Rate, The Objective Response Rate (Complete Response plus Partial Response, (CR + PR)) was defined as the proportion of participants who have a best overall response of confirmed CR or PR based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 as assessed by the Investigator. Tumor assessment was by computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). To assess best response (CR, PR, stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD), or not estimable (NE)), the Investigator selected up to five measurable target lesions (2 per organ). All other lesions were identified as nontarget lesions. Each participant's overall tumor burden at Baseline was compared with subsequent measurements of the target lesions. For participants with CR or PR, changes in tumor sizes had to be confirmed by repeat evaluations performed not fewer than four weeks after the initial response assessment., Baseline (within 28 days of first infusion of study drug); Treatment Phase (every 6 weeks during the first 6 cycles); Extension Phase (every 12 weeks) to PR or CR
Time to First Response, Time to first response was defined for participants whose best overall response was a CR or PR., From date of first dose of study drug to the earliest date that CR or PR was objectively documented, assessed up to data cutoff (12 Sep 2013), up to approximately 2 years 9 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response was defined for participants whose best overall response was CR or PR. Participants who died without reported PD were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who were alive at the end of the study without reported PD were censored on the date of their last tumor assessment., Date of a confirmed CR or PR was first documented to the date of PD or death (due to any cause and in the absence of PD), whichever occurred first, or date of data cutoff (12 Sep 2013), or up to approximately 2 years 9 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study drug until the date of first documentation of PD or date of death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Participants who died without reported PD were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who were lost to follow-up or alive and without reported PD at the end of study were censored on the date of their last tumor assessment., Date of first dose of study drug to date of PD or death (from any cause) whichever came first, or date of data cutoff (12 Sep 2013), up to approximately 2 years 9 months|Duration of Stable Disease (SD), Defined as the period from treatment start date to the date of PD or death, whichever occurred first. Participants who were alive without having PD as of the data cutoff date were censored as of their last tumor assessment. Calculated for participants who best response was SD., Start of study treatment to date of PD or death, whichever occurred first, or date of data cutoff (12 Sep 2013), up to approximately 2 years 9 months
This is a multicenter phase 2 study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of eribulin mesylate in combination with trastuzumab as first line treatment in female subjects with locally recurrent or metastatic human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2) positive breast cancer.