Tamoxifen Versus Anastrozole, Alone or in Combination With Zoledronic Acid
The primary objective is, first, the comparison of tamoxifen and anastrozole and, second, the comparison of zoledronate added to standard adjuvant therapy with controls according to disease-free survival (DFS) in premenopausal patients with non-metastatic breast cancer treated with tamoxifen or anastrozole. To assess whether zoledronate added to standard adjuvant therapy can decrease or even prevent bone loss in patients treated with hormonal blockade combined with an antiestrogen or aromatase inhibitor.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: tamoxifen|DRUG: anastrozole|DRUG: zoledronic acid|OTHER: goserelin
Comparison of Anastrozole vs Tamoxifen in Premenopausal Patients With Non-metastatic Breast Cancer With Respect to Disease-free Survival (DFS), DFS is defined as time from randomization to first occurrence of a local, regional, or distant recurrence, second primary carcinoma (including contralateral breast cancer), or death from any cause, Time from randomization to the analysis data cut-off date when 124 DFS events had occurred. On the analysis data cut-off date, maximum time on study per patient was 102 months.|Comparison of Zoledronate vs no Zoledronate in Premenopausal Patients With Non-metastatic Breast Cancer With Respect to Disease-free Survival (DFS), DFS is defined as time from randomization to first occurrence of a local, regional, or distant recurrence, second primary carcinoma (including contralateral breast cancer), or death from any cause, Time from randomization to the analysis data cut-off date when 124 DFS events had occurred. On the analysis data cut-off date, maximum time on study per patient was 102 months.
Comparison of Anastrozole vs Tamoxifen in Premenopausal Patients With Non-metastatic Breast Cancer With Respect to Recurrence-free Survival (RFS), RFS is defined as time from randomization to first occurrence of a local, regional, or distant recurrence, second primary carcinoma (including contralateral breast cancer), or death from breast cancer, Time from randomization to the analysis data cut-off date when 124 DFS events had occurred. On the analysis data cut-off date, maximum time on study per patient was 102 months.|Comparison of Zoledronate vs no Zoledronate in Premenopausal Patients With Non-metastatic Breast Cancer With Respect to Recurrence-free Survival (RFS), RFS is defined as time from randomization to first occurrence of a local, regional, or distant recurrence, second primary carcinoma (including contralateral breast cancer), or death from breast cancer, Time from randomization to the analysis data cut-off date when 124 DFS events had occurred. On the analysis data cut-off date, maximum time on study per patient was 102 months.|Comparison of Anastrozole vs Tamoxifen in Premenopausal Patients With Non-metastatic Breast Cancer With Respect to Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause, Time from randomization to the analysis data cut-off date when 124 DFS events had occurred. On the analysis data cut-off date, maximum time on study per patient was 102 months.|Comparison of Zoledronate vs no Zoledronate in Premenopausal Patients With Non-metastatic Breast Cancer With Respect to Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause, Time from randomization to the analysis data cut-off date when 124 DFS events had occurred. On the analysis data cut-off date, maximum time on study per patient was 102 months.
The trial is conducted as an open multi-center phase III study, in a two-factorial study design and according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines. Patients will be randomly assigned to a total of 4 study groups in a 1:1:1:1 assignment ratio. Several stratification criteria will be used in order to ensure balanced distribution of known risk factors.

A total of 1.803 patients will be enrolled in 4 arms. Patients will either be treated with anastrozole (1mg daily for 3 years) or tamoxifen (20mg daily for 3 years), and will additionally receive either zoledronate (8mg q4 weeks for 3 years) or no zoledronate (arm A: Nolvadex alone; arm B: Nolvadex plus zoledronate; arm C: Arimidex alone; arm D: Arimidex plus zoledronate).

Zoledronate will be administered by i.v. injection at a dose of 4 mg/month for the treatment period of 3 years. Five Bone Mineral Density (BMD) measurements will be performed in a subgroup of patients (404 patients, enrolled in 3 centres).