Rituximab and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining rituximab with combination chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving rituximab together with combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with newly diagnosed Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Vincristine
Objective Response to Treatment, Objective response assessed using standard myeloma response criteria. Objective response is defined as a \> 50% reduction in the quantitative IgM or M-Spike levels from baseline levels. Response must be documented by two measurements separated by at least 3 weeks., Every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if patient is 2-5 years from study entry, every 12 months if patient is 6-10 years from study entry
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the response rate of patients with newly diagnosed Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia treated with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone.
* Determine the associated toxic effects of this regimen, specifically the frequency of febrile neutropenia, in these patients.
* Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Correlate baseline cytogenetic features and gene expression profiles with response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study.

Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over approximately 4 hours, cyclophosphamide IV over 5-30 minutes, doxorubicin IV over 5-15 minutes, and vincristine IV over 1 minute on day 1. Patients also receive oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.

ACTUAL ACCRUAL: A total of 16 patients were accrued for this study.