Gemcitabine and Erlotinib Before and After Surgery in Treating Patients With Pancreatic Cancer That Can Be Removed by Surgery
PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well gemcitabine and erlotinib work when given before and after surgery in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that can be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving gemcitabine and erlotinib before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Giving these drugs after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Overall Survival at 2 Years, The primary endpoint of this trial is 2-year overall survival, which will be evaluated as the proportion of treatment successes. A treatment success is defined to be an evaluable patient who is alive at two years from the date of registration., At 2 years post-registration
Resection Rate, The resection rate is defined as the fraction of patients that proceed to planned surgery with removal of primary tumor (R0/R1) following neoadjuvant treatment with gemcitabine plus erlotinib.The resection rate will be estimated by the binomial point estimate, i.e. as the number of patients that undergo the planned surgery with removal of the primary tumor following neoadjuvant treatment with gemcitabine plus erlotinib divided by the number of evaluable patients. This quantity will also be estimated with a 95% binomial confidence interval.

Curative resection (R0) is defined as macroscopically and microscopically complete resection (with microscopic surgical margin assessment according to AJCC Staging Principles).

An R1 resection is defined as macroscopically complete tumor removal with any positive microscopic surgical margin (bile duct, pancreatic parenchyma, or SMA margins)., Up to 4 years postoperative chemotherapy treatment|Relapse/Progression-free Survival, Relapse/progression-free survival is defined as the time from date of registration to the date of documentation of disease recurrence/progression. If a patient dies without documentation of disease recurrence/progression, the patient will be considered to have had disease recurrence/progression at the time of their death unless there is sufficient documented evidence to conclude no recurrence/progression occurred prior to death. If a patient is declared to be a major treatment violation, the patient will be censored on the date the treatment violation occurred. If a patient is lost to follow-up, s/he will be censored at the data of last contact. The distribution of disease-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., At 2 years post-registration|Number of Participants Experiencing Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events as Graded by the NCI's Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns. These patterns will be summarized with descriptive statistics. The number of patients reporting grade 3 or higher adverse events as graded by the NCI's Common Toxicity Criteria (CTCAE) Version 4 are reported here. A complete list of all reported adverse events is reported in the Adverse Events section of this report., Up to 4 years postoperative chemotherapy treatment|Response Rate, The response rates to preoperative chemotherapy for patients treated with preoperative gemcitabine and erlotinib and rates of accurate pathologic assessment of the resected tumor specimen according to College of American Pathology guidelines will be estimated with a binomial point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence intervals., Up to 4 years postoperative chemotherapy treatment
This is a single arm, non-randomized phase II study. Eligible, fully registered patients will receive preoperative chemotherapy consisting of gemcitabine plus erlotinib. Preoperative chemotherapy will be followed by exploratory laparotomy and pancreaticoduodenectomy. Patients will then receive postoperative chemotherapy consisting of gemcitabine plus erlotinib. Up to 123 patients will be accrued to this study, with the expectation that 78 patients will remain fully eligible and evaluable for the primary endpoint. The primary and secondary objectives for the study are listed below.

Primary Objective:

To estimate the proportion of patients alive at two years from the date of registration

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine the resection rate (defined as the fraction of patients who proceed to planned surgery with removal of primary tumor \[R0/R1\]) following induction treatment with gemcitabine plus erlotinib
2. To estimate the time to disease progression/relapse
3. To evaluate the rate of R0, R1, and R2 resections (defined as per the 6th edition of the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual) in patients treated with preoperative gemcitabine plus erlotinib chemotherapy
4. To evaluate the toxicity profile of preoperative gemcitabine plus erlotinib and the feasibility of postoperative gemcitabine plus erlotinib
5. To evaluate response rates to preoperative chemotherapy for patients treated with preoperative gemcitabine and erlotinib
6. To identify molecular predictors of pancreatic cancer response to gemcitabine combined with erlotinib
7. To identify genetic profiles of pancreatic adenocarcinoma that may be associated with response to neoadjuvant therapy

After completion of postoperative chemotherapy treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 2 years.