Study of Brentuximab Vedotin Combined With RCHOP or RCHP in Front-line Treatment of Patients With Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)
This study has 3 parts. The purpose of Part 1 of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of brentuximab vedotin in combination with RCHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) (known as BV+RCHOP) in patients with DLBCL who have never been treated. Patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive RCHOP together with 1 of 2 doses of brentuximab vedotin. Patients will be tested to see if there is a difference in side effects between the 2 groups.

The purpose of Part 2 of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of brentuximab vedotin in combination with RCHP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone) (known as BV+RCHP) in patients with CD30-positive DLBCL who have never been treated. Patients will be enrolled to receive RCHP together with 1.8mg/kg of brentuximab vedotin.

The purpose of Part 3 of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of BV+RCHP compared to standard RCHOP in patients with CD30-positive DLBCL that have never been treated. Patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either BV+RCHP or RCHOP. Patients will be tested to see if there is a difference in side effects between the 2 groups.
Lymphoma, B-cell|Lymphoma, Large B-cell, Diffuse
DRUG: brentuximab vedotin|DRUG: brentuximab vedotin|DRUG: rituximab|DRUG: vincristine|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: doxorubicin
Complete Remission Rate, Number (count) of participants that achieved remission according to the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma (Cheson 2007)., Up to 6 months|Incidence of Adverse Events, Number (count) of participants that experienced at least 1 adverse event., Up to 6 months|Incidence of Laboratory Abnormalities, Number (count) of participants that experienced a Grade 3 or higher maximum post-baseline laboratory toxicity (hematology and chemistry). Grades are defined using National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), v4.03. Grade 1 = mild, no intervention needed; Grade 2 = moderate, minimal intervention needed; Grade 3 = severe or medically significant, hospitalization is required; Grade 4 = life-threatening, urgent intervention needed; Grade 5 = death related to adverse event., Up to 6 months
Objective Response Rate, Number (count) of participants that achieved complete or partial remission at the end of treatment according to the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma (Cheson 2007), Up to 6 months|Progression-free Survival, Median progression-free survival (in months) and observed minimum-maximum range., Up to approximately 4 years|Overall Survival, Median overall survival (in months) and observed minimum-maximum range., Up to approximately 4 years
In the first part of this study, patients in the 2 groups were tested to see if there was a difference in the response to treatment and whether there were differences in the side effects (unwanted effects).

The second and third parts of the study are being done to see if there are any side effects (unwanted effects) of the higher dose of brentuximab vedotin when combined with a modified version of RCHOP that omits vincristine. The third part of the study is being done to see if there is a difference between BV+RCHP and RCHOP in the response to treatment.