Serum Retinoic Acid Induced Protein 14 (RAI14) and Metastasis Associated Cancer Colon -1 (MACC-1) in Breast Cancer
1. Measurement of serum levels of Retinoic acid induced 14 (RAI14) and Metastasis associated cancer colon -1 (MACC-1) as biomarkers for diagnosis of breast cancer.
2. Study their relationship to disease stages and clinicopathological features of BC.
3. Compare the diagnostic performance of serum RAI14 and serum MACC-1 with serum Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and Cancer antigen 15-3 (CA15-3) for diagnosis of BC.
Breast Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: laboratory test (RAI14 and MACC-1 )
Evaluate the diagnostic value of serum Retinoic acid induced 14 (RAI14) and Metastasis associated cancer colon -1 (MACC-1) for breast cancer patients., Evaluation of the clinical utility of measurement of level of Retinoic acid induced 14 (RAI14) and Metastasis associated cancer colon -1 (MACC-1) in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients, Baseline
Correlate the levels of serum Retinoic acid induced 14 (RAI14) and Metastasis associated cancer colon -1 (MACC-1) with the TNM staging in breast cancer patients., Studying the correlation of levels of serum Retinoic acid induced 14 (RAI14) and Metastasis associated cancer colon -1 (MACC-1) with the TNM staging in breast cancer patient., Baseline
Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most prevalent Neoplasms and the second leading reason of death from cancer in women. Every year approximately 2.3 million new cases of BC are diagnosed worldwide. Due to the high impact of this type of cancer, the early detection, early diagnosis and effective treatment, will improve the diagnosis of patients and lower the associated mortality rates. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and Cancer antigen 15-3 (CA15-3) are the most commonly used serum markers in the diagnosis and follow up of BC, However their clinical applications still remain controversial.

Retinoic acid induced protein 14 (RAI14) is an actin-binding protein which participates in physiological processes such as the regulation of cell polarity and transport of spermatozoa. Recent studies showed that RAI14 is overexpressed in several malignant tumors with a significant role in the development of tumors . The serum RAI14 is a reliable novel marker in the early diagnosis and chemotherapy monitoring of triple-negative BC.

Metastasis-associated colon cancer-1 (MACC-1) is a newly identified tumor marker, first identified in colon cancer tissue as a prognostic indicator and inducer of metastasis .It is located on human chromosome 7 (7p21.1) and shown to be a key regulator of the hepatocyte growth factor-mesenchymal epithelial transition factor( HGF-MET) pathway in colon cancer. It is shown that serum MACC-1 can be a potential biomarker for diagnosis and progression in patients with BC. There was a strong correlation between MACC-1 expression and the clinical and the primary tumor, regional nodes, metastasis (TNM) stages of BC.