Telemedicine Improves Pain-related Disabilities in Following up Cancer Pain Outpatient
Cancer is the second leading cause of death worldwide, with approximately 18.1 million new cases and 9.6 million deaths reported in 2018. Cancer-related pain is experienced by 50-70% of patients, with a higher prevalence at advanced disease stages (66.4%). Since the development of WHO's cancer pain guidelines, several studies have reported good relief of symptoms and suffering for a majority of patients. Recent reports suggest that up to 50% of patients still report insufficient pain control. Patients with cancer often present with multiple symptoms and functional decline. Evidence supports multidisciplinary approaches to address symptoms and suffering, including early palliative care referral

From review literatures we found that the telemedicine group had significantly higher quality of life than the usual care group. In addition, the telemedicine group had lower anxiety and depression scores than the usual care group.

Therefore, we will conduct the non-randomized controlled study of using telemedicine comparing to conventional in-person at OPD in hospitalized cancer pain patients.

The purpose of this study is to assess the pain interference by using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and to compare between the in-person group and the telemedicine group. To assess the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine for reducing symptoms associated with cancer and its treatment.
Pain, Chronic|Cancer Pain
OTHER: Telemedicine|OTHER: In-person
Pain interference, The pain interference will be assessed and compared using Brief Pain Inventory from 0-70 between In-person group and telemedicine group., at 1 month
Quality of life (QoL), The quality of life will be assessed and compared using EuroQoL 5D5L between In-person group and telemedicine group., at 1 month|Pain intensity, The pain reduction will be assessed and compared using numerical rating (NRS) from 0-10; 0 designating "no pain" and 10 designating " worst possible pain" scale between In-person group and telemedicine group., at 1 month, 2 months and 3 months
The pain interference will be assessed and compared using Brief Pain Inventory from 0-70 between In-person group and telemedicine group at 1 month.