Prognostic Performance of the Naples Prognostic Score
To investigate the prognostic performance of the Naples Prognostic Score in gastric cancer patients undergoing surgery
Nutritional and Metabolic Diseases|Oncologic Disorders
PROCEDURE: surgery
Prognostic performance of NPS., Corrlation between preoperative NPS and outcome (i.e. overall survival in all patients, and disease-free survival in radically resected patients). The prognostic performance of NPS will be compared to that of the prognostic nutritional index (PNI), the controlling nutritional status (CONUT) score, the systemic inflammation score (SIS), and the TNM staging system., through study completion, an average of 1 year
The outcome of oncological patients is related not only to the tumor status but also to the host. Particularly the patient's immune and nutritional status have been recently associated with short- and long-term outcome in gastric and other cancers. In addition, there is growing evidence that systemic inflammation plays a crucial role in the carcinogenesis and progression of gastric cancer. The neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and, more recently, the lymphocyte to monocyte ratio (LMR) have been shown to be independently correlated with prognosis in patients with gastric cancer who underwent surgery, and preoperative albumin and cholesterol levels seem to be adequate mirrors of the nutritional status of the host.

The investigators have already demonstrated that a new scoring system, which they called Naples prognostic score (NPS), based on a composite score of albumin and cholesterol concentrations, along with NLR and LMR is a simple tool strongly associated with long-term outcome in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer.

The aim of this study is to assess the correlation between the NPS and clinicopathological characteristics, postoperative complication rate and long-term outcome in patients undergoing surgery for gastric cancer. Furthermore, the new prognostic scoring system will be compared with previously developed ones and the current TNM staging system to evaluate its performance.

All patients who underwent surgery for proven gastric adenocarcinoma at the Division of Surgical Oncology of the Gastrointestinal Tract of the University of Campania (Naples, Italy), from January 2000 to December 2015 will be enrolled in the present study.