Mobile CARE-App to Promote Coping for Caregivers of Patients Receiving Stem Cell Transplant
The goal of this research study is to determine whether a self-administered, psychosocial mobile application (CARE app) is effective at improving the quality of life and experience of caregivers of patients receiving hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT).
Bone Marrow Transplant Complications|Hematologic Malignancy
BEHAVIORAL: CARE Application|BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care
Caregiver quality of life (QOL) as measured by the Caregiver Oncology Quality of Life (CARGOQOL) questionnaire, Compare caregiver QOL as measured by the CARGOQOL between the two study groups. The CARGOQOL ranges from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better QOL, up to 60 days post-HCT
Caregiver quality of life (QOL) as measured by the Caregiver Oncology Quality of Life (CARGOQOL) questionnaire, Compare caregiver QOL as measured by the CARGOQOL between the two study groups longitudinally. The CARGOQOL ranges from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better QOL, up to 100 days post HCT|Caregiving burden as measured by the Caregiver Reaction Assessment (CRA), Compare caregiving burden as measured by the CRA between the two study groups. The CRA ranges from 24-120 with higher scores indicating greater caregiving burden, Up to 100 days post HCT|Anxiety symptoms as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HADS-Anxiety), Compare anxiety symptoms as measured by the HADS-Anxiety between the study groups. The HADS-Anxiety ranges from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse anxiety symptoms, Up to 100 days post HCT|Depression symptoms as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-Depression), Compare depression symptoms as measured by the HADS-Depression between the study groups. The HADS-Depression ranges from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse depression symptoms, Up to 100 days post HCT|Post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSD) as measured by the PTSD Checklist, Compare post-traumatic stress symptoms as measured by the Post-Traumatic Stress Checklist-Civilian Version between the two groups. The checklist ranges from 17-85 with higher scores indicating worse PTSD Symptoms, Up to 100 days post HCT
Coping as measured by the Measure of Current Status (MOCS), Comparing caregiver coping as measured by the MOCS between the two study groups. The scale ranges from 0-52 with higher scores indicating higher coping skills, Up to 100 days post-HCT|Self-efficacy as measured by the Cancer self-efficacy-transplant (CASE-t) scale, Compare caregiver self-efficacy as measured by the CASE-t between the two study groups. The scale ranges from 0-170 with higher scores indicating better self-efficacy, Up to 100 days post-HCT|Usability of the CARE app using the System Usability Scale, Assess the usability of the care app (in those receiving the intervention) using the System Usability Scale, which ranges 0-100 with higher scores indicating better usability, up to 60 days post-HCT
This is a randomized clinical trial to determine whether a psychosocial mobile application (CARE app) is effective at improving the quality of life and experience of caregivers of patients receiving hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT). The CARE app was developed with the goal of addressing the needs of caregivers of HCT recipients.

Participants will be randomized into one of two study groups: CARE app plus Usual Care versus Usual Care.

Participation in this study is expected to last up to 100 days after HCT.

It is expected that about 120 people will take part in this research study.

The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society is supporting this research by providing funding.