An Investigational Scan (Ga-68 PSMA-11 PET/CT) for Detection of Disease Recurrence or Progression in Patients with Glioma
This clinical trial evaluates whether gallium-68 (Ga-68) prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-11 positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) imaging is useful in differentiating between disease that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrence) or that is growing, spreading, or getting worse (progression) and treatment effect in patients with glioma. Patients with glioma undergo frequent imaging for assessment of disease status. After first-line treatment however, the correlation between imaging findings and tumor activity can be confused, and surgery is often required for definitive diagnosis. The PET/CT scanner is an imaging machine that combines 2 types of imaging in a single scan. The PET scanner detects and takes pictures of where the radioactive imaging agent (68Ga PSMA-11) has gone in the body and the CT scanner uses x-rays to take structural pictures inside the body. PSMA PET also binds to neoplastic blood vessels, including those in gliomas. This study may help researchers learn whether GA-68 PSMA-11 PET/CT is useful for improving detection of tumor recurrence or progression, as opposed to treatment effects, in patients with gliomas.
WHO Grade 3 Glioma|WHO Grade 4 Glioma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|DRUG: Ga 68 PSMA-11|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) uptake levels, Will be summarized based on biopsy-derived classification of the tissue samples. Will graphically evaluate PSMA uptake levels between tissue types using side-by-side boxplots. Will use recursive partitioning analyses to identify optimal cutpoints that best differentiate those samples classified as tumor versus (vs.) radiation treatment effects. Will also evaluate if the observed differences support a priori assumptions on thresholds to differentiate high vs. low PSMA (defined as radiation necrosis or pseudoprogression)., Up to 2 weeks|Concordance of the PSMA uptake levels (high vs. low), Will assess the level of concordance in the classification of tumor vs. not (i.e. treatment effect) in contrast enhancing regions with the gold standard classification based on pathology review using repeated measures of concordance assessments such as an extended Kappa statistic or a repeated measures intraclass correlation coefficient for binary repeated measurements (such as, can have multiple biopsies from the same patient)., Up to 2 weeks
Incidence of adverse events, Safety and tolerability will be assessed by summarizing the adverse events reported based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. Will summarize based on type of adverse event along with the grade and perceived attribution to the PSMA positron emission tomography scan., Up to 2 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess uptake of Ga-68 labeled PSMA-11 in regions of high tumor cell density (tumor recurrence) and low tumor cell density/treatment effect to determine whether PSMA-11 uptake differs significantly between true tumor progression versus (vs.) in radiation treatment effects.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the immediate safety and tolerability of PSMA PET in patients with glioma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify optimal maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) thresholds for differentiating viable tumor from treatment effect.

II. To perform a radiology-pathology correlation of PSMA uptake at PET with tumor PSMA immunohistochemistry (IHC) immunostaining, tumor pathology features, and signal and enhancement characteristics at magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (no research MRI will be obtained, based on MRI images obtained for clinical use).

III. To evaluate the added diagnostic value of gallium Ga 68 (Ga-68 PSMA-11) PET beyond MRI (using information from a clinical MRI\[s\] obtained prior to enrollment in the study) for detecting viable enhancing tumor from treatment effects.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Ga-68 PSMA-11 intravenously (IV) and then undergo PET/CT over 1 hour, 50-100 minutes after injection.