iPad Use in Reducing Anxiety and Depression in Patients Undergoing Bone Marrow Transplant
This randomized clinical trial studies iPad use in reducing anxiety and depression in patients undergoing bone marrow transplant. A tablet device like the iPad can provide access to music, television, movies, books, and the Internet. It also contains a video conferencing system that can allow patients to communicate with family members and other members of their social support team. With these capabilities, an iPad distribution program may help lessen patient anxiety and depression during a hospital stay. Monitoring iPad use by patients may help doctors better understand how patients use their computers and tablets while in the hospital so that the software and applications of the iPad can be made more useful.
Anxiety|Depression|Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Computer-Assisted Intervention|OTHER: Computer-Assisted Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)-Anxiety score, Will be analyzed using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model containing fixed effects of treatment condition (iPAD vs. no iPAD), baseline HADS-Anxiety score, and a random, normally distributed error term. The data will be log-transformed prior to analysis, so all resulting inferences will be based on the geometric mean instead of the arithmetic mean., Baseline to day 10
Change in HADS depression score, Will be analyzed using an ANCOVA model containing fixed effects of treatment condition (iPAD vs. no iPAD), baseline HADS-Depression score, and a random, normally distributed error term. The data will be log-transformed prior to analysis, so all resulting inferences will be based on the geometric mean instead of the arithmetic mean., Baseline to day 10|Change in Profile of Mood States Short Form (POMS-SF) scores, Will be analyzed using an ANCOVA model containing fixed effects of treatment condition (iPAD vs. no iPAD), baseline POMS-SF score, and a random, normally distributed error term. The data will be log-transformed prior to analysis, so all resulting inferences will be based on the geometric mean instead of the arithmetic mean., Baseline to day 10
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect access to an iPad has on anxiety as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine how computers and tablets are used by patients who have access to such devices.

OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to Group A or randomized to 1 of 2 groups (Groups B or C).

GROUP A (participants provide their own computer or tablet device): A member of the research personnel helps the participants install Netflix, Spotify, and Skype applications on their computers if they wish to do so. Participants will be given subscriptions to each application and usernames for access on days -5 to 10.

GROUP B (Apple iPad): Participants receive an iPad for days -5 to 10. Participants also receive the BuckiPad manual for instructions on how to use the iPad and Netflix, Skype, and Spotify applications. Participants are also directed to the official Apple's iPad user's manual on their device and have questions answered by research personnel on day -5.

GROUP C: Participants do not receive an iPad for days -5 to 10.