Study of Panobinostat in Patients With Neuroendocrine Tumors
This summary will use Panobinostat (LBH589) in patients with neuroendocrine tumors to see how the patient's tumor responds to panobinostat. Additionally, this study will examine how long it takes neuroendocrine tumor patient's cancer to progress while taking the drug and examine the overall survival of patients using panobinostat. Also, the study will examine the toxicity and tolerability of panobinostat in the patient population. Finally, this study will look at the effect of panobinostat on Notch 1 signaling before and after treatment with panobinostat.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: panobinostat (LBH589)
Tumor Response Rate of Patients With Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria., Confirmed anti-tumor response rate will be validated by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). All participants included in the study will be assessed for response to the proposed panobinostat treatment, even if there are protocol treatment deviations. Each participant will be assigned one of the following categories: complete response, partial response, stable disease, progressive disease, early death from malignant disease, early death from toxicity, early death because of other cause, or unknown., every 8 weeks, up to 5 years
Number of Participants With Toxicities, Evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of panobinostat in the patient population, up to 5 years|Evaluate the Time to Progression for Patients With Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors Treated With Panobinostat, Up to 5 years|Delineate the Expression of Notch 1 in Neuroendocrine Tumor Samples Before and During Treatment With Panobinostat, The expression of Notch 1 in neuroendocrine tumor samples will be evaluated prior to Cycle 1 Day 1 dose and at the end of Cycle 2 of treatment of treatment., Pre-treatment and up to week 12|Evaluate the Overall Survival of Patients With Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors Treated With Panobinostat, Up to 5 years
This summary will use Panobinostat (LBH589) in patients with neuroendocrine tumors to see how the patient's tumor responds to panobinostat. Additionally, this study will examine how long it takes neuroendocrine tumor patient's cancer to progress while taking the drug and examine the overall survival of patients using panobinostat. Also, the study will examine the toxicity and tolerability of panobinostat in the patient population. Finally, this study will look at the effect of panobinostat on Notch 1 signaling before and after treatment with panobinostat.