Otago Exercises on the Risk of Falling in Prostatic Cancer Patients Receiving Androgen Deprivation Therapy
Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is a common treatment for older men with advanced prostate cancer (PCa) but is associated with numerous deleterious health effects that may accentuate age associated physiological declines.

Decreased lower body muscle mass and strength, cognitive decline, worsen fatigue and progressive loss of BMD following initiating ADT could put prostate cancer survivors at higher risk of impaired physical functioning performance and subsequently developing falls. Otago training is helpful, and one of the most powerful interventions where the original randomized controlled trials reported improvements in functional outcomes and a 35% reduction in falls for frail, high-risk older adults (Shubert et al., 2018). In Egypt, there are little researches about Otago Exercise Program.
Prostate
OTHER: otago excercises|OTHER: Medical ADT treatment
Isometric knee muscle strength, will be used to evaluate knee extension and flexion isometric strength., base line and 24 weeks|Bone mineral density (BMD, will be used to evaluate Bone mineral density of the lumbar spine (LS) and femoral neck (FN), base line and 24 weeks
Timed up and go (TUG) test, will be used to measure basic mobility skills. The measurement outcome for TUG is the time it takes to rise up out of a chair, walk 3 m away from the chair, walk 3 m back to the chair, and return to the seated position, base line and 24weeks|Berg Balance Scale (BBS), Used to assess the patient ability to balance his /her body during activities and risk of fall, base line and 24weeks
Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is a common treatment for older men with advanced prostate cancer (PCa) but is associated with numerous deleterious health effects that may accentuate age associated physiological declines.

Decreased lower body muscle mass and strength, cognitive decline, worsen fatigue and progressive loss of BMD following initiating ADT could put prostate cancer survivors at higher risk of impaired physical functioning performance and subsequently developing falls.

Otago training is helpful, and one of the most powerful interventions where the original randomized controlled trials reported improvements in functional outcomes and a 35% reduction in falls for frail, high-risk older adults (Shubert et al., 2018). In Egypt, there are little researches about Otago Exercise Program.

Exercise is well-known as an economic and key adjuvant treatment in clinical oncology that improves QOL of cancer survivors. Many studies focused on investigating the benefits of exercise interventions on preventing falls and improving physical performance of older adults. Combination of strength and functional balance exercise has been demonstrated as an effective method to improve balance performance, rather than strength training alone