Safety and Efficacy Study of mFOLFOX6 + Panitumumab Combination Therapy and 5-FU/LV + Panitumumab Combination Therapy in Participants With Chemotherapy-naïve Unresectable Advanced Recurrent Colorectal Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to exploratorily examine efficacy and safety in the participants with chemotherapy-naïve unresectable, advanced/recurrent colorectal carcinoma of Kirsten rat sarcoma-2 virus (KRAS) wild-type who have been treated with 6 cycles (2 weeks/cycle) of first-line mFOLFOX6 + panitumumab combination therapy and then assigned to two groups i.e., a group receiving 5-FU/LV + panitumumab combination therapy and a group receiving mFOLFOX6 + panitumumab combination therapy.
Colorectal Carcinoma
DRUG: oxaliplatin (OXA), levofolinate calcium (l-LV), 5-FU, panitumumab|DRUG: oxaliplatin (OXA), levofolinate calcium (l-LV), 5-FU, panitumumab
Progression-Free Survival Rate (PFS Rate) at 9 Months After Randomization, PFS rate was defined as the gross percentage of participants who survived with no evidence of progression from the day of randomization (Day 0) until 9 months after Day 0. The presence/absence of progressive disease (PD) was determined based on imaging, consideration of clinical PD, or survival research results. PD based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 9 months after randomization
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The PFS is the period from the date of randomization (Day 0) until the date of judgment of progression from the date of randomization, or until death by all causes, whichever comes first. The presence/absence of progressive disease (PD) was determined based on imaging, consideration of clinical PD, or survival research results. PD based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to approximately 31 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the day of randomization (Day 0) until death by all causes., Up to approximately 31 months|Response Rate (RR), RR was defined as the percentage of participants who had shown complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response in accordance with the RECIST 1.1 criteria after randomization. The best overall response was CR, followed by PR, stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD), and not evaluable (NE). CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters as the best overall response after randomization., SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Up to approximately 31 months|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF was defined as the time from the day of randomization (Day 0) until the day of protocol treatment discontinuation determination, the day of PD decision during protocol treatment, or death from any cause, whichever came the earliest., Up to approximately 31 months|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, Safety population was defined as all participants who received at least one dose of protocol treatment after randomization., Up to 28 days after discontinuation of study drug or start of subsequent therapy (data cut off: 31 August 2017; Overall study completion date)|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events by Severity Graded Using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grade, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure that may or may not be considered related to the medical treatment or procedure. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE displays Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living (ADL). Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., Up to 28 days after discontinuation of study drug or start of subsequent therapy (data cut off: 31 August 2017; Overall study completion date)|Percentage of Participants With Grade 2 or Higher Peripheral Neuropathy, Peripheral neuropathy was defined as events classified with a preferred term (PT) of "peripheral neuropathy" according to Standardized MedDRA Queries., Up to 28 days after discontinuation of study drug or start of subsequent therapy (data cut off: 31 August 2017; Overall study completion date)|Percentage of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Skin Toxicity, Skin toxicity was defined as events classified with an system organ class of "Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders" or a preferred term of "paronychia"., Up to 28 days after discontinuation of study drug or start of subsequent therapy (data cut off: 31 August 2017; Overall study completion date)
The drug being tested in this study is called panitumumab. Panitumumab is being tested to treat people who have advanced/recurrent colorectal carcinoma of KRAS wild-type. This study will look at the efficacy and safety of 5-FU/LV + panitumumab(Pmab) combination therapy or mFOLFOX6 + Pmab combination therapy in the participants.

The study will enroll 164 patients. All participants will receive 6 cycles of Protocol Treatment \[1\]: Pmab 6 mg/kg, DIV, at Day 1, OXA 85 mg/m\^2, DIV, at Day 1, l LV 200 mg/m\^2, DIV, at Day 1, 5-FU 400 mg/m\^2, IV, at Day 1, 5-FU 2400 mg/m\^2, CIV, at Day 2 once every two weeks from cycle 1 through cycle 6.

Then they will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the treatment groups.

* Group A
* Group B

This multi-center trial will be conducted in Japan. The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 20 months.