Talimogene Laherparepvec for the Treatment of Peritoneal Surface Malignancies
The primary objective of this open-label, Phase I, trial is to evaluate the toxicity profile of intraperitoneal talimogene laherparepvec (TVEC) in patients with peritoneal surface dissemination from gastrointestinal or recurrent, platinum-resistant ovarian tumors. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile and viral shedding of TVEC by measuring viral load in serum and urine as well as viral load in peritoneal washings.
Peritoneal Surface Malignancy
BIOLOGICAL: Talimogene Laherparepvec
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Number of participants who experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), from start of treatment until 30-day follow-up visit, up to 14 weeks
This is a non-randomized, open-label Phase I trial in patients with Stage IV peritoneal surface dissemination from gastrointestinal or recurrent, platinum-resistant ovarian tumors enrolled at Duke Cancer Institute. All subjects will complete an extensive medical history, baseline physical examination and clinical assessment to ensure subject eligibility requirements within 4 weeks of starting study drug. All eligible patients must have a peritoneal catheter placed at least 2 weeks prior to the initiation of therapy. All patients will receive an initial loading dose of TVEC 4x10\^6 Plaque Forming Units (PFU) on Cycle 1 Day 1 to enable the formation of protective antibodies as described in the currently approved treatment protocol for the treatment of cutaneous melanoma. Three weeks after the initial loading dose, patients will receive TVEC at the dose level for the cohort for which they are enrolled every 2 weeks for up to 4 doses. The length of the first cycle is 5 weeks and subsequent cycles are 2 weeks in duration.

The first portion of the study, the Dose Escalation cohort, will evaluate the toxicity profile of TVEC in patients with peritoneal surface dissemination from gastrointestinal or recurrent, platinum-resistant ovarian tumors. Using a standard '3+3' dose escalation design, there are up to three dose levels that may be explored. Dose escalation will be dependent on dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) within the cohorts.

Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been determined, an additional 6 subjects will be enrolled to the dose expansion cohort. All subjects will receive an initial loading dose of TVEC 4x10\^6 PFU on Cycle 1 Day 1. Three weeks after the initial loading dose, patients will receive TVEC at the MTD every 2 weeks for up to 4 doses. The length of the first cycle is 5 weeks and the subsequent cycles are 2 weeks in duration. There are a total of four cycles.