Cross-Sectional Study of Oral Health in Patients After Parotid-Sparing Radiation Therapy for Head and Neck Cancer
The investigators are conducting research about oral health and saliva to find out more about the impact of radiation therapy on the oral health of patients.

In order to better understand the role of saliva in maintaining oral health in these patients, the investigators will be collecting, storing, and analyzing the quality of saliva, including the protein content, collected from patients following radiation therapy as well as saliva collected from normal healthy adults.
Head and Neck Cancer
PROCEDURE: Saliva Sample
prevalence of dental caries in patients after PS-IMRT, Various surveys and questionnaires administered for data collection as well as potential risk indicators for dental caries. Oral examination and saliva specimins collected will determine acid, plaque and exposure to tobacco products, 24 Months|prevalence of tooth loss in patients after PS-IMRT, Various surveys and questionnaires administered for data collection as well as potential risk indicators for dental caries. Oral examination and saliva specimins collected will determine acid, plaque and exposure to tobacco products, 24 months
prevalence of periodontal disease after PS-IMRT, number of caries in individual subjects will depend on number of teeth and/or surfaces at risk, we will need to report "prevalence" after adjusting for the total surfaces at risk for each patient. In addition, because data in the cross-sectional cohort will be obtained from patients at different follow-up times since RT, the relationship between prevalence and time since RT will need to be explored to take into account the time effect., 24 Months
Radiation-induced xerostomia is the most common long term complication of head and neck radiation, is usually permanent and is the most frequent reason for reduced quality of life in these patients. The loss of antimicrobial, buffering, cleansing and remineralizing effects of saliva markedly increases the risk for dental caries. Extractions of diseased teeth located in irradiated bone and dental infection involving the bone can trigger osteoradionecrosis (ORN), another serious complication of high dose radiation of the jaws. Therefore, current dental treatment guidelines recommend the extraction of diseased teeth and any teeth that might require extraction in the future, before radiation therapy. (NCI, 1990; Rankin et al, 2003; NIDCR, 2005) As a result, patients with head and neck cancer often have many or all teeth extracted, especially those patients who are judged unlikely to comply with lifelong, daily topical fluoride, oral hygiene practices and frequent professional dental care. (Bruins et al, 1999)