ICON8: Weekly Chemotherapy in Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine if weekly chemotherapy (i.e. giving paclitaxel or carboplatin at a lower dose every week) is more effective than standard chemotherapy (paclitaxel and carboplatin given once every three weeks over 18 weeks) in treating ovarian cancer. The investigators also want to see if weekly chemotherapy causes more or fewer side-effects than standard chemotherapy.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Stage 1: Feasibility assessed as the number of cycles and dose intensity of protocol treatment delivered per patient., 6 months after the 50th patient has been randomised to each arm and 6 months after the 50th patient with a plan to undergo delayed primary surgery has been randomised to each arm|Stage 1: Safety assessed as the rate of any ≥ grade 3 toxicity experienced per patient., 6 months after the 50th patient has been randomised to each arm and 6 months after the 50th patient with a plan to undergo delayed primary surgery has been randomised to each arm|Stage 2: Progression Free Survival rate at 9 months after randomisation, 9 months after first 62 patients randomised per arm|Stage 3: Progression Free Survival, PFS expected 1 year after last patient is randomised. OS expected 3 years after last patient is randomised.|Stage 3: Overall Survival, PFS expected 1 year after last patient is randomised. OS expected 3 years after last patient is randomised.
Stage 3: Toxicity assessed by number of participants with adverse events, Assessment of toxicity profile of dose-fractionated chemotherapy, Expected 1 year and 3 years after last patient is randomised.|Stage 3: Quality of Life, Assessment of potential impact of dose-fractionated chemotherapy on functionality and well-being in patients undergoing first line treatment for ovarian cancer., Expected 1 year and 3 years after last patient is randomised.|Stage 3: Health Economics, Cost-effectiveness analysis of dose-fractionated chemotherapy, Expected 1 year and 3 years after last patient is randomised.
ICON8 is a three-arm, three stage trial. Patients will be randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio. Patients in arm 1 (control arm) will receive weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel on day 1 of a 21-day cycle for 6 cycles. Patients in arm 2 will receive carboplatin on day 1 and dose-fractionated weekly paclitaxel on day 1, 8 and 15 of a 21-day cycle for 6 cycles. Patients in arm 3 will receive dose-fractionated weekly carboplatin and dose-fractionated weekly paclitaxel on day 1, 8 and 15 of a 21-day cycle for 6 cycles.

The trial will have three planned stages. Stage 1 will be conducted to confirm feasibility and safety of protocol treatment in all patients and separately in the Delayed Primary Surgery (DPS) patients. The outcome measure for stage 2 will be 9-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate. The primary outcome measures for stage 3 will be PFS and overall survival and secondary outcomes will be toxicity, Quality of Life and Health Economics. If pre-defined levels of deliverability, at stage 1, or activity, at stage 2, are not met then the research arms will be reconsidered.