Central Catheters Used for Chemotherapy in Women With Breast Cancer
The overall aim of this study is to evaluate two different central venous lines, PICC-lines (PICC) and subcutaneous venous access ports (SVAP) used for chemotherapy in women with breast cancer. The study will compare complications, material wear of the catheters used, patients'- and health care professionals' experiences, and costs. The study will give knowledge about which central venous access that is the most advantageous regarding adjuvant chemotherapy for women with breast cancer in the aspects of safety, quality of care, and quality of life.
Catheter Related Complications
DRUG: FEC75 (or EC90) x 6|DRUG: FEC100 + Taxotere (EC90 + Taxotere) 3+3|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Complications, all complications during the chemotherapy treatment period are registered, Through study completion up to 18 weeks
Questionnaire EQ-5D, Health related quality of life is measured with scores and a scale using EQ-5D., At baseline, at 9 weeks and at end of treatment period 18 weeks (3 measurements)|Questionnaire EORT-QLQ 30, To measure Health related quality of life for patients with cancer the questionnaire EORT-QLQ 30 (Scores) is used., At baseline, at 9 weeks and at end of treatment period 18 weeks (3 measurements)|Questionnaire EORT-QLQ BR32, The Questionnaire EORT-QLQ BR32 (Scores) is used to measure Health related quality of life for patients with breast cancer, At baseline, at 9 weeks and at end of treatment period 18 weeks (3 measurements)|Questionnaire Insomnia Symptom Score, To measure Sleep disturbance the questionnaire Insomnia Symptom Score (Scores) is used., At baseline, at 9 weeks and at end of treatment period 18 weeks (3 measurements)|Body Esteem Scale (BES), The participants Body image is measured by Questionnaire: Body Esteem Scale (BES) (Scores), At baseline, at 9 weeks and at end of treatment period 18 weeks (3 measurements)|Enriched Social Support Instrument (ESSI), The participants social support is measured with the questionnaire: Enriched Social Support Instrument (ESSI) (Scores), At baseline, at 9 weeks and at end of treatment period 18 weeks (3 measurements)|Brief-Illness Perception Questionnaire (B-IPQ), Illness Perception is measured with the questionnaire: Brief-Illness Perception Questionnaire (B-IPQ) (scores), At baseline, at 9 weeks and at end of treatment period 18 weeks (3 measurements)
Morphological material degradation, Morphological surface changes of PICC and SVAP after clinical use.

End-ponits:

• Material degradation of PICC/SVAP measured with Scanning Electronic Microscopy, After study completion up to 18 weeks|Health Economy related to HRQL, Questionnaire EQ-5D (scores transformed to Qaly) In- and out-patient costs for PICC/SVAP, At baseline, 9 weeks and at study completion 18 weeks (3 measurements)|Health Economy related to PICC and SVAP, Device costs, maintenance costs (including complication cost), operation costs, staff costs retrieved from medical and economical records, Retrospective data assessment after study completion 18 weeks|Lived experience of complications, Structured diary filled by the participants regarding VAS, Visual Analog Scale, weekly, through study completion up to 18 weeks|Lived experience of management of complications, Structured study specific diary filled by the participants regarding time management of device and complications., weekly, through study completion up to 18 weeks
N=250 women between 18 and 70 years of age with invasive breast cancer who are allocated to adjuvant or neo adjuvant chemotherapy during 18 weeks at the Department of Oncology at Karolinska University Hospital , Stockholm Sweden are eligible to participate in the present study. Exclusion criteria are cognitive dysfunction and/or inability to understand Swedish. Before participation an informed consent will be collected. The patients will be randomized to receive a PICC or a SVAP. Complications will be registered as well as the treatments.

Bacterial cultures will be taken at removal of PICC/SVAP. The used PICC/SVAP will be transported to the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) and subjected to material analyses. Comparison with reference materials from the in-vitro study and with new reference catheters will be performed. Patient assessments with questionnaire concerning HRQL, illness perception, body imaging, life style and sleep disturbance will be collected at baseline and at the last chemotherapy session. Interviews with the patients about life situations will be conducted half through the chemotherapy treatment period.In- and out-patients costs, i.e. medication, materials, costs related to the care of the PICC/SVAP, costs for complications, additional costs for the patients regarding the treatment, etc., will be monitored and registered. In- and out-patient costs will also be monitored. Data from medical records concerning treatments for complications will also be taken into consideration.