Immunogenicity of GlaxoSmithKline Biological's Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine (580299) Versus Merck's Gardasil® in Healthy Females 18-45 Years of Age
HPV infection has been established as a necessary cause of cervical cancer. GSK Biologicals has developed an HPV-16/18 L1 VLP AS04 vaccine (Cervarix TM) which targets the 2 most common oncogenic HPV types (HPV-16 and HPV-18), found in \> 70%, approximately, of all cervical cancers. Recently, Merck's HPV vaccine Gardasil® \[quadrivalent human papillomavirus (HPV-6,11,16,18 L1 VLP) recombinant vaccine\] has been approved by the FDA for prevention of genital tract cancers and pre-cancers and genital warts in females. Although the GSK HPV vaccine and Gardasil® have different compositions and are expected to have different efficacy profiles, each vaccine targets prevention of HPV-16 and 18 genital tract cancers and pre-cancers. Therefore, a comparison of the immunogenicity of the two vaccines is warranted. This Phase 3b study is designed to compare the immunogenicity of the GSK vaccine (HPV-16/18) to Gardasil® in healthy adult females 18-45 years of age.

The Protocol Posting has been updated as the study will be extended by 3 additional years.
Infections, Papillomavirus|Papillomavirus Vaccines
BIOLOGICAL: GSK Biologicals HPV 16/18 vaccine 580299 (CervarixTM)|BIOLOGICAL: Gardasil ® (Merck & Co. Inc)|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo
Titers of Anti-human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Neutralizing Antibodies, Titers are displayed as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs). The titer is the serum dilution giving a 50 percent reduction of the signal compared to a control without serum., At Month 7
Titers of Anti-human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Neutralizing Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs). Titer is the serum dilution giving a 50 percent reduction of the signal compared to a control without serum.

Data for Month 7 on subjects aged 18 to 26 years are given in the outcome above as a primary outcome measure., At Month 6, 7, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60|Number of Subjects With Antibody Titers (Neutralizing Assay) Against Other Oncongenic HPV Types Greater Than or Equal to the Cut-off Value, Other oncogenic HPV types include HPV-31 and HPV-45. The titer value (=serum dilution giving a 50 percent reduction of the signal compared to a control without serum) used as the cut-off for seroconversion was 40 for both other oncogenic types HPV-31 and HPV-45., At Month 7|Titers of Antibodies to Other Oncogenic HPV Types Measured by Neutralization Assay, Other Oncogenic Types include HPV-31 and HPV-45. Titers were measured by neutralization assay and are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs). The titer is the serum dilution giving a 50 percent reduction of the signal compared to a control without serum, At Month 7|Number of Subjects With Antibody Titers (Neutralizing Assay) Against Human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Greater Than or Equal to the Cut-off Value, The titer value (=serum dilution giving a 50 percent reduction of the signal compared to a control without serum) used as the cut-off for seroconversion was 40 for both HPV-16 and HPV-18., At Month 6, 7, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60|Number of Subjects With Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Antibody Titers Above Cut-off Values, Measured by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), Cut-off values assessed were greater than or equal to 8 ELISA units per milliliter (EL.U/mL) for HPV-16 and greater than or equal to 7 EL.U/mL for HPV-18., At Month 6, 7, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60|Titers of Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Antibodies Measured by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed as Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay Units Per Milliliter (EL.U/mL)., At Month 6, 7, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60|Number of Subjects With Antibody Titers to Other Oncogenic HPV Types Greater Than or Equal to a Cut-off Value, Measured by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), Other oncogenic types include HPV-31 and HPV-45. Cut-off values assessed were greater than or equal 59 EL.U/mL in the sera of subjects seronegative before vaccination., At Month 6, 7, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48|Titers of Antibodies to Other Oncogenic HPV Types Measured by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), Other oncogenic types include HPV-31 and HPV-45. Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed as Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay Units Per Milliliter (EL.U/mL)., At Month 6, 7, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48|Number of HPV-16 and HVP-18 Specific CD4 Cells Producing at Least 2 Different Cytokines Per Million of CD4 T Cells, Number of cells were expressed as geometric mean, minimum and maximum values of specific CD4 cells producing at least 2 cytokines (CD40 Ligand, Interleukin-2, Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha or Interferon-gamma) per million of CD4 T-cells., At Month 7, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48|Number of HPV-16 and HVP-18 Specific CD8 Cells Producing at Least 2 Different Cytokines Per Million of CD8 T Cells, Data were expressed as geometric mean, minimum and maximum values of specific CD8 cells producing at least 2 cytokines (CD40 Ligand, Interleukin-2, Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha or Interferon-gamma) per million of CD8 T-cells.

Analyses for further time points were not performed, as there was no response at these time points., At Month 7, 12 and 18|Number of HPV-16 and HVP-18 Specific B-cells Per Million B Cells, HPV-16 and HPV-18 Specific Memory B Cells were measured by Enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) assay and expressed as geometric mean, minimum and maximum values of specific B-cells per million of cells., At Month 7, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48|Titers of HPV-16 IgG and HPV-18 IgG (by ELISA) in Cervico-vaginal Secretions (CVS), Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed as Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay Units Per Milliliter (EL.U/mL)., At Month 7, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48|Number of Subjects Completing the 3-dose Vaccination Schedule, Up to Month 7|Number of Subjects Reporting Any, Grade 3 and Related Solicited Local Symptoms, Assessed solicited local symptoms were pain, redness and swelling. Any = occurrence of the symptom regardless of intensity grade. Grade 3 pain = pain that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 redness/swelling = redness/swelling spreading beyond 50 millimeters (mm) of injection site. All solicited local symptoms were assessed as related to study vaccination., During the 7-day period (Day 0-6) following vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Any, Grade 3 and Related Solicited General Symptoms, Assessed solicited general symptoms were arthralgia, fatigue, fever \[defined as axillary temperature equal to or above 37.5 degrees Celsius (°C)\], gastrointestinal, headache, myalgia, rash and urticaria. Any = occurrence of the symptom regardless of intensity grade. Grade 3 symptom = symptom that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 fever = fever \> 39.0 °C. Related = symptom assessed by the investigator as related to the vaccination., During the 7-day period (Day 0-6) following vaccination|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs), Unsolicited AE covers any AE reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms.Grade 3 AE = AE that prevented normal activity. Related AE = AE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination., During the 30-day period (Day 0-29) following vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies. MSCs include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases. Common diseases include upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervico-vaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities and injury., Up to Month 7|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies. MSC include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases. Common diseases include upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervico-vaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities and injury., Up To Month 12|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies. MSC include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases. Common diseases include upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervico-vaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities and injury., Up To Month 18|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies. MSC include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases. Common diseases include upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervico-vaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities and injury., Up To Month 24|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies. MSC include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases. Common diseases include upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervico-vaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities and injury., Up To Month 36|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies. MSCs include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases. Common diseases include upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervico-vaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities and injury., Up to Month 48|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs include autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies. MSCs include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases. Common diseases include upper respiratory infections, sinusitis, pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, urinary tract infections, cervico-vaginal yeast infections, menstrual cycle abnormalities and injury.

Note: NOCD and MSC cases were unblinded at the Month 60 analysis., Up to Month 60|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Intensity of SAEs was not assessed., Up to Month 7|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Intensity of SAEs was not assessed., Up to Month 12|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Intensity of SAEs was not assessed., Up to Month 18|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Intensity of SAEs was not assessed., Up to Month 24|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Intensity of SAEs was not assessed., Up to Month 36|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Intensity of SAEs was not assessed., Up to Month 48|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Intensity of SAE(s) was not assessed.

Note: SAEs were unblinded at the Month 60 analysis., Up to Month 60
This Protocol Posting has been updated following Protocol Amendment 25, November 2010