Study Of Gemcitabine Plus AG-013736 Versus Gemcitabine For Advanced Pancreatic Cancer.
The purpose of this study is to determine whether investigational study drug, AG-013736, and gemcitabine are effective in the first-line treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer.
Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal
DRUG: AG-013736|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: placebo
Overall Survival (OS), Time in weeks from randomization to date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (the death date minus the date of randomization plus 1) divided by 7. Death was determined from adverse event data (where outcome was death) or from follow-up contact data (where the participant current status was death)., Baseline until death or at least 1 year after the randomization of last participant
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time in weeks from randomization to the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. PFS was calculated as = (first event date minus randomization date plus 1) divided by 7. Tumor progression was determined from oncologic assessment data (where data meet the criteria for progressive disease \[PD\]), or from adverse event (AE) data (where the outcome was "Death")., Baseline until disease progression or at least 1 year after the randomization of last participant|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR), Percentage of participants with OR based assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Confirmed response were those that persisted on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target). PR were those with at least 30 percent decrease in sum of the longest dimensions of target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions, with non target lesions not increased or absent., Baseline, every 8 weeks until tumor progression or death|Duration of Response (DR), Time in weeks from the first documentation of objective tumor response to objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Duration of tumor response was calculated as (the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to cancer minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1) divided by 7., Baseline until death or at least 1 year after the randomization of last participant|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC QLQ- C30) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30: included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status (GHS), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4- point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores averaged, transformed to 0- 100 scale; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. Change from baseline=Cycle/Day score minus baseline score., Baseline, Day 1 (D1) of each cycle (C2-C13) up to 28 days after the last dose (follow-up) or early withdrawal|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Pancreatic 26 (EORTC QLQ- PAN26) Score, QLQ-PAN26 consists of 26 questions (Qs) relating to disease symptoms, treatment (Tx) side effects and emotional issues specific to pancreatic cancer (PC). Questions include on altered bowel habits, pain, dietary changes, disease and Tx-related symptoms and issues related to the emotional and social well-being of participants with PC. All 26 Qs are answered on 4-point Likert scale ranging from '1=not at all' to 4='very much' and subsequently transformed into scales that range from 0-100; higher scores= greater degree of symptoms or treatment side effects and emotional issues., Baseline, Day 1 (D1) of each cycle (C2-C13) up to 28 days after the last dose (follow-up) or early withdrawal|Change From Baseline Brief Pain Inventory-short Form (BPI-sf) Score, BPI-sf is an 11-item self-report questionnaire that is designed to assess the severity and impact of pain on daily functions. BPI-sf are 4 questions that assess pain intensity (worst, least, average, right now) and 7 questions that assess impact of pain on daily functions (general activity, mood, walking ability, normal work, relations with other people, sleep, enjoyment of life). Each question is answered on a scale ranging from 0 to 10; '0=No pain and 10=Pain as bad as you can imagine'. Measure can be scored by item, with lower scores being indicative of less pain or pain interference., Baseline, Day 1 (D1) of each cycle (C2-C13) up to 28 days after the last dose (follow-up) or early withdrawal|Change From Baseline in Euro QoL Questionnaire- 5 Dimension (EQ-5D) Health State Profile, EQ-5D: participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single utility score. Health State Profile component assesses level of current health for 5 domains: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, anxiety and depression; 1 indicates better health state (no problems); 3 indicates worst health state (eg, "confined to bed"). Scoring formula developed by EuroQol Group assigns a utility value for each domain in the profile. Score is transformed and results in a total score range -0.594 to 1.000; higher score indicates a better health state., Baseline, Day 1 (D1) of each cycle (C2-C13) up to 28 days after the last dose (follow-up) or early withdrawal|Change From Baseline in Euro QoL Questionnaire- 5 Dimension (EQ-5D) VAS Score, EQ-5D: participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single index value. The VAS component rates current health state on a scale from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state); higher scores indicate a better health state., Baseline, Day 1 (D1) of each cycle (C2-C13) up to 28 days after the last dose (follow-up) or early withdrawal|Population Pharmacokinetic (PK) Analysis for Axitinib (AG-013736), Data for this Outcome Measure are not reported here because the analysis population includes participants who were not enrolled in this study. ClinicalTrials.gov is designed for reporting results from only those participants who were enrolled in the study and described in the Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics modules., Day 1 (pre-dose), Day 29, Day 57 and then every 8 weeks up to 23 months
This study was prematurely discontinued for futility on 23 January 2009, based on a planned interim analysis by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) that found no evidence of improvement in the primary endpoint (survival) in patients treated with axitinib and gemcitabine compared to gemcitabine alone. Enrollment on this study has been discontinued.