Mesylate Apatinib for Stage Ⅳ STS After Failure of Chemotherapy
This is a Prospective, Open-label, Single-Arm, Multi-center phase II clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of Apatinib for Chemotherapy Failure Ⅳ Stage Soft Tissue Sarcoma.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma, Adult, Stage II
DRUG: Apatinib
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the length of time from random assignment to disease progression or to death resulting from any cause other than the progress., 2 year
Disease control rate(DCR）, Investigators will assess treatment response according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1（RECIST1.1）, 2 year|Objective tumor response rate(ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects having achieved confirmed Complete Response + Partial Response as best overall response according to radiological assessments., 2 year|Overall survival(OS), OS is defined as the length of time from random assignment to death or to last contact., 3 year|Adverse Events(AEs), AEs are evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0., 2 year
The prognosis of sarcoma patients in stage IV is poor. For STS, the response rate of chemotherapy is only 20-35% and the median survival time is about 12 months. The 5 year survival rate is lower than 10% reported in several large-scale studies. Although chemotherapy plays a major role in the treatment of advanced STS, the classic chemotherapy agents are not curative. Combination chemotherapy or dose-dense regimens have largely failed to improve the response rates. Long-term using of cytotoxic drugs increased the risk of toxicity in patients. Apatinib is a small molecular inhibitor of Vascular Epithelial Growth Factor Receptor-2 (VEGFR-2). It has been approved as a second-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer. Several phase III clinical studies of non small cell lung cancer, liver cancer, colorectal cancer and other tumors also showed apatinib has less toxic side effects and better patient tolerance. However, the clinical application of apatinib in STS is still lack of evidence-based medicine. And this clinical trial is designed to prospectively investigate the efficacy and safety of apatinib in stage IV sarcoma patients who failed in chemotherapy.