Linsitinib in Treating Patients With Asymptomatic or Mildly Symptomatic Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well linsitinib works in treating patients with asymptomatic or mild symptomatic metastatic prostate cancer. Linsitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Hormone-resistant Prostate Cancer|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: linsitinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
PSA Response Analyzed Using the PCWG2 Definition, Number of patients with a PSA Response will be evaluated according to the recommendations from National Cancer Institute Prostate-Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria. PSA decline of at least 50% from baseline confirmed by a second measurement at least 4 weeks later., 12 weeks
Incidence of Toxicities Based on CTCAE Version 4.0 Criteria, Number of patients with at least possibly related to treatment toxicities grade 3 or higher based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Up to 2 years|Number of Patients With Bidimensional Measurable Disease RECIST-based Response, RECIST response categories: Progressive disease (PD): \>=20% increase in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesion(s), taking as reference smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started. Complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR): \>=30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesion(s), taking as reference baseline sum LD. Stable disease (SD): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase to qualify as PD., Up to 2 years|Time to PSA Progression (TTPP) Analyzed Using the PCWG2 Definition, TTPP will be measured from protocol registration to appearance of PSA progression as defined by the criteria of the PSA Working Group response criteria. The end point for progression will be calculated at the time a 25% increase in PSA has been achieved., assessed up to 12 weeks|Overall Survival Based on the RECIST v1.1, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression Free survival (PFS) time was measured as the time from the date of on study up to the date of occurrence of the first event defining a disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate time to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression based on Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG2) criteria.

II. To evaluate PSA response (proportion of patients achieving a PSA decline \> 50% according to PCWG2 criteria in patients receiving linsitinib \[OSI-906\]).

III. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR) in patients with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)-defined measurable disease receiving OSI-906.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of OSI-906 on time-to opiate use for cancer pain. II. To evaluate the effect of OSI-906 on radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS) of patients with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic (non-opioid requiring) castrate-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).

III. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) of patients with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic (non-opioid requiring) CRPC receiving OSI-906.

IV. To further evaluate the safety of OSI-906 in patients with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic (non-opioid requiring) CRPC.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the effects of OSI-906 in the levels of androstenedione, dehydroepiandrostenedione (DHEA), DHEA-sulfate, p insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-IR), and p-insulin receptor (IR). (Exploratory) II. To describe the effects of OSI-906 in the levels of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta (b1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha (a), and monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) as markers of metastatic progression. (Exploratory) III. To describe the effects of OSI-906 on the number of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and endothelial cells (CECs). (Exploratory) IV. To use ribonucleic acid (RNA) extracted from CTCs to evaluate effects on downstream targets of IGF-1R signaling after OSI-906 treatment. (Exploratory) V. To measure the effect of OSI-906 on the expression of IGF-1R on CTCs. (Exploratory)

OUTLINE:

Patients receive linsitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo serum and plasma sample collection at baseline, on day 1 of courses 2 and 4, and after completion of study treatment for correlative studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.