Safety and Efficacy of Telapristone Acetate (Proellex®) Administered Vaginally for the Treatment of Uterine Fibroids
The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of two vaginal doses of Proellex® administered for up to 2 courses of treatment (18 weeks each), each separated by an Off-Drug Interval (ODI), to premenopausal women with symptomatic uterine fibroids.
Uterine Fibroids
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Telapristone Acetate
Percentage of Participants in Amenorrhea at the End of Treatment Course 1, Amenorrhea was defined as any 28-day period during treatment (not including the ODI) without a bleeding intensity score \>1. Participants were provided with a daily diary and Pictorial Blood Loss Assessment Chart (PBAC) to record information about the menstrual blood loss (MBL). Bleeding intensity was graded on a 5-point scale where: 1=spotting to 5=heavy bleeding., At the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1
Percentage of Participants in Amenorrhea at the End of Treatment Course 2, Amenorrhea was defined as any 28-day period during treatment (not including the ODI) without a bleeding intensity score \>1 after 2 courses of treatment. Participants were provided with a daily diary and (PBAC) to record information about the MBL. Bleeding intensity was graded on a 5-point scale where: 1=spotting to 5=heavy bleeding., At the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2|Percentage Change in PBAC Scores From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2, Uterine bleeding was assessed with the use of the PBAC, a validated self-reporting method to estimate menstrual blood loss. Participants recorded daily the number of tampons and towels used and the degree to which individual items were soiled with blood (plus small or large clots). Pictorial scores range from score 1 for slightly stained tampon/towel, 5 for a partially stained tampon/towel, 10 for a completely saturated tampon, 20 for a completely saturated towel, and 5 for each episode of flooding and for each blood clot larger than a quarter in size. Total score can range from 0 (no bleeding) to \>500. Higher scores indicate more bleeding. Lower scores indicate less bleeding. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement (reduction in bleeding)., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1 and the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2|Percentage Change in Transformed Total Uterine Fibroid System Quality of Life Survey System Severity (UFS-SSS) Score From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. Each question was answered on a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. The sum of the total scores was transformed to a range of 0=no symptoms (best) to 100=most severe symptoms (worst). A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 1 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 1: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "heavy bleeding during your menstrual period"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 2 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 2: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "passing blood clots during your menstrual period"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 3 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 3: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "fluctuation in the duration of your menstrual period compared to your previous cycle"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 4 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 4: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "fluctuation in the length of your monthly cycle compared to your previous cycles"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 5 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 5: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "feeling tightness or pressure in your pelvic area"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 6 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 6: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "frequent urination during the daytime hours"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 7 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 7: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "frequent nighttime urination"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in the Individual UFS-SSS Subscale Score Question 8 From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit, UFS-SSS is an 8 question assessment tool used to measure symptom severity and has been validated as a three month look back questionnaire. The participant answered UFS-SSS subscale question 8: During the previous 3 months how distressed were you by "feeling fatigued"? using a 5-point scale where 1=Not at all to 5=A very great deal. A negative percentage change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1, the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2 and the Course 2 Week 24 Follow-up Visit|Percentage Change in Total Uterine Fibroid Volume From Baseline to the End of Treatment Courses 1 and 2, The total uterine fibroid volume was measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (No treatment period) to the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 1 and the end of 18-weeks Treatment Course 2
The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of two vaginal doses of Proellex® administered for up to 2 courses of treatment (18 weeks each), each separated by an Off-Drug Interval (ODI), to premenopausal women with symptomatic uterine fibroids.