Treatment of Elderly AML Patients With Induction Chemotherapy Followed by G-CSF-Mobilized Stem Cells From Haploidentical Related Donors
The purpose of this study is to test a method of bone marrow transplantation that results in only temporary donor immune function. In other words, the donor immune cells are given in a way that will allow them to attack leukemia briefly before being destroyed by their own immune system, or "rejected." The investigators want to test whether temporary donor immune function is enough to improve the odds of achieving a remission without exposing the patient to the toxicities of a full bone marrow transplant. To do this, the investigators will use standard chemotherapy for AML followed by an infusion of donor stem cells. The donor will be a family member who is haploidentically, or half matched, to the patient such as a child or sibling. Chemotherapy designed to treat AML should not be strong enough to prevent them from rejecting the donor stem cells. The investigators will then follow the patient to see how long the donor stem cells stay in them. The study will test whether this process is feasible and can result in improved chances of obtaining a remission.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
DRUG: Induction Chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: G-PBSC Infusion
Complete Remission (CR), Peripheral Blood Counts: The peripheral blood neutrophil count should be ≥1,500/μl (sustained without growth factor support), and the platelets count should be ≥100,000/μl (without transfusion). No circulating blasts (in the absence of growth factor) should be detected.

Bone Marrow Aspirate: The cellularity of the bone marrow should approximate normal. There must be evidence of maturation of all cell lines. The bone marrow aspirate should contain \< 5% blasts. Auer rods should not be detected.

Extramedullary Leukemia: Extramedullary leukemia, such as CNS or soft tissue involvement, must not be present., 4 weeks
The purpose of this study is to test a method of bone marrow transplantation that results in only temporary donor immune function. In other words, the donor immune cells are given in a way that will allow them to attack leukemia briefly before being destroyed by their own immune system, or "rejected." The investigators want to test whether temporary donor immune function is enough to improve the odds of achieving a remission without exposing the patient to the toxicities of a full bone marrow transplant. To do this, the investigators will use standard chemotherapy for AML followed by an infusion of donor stem cells. The donor will be a family member who is haploidentically, or half matched, to the patient such as a child or sibling. Chemotherapy designed to treat AML should not be strong enough to prevent them from rejecting the donor stem cells. The investigators will then follow the patient to see how long the donor stem cells stay in them. The study will test whether this process is feasible and can result in improved chances of obtaining a remission.