Ivabradine to Prevent Anthracycline-induced Cardiotoxicity
The aim of this study is to investigate protective effects of ivabradine in adult cancer patients undergoing anthracycline-based chemotherapy.
Patients With Cancer
DRUG: Ivabradine
Change in left venticular dysfunction by global longitudinal strain (GLS)., Change in global longitudinal strain (GLS) at least by 3%., 1, 3 and 6 months
Incidence of myocardial injury according to levels of high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T and NT-proBNP, Incidence of myocardial injury according to levels of high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T and NT-proBNP., 1, 3 and 6 months|Incidence of left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction by 2D and 3D echocardiography., Incidence of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction defined as drop of LV ejection fraction by ≥ 10%., 1, 3 and 6 months
Incidence of symptomatic heart failure., Incidence of symptomatic heart failure., 1, 3 and 6 months|Changes in left ventricular and right ventricular dimensions by 2D and 3D echocardiography., Changes in left ventricular and right ventricular dimensions by 2D and 3D echocardiography., 1, 3 and 6 months
Cancer treatment with anthracyclines may cause heart damage and can lead to heart failure. There are drugs which may protect against cardiotoxic effects of anthracyclines (renin-angiotensin inhibitors and beta blockers), but they are not tolerated due to hypotension. Ivabradine is heart rate lowering drug without effect on blood pressure which was approved for treatment of angina pectoris and heart failure. The aim of this study is to investigate protective effects of ivabradine in cancer patients undergoing anthracycline-based chemotherapy.

Ivabradine selectively inhibits If currents in the sinus node and prolongs the duration of spontaneous depolarization. That controls the heart's contractions and regulates the heart rate. Additionally, ivabradine might preserve myocardial function and contractility without effect on blood pressure. Ivabradine was approved for symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris and chronic heart failure.

The aim of this study is to investigate protective effects of ivabradine in adult cancer patients undergoing anthracycline-based chemotherapy.