Radiation Therapy Plus Fludarabine in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Cancer of the Mouth, Pharynx, or Larynx
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of radiation therapy plus fludarabine in treating patients who have locally advanced cancer of the mouth, pharynx, or larynx.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy (RT)
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Fludarabine During Sixth & Seventh Weeks of Radiotherapy, MTD based on systemic toxicity of drug and acute mucosal reactions in the irradiated fields., Every 4 weeks
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of fludarabine that can be given during the sixth and seventh weeks of radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx, based on the systemic toxicity of the drug and the acute mucosal reactions in the irradiated fields. II. Document the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of this combination therapy in this patient population.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of fludarabine. Patients receive radiotherapy on days 1-5 for 7 weeks. Patients receive fludarabine IV on days 1-5 of weeks 6 and 7 of radiotherapy. Fludarabine is administered 3-4 hours prior to daily radiotherapy. Cohorts of 3 patients receive escalating doses of fludarabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose that produces a severe toxicity rate nearest to 20%. Patients are followed every 4 weeks after the completion of treatment until acute reactions have resolved, then every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 18 patients will be accrued for this study within 1.5 years.