The Efficacy of Serum Pepsinogen for Prediction of Metachronous Gastric Neoplasm
After endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer (EGC), there remained concerned about the development of the metachronous gastric neoplasm (MGN). The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of H. pylori eradication for reducing MGN after ESD and the efficacy of serum pepsinogen (PG) for predicting development of MGN after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for EGC and to evaluate other risk factors for the incidence of MGN. The investigators enrolled the participants who were tested serum PG I and II at the time of ESD for EGC, from January 2007 to May 2013 in single tertiary center, retrospectively. The baseline characteristics of the participants, H. pylori status, and serum pepsinogen were analyzed for the development of the MGN.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: H pylori eradication
To estimate the incidence (number of participants) of metachronous gastric neoplasm after ESD between H. pylori eradicated group and H. pylori persistent group, The investigators were estimated the number of participants who found metachronous gastric neoplasm after ESD for EGC during follow up endoscopic surveillance. Then, the investigator will evaluate the statitistical difference in the incidence of the development of metachornous gastric neoplasm between H. pylori eradicated group and H. pylori persistent group., Up to 8 years after ESD for EGC
To evaluate the incidence of metachronous gastric neoplasm after ESD based on diffferent cut off point of serum pepsinogen., The investigators will evaluate the incidence of metachronous gastric neoplasm after ESD using several cut off level of serum pepsinogen: 30, 50 and 70 ng/mL for PG I and 3 for PG I/II ratio. The appropriate cut off level could be found for indicating the development of metachronous gastric neoplasm using serum PG, Up to 8 years after ESD for EGC
After endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer (EGC), there remained concerned about the development of the metachronous gastric neoplasm (MGN). The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of H. pylori eradication for reducing MGN after ESD and the efficacy of serum pepsinogen (PG) for predicting development of MGN after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for EGC and to evaluate other risk factors for the incidence of MGN. The investigators enrolled the participants who were tested serum PG I and II at the time of ESD for EGC, from January 2007 to May 2013 in single tertiary center, retrospectively. The baseline characteristics of the participants, H. pylori status, and serum pepsinogen were analyzed for the development of the MGN.