the Effect of Doctor-nurse-patient Cooperative Analgesic Linkage Program on Movement Evoked Pain
1. To establish doctor-nurse-patient cooperative analgesic linkage program.
2. Evaluate the effect of doctor-nurse-patient cooperative analgesic linkage program on movement evoked pain after laparotomy for patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease through quasi-experimental study.
Pain, Postoperative|Anaplasia
DRUG: Routine Dezocine injection|DRUG: Adjusted Dezocine injection|DRUG: Routine Dynastat or Flurbiprofen Axetil jinjection|DRUG: Adjusted Dynastat or Flurbiprofen Axetil jinjection|OTHER: postoperative rehabilitation|DRUG: normal analgesia pump administration|DRUG: adjusted analgesia pump administration
movement evoked pain (Numerical rating scale), Assess movement evoked pain during rehabilitation. Numerical rating scale is a common pain rating scale. The score ranges from 0 to 10. 0 is no pain, 10 is the most severe pain., Each rehabilitation within 3 days after surgery|pain at rest (Numerical rating scale), Assess pain at rest before rehabilitation.Numerical rating scale is a common pain rating scale. The score ranges from 0 to 10. 0 is no pain, 10 is the most severe pain., Each rehabilitation within 3 days after surgery
satisfaction questionare of pain control, Patients answer the questionare and rate the satisfaction of pain control. The questionnaire includes 7 items indicating different aspect of pain control. Patients rate their satisfaction using score. The score ranges from 1 to 5. 1 is extremely not satisfied, 5 is extremely satisfied., three days after surgery|the time of first bowel movement, Record the time of first bowel movement after surgery, three days after surgery|total dose of analgesics, record and calculate the total dose of analgesics, three days after surgery|pain at night (Numerical rating scale), Asess the pain at rest during night.Numerical rating scale is a common pain rating scale. The score ranges from 0 to 10. 0 is no pain, 10 is the most severe pain., three days after surgery|adverse events during rehabilitation, adverse events during rehabilitation, such as nausea, vomiting, headache, falls, three days after surgery
Part I The establishment of doctor-nurse-patient cooperative analgesic linkage program

1. Based on literature review and clinical investigation results, initially make a doctor-nurse-patient cooperative analgesic linkage program through discussion in experts consensus meeting.
2. Using Delphi method, determine the doctor-nurse-patient cooperative analgesic linkage program after two rounds consultation.

Part II Clinical application study of doctor-nurse-patient cooperative analgesic linkage program.

Conduct non-randomized control study in corresponding period. 80 patients from two wards which managed by the same medical and nursing team were divided into experimental and control group. Patients in the control group were received routine post-operative analgesia pump and analgesics, and functional rehabilitation, while ones in the experimental group were received doctor-nurse-patient cooperative analgesic linkage program. Evaluate the effect of pain control during rehabilitation, adverse events during rehabilitation, patients' satisfaction of pain control.