Alpha-TEA and Trastuzumab for the Treatment of Refractory HER2+ Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of alpha-TEA when given together with trastuzumab and to see how well they work for the treatment of HER2+ breast cancer that does not respond to treatment (refractory) and has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Anti-cancer treatment, such as alpha-TEA, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Alpha-TEA may also alter cancer growth by stimulating the body's immune response against the tumor. Trastuzumab is a form of "targeted therapy" because it works by attaching itself to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as HER2 receptors. When trastuzumab attaches to HER2 receptors, the signals that tell the cells to grow are blocked and the cancer cell may be marked for destruction by the body's immune system. Giving alpha-TEA and trastuzumab may work better for the treatment of HER2+ refractory and metastatic breast cancer compared to usual treatment.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|HER2 Positive Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Refractory Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Alpha-tocopheryloxyacetic Acid|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab
Incidence of adverse events of 4 escalating doses of alpha-tocopheryloxyacetic acid (TEA) therapy when combined with trastuzumab, Toxicity grading will be evaluated per Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0., Up to 4 years|Clinical response rate of alpha-TEA when combined with trastuzumab, Clinical response will be performed by computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis performed prior to enrollment and then after every 3 cycles per standard of care. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and immune related (ir)RECIST criteria will be used to determine response. Both progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) will be measured., Up to 4 years
Change in level of activated effector memory CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells at 4 escalating doses of alpha-TEA and concurrent trastuzumab, The level of memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells will be evaluated by flow cytometry. Memory CD4+ T cells will be defined as CD3+CD4+CD38+HLA-DR+CCR7-CD45RA- and memory CD8+ T cells will be defined as CD3+CD8+CD38+ HLA-DR+CCR7-CD45RA-., At baseline, at cycle 4 Day 1, and then Day 1 of every 4th cycle while on study (each cycle is 28 days), assessed up to 4 years|Change in the number of HER2 specific T cells at each dose level, Will determine if concurrent alpha-TEA and trastuzumab increase the number of HER2 specific T cells at each dose level. Endogenous immunity to HER2 will be evaluated using interferon (IFN)-gamma enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) assay. A statistically significant increase of HER2 specific immunity after concurrent alpha-TEA and trastuzumab treatment when compared to baseline will constitute augmentation of HER2 specific immunity., Baseline up to 4 years|Modulation of circulating natural killer (NK) cells with concurrent alpha-TEA and trastuzumab therapy, Flow cytometry will be used to assess the number of NK cells as defined by CD3-CD16+CD56+ cells from whole blood. Flow will be used to analyze the function of NK cells, specifically through degranulation markers (CD107a+) and through IFN-gamma production. The level of NK cell CD107+ uptake and IFN-gamma production in response to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1 negative cell will be evaluated., At baseline, at cycle 4 Day 1, and then Day 1 of every 4th cycle while on study (each cycle is 28 days), assessed up to 4 years
OUTLINE:

This is a dose-escalation study of alpha-TEA.

Patients receive one of 4 doses of alpha-TEA orally (PO) on days 1-14 of each cycle. Patients also receive trastuzumab on day 1 of cycle 1 and then every 3 weeks per standard of care. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 4 years.