Bortezomib, Rituximab and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Participants With Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of bortezomib when given with rituximab and chemotherapy drugs and to see how well they work in treating participants with mantle cell lymphoma. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, dexamethasone, methotrexate, and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving bortezomib, rituximab and combination chemotherapy may work better at treating mantle cell lymphoma.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Methotrexate|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vincristine
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Bortezomib (Phase I), Determine the safety and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bortezomib when added to the combination of rituximab, methotrexate, and cytarabine alternating with bortezomib, rituximab-hyperCVAD in patients with untreated aggressive mantle cell lymphoma., Cycle 1 Day 1 - End of Cycle 2 up to 60 days.|Time to Failure (Phase II), Failure will be defined as recurrence/progression of disease or death from either disease or toxicity. Bayesian toxicity monitoring schema will be used to monitor severe toxicity profile in combined therapy. Severe toxicity is defined as at least two episodes of neutropenic fever during treatment courses., First date of diagnosis up to 5 years
Number of Participants With Overall Response Rate, Response rate is determined by CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, unilateral BM biopsy and aspirate with lymphoma markers (if initially positive) and colonoscopy/endoscopy if applicable., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is the time in number of months from start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause., Date of diagnosis to last known date of survival, up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bortezomib when added to the combination of rituximab, methotrexate, and cytarabine alternating with bortezomib, rituximab-hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, dexamethasone (hyperCVAD) in patients with untreated aggressive mantle cell lymphoma. (Phase I) II. Evaluate the time to failure (TTF) rate following therapy with bortezomib plus rituximab-hyperCVAD alternating with bortezomib plus rituximab-high dose methotrexate/cytarabine in patients between 18 and 79 years of age with untreated aggressive mantle cell lymphoma. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate overall response rate, complete remission rate, overall survival, and duration of remission. (Phase I) II. Evaluate overall response rate, overall survival, and duration of remission. (Phase II) III. Evaluate toxicity of the combination regimen. (Phase II) IV. Correlate outcome with pretreatment markers. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of bortezomib followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive Drug Combination I during courses 1, 3, 5, and 7 (if needed) and Drug Combination II during courses 2, 4, 6, and 8 (if needed) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Drug Combination I: Participants receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 6 hours on day 1, cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours twice daily (BID) on days 2-4, doxorubicin IV over 15-30 minutes on day 5, vincristine IV over 15-30 minutes on days 5 and 12, dexamethasone orally (PO) or IV on days 2-5 and 12-15, and bortezomib IV over a few seconds after the first dose of cyclophosphamide and immediately after vincristine and doxorubicin have been given on day 5.

Drug Combination II: Participants receive rituximab IV over 6 hours on day 1, methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 2, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours every 12 hours on days 3-4.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.