JS001 Combined With TP as First-line Treatment for Unresectable or Advanced Small Cell Esophageal Carcinoma
Small cell esophageal carcinoma (SCCE) is a kind of malignant tumor with poor prognosis. Our study found that the mutation spectrum and somatic CNV spectrum of SCCE were similar to those of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Paclitaxel combined with cisplatin or carboplatin is the first-line treatment for ESCC. JS001 is a Chinese anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody, which has been approved for the treatment of melanoma. This is a prospective, single arm, single center, phase II clinical trial of JS001 combined with nab-paclitaxel and cisplatin or carboplatin in the first-line treatment of unresectable or advanced SCCE. Aim to evaluate the safety and efficacy of this regimen in patients with unresectable or advanced SCCE.
Esophageal Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: JS001|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR)=CR+PR, from the initiation date of first cycle to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is the time measured from the date of initiation of treatment to the date of progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., from the initiation date of first cycle to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is the time calculated from the initiation of treatment to date of death or censored at last follow-up., from the initiation date of first cycle to the date of date of death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|DCR, Disease control rate (DCR) =CR+PR+SD, from the initiation date of first cycle to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years|Six-month progression-free survival rate, Six-month progression-free survival rate is the survival rate calculated at the end of the 6-month follow-up., from the initiation date of first cycle to six months later|One year survival rate, One year progression-free survival rate is the survival rate calculated at the end of the 1-year follow-up., from the initiation date of first cycle to one year later|Severe toxicity, Treatment-related adverse events., from the initiation date of first cycle to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years
Small cell esophageal carcinoma (SCCE) is a kind of malignant tumor with poor prognosis. Our previous studies found that the mutation spectrum and somatic CNV spectrum of SCCE were similar to those of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Paclitaxel combined with cisplatin or carboplatin is a common first-line treatment for ESCC. In addition, some studies have shown that PD-1 mAb combined with paclitaxel chemotherapy in esophageal cancer has better efficacy and tolerability than chemotherapy alone. JS001 is a Chinese monoclonal antibody against PD-1 for injection, which has been approved for the treatment of melanoma. This is a prospective, single arm, single center, phase II clinical trial of JS001 combined with nab-paclitaxel and cisplatin or carboplatin in the first-line treatment of unresectable or advanced SCCE. Aim to evaluate the safety and efficacy of this regimen in patients with unresectable or advanced SCCE.