Combined Breast MRI and Biomarker Strategies in Identifying High-risk Breast Cancer Patients
This clinical trial studies normal breast tissue changes combined with breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that may suggest the beginnings of cancer development. Using breast tissue markers in combination with breast imaging such as MRI may help to more accurately assess a woman's risk of developing breast cancer.
Healthy Subject
PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Incidence of triple-negative breast cancer (invasive and/or ductal carcinoma in situ [DCIS]) within the 12-month period of the study, Development of breast cancers other than triple-negative (e.g. estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) the study analysis, however they will be reported as descriptive statistics., Up to 12 months
Expression of WNT10B/mutant p53 in morphologically normal breast tissue, Biopsy tissue will be assessed for 1) activated WNT10B (measured by presence of high phospho-beta-catenin; present vs. absent) and 2) loss of p53 function (measured by the loss of p21 expression; present versus \[vs.\] absent). The optimal cut for the WNT10B to differentiate progression vs. non-progression women will be carried out by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, and hence WNT10B expression will be dichotomized to high vs. low expression. Chi-square test 12-month progression. Adjusted association will be further explored by logistic regression incorporating subject characteristics, such as age, body mass index (BMI), race, and BRCA1., Up to 12 months
Predictive accuracy of WNT10B with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), The specificity for MRI combined with WNT10B and/or p53 based biomarkers to detect triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) will be calculated with 95% confidence interval (CI). Its prediction accuracy will be described by C-index and compared to that by diagnosis by MRI alone., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the number of high risk women with abnormal screening breast MRI and morphologically normal biopsy over 7 years.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if WNT10B/mutant p53 expression as measured in the 0-month biopsy predicts women with an abnormal MRI/non-cancerous biopsy who will progress to cancer over 7 years.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the predictive accuracy of WNT10B with MRI, of which will be compared with MRI alone using the C-index.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo standard of care high risk breast cancer screening MRIs at baseline and follow-up and blood sample collection at baseline. Participants undergo collection of breast tissue samples at any breast biopsy or breast surgery.