Arsenic Trioxide With or Without Ascorbic Acid in Treating Patients With Myelofibrosis
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of arsenic trioxide with or without ascorbic acid in treating patients with myelofibrosis. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as arsenic trioxide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving arsenic acid together with ascorbic acid may kill more cancer cells.
Essential Thrombocythemia|Polycythemia Vera|Primary Myelofibrosis
DRUG: Arsenic Trioxide|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Ascorbic Acid|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Adverse events, and their attribution throughout the study, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and courses. The frequency of toxicities will also be tabulated for the dose chosen as the MTD., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 3.0 (Stage 1), DLT is defined as any non-hematologic treatment-emergent grade 3 or greater adverse event deemed possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. Exceptions are grade 3 nausea or vomiting, unless in the setting of maximal antiemetic treatment. Hematologic toxicities are not included in the definition of a DLT. The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and cycles., At 28 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), defined as the dose level at which 0 or 1 of 6 subjects experience DLT, and 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 experience DLT at the next higher dose level, assessed by the NCI CTC version 3.0 (Stage 1), The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and cycles. The frequency of toxicities will also be tabulated for the dose chosen as the MTD., At 28 days
Change in absolute number of circulating CD34+ cells in the peripheral blood (Stage 2 only), Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in JAK2/MPL (Stage 2 only), Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in plasma levels of chemokines as measured by ELISA (Stage 2), Including: sVCAM-1, NE, MMP-2, MMP-9, SDF-1, TGF-B, and VEGF., Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in plasma levels of cytokines as measured by ELISA (Stage 2), Including: sVCAM-1, NE, MMP-2, MMP-9, SDF-1, TGF-B, and VEGF., Baseline to 24 weeks|Change in plasma levels of proteases as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (Stage 2), Including: soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (sVCAM-1), neutrophil elastase (NE), matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 (MMP-2 and MMP-9), stromal cell derived growth factor-1 (SDF-1), TGF-B, and VEGF., Baseline to 24 weeks|Disease response assessed using the IWG-MRT response criteria, Up to 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of oral arsenic trioxide with or without ascorbic acid in subjects with myelofibrosis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the incidence, severity, and attribution of treatment-emergent adverse events.

II. To estimate the rate of complete or major clinical-hematological response from treatment with arsenic trioxide and ascorbic acid in this subject population as measured by the International Working Group for Myelofibrosis Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) response criteria.

III. To measure arsenic trioxide levels in the plasma of patients treated with and without ascorbic acid on this protocol.

IV. To estimate the efficacy of arsenic trioxide with ascorbic acid in subjects with myelofibrosis, as determined by a reduction in Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) V617F, JAK22T875N, and mutations of the thrombopoietin receptor (MPL515L/K) allele frequency in peripheral blood neutrophils.

V. To examine the effect of treatment on biological markers of myeloproliferation, cytokine production and hematopoietic stem cell mobilization. In particular, the following markers of disease will be measured: cluster of differentiation (CD)34+ cell count in peripheral blood measured by cytofluorimetry, plasma vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-B), stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), neutrophil elastase levels by commercial assays.

VI. To examine single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the arsenic trioxide pathway in subjects with myelofibrosis treated with arsenic trioxide and ascorbic acid.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of arsenic trioxide.

Patients receive arsenic trioxide orally (PO) once daily (QD) in orange juice on days 1-21. Patients may also receive ascorbic acid PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 168 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 4 months for 1 year.