Predictors of Therapeutic Success and Adverse Events in Endoscopic Ampullectomy
Although ampullary tumors are rare (representing 0.6-0.8 % of all digestive cancers), their estimated incidence has increased in recent years (\<1 per 100 000 per year). Most noninvasive ampullary tumors of the major papilla occur as sporadic and asymptomatic lesions, detected during conventional upper endoscopy performed for another indication.

Nonetheless, they can present with jaundice (17%), pain (14%), pancreatitis (4%), cholangitis (1%), and can be associated with common bile duct stones (up to 38%). Resection of ampullary adenomas is warranted to prevent malignant progression. The most recent European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) recommend endoscopic ampullectomy as the standard of care approach for ampullary adenomas without intraductal extension, due to excellent outcomes of technical and clinical success (high complete and curative resection rates of 94% and 87%, respectively), with lower morbidity and recurrence rates. This procedure as a low rate of mortality (of 0.4%), but the rate of adverse events can exceed 20%. The most frequent adverse events are acute pancreatitis (12%), intraprocedural and/or delayed bleeding (11%), perforation (3%), cholangitis (3%), ampullary stenosis (2.5%). Also there is a high recurrence rate of up to one third after endoscopic resection; up to two thirds are identified at the first follow-up endoscopy, requiring additional endoscopic resection or surgery.
Ampulla of Vater Adenoma|Ampulla of Vater Disease (Benign/Malignancy)
Therapeutic success, - Rate of adenoma recurrence after endoscopic resection of ampullary adenomas, 1 year|Safety outcomes, - Rate of adverse events related to endoscopic resection of ampullary adenomas, 1 year
Prophylaxis, - Comparison of the post-ampullectomy acute pancreatitis incidence with different kinds of prophylaxis, 1 year|Risk factors, To perform a multivariate analysis of patient, lesion and procedure characteristics that correlate with the incidence of adverse events, 1 year
The relevance of the study is to assess the predictors for therapeutic success, adverse events and recurrence after endoscopic ampullectomy is of paramount importance to develop expertise in this challenging procedure.

The occurrence of adverse events after endoscopic ampullectomy carries a significant impact on the prognosis and recovery, possibly limiting a broader proficiency in this procedure. Thus, identifying significant predictors is crucial to more accurately select the patients and to evolve strategies to prevent and minimize the incidence and severity of adverse events.