Cervical Epidural and Stellate Ganglion Block in Upper Limb Complex Regional Pain Syndrome
Evaluate the efficacy of two regimens of management in relieving chronic refractory pain in patients with upper limb complex regional pain syndrome after orthopedic trauma
Stellate Ganglion Block|Cervical Epidural|Complex Regional Pain Syndromes
DRUG: Ultrasound guided Stellate ganglion block|DRUG: unilateral cervical epidural
The percent on satisfactory relief of pain, Numerical rating scales (NRS) is an 11-Point Scale for patient self-reporting of pain. It is based solely on the ability to perform activities of daily living (ADLs) with 0 being "no pain" and 10 being "the worst pain imaginable.

NRS was measured before, immediately after injection, 3 and 6 month post injection., 6 month post injection
The degree of chronic pain using Brief Pain Inventory, Brief Pain Inventory short form (BPI-SF) questionnaire. It is a nine item self-administered questionnaire used to evaluate the severity of a patient's pain and the impact of this pain on the patient's daily functioning. The patient is asked to rate their worst, least, average, and current pain intensity, list current treatments and their perceived effectiveness, and rate the degree that pain interferes with general activity, mood, normal work, relations with other persons, sleep, and enjoyment of life on a 10 Point Scale

BPI-SF was measured before, immediately after injection, 3 and 6 month post injection, 6 month post injection|The incidence of complication, complications as hypotension, headache and neck pain, 2 hours post-intervention
Ideal therapy for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome is multimodal with the use of physical therapy, psychotherapy, and pharmacologic therapy to complement interventional procedures. Within pharmacotherapy, drugs most often utilized include non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor agonists (i.e., gabapentin, pregabalin), and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists (i.e., Ketamine).

In complex Regional Pain Syndrome treatment, stellate ganglion block (SGB) is a well-established method of nerve blockade of the sympathetic ganglia in the lower cervical and upper thoracic region.

Epidural block have differential block as sensory, motor, and sympathetic. Nerve functions are blunt at different rates and to different degrees. Sensory block occurs with a lower concentration of Local anathesia and develops faster than motor block with coexisting sympathectomy.