A Randomized Controlled Study Evaluating Modified Cup Anteversion Placement in Prevention of Postoperative Dislocation in Patients Undergoing Acetabular Tumor Resection and Reconstruction
The purpose of this clinical study is to investigate whether patients who receive modified anteversion angle (( α-15°)±10°) of the acetabular cup have a lower risk of dislocation within one year after surgery, compared to patients who receive conventional anteversion angle ( α±10°) of the acetabular cup.

The hypothesis is that patients with placement of the modified (( α-15°)±10°) anteversion angle of the acetabular component will have decreased risk of dislocation 1 year after surgery compared to patients with conventional anteversion angle ( α±10°) placement.

PS: α refers to the preoperative anteversion angle of the affected hip. α equals to the anteversion angle of the contralateral limb if it cannot be accurately measured on the affected limb. A standard error within 10° is accepted
Periacetabular Tumor
BEHAVIORAL: modified anteversion angle placement(( α-15°)±10°)|BEHAVIORAL: conventional anteversion angle placement ( α±10°)
The endpoint for patient participation will dislocate, postoperative hip dislocation, followed for 1 years postoperatively for study end points
MSTS score, The Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) scoring system is a validated and well-accepted functional scoring system used in orthopaedic oncology research, followed 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year postoperatively for study endpoints|TESS score, Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS) is a physical disability measure developed specifically for patients undergoing surgery for extremity tumours, followed 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year postoperatively for study endpoints|Henderson's failure mode, 1: soft tissue failure; 2: aseptic loosening; 3: structural failure; 4: periprosthetic infection; 5: tumor progression, followed 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 1 year postoperatively for study endpoints
Hip dislocation is a common complication in patients who undergo reconstruction surgery after periacetabular tumor resection and most of these cases are anterior dislocations. Studies suggest that this type of dislocation may be closely related to the position and anteversion angle of the acetabular component. Therefore, properly reducing the anteversion angle of the acetabular cup during reconstruction might effectively prevent possible collisions between the cup and the femoral component, thereby reducing the potential risk of dislocation. Based on this theory, we aim to investigate whether patients who receive modified anteversion angle (( α-15°)±10°) of the acetabular cup have a lower risk of dislocation within one year after surgery, compared to patients who receive conventional anteversion angle ( α±10°) of the acetabular cup.

PS: α refers to the preoperative anteversion angle of the affected hip. α equals to the anteversion angle of the contralateral limb if it cannot be accurately measured on the affected size. A standard error within 10° is accepted.