SmART Heart: Study of mHealth Apps to Reduce Cancer-Treatment Effects on the Heart
This pilot trial studies how well education and mobile health applications work in reducing the effects of cancer treatment on the heart in participants with blood cancers that are in remission. Education and mobile health applications may be effective ways to manage heart health and to reduce future heart disease risk in participants with blood cancers.
Acute Leukemia in Remission|Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Recipient|Lymphoma
DEVICE: Monitoring Device|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Enrollment rate among participants approached, Up to 1 year|Retention rate among participants enrolled, Retention is defined as completion of patient questionnaire and in-person assessment after 4-month intervention, Up to 1 year|Participation in Facebook group, Number of participants who log onto the group page and participate at least one time (e.g., view a post, post something themselves, respond to a post \[e.g., "like" a post\], etc.), Up to 1 year|Participation in Fitbit physical activity tracking, Number of participants who submit step count data on at least 50% of eligible days, Up to 1 year|Participation in Healthwatch diet tracking, Number of participants who provide dietary data on at least 75% of eligible days, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the feasibility of recruiting and retaining hematologic malignancy and hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) survivors in a randomized cardiovascular (CV) risk reduction mobile health (mHealth) counseling intervention.

II. Develop and refine a protocol to engage participants using an existing social medial platform and commercially available mHealth tools to reinforce lifestyle goals.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

INTERVENTION GROUP: Participants receive individualized goal-setting and coaching in relation to physical activity and diet, supplemented with peer support through the study's social media platform, over 4 months. They also have access to mHealth apps including Fitbit and Healthwatch that provide feedback on physical activity and diet.

CONTROL GROUP: Participants receive general information about physical activity and diet, and access to Fitbit and Healthwatch.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 2 months and at 1 year.