Prexasertib in Combination With MEC in Relapsed/Refractory AML and High Risk MDS - a Phase I Trial
This research study is studying a targeted therapy combined with chemotherapy as a possible treatment for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or high risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Prexasertib (LY2606368)
* Mitoxantrone
* Etoposide
* Cytarabine
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Prexasertib|DRUG: Mitoxantrone|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cytarabine
Dose Limiting Toxicity, Toxicities occurring following administration of protocol therapy, measured using CTCAE 5.0 criteria., Up to 42 days
Phase 2 Dose, Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for the study drug combination., 18 months|Overall Response, Rates of complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi), and partial remission (PR)., 30 months|Overall Survival, Assess the overall survival rate for the combination., 30 months|Duration of Remission, Time of achievement of CR or CRi to relapse, death, or 1 year (whichever occurs first), 12 months
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug or combination of drugs and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved prexasertib as a treatment for any disease. Prexasertib is a checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1) inhibitor that is being developed as a treatment for patients with advanced cancer. CHK1 inhibitors work by preventing cancer cells from being able to repair damaged DNA (one of the building blocks of a cell) which then leads to cell death.

The drugs mitoxantrone, etoposide, and cytarabine (MEC) have all been approved by the FDA. MEC is a standard chemotherapy treatment option, commonly used for AML that has not responded to other standard treatment or returned following standard treatment.

In this research study, the investigators are combining prexasertib with MEC therapy to test if it is a safe treatment for AML or MDS that has returned or not responded to standard treatment.