Clinical Study of Surufatinib Plus Sintilimab Combined With Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Advanced Gastric Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
This study aims to explore whether the combination of surufatinib (anti-angiogenic therapy) and sintilimab (PD-1 inhibitor) on the basis of EP regimen can further improve the effective rate and survival time of first-line treatment for patients with advanced gastric neuroendocrine carcinoma, and explore the safety and tolerability of this regimen.
Gastric Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
DRUG: Sintilimab，Surufatinib
ORR, It refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors have shrunk to a certain amount and maintained for a certain period of time, including CR and PR cases. Solid tumor response assessment criteria (RECIST 1.1 criteria) were used to evaluate objective tumor response. Participants had to have a measurable tumor lesion at baseline, and response criteria were classified as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), and disease progression (PD) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., 3 years
PFS, From the date of enrollment to the date of the first onset of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first. If the subject does not develop disease progression during the trial period, PFS is defined as the last date until the subject's last confirmed progression-free survival. Participants who discontinue the trial for reasons other than disease progression (no follow-up imaging) and those who receive post-trial treatment will be subject to data deletion based on the time of discontinuation or the time of initiation of post-trial treatment. When subjects do not use the time of discontinuation of the trial or the time of initiation of post-trial treatment as data deletion, pre-planned sensitivity statistical analyses will further confirm PFS based only on the time of the event at which image-confirmed progression occurs. New occurrence of other tumors is not considered a disease progression event and is not considered for data deletion. If the imaging examination, 3 years
In this study, patients with advanced gastric neuroendocrine carcinoma were selected as the research object. Based on the standard EP regimen, the combination of surufatinib (anti-angiogenic therapy) and sintilimab (PD-1 inhibitor) could further improve the effective rate and survival time of patients, and explore the safety and tolerability of this treatment regimen.

Patients with advanced gastric neuroendocrine carcinoma who have not received systematic treatment will be treated with the following protocols:

Sintilimab: 200mg intravenously administered on day 1; Surufatinib: 200mg/ day orally, taken continuously; Etoposide: 1, 2, 3 days of continuous administration, 100mg/m2, intravenous infusion; Cisplatin: 75mg/m2 on day 1, or 25mg/m2 on day 1, 2, and 3, intravenous infusion; One treatment cycle every 21 days; Etoposide and cisplatin were used for a maximum of 4 cycles, after which maintenance therapy of solantinib and sindellizumab was administered, and the longest treatment cycle was 13 cycles (a total of 1 year). Patients received regular and periodic reviews, and imaging assessments were performed every 6 weeks after enrollment in the study. Safety will be evaluated by AE and laboratory tests. After disease progression, all patients were followed up with their secondary survival status every 3 months until death.