A Study of TAR-200 in Combination With Cetrelimab and Cetrelimab Alone in Participants With Muscle-Invasive Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the anti-tumor effects of TAR-200 in combination with intravenous (IV) cetrelimab and IV cetrelimab alone.
Urinary Bladder Neoplasms
DRUG: TAR-200|BIOLOGICAL: Cetrelimab
Percentage of Participants with Pathologic Complete Response (pCR), Percentage of participants with a pathologic complete response (pCR) or no evidence of pathologic intravesical disease and nodal involvement (ypT0N0) derived from analysis of radical cystectomy (RC) bladder specimen will be reported., Up to Week 15
Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS), RFS is defined as the time from first dose of any study treatment to first radiologic (as assessed by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 criteria) or histologic evidence of nodal or metastatic disease or death due to any cause., Up to Week 108|Number of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs) by Grades According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Number of participants with AEs by severity grade as assessed by CTCAE version 5 will be reported. Grade refers to the severity of AE as follows: Grade 1- Mild; Grade 2- Moderate; Grade 3- Severe; Grade 4- Life-threatening; Grade 5- Death related to adverse event., Up to Week 108|Number of Participants with Change from Baseline in Laboratory Abnormalities, Number of participants with change from baseline in laboratory abnormalities will be reported. Severity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0. Severity scale ranges from Grade 1 (Mild) to Grade 5 (Death). Grade 1= Mild, Grade 2= Moderate, Grade 3= Severe, Grade 4= Life-threatening, and Grade 5= Death related to adverse event., Up to Week 108
Bladder cancer is the tenth most common malignancy worldwide. Approximately 25 percent (%) of all new bladder cancer participants present with muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) at the time of diagnosis, and roughly 50% will ultimately develop distant metastases. The TAR-200/ gemcitabine (JNJ-17000139) product is an intravesical drug delivery system regulated as an investigational drug. The drug constituent consists of gemcitabine minitablets and osmotic minitablets. Cetrelimab (JNJ-63723283) is a fully human immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) kappa monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds programmed-cell death protein (PD)-1. The standard of care in MIBC includes radical cystectomy (RC) with urinary diversion and is considered the preferred treatment option for participants who are considered surgical candidates. Study consists of a Screening phase, Treatment phase and follow-up phase. The total duration of study will be up to 2 years and 6 months. Efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), and biomarkers will be assessed at specific time points during this study.