Chronic CED of TPT for Recurrent Malignant Glioma
The primary goal of this study is to establish the safety of chronic Convection Enhanced Delivery (CED) of the chemotherapeutic drug Topotecan for patients with recurrent malignant glioma that harbors the Isocitrate Dehydrogenase mutation (IDH-mut). The secondary goal of the study is to study drug distribution and assess the tumor response to prolonged continuous CED of Topotecan.

Convection Enhanced Delivery is a novel method of drug delivery that allows administration of a drug directly to the brain. In CED, a drug pump is placed under the skin in the chest or abdominal region. The pump is connected to a catheter that is tunneled underneath the skin to the brain. The tip of the catheter then infuses Topotecan directly onto the brain tumor. There will be a total of four treatment infusions over the course of 23-29 days, with a 5-7-day rest period between each infusion. Throughout this period, patients' health will be monitored through imaging, blood draws, and regular exams. At the end of the treatment period, the pump will be removed, followed by resection of the tumor. Patients will be followed for the duration of their lives.

This is the investigator's second clinical trial studying CED of TPT in recurrent glioma. In the prior Phase 1b trial, chronic pulsatile CED safely and effectively delivered Topotecan to patients with IDH mutant recurrent Glioblastoma (WHO grade 4).
Brain Tumor, Recurrent|Malignant Glioma (WHO Grade III or IV)|IDH1/IDH2 Mutation
DRUG: Topotecan
Safety, defined as dose at which all patients have had no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions, The primary outcome of the study is to measure the safety of prolonged CED of Topotecan in patients with recurrent IDH-mutant malignant glioma. Safety is defined as the dose at which all patients have had no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions possibly, probably, or definitely related to CED of Topotecan as measured through physical and neurologic examination, laboratory studies, radiographic studies, and adverse effects, as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0 out from Grade 1 (mild symptoms) to Grade 5 (death related to adverse event)., Up to 29 days
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Overall Survival (OS), Progression Free Survival is defined as the duration of time from start of Topotecan treatment to time of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from the start of Topotecan treatment to death from any cause. Patients will be contacted every 3-6 months, up to 5 years, by phone until death., Up to 5 years|Tumor Response to Treatment, The response of the tumor to TPT treatment will be measured radiographically with MRI periodically throughout the 23-29 day treatment period and on follow up 4-6 weeks after treatment, per the international criteria proposed by the updated Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) guidelines., Up to 29 days of treatment, and 4-6 weeks post treatment period|Clinical Toxicity Rate, This is defined by the number of serious adverse events occuring, which is projected to be ≤ 5% at 23-29 days. A clinical toxicity rate that exceeds 20% will be considered unacceptable for this procedure., Up to 29 days
Malignant gliomas are among the most pernicious of human tumors. They are locally invasive and universally recurrent, often recurring within two centimeters of the original resection cavity. Although numerous chemotherapeutic drugs demonstrate significant anti-tumor activity in preclinical studies, their efficacy in clinical trials has been dismal; systemic delivery fails to achieve therapeutic drug levels in tumor cells due to various factors including limited blood-brain barrier permeability and systemic toxicity.

Convection-Enhanced Delivery (CED) can circumvent this challenge by delivering therapeutics directly to the brain, bypassing systemic circulation and the blood-brain barrier. CED uses a subcutaneously implanted catheter-pump system, enabling sustained, prolonged delivery while foregoing the need for an external catheter and bedside pump. In the most recent Phase Ib clinical trial, chronic pulsatile CED safely and effectively delivered Topotecan (TPT), a topoisomerase I inhibitor, to patients with recurrent Glioblastoma (WHO grade 4), Isocitrate Dehydrogenase wild type (IDH-WT). However, malignant glioma displays marked genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity not fully reflected by IDH-WT glioblastoma. In the current study, the investigators aim to further demonstrate the safety and efficacy of this drug delivery system in IDH mutated malignant glioma. The investigators hypothesize that extended chronic pulsatile local-regional delivery of TPT continues to be safe, effective, and feasible in patients with recurrent IDH mutated WHO grade 3-4 malignant glioma. This study will use the previously established method of CED through subcutaneously implanted pumps combined with non-invasive imaging to monitor drug distribution. As in the previous study, the drug's distribution will be characterized using an innovative, non-invasive methodology for measuring intracerebral distribution.

The hypothesis is that intracerebral CED can safely, effectively, and chronically administer TPT to patients with recurrent malignant glioma, including WHO grade 3-4 IDH1/2 mutated subtypes, and drug distribution can be measured non-invasively. The inclusion of IDH1/2 mutated glioma (WHO grade 3-4) marks an expansion from our prior Phase Ib trial to better reflect the heterogeneity of malignant glioma.

The chronic CED and non-invasive imaging methodology was developed in the porcine model and was subsequently shown to be safe for patients with recurrent WHO grade 4 glioma in the phase Ib clinical trial. Similar to the previous trial design, patients will undergo implantation of the CED catheters and subcutaneously implanted pumps, after which four cycles of TPT/gadolinium will be administered. Each cycle will include 48 hours of active drug infusion followed by five to seven days of drug holiday. Following the four cycles, the catheters and pumps will be removed and tumors will be resected. Tumoral and parenchymal distribution of gadolinium (measured by MRI) will be correlated with TPT levels (measured by mass spectrophotometry) in tissue samples obtained upon tumor resection. Cytotoxic response to TPT will be investigated by both MRI and direct histologic comparison between tissue samples taken at resection versus initial biopsy and MRI.

At the conclusion of these studies, the investigators expect to demonstrate the safe and successful delivery of chronic, high doses of TPT directly into patients' tumors, thereby avoiding the limitations imposed by conventional systemic delivery.