Effectiveness of an Enhanced Tobacco Intervention Protocol Compared to Standard Treatment in Helping Head and Neck and Lung Cancer Patients Starting Treatment to Reduce Cigarette Use
This trial studies how well an enhanced tobacco intervention protocol (ETIP) works compared to standard treatment in helping head and neck and lung cancer patients starting treatment to reduce cigarette use. ETIP is an evidence-based tobacco cessation program including specialized one-to-one and telehealth counseling, drug therapy, nicotine replacement therapy, and frequent patient follow up. ETIP may help reduce smoking and improve cessation in patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer or non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Nicotine Replacement|DRUG: Bupropion Hydrochloride Controlled-release|DRUG: Varenicline|OTHER: Tobacco Cessation Counseling|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Quality of Life Assessment|OTHER: Best Practice
Reduction in daily number of cigarettes smoked by at least 50% compared to baseline at months 1 and 6, This will be biochemically verified by any reductions in minor tobacco alkaloid (anabasine/anatabine) concentrations in the urine compared to baseline, Up to 6 months
Cigarette abstinence at 1 and 6 months, as reported by patients, Subjects with missing data will be counted as smokers, Up to 6 months|Proportion of patients having urine anabasine/anatabine levels of less than 2ng/ml, Participants will be asked to provide a urine sample for biochemical verification of smoking status with urine anatabine/anabasine testing at baseline, 1 and 6 months. We consider urine anabasine/anatabine less than or equal to 2 ng/ml to be evidence of abstinence. Participant failure to provide a sample will be interpreted as biochemical evidence of smoking., Up to 6 months
Interest expressed in wellness practices, Descriptive statistics (means and standard deviations for continuous variable and frequencies for categorical variables) will be used to summarize interest in wellness programs., Up to 6 months|Types of wellness practices patients prefer, Up to 6 months|Likelihood of patient participation, Up to 6 months|Modes of intervention delivery, Descriptive statistics (means and standard deviations for continuous variable and frequencies for categorical variables) will be used to summarize referred time and method of program delivery., Up to 6 months|Biomarker analysis, Immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis will be done on all patient tissue samples at the initial visit. Additionally, serum blood samples will be collected from all patients. Serum c-reactive protein (CRP) and lipid levels will be tested at various time points in the study to account for changes in inflammatory marker expression. Peripheral blood assays, including Luminex, will be used to quantify immune mediators including expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma, IL-2, and IL-10 among other analytes., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the feasibility of implementing a transdisciplinary ETIP using enrollment data and adherence to the intervention.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare smoking reduction, physiologic parameters and patient reported measures among patients in two tobacco treatment groups (ETIP and standard treatment \[ST\]).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine patient interest in wellness practices as a means to alter behavior and facilitate tobacco cessation.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze the genetic profile, serum and tissue exosomal signatures, and immune cell profiles of both human papilloma virus (HPV) positive and negative tumor samples in patients who are never smokers, former smokers, and current smokers.

II. Compare these parameters in patients who underwent ETIP versus standard therapy.

III. To gather correlative data regarding the effects of tobacco smoke on the expression of biomarkers and the tumor microenvironment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (ETIP): Patients receive nicotine replacement therapy via trans-dermal patch, gum, nasal spray, inhaler or lozenges for 12 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive bupropion orally (PO) once daily (QD) and twice daily (BID) or varenicline PO QD and BID for 24 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo 3 cessation counseling sessions in person, via telehealth or phone within 7 days of enrollment into study, 1 week after established quit date and 3 weeks after establishing quit date.

ARM II (ST): Patients receive standard treatment consisting of an in-office smoking cessation recommendation by the physician and referral to a quit line.