Laparoscopic D2 Distal Gastrectomy Following Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Gastric Cancers
Gastric cancer is the third major cancer of global cancer-related death. In China, the early diagnosis rate of gastric cancer is relatively low, and most patients are with locally advanced tumor stage. The neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) can bring the survival advantage for gastric cancer patients with locally advanced tumor stage. The primary goal of NAC is to control the micrometastasis and/or progression of the primary lesion in order to improve potential of radical gastrectomy. NAC is recommended for patients with locally advanced stage (T2-4Nx) according to the latest NCCN Gastric Cancer Guidelines.

Laparoscopy distal gastrectomy (LDG) can achieve a better postoperative short-term recovery than the traditional open distal gastrectomy (ODG), which can reduce the intraoperative blood loss and to shorten the postoperative hospital stay. Therefore, Enhanced Recovery After Surgery program of gastric cancer surgery recommends the use of minimally invasive surgery. For long-term survival outcomes, there is limited evidence supported that laparoscopic gastrectomy is comparable open gastrectomy. Therefore, due to the lack of high-quality prospective clinical trial results, whether advanced tumor is suitable for laparoscopic surgery is still controversial. Therefore, some multi-center prospective randomized controlled trials have been carried out, compared safety and long-term survival outcome between laparoscopic and open gastrectomy in locally advanced gastric cancer patients. CLASS-01 trials reported that for locally advanced gastric cancers, laparoscopic D2 distal gastrectomy is safe and feasible.

Patient's surgical tolerance and stress response may be inhibited after the treatment of NAC. The aim of this trial is to confirm the safety of laparoscopy distal D2 radical gastrectomy for the treatment of after neoadjuvant chemotherapy gastric cancer patients (cT3-4a, N+, M0) in terms of postoperative complications.
Complications, Postoperative|Surgery--Complications|Cancer of Stomach|Chemotherapy Effect
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic D2 distal gastrectomy
Postoperative overall morbidity rate, The proportion value will be calculated by the number of patients with any operative complication as the numerator and the number of patients undergoing surgical treatment as the denominator., Postoperative 30 days
Postoperative mortality rate, Mortality will be calculated as the ratio between the number of patients who died as numerator and number of all patients undergoing surgical treatment as the denominator., Postoperative 30 days|R0 resection rate, Number of patients underwent gastrectomy for the denominator, number of R0 resection patients is numerator, the ratio is the R0 resection rate. The definition of R0 resection is according to the Japanese gastric cancer treatment guidelines 2014 (ver. 4)（Gastric Cancer. 2017 Jan;20(1):1-19.）., The day of surgery|Completion rate of laparoscopic surgery, Ratio will be calculated with the number of patients complete the laparoscopic gastrectomy as the numerator, and number of all patients undergoing laparoscopic surgical treatment as the denominator., The day of surgery
This is a prospective, multi-centers, open-label, single-arm study, and the aim of this trial is to evaluate the safety of laparoscopic distal D2 radical gastrectomy for the treatment of locally advanced gastric cancer (cT3-4a, N-/+, M0) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.