Non-Endoscopic Surveillance for Barrett's Esophagus Following Ablative Therapy
Subjects presenting to University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) Hospitals for routine endoscopic surveillance examinations for current Barrett's Esophagus (BE) or after successful radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of dysplastic Barrett's Esophagus (BE) will be offered enrollment in the study. After informed consent, and the same day as the endoscopic procedure, the subject will undergo administration of the Cytosponge assay. The patient will then undergo routine endoscopic surveillance, using a standard Seattle biopsy surveillance protocol. The Cytosponge will be placed in fixative and shipped to the Fitzgerald laboratory at the University of Cambridge for processing according to their established protocols. Tissue biopsies will undergo standard processing and Hematoxylin and Eosin (H\&E) staining, with assessment by expert gastrointestinal pathologists at UNC. The primary outcome variables will be sensitivity and specificity of the novel assay, compared against the gold standard of the presence of recurrent BE as detected by upper endoscopy with biopsies. Secondary outcomes include acceptability of the nonendoscopic assay to the patient (assessed by a standardized tool, the Impact of Events Scale, as well as a visual analogue scale), and likelihood of assay positivity as a function of amount of residual disease (as measured by Prague criteria).
Barrett's Esophagus
DEVICE: Cytosponge
Cytosponge Acceptability by Number of Participants, Acceptability will be measured the Impact of Events Scale (IES). This scale was developed to assess the distress associated with a specific life event. Respondents are asked to answer questions to indicate the amount of stress from the event. Scores are calculated with the following scale, (Not at all =0, Rarely =1, Sometimes =3, Often =5). Assessment yields a cumulative score that are calculated from each response, with a total final score ranging from (0-75). High scores represent high test induced distress and lower values represent low distress., 7 days after Baseline|Mean Post Procedure Pain on the Visual Analog Scale, The visual analog scale (VAS) is a validated, subjective measure for acute and chronic pain. Scores are recorded by making a handwritten mark on a 100-mm line that represents a continuum between "no pain" and "worst pain." Higher scores are representative of worse pain., Immediately after Cytosponge removal|Willingness to Repeat Cytosponge by Number of Participants, Participants were asked if they would be willing to repeat the Cytosponge, yes/no., 7 days after Baseline|Mean Procedure Preference Rating, Participants were asked to rate both procedures (Cytosponge and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)) to indicate which procedure they preferred on a scale from 0-10. Higher scores represent greater preference., 7 days after Baseline
Cytosponge™ Operating Characteristics, The operating characteristics of the Cytosponge™ technique compared against a gold standard of upper endoscopy with biopsies for endoscopic surveillance was evaluated for sensitivity and specificity in the detection of BE in subjects with current (BE) or history of successful radiofrequency ablation for dysplastic BE. A true positive was considered when both the endoscopic biopsy and the Cytosponge detected the goblet cells characteristic of BE. A false positive was considered when the Cytosponge demonstrated these cells while the biopsies did not. A true negative occurred when neither the biopsies nor the Cytosponge showed goblet cells. A false negative was considered when the biopsies did demonstrate goblet cells while the Cytosponge did not. True Positives (TP) and False Negatives calculate sensitivity: (TP)/(TP + FN); True Negatives (TN) and False Positives (FP) are used to calculate specificity: (TN)/(TN + FP)., Baseline
Esophageal Adenocarcinoma is a Lethal Cancer with a Rapidly Increasing Incidence. Barrett's Esophagus (BE) is the Strongest Risk Factor for Esophageal Adenocarcinoma. Endoscopic Ablation Induces Reversion of Barrett's Esophagus, and Decreases Progression of Disease. Unfortunately, data demonstrate a risk of recurrence of BE following successful eradication. Recent data published by the candidate and colleagues from the Ablation of Intestinal Metaplasia Containing Dysplasia (AIM Dysplasia) study demonstrate that approximately 25% of subjects who experience successful eradication of dysplastic BE will develop recurrent BE.

Therefore, following successful endoscopic ablation, patients receive ongoing endoscopic surveillance. More recently, a simple, non-endoscopic device, termed the Cytosponge, has been developed for endoscopic screening of subjects at risk for BE. Cytosponge demonstrated a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 94% for the detection of BE.

We expect these investigations to lead to a less costly, highly accurate, less invasive and more preferred screening paradigm for the large number of subjects who have undergone endoscopic ablative therapy.

The Cytosponge is a simple, non-endoscopic device developed for endoscopic screening of subjects at risk for Barrett's esophagus (BE) by investigators at the University of Cambridge in the U.K. The Cytosponge is an ingestible capsule enclosing a compressed spherical mesh sponge of 3 cm diameter, the center of which is attached to a string. The capsule and string are swallowed with water. The string is held at the mouth without tension by means of a cardboard tab attached to the string, and esophageal peristalsis and gravity move the capsule into the stomach. After 5 minutes (during which the capsule dissolves and the sponge is liberated), the sponge is withdrawn by gentle traction on the string and as it does so, collects cells from the lining of the esophagus. The sponge is placed in fixative, then the cells are pelleted, and processed into paraffin blocks. The pellets are immunostained with trefoil factor 3, which is interpreted simply as either positive or negative by the presence of any staining.