Impact of 18F-FDG PET-CT Versus Conventional Staging in the Management of Patients Presenting With Clinical Stage III Breast Cancer
This trial is being conducted to determine the impact of whole body FDG PET-CT vs. conventional staging in the management of patients presenting with clinical Stage III breast cancer. Eligible consenting patients with ductal or mixed histology breast cancer will be randomized 1:1 to whole body FDG PET-CT or conventional staging. Eligible consenting patients with lobular only histology will be entered into a separate single arm prospective study and will undergo whole body FDG PET-CT, CT with contrast of the chest/abdomen \& pelvis and a bone scan.
Stage III Breast Cancer (T0N2, T1N2, T2N2, T3N1, 2 or T4)|Stage IIb Breast Cancer (T3N0)
OTHER: Whole-body FDG PET-CT alone
Proportion of patients upstaged to Stage IV disease, Proportion of patients upstaged to Stage IV disease as a result of the imaging study, between the groups, Within 30 days from date of randomization
Proportion of patients who receive multimodal therapy of curative intent, Within 12 months from date of randomization|Number of additional tests, such as imaging and biopsy, resulting from findings of study imaging, Within 12 months from date of randomization|Prognostic ability of PET SUV of the primary lesion on the pathological response rate to neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, Within 12 months from date of randomization|Disease Free Survival, Objectively defined local or distance recurrence or death, From date of randomization to date of event, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Defined by all-cause mortality, From date of randomization to date of event, assessed up to 5 years|Incremental economic analysis comparing the costs and outcomes of the treatment arms, Utility values will be collected using the EQ-5D Health Utility Questionnaire and converted to quality adjusted life years (QALYs) by considering Overall Survival. Direct medical resources (i.e. tests, complications, hospitalizations, clinic visits, emergency dept., etc.) will be obtained. Costs ($CAN2016) for each resource identified and utilized will be determined. Finally, an incremental cost-utility analysis will be calculated comparing the 2 randomized arms to generate an incremental cost per QALY outcome., Within 5 years from date of randomization
This trial is being conducted to determine the impact of whole body FDG PET-CT vs. conventional staging in the management of patients presenting with clinical Stage III breast cancer. Eligible consenting patients with ductal or mixed histology breast cancer will be randomized 1:1 to whole body FDG PET-CT or conventional staging. Eligible consenting patients with lobular only histology will be entered into a separate single arm prospective study and will undergo whole body FDG PET-CT, CT with contrast of the chest/abdomen \& pelvis and a bone scan.