Allogeneic CD19 CAR-T Cells for the Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory B-cell Lymphoma
Preclinical and clinical studies of CD19 CAR-T in r/r B-NHL have been extensively carried out. At the beginning of 2020, MorphoSys submitted its company-targeted CD19 monoclonal antibody to the FDA for r/r DLBL treatment and obtained FDA priority approval. It further confirms the safety and effectiveness of CD19 as a therapeutic target in r/r B-NHL. However, these CAR-T cells are constructed from patients' autologous T cells, and the production and preparation time is long; on the other hand, most patients have received multiple chemotherapy before CAR-T treatment, and the quantity and quality of T cells often cannot meet the needs of clinical treatment. It is also an important factor leading to the failure of CAR-T cell therapy, which limits the large-scale clinical application of CAR-T.

T cells sourced from healthy people are not only sufficient in quantity and quality guaranteed, but also available at any time. In December 2020, lancet\[2\] reported a clinical study of 19 patients receiving allogeneic CAR-T cell therapy for B-ALL. 14 patients were evaluated as CR/CRi (67%) 28 days after treatment, with a median sustained remission Time 4.1 months. Allogeneic CAR-T cells are safe and effective for the treatment of B-cell malignant diseases, and their clinical application range is expected to further improve the remission rate and survival rate of patients with R/R B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Non-hodgkin Lymphoma,B Cell
BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic CD19 CR-T cell
Overall response rate, Percentage of patients in complete remission in total treated patients, From date of initial treatment to the end of follow up, up to 2 years
overall survival rate, Time from initiation of trial treatment to death, From admission to the end of follow up, up to 2 years
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells enable T cells to recognize and kill tumor cells that express specific antigens through genetic engineering. CD19 is expressed on the membrane surface of pre-B cells and mature B cells, but not on the surface of T cells and normal granulocytes. It is an ideal therapeutic target for B cell-derived tumors. A large number of previous studies have confirmed that CD19 CAR-T cells are a safe and effective method for the treatment of ALL. In 2019, Locke FL\[1\] et al. reported a clinical study of CD19 CAR-T for r/r DLBL. 119 patients were enrolled. The objective response rate was 83%, the CR rate was 58%, and the median progression-free survival was 5.9. Months. Greatly improved the patient's prognosis.

Preclinical and clinical studies of CD19 CAR-T in r/r B-NHL have been extensively carried out. At the beginning of 2020, MorphoSys submitted its company-targeted CD19 monoclonal antibody to the FDA for r/r DLBL treatment and obtained FDA priority approval. It further confirms the safety and effectiveness of CD19 as a therapeutic target in r/r B-NHL. However, these CAR-T cells are constructed from patients' autologous T cells, and the production and preparation time is long; on the other hand, most patients have received multiple chemotherapy before CAR-T treatment, and the quantity and quality of T cells often cannot meet the needs of clinical treatment. It is also an important factor leading to the failure of CAR-T cell therapy, which limits the large-scale clinical application of CAR-T.

T cells sourced from healthy people are not only sufficient in quantity and quality guaranteed, but also available at any time. In December 2020, lancet\[2\] reported a clinical study of 19 patients receiving allogeneic CAR-T cell therapy for B-ALL. 14 patients were evaluated as CR/CRi (67%) 28 days after treatment, with a median sustained remission Time 4.1 months. Allogeneic CAR-T cells are safe and effective for the treatment of B-cell malignant diseases, and their clinical application range is expected to further improve the remission rate and survival rate of patients with R/R B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.