CSP #562 - The VA Keratinocyte Carcinoma Chemoprevention Trial
The main purpose of this study is to see if 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) skin cream can prevent the growth of new skin cancers on the face and ears. The cost of trying to prevent skin cancer will be compared to the usual cost of treating skin cancer. Participants are being asked to be a part of this study because the participants have been treated for two or more skin cancers within the past five (5) years. At least one of these cancers occurred on the face or ears. Having had two or more skins cancers in the past 5 years makes it likely that participants will develop additional skin cancers in the future.

Exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun or artificial sources such as tanning beds is a major cause of basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Using lotions, creams, or gels that contain sunscreens can help protect the skin from premature aging and damage that may lead to skin cancer.

The 5-FU skin cream used in this study is FDA-approved to treat some types of skin cancers and spots that might become skin cancer. However, 5-FU skin cream has never been studied to see if it can prevent skin cancer. This drug is not approved by the FDA for how it will be used in this study.

In this study, one half of the patients will use the 5-FU cream and the other half will use a skin cream that looks identical to the 5-FU cream but does not have 5-FU or any other active drug in it.

Approximately twelve VA medical centers will work together in this study. About one thousand (1000) patients will be in this study. The study is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program.
Carcinoma, Basal Cell|Carcinoma, Squamous Cell|Skin Neoplasms|Skin Diseases|Neoplasms, Basal Cell|Neoplasms, Squamous Cell|Carcinoma
DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Placebo, vehicle control
The Time to Diagnosis of the First Keratinocyte Carcinoma (KC) on the Face or Ears for Which Surgery is Performed, Diagnosis of the first Primary Basil Cell Carcinoma (BCC) or primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) on the face or ears that was removed surgically., From randomization to last visit prior to end of study date (6/30/2013), assessed up to four years|Hazard Ratio for Surgically Treated KC, date of randomization to last visit before end of study follow up (6/30/2013), assessed up to four years
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin, both of which are keratinocyte carcinomas (KCs), account for a half of all cancers in the United States, and over 100,000 diagnoses per year in the VA. The standard treatment for these KCs is excision of the lesion, and they cost the US health care system some $2.5 billion annually and about $100 million annually in the VA. There is no proven means to prevent KCs (except perhaps for a modest benefit of intensive daily sunscreen use). An effective prevention strategy would dramatically change the way high-risk patients are managed and could substantially reduce the costs of care. The investigators' preliminary analysis indicates that the savings will be $116 per high-risk patient and will account for a total national savings of over $11 million. These findings imply that the study would pay for itself by the end of 4 years. The investigators hypothesize that topical 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemoprevention will prevent skin cancer surgeries and will be cost-saving. To test this the investigators propose a randomized controlled trial of 5-FU compared to a vehicle control to the face and ears in a high-risk population.

In the study, 1000 Veterans at high-risk of skin cancer defined as at least 2 KCs in the prior 5 years, at least one of which was on the face or ears, will be randomized to 5-FU or a vehicle control cream, and followed for 2 to 4 years. The primary endpoint will be surgery for any KC on the face and ears. The investigators will also assess the cost of care, quality of life, the side effects associated with treatment, and the prevalence and number of actinic keratoses, a skin cancer precursor and itself a cause of morbidity and cost. By targeting patients at high-risk, the study focuses on high-cost patients for whom this treatment could both improve outcomes (cancers and quality of life) and reduce costs.