Impact of the Nurse Visit on Observance of the Intake of Oral Carcinological Treatment in the Elderly
The increasingly used oral anticancer treatments allow the patient to reduce treatment and social constraints to reduce hospitalization costs. The counterpart is a decrease in the monitoring of the correct intake of drugs and the detection of side effects. These two risks are major in the elderly, due to comorbidities, poly-medication and decreased attention. The project objective to evaluate the impact of a bi-weekly nursing visit to the patients' homes for 3 months, compared to a conventional management without a nursing visit. It is a prospective, randomized, controlled, multicenter study to include 224 patients over 18 months. The impact will be assessed by counting the tablets not taken and by filling an observation booklet with the nurse at home.
Oncology, Gerontology
OTHER: nursing visit|OTHER: no nursing visit
Comparison, at 3 months after the oncological treatments began, of the observance rate of the anticancer drugs (corresponding to the entire carcinological protocol) with or without passage of a nurse at the patient's home., 3 months
Comparison of the patient's perception of observance to anticancer therapy, 3 months|Comparison of causes of possible premature and definitive cessation of cancer treatments 3 months after the start of treatment and changes in treatment (dose, rhythm of cycles), 3 months|Assessment of patients' satisfaction (of the arm with passage of the nurse) and the professionals, 3 months|Determination of the percentage of patients able to be included in the study compared to the number of patients who received an oncogeriatric assessment, 3 months
The increasingly used oral anticancer treatments allow the patient to reduce treatment and social constraints to reduce hospitalization costs. The counterpart is a decrease in the monitoring of the correct intake of drugs and the detection of side effects. These two risks are major in the elderly, due to comorbidities, poly-medication and decreased attention. The project objective to evaluate the impact of a bi-weekly nursing visit to the patients' homes for 3 months, compared to a conventional management without a nursing visit. It is a prospective, randomized, controlled, multicenter study to include 224 patients over 18 months. The impact will be assessed by counting the tablets not taken and by filling an observation booklet with the nurse at home.