Atezolizumab + Stereotactic Radiation in Triple-negative Breast Cancer and Brain Metastasis
This research study is studying the combination of a drug called atezolizumab and a radiation procedure called stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) as a possible treatment for triple-negative breast cancer that has spread to the brain.

The interventions involved in this study are:

* Atezolizumab
* Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)
Progression-Free Survival, Defined as time from first dose of atezolizumab (day 1 cycle 1) to progression or death due to any cause. Progression is defined according to the bi-compartmental model proposed in the RANO-BM publication, and is defined as the first detection of radiologic progression of intracranial (per RANO-BM criteria), extracranial (per RECIST 1.1 criteria), or both or unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease in the opinion of the treating physician; with each compartment (CNS and non-CNS) assessed separately, Assessed from the first dose of atezolizumab until the date of first documented progression according to RANO-BM or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, for a maximum of 1.5 years
Extracranial Objective Response Rate, Defined as the percentage of patients achieving a complete response (complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; no new lesions) or partial response (at least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions; persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits \[i.e., "non-CR/non-PD" in non-target lesions\]; and no new lesions) based on RECIST 1.1, Assessed from the first dose of atezolizumab until disease progression, intercurrent illness, unacceptable toxicity, noncompliance/withdrawal, or general/specific worsening of condition, for a maximum of 1.5 years|Overall Survival, Defined as the time from first dose of atezolizumab (day 1 cycle 1) to death from any cause. Patients who are alive at the end of the study are censored at the date of last known alive., Assessed from the first dose of atezolizumab to the date of death from any cause or date last known alive, for a maximum of 3.8 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved atezolizumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

Atezolizumab is a protein that affects the immune system by blocking the PD-L1 pathway. The PD-L1 pathway controls the body's natural immune response, but tumors can interrupt this pathway and partially resist or escape the immune system. By blocking the PD-L1 pathway, Atezolizumab may help the immune system identify and catch tumor cells.

Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a standard procedure used to treat patients with cancer in the brain. SRS uses many precisely focused radiation beams to treat tumors. It is not surgery in the traditional sense because there's no incision. Instead, SRS uses 3-D imaging to target high doses of radiation to the affected area with minimal impact on the surrounding healthy tissue. Like other forms of radiation, SRS works by damaging the DNA of the targeted (tumor) cells. The affected cells then lose the ability to reproduce, which causes tumors to shrink.

When given separately, atezolizumab and SRS, work in different ways to help stop cancer cells from growing and spreading. However, it is not known if giving atezolizumab and SRS at the same time will have a better effect than giving each treatment on its own. It is hoped that SRS treatment will damage cancer cells and make them more visible to the immune system.

The researchers conducting this study are testing to see whether giving SRS with atezolizumab may boost the body's immune response to cancer, and therefore improve upon the effects of either SRS or atezolizumab given alone.

In this research study, the investigators will measure the length of time that the participant receive this study intervention without the disease getting worse. The investigators will also look at how well the disease responds to atezolizumab and SRS as well as the safety of the combination.