Mindfulness Based Smoking Cessation Program
This is a study designed to mindfulness based stress reduction (MBSR) training program to assess feasibility and acceptability of the intervention. Participants will participate in a 9-week training program and complete pre-and post-questionnaires. Participants will have the option of participating in a follow-up focus group.
Cancer|Smoking Cessation
BEHAVIORAL: Smoking Cessation Program
Number of participants engaged in smoking cessation counseling, Participants will complete a weekly intake form and a telephone based questionnaire at 3 months to assess engagement in evidence based smoking cessation counseling by completion of one of the following: (a) at least 1 visit with Boston Medical Center pulmonary smoking cessation program for individual quit plan, or (b) at least 1 telephone based Quitworks counseling session, or (c) \>1 PCP or Oncology visit in which smoking cessation treatment is discussed., 3 months
Number of patients with reduced stress assessed using validated Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Stress reduction will be assessed using validated Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), 3 months|Number of patients reporting readiness to quit smoking based on the Transtheoretical Model and Stages of Change, Patient self report of readiness to quit smoking based on stage of change: precontemplation, contemplation, preparation or action assessed on questionnaire at baseline, 9 weeks, and at 3 month follow up, 3 months|Number of participants identifying a smoking quit date, Participant will report if quit date has been determined on weekly questionnaire and/or at three month follow up, 3 months|Number of participants reporting 7 day smoking abstinence from cigarettes, Participant will report 7 day smoking abstinence from cigarettes on weekly questionnaire and/or at three month follow up, 3 months
The investigators will introduce a mindfulness based stress reduction (MBSR) training program at Boston Medical Center's oncology clinic to promote engagement of low-income and minority smokers with cancer in smoking cessation. This training will follow an adapted MBSR curriculum designed by and for Boston Medical Center patients with chronic pain in the Integrated Medical Group Visit research program in Family Medicine. The investigators will tailor this adapted MBSR curriculum to address smoking cessation. To test the feasibility and acceptability of our intervention, the investigators will pilot test it with 30 patients over the course of three MBSR training programs (each cohort is 9 weeks). The investigators will acquire feasibility data (number of inquiries, number of sessions attended, and satisfaction with MBSR). Additionally, pre and post questionnaires will assess readiness to quit, stress level, and satisfaction with and acceptability of MBSR after every cohort). The primary outcome is engagement in smoking cessation treatment which includes counseling and/or pharmacotherapy. Additionally, the investigators will hold a focus group after each of the 3 cohorts have completed the program to discuss acceptability of study materials as well as facilitators and barriers to participation in the training. Data collected from this study will generate preliminary data to successfully justify and secure future funding for a larger controlled study.