AS703569 and Gemcitabine Combination in Advanced Malignancies
In clinical practice and research, combination of anticancer agents is often used to improve efficacy of treatment. In vitro and in vivo experiments have shown additive-synergistic anti-tumour effects of AS703569 treatment when combined with gemcitabine. Specifically, additive-synergistic anti-tumour effects were noticed when the two agents were given sequentially and not concomitantly i.e. AS703569 given the day before or the day after gemcitabine. This trial was designed to investigate in parallel two regimens testing sequential administration of AS703569 either the day after gemcitabine infusion, (Regimen 1) or the day before (Regimen 2).
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: AS703569/gemcitabine|DRUG: AS703569/gemcitabine
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) during a 21-day cycle, for each of the two planned regimens using combination therapy with AS703569 and gemcitabine., 21 days
Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE), Proportion/number of subjects with TEAE's during the first and subsequent treatment cycles in each cohort for each of the 2 regimens., Minimum 21 days or 1 cycle|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) time (For subjects with locally advanced /metastatic pancreatic cancer included after completion of the dose escalation part), PFS time is defined as time (in months) from first drug intake to date of progression as reported and documented by the investigator (i.e. radiological progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria) or death from any cause., Variable|Time to Tumor Progression (TTP) time (For subjects with locally advanced /metastatic pancreatic cancer included after completion of the dose escalation part), TTP time is defined as the time (in months)from first drug intake to the date of progression, as reported and documented by the Investigator (i.e. radiological progression per RECIST)., Variable|Overall Survival (OS) time (For subjects with locally advanced /metastatic pancreatic cancer included after completion of the dose escalation part), OS time is defined as the time (in months) from first drug intake to any cause of death., Variable|Progressive disease (PD), Proportion of patients with progressive disease as assessed at the end of every other cycle according to disease-specific guidelines, Every other cycle|Best overall response (For subjects with locally advanced /metastatic pancreatic cancer included after completion of the dose escalation part), For subjects with locally advanced /metastatic pancreatic cancer:

Best overall response: presence of at least one confirmed Complete Response (CR) or confirmed Partial Response (PR) (using RECIST v1.0) during treatment in the 2 regimens as assessed at the end of every other cycle., Every other cycle
In clinical practice and research, combination of anticancer agents is often used to improve efficacy of treatment. In vitro and in vivo experiments have shown additive-synergistic anti-tumour effects of AS703569 treatment when combined with gemcitabine. Specifically, additive-synergistic anti-tumour effects were noticed when the two agents were given sequentially and not concomitantly i.e. AS703569 given the day before or the day after gemcitabine. This trial was designed to investigate in parallel two regimens testing sequential administration of AS703569 either the day after gemcitabine infusion, (Regimen 1) or the day before (Regimen 2).