Fecal Microbiota Transplantation in Diarrhea Induced by Tyrosine-kinase Inhibitors
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have improved the survival of patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, and are commonly used as first-line option for this condition, but their use is encumbered by side effects, mainly diarrhea, for which there are no standardized strategies. Increasing evidence suggests that gut microbiota could influence the development of TKIs-induced diarrhea. In theory, the therapeutic modulation of gut microbiota could be an approach to alleviate TKI-induced diarrhea. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is the infusion of fecal microbiota from a healthy donor in the gut of a recipient with the aim of curing a specific disease. It has been increasingly recognized as a highly effective treatment against recurrent Clostridium difficile infection.To date, the effects of FMT on chemotherapy-related diarrhea are unknown. This study will evaluate, through a randomized controlled design, the efficacy of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), compared with sham FMT, in treating TKI-induced diarrhea in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
Diarrhea Caused by Drug (Disorder)|Renal Cell Cancer
OTHER: Donor FMT|OTHER: Sham FMT
rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 4 weeks after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 4 weeks after the end of treatments, 4 weeks
rate of patients who need to stop or reduce treatment with tyrosine-kinase inhibitors, rate of patients who need to stop or reduce treatment with tyrosine-kinase inhibitors, 4 weeks|rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 1 week after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 1 week after the end of treatments, 1 week|rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 2 weeks after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 2 weeks after the end of treatments, 2 weeks|rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 8 weeks after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience resolution of diarrhea 8 weeks after the end of treatments, 8 weeks|rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 1 week after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 1 week after the end of treatments, 1 week|rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 2 weeks after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 2 weeks after the end of treatments, 2 weeks|rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 4 weeks after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 4 weeks after the end of treatments, 4 weeks|rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 8 weeks after the end of treatments, rate of patients who experience decrease of diarrhea until grade G1 or lower 8 weeks after the end of treatments, 8 weeks
Despite the improvement in diagnosis and management, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) remains one of the most burdensome urological cancers, being the sixth most common malignancy in men and the 10th in women, accounting, respectively, for 5% and 3% of all cancers. Moreover, the incidence of RCC is increasing, especially in Western countries, accounting for nearly 60000 new cases per year in the United States. A considerable proportion of patients present with metastatic disease at diagnosis, and there are more than 140000 RCC-dependent deaths per year worldwide according to the World Health Organization.

Sunitinib and pazopanib are oral multi-targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) that have dramatically improved the survival of patients with metastatic RCC, and are commonly used as first-line option for this condition.

However, long-term use of these drugs is prevented by the development of toxicity. Diarrhea is one of the most common side effects of TKIs, occurring in nearly 50% of patients. It decreases the quality of life of these patients, and often requires dose reduction and drug discontinuation, potentially decreasing the efficacy of TKIs.

To date there are no standardized strategies for TKIs-related diarrhea, and current recommendations are supported by few evidence or real-life experience. Recommended treatment options include anti-motility agents, which are not targeted to act on the pathogenic pathways of diarrhea.

Increasing evidence suggests that gut microbiota could influence the development of TKIs-induced diarrhea. Overall, chemotherapy is known to drive, through the development of mucositis, deep compositional and functional alterations of gut microbiota. Mucositis occurs commonly after treatment with TKIs, and a specific dysbiotic profile has been found in patients with TKIs-induced diarrhea.

In theory, the therapeutic modulation of gut microbiota could be an approach to alleviate TKI-induced diarrhea. Although probiotics have been suggested as a possible treatment option for this condition, few evidence supports this indication.

Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is the infusion of fecal microbiota from a healthy donor in the gut of a recipient with the aim of curing a specific disease. It has been increasingly recognized as a highly effective treatment against recurrent Clostridium difficile infection.

FMT has been also examined as a potential approach for other disorders associated with a disruption of gut microbiota, including ulcerative colitis or metabolic syndrome.

To date, the effects of FMT on chemotherapy-related diarrhea are unknown. The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), compared with sham FMT, in treating TKI-induced diarrhea in patients with metastatic RCC