Phase 2 Study of Ipilimumab Plus Dacarbazine in Japanese Patients With Advanced Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to determine the survival rate after 1 year of treatment with ipilimumab plus dacarbazine in patients with previously untreated Stage III (unresectable) or Stage IV melanoma.
Melanoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Percentage of Participants Surviving at 1 Year, Survival rate=percentage of participants surviving at 1 year following start of study drug. Every effort was made to collect survival data on all patients, including those withdrawn from treatment for any reason. If the death of a patient was not reported, the patient's last known alive date was recorded. Confidence intervals were computed using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 1 year from start of study drug
Number of Participants With Grade 3-4 Immune-related Adverse Events (irAEs), irAEs are adverse events of unknown cause, consistent with an immune phenomenon, and considered to be causally related to drug exposure. Six subcategories of irAE are assessed: gastrointestinal, liver, skin, endocrine, neurologic, and other. The irAEs are programmatically determined from a predefined list of MedDRA terms. irAEs will be measured every 3 weeks in induction phase, every 6 weeks in Maintenance Phase to Week 48, and every 12 weeks until Progressive Disease. Grading criteria: Grade 1=Mild, Grade 2=Moderate, Grade 3=Severe, Grade 4=Life-threatening or disabling, Grade 5=Death., First dose to 90 days following last dose of study drug|Number of Patients Who Died and Who Had Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Treatment-related SAEs, Adverse Events (AEs) Leading to Discontinuation, Related AEs Leading to Discontinuation, Related AEs, Grade 3-4 AEs, and Related Grade 3-4 AEs, AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Related=having certain, probable, possible, or unknown relationship to study drug. Grade 1=mild; Grade 2=moderate; Grade 3=severe; Grade 4=life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5=death., First dose to 90 days following last dose of study drug. All deaths were poststudy, occurring more than 90 days after the last dose of study drug.
The purpose of this study is to determine the survival rate after 1 year of treatment with ipilimumab plus dacarbazine in patients with previously untreated Stage III (unresectable) or Stage IV melanoma.