Testing the Effectiveness of a Combination Targeted Therapy (ViPOR) for Patients With Relapsed and/or Refractory Aggressive B-cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial tests how well venetoclax, ibrutinib, prednisone, obinutuzumab, and Revlimid® (ViPOR) works in treating patients with CD10 negative diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and high-grade lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 rearrangements that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) and/or that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Ibrutinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It blocks a protein called BTK, which is present on B-cell (a type of white blood cells) cancers at abnormal levels. This may help keep cancer cells from growing and spreading. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as prednisone lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. Obinutuzumab, a monoclonal antibody, binds to a protein called CD20, which is found on B cells and some types of leukemia and lymphoma cells. Obinutuzumab may block CD20 and help the immune system kill cancer cells. Revlimid, a type of anti-angiogenesis agent and a type of immunomodulating agent, may help the immune system kill abnormal blood cells or cancer cells. It may also prevent the growth of new blood vessels that cancers need to grow. ViPOR may be an effective treatment option for patients with relapsed and/or refractory CD10 negative DLBCL and high-grade B-cell lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 rearrangements.
High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Germinal Center B-Cell Type|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Germinal Center B-Cell Type|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Venetoclax
Complete response (CR) rate, Will be assessed using the Lugano Classification and will be defined as the complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease, and disease-related symptoms if present prior to therapy., Up to 5 years
CR rate, Estimates will be presented with 90% confidence intervals. Frequency and proportion will be used to describe variables on the nominal/ordinal scale, and measures of dispersion for interval/ratio variables. Logistic/linear regression will be performed for binary/continuous endpoints variables., Up to 5 years|Overall response rate, Estimates will be presented with 90% confidence intervals. Frequency and proportion will be used to describe variables on the nominal/ordinal scale, and measures of dispersion for interval/ratio variables. Logistic/linear regression will be performed for binary/continuous endpoints variables., Up to 5 years|Duration of response (DOR), Estimates will be presented with 90% confidence intervals. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to visualize DOR. Frequency and proportion will be used to describe variables on the nominal/ordinal scale, and measures of dispersion for interval/ratio variables. Logistic/linear regression will be performed for binary/continuous endpoints variables., From the documented beginning of response to the time of relapse up to 10 years|Event-free survival (EFS), Estimates will be presented with 90% confidence intervals. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to visualize EFS. Frequency and proportion will be used to describe variables on the nominal/ordinal scale, and measures of dispersion for interval/ratio variables. Multivariable analysis will be performed with Cox PH model and logistic/linear regression will be performed for binary/continuous endpoints variables., From study entry to any treatment failure including discontinuation of treatment for any reason, such as disease progression, toxicity, patient preference, initiation of new treatment without documented progression, or death up to 10 years|Time to progression (TTP), Estimates will be presented with 90% confidence intervals. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to visualize TTP. Frequency and proportion will be used to describe variables on the nominal/ordinal scale, and measures of dispersion for interval/ratio variables. Multivariable analysis will be performed with Cox PH model and logistic/linear regression will be performed for binary/continuous endpoints variables., From study entry until lymphoma progression or death due to lymphoma up to 10 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Estimates will be presented with 90% confidence intervals. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to visualize PFS. Frequency and proportion will be used to describe variables on the nominal/ordinal scale, and measures of dispersion for interval/ratio variables. Logistic/linear regression will be performed for binary/continuous endpoints variables., From entry onto study until lymphoma progression or death from any cause up to 10 years|Overall survival (OS), Estimates will be presented with 90% confidence intervals. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to visualize OS. Frequency and proportion will be used to describe variables on the nominal/ordinal scale, and measures of dispersion for interval/ratio variables. Logistic/linear regression will be performed for binary/continuous endpoints variables., From date of study entry to date of death up to 10 years|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity data will be pooled for tabulation and analysis., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate of ViPOR in relapsed/refractory (R/R):

Ia. CD10-negative DLBCL; and Ib. CD10-positive or negative high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBCL) with MYC and BCL2 (with or without BCL6) translocations (HGBCL-double hit \[DH\]-BCL2).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate of ViPOR in relapsed/refractory (R/R):

Ia. CD10-negative activated B-cell (ABC) DLBCL; and Ib. CD10-negative non-ABC (i.e., unclassified or germinal center B-cell \[GCB\]) DLBCL.

II. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR), event-free survival (EFS), time to progression (TTP), progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and the safety \& toxicity profile of ViPOR in relapsed/refractory (R/R):

IIa. CD10-negative ABC DLBCL; and IIb. CD10-negative non-ABC (i.e., unclassified or GCB) DLBCL; and IIc. CD10-positive or negative HGBCL-DH-BCL2.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess response and outcome to ViPOR based on molecular DLBCL subtype by cell-of-origin (COO) testing using Lymph2Cx gene-expression profiling (GEP).

II. To assess response and outcome to ViPOR based on genetic DLBCL subtype by LymphGen classification using whole exome sequencing (WES), whole genome sequencing (WGS), and ribonucleic acid (RNA)-sequencing (RNA-seq).

III. To determine other molecular correlates of response or resistance to ViPOR therapy.

IV. To determine early molecular correlates of response or resistance as well as the rate of complete molecular remission, as determined by assays for circulating-tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 2-14, ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-14, prednisone PO QD on days 1-7, obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 2, and lenalidomide (Revlimid) PO QD on days 1-14 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood sample collection, positron emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and optional tumor biopsy and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years, yearly during years 3-5, and then for survival for up to 10 years from the date of registration.