Temozolomide Plus Bevacizumab in Supratentorial Glioblastoma in 70 Years and Older Patients With an Impaired Functional Status
The optimal treatment of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) in patients aged ≥70 years with a Karnofsky performance status (KPS) \<70 is unestablished. This clinical trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of upfront temozolomide (TMZ) and bevacizumab (Bev) in patients aged ≥70 years and a KPS \<70.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Primary Brain Tumor
DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Median Overall Survival (OS), OS calculated from the date of surgery until death from any cause or up to 36 months., OS calculated from the date of surgery until death or up to 36 months.
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS calculated from the date of surgery to the date of progression or death or up to 36 months., PFS calculated from the date of surgery until the date of first documented progression or up to 36 months.|Toxicity grade according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTCAE, version 3.0), Assessment every 2 weeks until 12 months by physical and neurological examinations, complete blood counts and urine strip tests. Toxicity was graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTCAE, version 3.0)., Assessment every 2 weeks until 12 months|Health-related quality of life using QLQ-C30 questionnaire, The QLQ-C30 questionnaire includes 30 questions comprising five functioning scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, vomiting and pain) and six single item scales (dyspnea, insomnia, constipation, anorexia, diarrhea, and financial difficulties)., at baseline and every month until 12 months|Health-related quality of life using QLQ-BN20, The QLQ-BN20 questionnaire includes 20 items covering functional deficits, symptoms, toxic effects of treatment, and uncertainty about the future., at baseline and every month until 12 months|Cognitive assessment MMSEs, The MMSE was used as a measure of general cognitive status. Higher scores on this exam, which uses a 30-point scale, indicate better cognitive function., at baseline and they were repeated every month until 12 months|Radiological responses, Response assessment in neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria, Neuroimaging evaluation repeated every 2 months until 12 months
Elderly patients aged 65 years and older account for approximately 45% of GBM patients, and this figure is expected to rise concurrently with the aging population of most countries. Unfortunately, few trials have been performed in this setting. In elderly patients with good functional status (KPS \>70), radiotherapy (RT) prolongs overall survival (OS) without causing a detriment in quality of life compared with palliative care alone. Recently, it was shown that TMZ could be an alternative to RT. In elderly patients with poor functional status at symptom onset (KPS \< 70), RT does not appear to be a satisfactory option in this frail population; however, investigators previously found that TMZ alone was associated with improvements in functional status in 1/3 of cases and appeared to increase survival compared with supportive care alone, especially in methylated MGMT promoter patients.

Bevacizumab (Bev) is an antiangiogenic monoclonal antibody targeting VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) that is currently used in recurrent GBM, particularly in combination with alkylating agents. Its effect as first line treatment in combination with TMZ and RT is controversial.

In this study, investigators evaluated the efficacy and safety of the upfront combination of TMZ + Bev as an initial treatment for elderly patients with GBM and impaired functional status (KPS \<70).