Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Versus Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy for Resectable Locally Advanced Esophageal Cancer (HCHTOG1903)
Multimodal treatment combining surgery with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy is necessary to improve the chances of survival in patients with locally advanced thoracic esophageal cancer. However, there is no consensus about the neoadjuvant treatment for resectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The aim of current randomized controlled clinical trail is to investigate the impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus surgery and neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy plus surgery on overall survival for patients with resectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The investigators plan to enroll 456 patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in 3 years. Eligible patients will be randomized into neoadjuvant chemotherapy group (paclitaxel 175mg/m2 plus cisplatin 75mg/m2, q21d, 2 cycles) or neoadjuvant chemoradiation group (41.4Gy, 1.8Gy\*23d plus paclitaxel 50mg/m2 plus carboplatin AUC=2, q1w, 5 cycles). The primary endpoint is 5 year overall survival and the secondary endpoints include 5 year disease-free survival, adverse events, pathologic complete response, postoperative complications, quality of life. The biomarkers predicting the sensitivity of neoadjuvant therapy will be explored.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel, Cisplatin|RADIATION: neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy
overall survival, 5 year
disease-free survival, 5 year|pathological complete response, 3 months|adverse events, 3 months|postoperative complications, 3 months
Multimodal treatment combining surgery with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy is necessary to improve the chances of survival in patients with locally advanced thoracic esophageal cancer. However, there is no consensus about the neoadjuvant treatment for resectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The aim of current randomized controlled clinical trail is to investigate the impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus surgery and neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy plus surgery on overall survival for patients with resectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The investigators plan to enroll 456 patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in 3 years. Eligible patients will be randomized into neoadjuvant chemotherapy group (paclitaxel 175mg/m2 plus cisplatin 75mg/m2, q21d, 2 cycles) or neoadjuvant chemoradiation group (41.4Gy, 1.8Gy\*23d plus paclitaxel 50mg/m2 plus carboplatin AUC=2, q1w, 5 cycles). The primary endpoint is 5 year overall survival and the secondary endpoints include 5 year disease-free survival, adverse events, pathologic complete response, postoperative complications, quality of life. The biomarkers predicting the sensitivity of neoadjuvant therapy will be explored.