Yttrium-90 DOTA-TOC Intra-arterial (IA) Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) for Neuroendocrine Tumor
This is a prospective, pilot, single center, open-label study in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumor. Eligible participants will undergo baseline assessments at enrollment. Study participants will receive a one-time administration of 90Y-DOTA-TOC via the hepatic artery.

Participants in the correlative sub-study will receive 68Ga-DOTA-TOC concurrent with the 90Y-DOTA-TOC dose, and undergo additional imaging and assessment.
Neuroendocrine Tumor
DRUG: 90Y-DOTA-TOC|DRUG: 68Ga-DOTA-TOC
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Based on change in size of hepatic lesions three and six months after treatment with IA 90Y-DOTA-TOC using RECIST criteria., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 36 months|Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events [Safety], Based on laboratory evaluation and CTCAE 4.0 criteria., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 36 months
Change in SUVmax between pre-treatment IV 68Ga-DOTA-TOC PET and treatment IA 68Ga-DOTA-TOC., Data from patients in the imaging correlate sub-study only, Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 36 months|Correlation between uptake on IA 68Ga-DOTA-TOC PET/CT compared to 24-hour post-treatment IA 90Y-DOTA-TOC PET/MRI., Data from patients in the imaging correlate sub-study only, Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 36 months
Prior to the procedure, the patient will be instructed to fast overnight. Upon arrival to the hospital intravenous (IV) access will be placed, and Additionally, a scopolamine patch may be placed the night prior to treatment. Additionally a Foley catheter will be placed.

Starting 30 minutes prior to the administration of 90Y-DOTA-TOC, an amino acid solution will be administered via IV. An angiographic catheter will be directed under fluoroscopic guidance to the appropriate location in the hepatic artery.

The 90Y-DOTA-TOC dose will be administered over thirty minutes via the hepatic arterial catheter in an outpatient setting.

Ten patients also enrolled in the correlative sub-study will receive 68Ga-DOTA-TOC concurrent with the therapeutic dose and 90 minutes after treatment, these patients will be imaged 90 minutes after treatment using a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) combined with Computerized tomography (CT) (PET/CT) and the following day using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) combined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (PET/MR).

All study participants will be followed up on protocol for six months for evaluation of toxicity and response to treatment.