Phase I Stereotactic Body Radiation for Metastatic or Recurrent Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in treating patients with metastatic or recurrent ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer. SBRT may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor|Malignant Tumor of Peritoneum|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography|PROCEDURE: computed tomography|OTHER: questionnaire administration|DRUG: fludeoxyglucose F 18
Tumor response to SBRT as assessed by FDG-PET/CT, FDG-PET response based on interpretation by nuclear medicine physician with measurement of the maximal standard uptake value (SUV) and identification of new sites of disease. Percentage of decreased SUVmax between the pre- and post-treatment FDG-PET/CT, evaluating means, medians, range and standard deviations., At 3 months|The rate of grade 3 or greater non-hematologic acute toxicity as graded by the CTCAE v. 4.0, Toxicity will be tabulated by type and grade., 4-6 weeks, and up to 3 months after treatment
Measure CA-125 level, At baseline; 6 weeks; and 3, 6, and 12 months|FACT-Ovarian Symptom Index, At baseline; 6 weeks; and 3, 6, and 12 months|Late toxicity and non-grade 3 or greater acute toxicity following SBRT, At 6 weeks; 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months|Local control, Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate response of platinum-resistant ovarian cancer to stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) using fludeoxyglucose F 18 (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) 3 months after therapy.

II. Determine the rate of grade 3 or greater non-hematologic acute toxicity from SBRT using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate response to SBRT using cancer antigen-125 (CA-125) and symptom assessment using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Ovarian Symptom Index (FOSI).

II. Determine the rate of late and non-grade 3 acute toxicity using CTCAE version 4.0.

III. Evaluate local control, progression-free survival, and overall survival following SBRT.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo SBRT 5 days a week for approximately 1 week in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and then every 6 months for 4 years.