Immediate Breast Reconstruction With Acellular Dermal Matrix
The aim of this study is to contribute to the knowledge regarding immediate implant-based BR by investigating whether the one-stage technique with ADM is superior to the two-stage expander to implant technique. Primary endpoint in first publication is postoperative complications, secondary endpoint is patient and investigator assessed aesthetic outcome. Primary endpoint in second publication is cost, secondary endpoint is patient reported outcome measures.
Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Mammaplasty|Acellular Dermis
PROCEDURE: one-stage technique
Postoperative complications, Major (requiring surgery - infection, hematoma, mastectomy flap necrosis). Obtained by review of patient chart., 3 months|Postoperative complications, Minor (not requiring surgery - seroma, cellulitis). Obtained by review of patient chart., 3 months
Patient assessed satisfaction with aesthetic result, Assessment of result with and without clothes, symmetry and all-in-all satisfaction with result. Obtained by questionnaire on a 7 point Likert scale. Higher score equals higher satisfaction., 2 years|Investigator assessed satisfaction with aesthetic result, Assessment of result with and without clothes, symmetry (including measurements of sternal notch-papil distance and papilla-inframammary fold distance). Obtained by clinical examination., 2 years|Patient reported outcome measures, Patient reported assessment of pain and dysaesthesia in reconstructed breast, arm/shoulder function on reconstructed side. Described on a 6 point scale where lower score equals more pain/dysaesthesia/troubles with arm/shoulder function.

Body image (Hopwoods Body Image Scale) assessed in a 10-items each on 4 point Likert scale from 0 to 3. Sum provides a total score (range 0-30) and lower scores equals less body image troubles.

Furthermore, study specific questions as "use of pain killers the last week" (yes / no) and "all in all assessment of health owning to the breast reconstruction" (improved / diminished or unchanged). All obtained by questionnaire., 2 years|Cost, cost analysis comparing the two methods regarding hospitalization, out patient visits, cost of expander/implant/acellular dermal matrix, surgical interventions., 2 years
The aim of this study is to contribute to the knowledge regarding immediate implant-based BR by investigating whether the one-stage technique with ADM is superior to the two-stage expander to implant technique. Primary endpoint in first publication is postoperative complications, secondary endpoint is patient and investigator assessed aesthetic outcome. Primary endpoint in second publication is cost, secondary endpoint is patient reported outcome measures.