A Collaborative Intervention for Improving Cancer Pain Management in Rural and Hispanic Cancer Survivors (ASCENT)
This clinical trial tests a collaborative pain management intervention (ASCENT) for improving cancer pain in rural and Hispanic cancer survivors. Cancer pain is prevalent, under-treated, and remains a major cause of suffering, impairment, and disability for millions of Americans. Individual pain interventions and care models show promise for cancer pain in controlled settings. Hispanic and rural-dwelling cancer survivors stand to benefit the most from electronic health record innovations, as each of these health disparities populations experience profound disparities in pain outcomes, including marked under- and over-prescribing of opioids. Digitally facilitated solutions are especially well matched for these patients, and can be customized to address their needs. The ASCENT intervention provides patients with an educational guide that describes techniques for addressing cancer pain, and uses community health workers and pain care managers to coach patients through a personalized pain management plan. This study may help researchers learn how pain management strategies can improve cancer pain and lower risk of opioid exposure and dependency in rural and Hispanic cancer survivors.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|PROCEDURE: Health Telemonitoring|BEHAVIORAL: Cancer Pain Management
Change in Pain Score, Will be measured using the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI SF), a 4-item questionnaire answered on a scale from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine). A higher score indicates worse pain., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months
Physical function, Will be measured using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Physical Functioning Short Form (SF) 6b, a 6-item questionnaire that measures the effects of pain on physical functioning over the past 7 days. Questions are answered on a scale of 1-5, with higher scores indicating more pain interference., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Perceived Quality of Life, Will be measured using the European Quality of Life 5 Dimensions 3 Level (EQ-5D-3L) questionnaire, which measures quality of life on a 5-component scale including mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each component has three response levels of severity: no problems, some problems, extreme problems., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Depression, Will be measured using the Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2), a two-item questionnaire answered with responses from 0 (not al all) to 3 (nearly every day). A higher score indicates a higher level of depression., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Anxiety, Will be measured using the Generalized Anxiety Disorder-2 (GAD-2) scale, a two-item questionnaire answered with a score of 0 (not at all) to 3 (nearly every day). A higher score indicates higher frequency of being bothered by anxiety., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Sleep, Will be measured using the PROMIS Sleep Disturbance 6a, a 6-item questionnaire assessing sleep disturbance over the past 7 days. Each question is answered with a score of 1-5, with a higher score indicating greater sleep disturbance., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Employment status, Employment status will be self-reported, Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Adherence to behavioral multimodal pain care plan components, Will be measured using logged count data., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Use of study electronic-tools, Will be measured in minutes/week that participants access available electronic tools., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Social isolation, Will be measured using the PROMIS SF 4a, a six-item questionnaire with each question answered on a five-point scale from 1 (never) to 5 (very often). Higher scores indicate greater perceived social isolation., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Opioid consumption, Will be measured in oral morphine equivalents and collected using electronic health record (EHR) prescriptions., Up to 6 months|Health care utilization, Will be measured by reviewing the electronic health record (EHR) and administrative billing data for incidents of hospitalization and emergency department visits, Up to 6 months
NOTE: Although Mayo Clinic in Arizona, Mayo Clinic in Florida, and Mayo Clinic in Rochester are the main study locations, this study is also recruiting (enrolling remotely) at the following Mayo Clinic Health System locations. The study is virtual/remote, so no travel is required.

Mayo Clinic Health Systems-Mankato Mankato, MN 56001, US

Mayo Clinic Health System in Albert Lea Albert Lea, MN 56007, US

Mayo Clinic Health System in Austin Austin, MN 55912, US

Mayo Clinic Health System-Eau Claire Clinic Eau Claire, WI 54701, US

Mayo Clinic Health System-Franciscan Healthcare La Crosse, WI 54601, US

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To test a validated collaborative care model-based intervention aimed at improving pain control among rural dwelling and Hispanic cancer survivors by promoting multimodal pain care (MMPC) to reduce inappropriate opioid use and by addressing social determinants of health (SDOH) that impede a patient's access to appropriate care.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive enhanced usual care, which includes access to the educational and pain self-management materials developed for the ASCENT trial (the ASCENT guide).

ARM II: Patients receive the ASCENT guide and attend 3 video or phone calls over 30 minutes each with their community health worker (CHW) and/or pain care manager (PCM). During the first call, patients discuss barriers to receiving help for their pain with their CHW. During the second call, patients work with their PCM to develop an action plan for addressing their pain using the different techniques and interventions detailed in the ASCENT guide. During the third and final call, patients meet with both their CHW and PCM to discuss specialist recommendations for their pain management plan. After the final visit, patients will be contacted by the CHW or PCM every other week to monitor their progress and may also be contacted as-needed based on the their reported pain intensity, symptoms, or reported barriers.