68Ga-FAPI-04 and 18F-FDG PET/CT in Patients With Epithelial Ovarian Cancer: Compared With Histological Findings
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is a tumor entity featured by frequent involvement of peritoneum, also called peritoneal carcinomatosis. It is a type of metastasis accompanied by significant cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) accumulation. Fibroblast activation protein (FAP) is a protein that is overexpressed on CAFs and can be non-invasively monitored by a novel radiotracer called 68Ga-FAPI-04 positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). In this study, we will explore the value of 68Ga-FAPI-04 PET/CT in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer who are scheduled for surgical intervention. The findings of 68Ga-FAPI-04 PET/CT will also be compared with that of 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) PET/CT, which is one of the most commonly used modalities in evaluating EOC, and histological findings.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 68Ga-FAPI-04 PET/CT and 18F-FDG PET/CT
SUVmax of positive lesions, 68Ga-FAPI-04 and 18F-FDG accumulation will be determined using SUVmax, 1 hour after tracer injection
Histological findings, The presence of tumor cells on resected specimen will be evaluated by pathologists. The FAP expression will be determined using immunohistochemical staining using anti-FAP antibody (Abcam)., 60 day after surgery
Patients with epithelial ovarian cancer who are scheduled for surgical intervention will be recruited in this study. They will undergo a comparative 68Ga-FAPI-04 and 18F-FDG PET/CT study before the surgery. No tumor-specific treatment is allowed between the scan and surgery, e.g. adjuvant chemotherapy, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and intraperitoneal chemotherapy. Three types of lesions will be marked based on 68Ga-FAPI-04 and 18F-FDG PET/CT findings, which is FAPI+/FDG-, FAPI-/FAPI+, and FAPI+/FDG+ lesions. The marked lesions will be explored by the surgeon, resected if possible, and compared with histological results. A fourth type of lesion will be added into the analysis if that lesion is both FAPI and FAP negative but is a histological-confirmed positive lesion.