The Impact of the Inflammation Index on Predicting Postoperative Complications in Ovarian Cancer
Advanced-stage ovarian cancer surgery is a procedure that inherently carries a high risk of mortality and morbidity. However, there are some uncertainties regarding whether these complications can be predicted before the operation. In this study, we aimed to examine the relationship between complications and inflammation.
Complications|Ovarian Cancer
Correlation Between Preoperative Inflammatory Markers and Postoperative Complications, This measure will examine the relationship between preoperative inflammatory markers and postoperative complications. The levels of inflammatory markers may be used to predict the risk of complications and can guide treatment approaches aimed at improving the recovery process following surgery., Preoperative inflammatory markers will be measured within 1 week before surgery. Postoperative complications will be assessed within 30 days after surgery.
Objective: Cytoreductive surgery (CRS) is the most important treatment method that increases survival in advanced-stage ovarian cancer patients. However, complications after CRS are seen as a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. Preoperative risk assessment of patients is of great importance. In recent years, inflammatory markers have been the subject of many studies evaluating malignancy and surgical outcomes. Neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), systemic inflammation index (SII), and systemic inflammatory response index (SIRI) stand out as prognostic and predictive tools in malignancies. This study aims to evaluate the preoperative inflammatory markers in patients who underwent CRS for advanced-stage epithelial ovarian cancer and to investigate the predictive power of postoperative complications.

Materials and Methods: This retrospective study examines patients who underwent CRS due to advanced-stage epithelial OC at Sakarya University Training and Research Hospital between 2014 and 2023. Postoperative complications of the patients were graded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification; NLR, PLR, SII, and SIRI values were calculated using preoperative laboratory data, and the predictive values of inflammatory markers were analyzed with ROC curves.