Testing the Combination of the Anti-cancer Drugs ZEN003694 (ZEN-3694) and Talazoparib in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors, The ComBET Trial
This phase II trial tests whether ZEN003694 (ZEN-3694) in combination with talazoparib works to shrink tumors in patients with solid tumors that are unlikely to be cured or controlled with treatment and that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). Another aim of this study is to find out if, and how, patients' genes influence their response to this specific drug combination. For this part of the study, investigators will run tests using samples of patients' tumor tissue and blood that will be collected during the study. ZEN-3694 is an inhibitor of a family of proteins called the bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET). It may prevent the growth of tumor cells that overproduce BET protein. Talazoparib is an inhibitor of PARP, an enzyme that helps repair deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) when it becomes damaged. Blocking PARP may help keep cancer cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. PARP inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy. Genes are pieces of the DNA code that individuals inherit from their parents. Some genes work to protect against cancer by correcting damage that can occur in the DNA when cells divide. BRCA1 and BRCA2 are two examples of these types of genes, and they are called tumor-suppressor genes. For example, if a person has a mutation in a BRCA1/2 gene they have a greatly increased risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer because their cells may no longer be able to completely repair damaged DNA. It is the accumulation of DNA damage which causes a cell to change into a cancerous cell. Other genes are also involved in this process, and these are called DNA damage repair genes. The KRAS mutation is a change in a protein in normal cells. Normally KRAS serves as an information hub for signals in the cell that lead to cell growth, but when there is a mutation in KRAS it signals too much and cells grow without being told to, which causes cancer. Combination therapy with ZEN-3694 and talazoparib may be effective at slowing or stopping tumor growth in patients with advanced cancer.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: BET Bromodomain Inhibitor ZEN-3694|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Imaging Testing|DRUG: Talazoparib
Objective response rate (ORR), Systemically assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. ORR = complete response + partial response. Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target or non-target lesions. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target or non-target lesions., From initiation of treatment to first response
Duration of response, Assessed using RECIST v1.1., Time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), Assessed by radiographic disease assessments per RECIST v1.1. CBR = overall response + stable disease \> 6 months. Stable disease is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Assessed by radiographic disease assessments per RECIST v1.1., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Assessed by radiographic disease assessments per RECIST v1.1., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Incidence and severity of adverse events and serious adverse events as graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Includes significant changes in laboratory parameters, electrocardiograms, and vital signs. Summarized by grade and type., Up to 2 years
Treatment-induced changes in phospho-protein signaling, Reverse phase proteomic array in pre- and on-treatment tumor biopsy samples conducted to assess treatment-induced changes in phospho-protein signaling, to correlate with treatment response and progression, and to assess changes in the levels of cytotoxic T lymphocyte precursor., Up to 2 years|Correlation of single nucleotide variant (SNV) and copy number variant (CNV) profiles with treatment response, Whole exome sequencing conducted on pre-treatment biopsy and at progression to correlate SNV and CNV profiles with treatment response., Up to 2 years|Gene expression profiling, Ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing conducted for gene expression profiling., At pre-treatment, on-treatment, and at progression|Correlate mutation profiles with tumor sequencing, Using circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) for correlation., Up to 2 years|Correlate baseline mutations with treatment response, Using ctDNA for correlation., Up to 2 years|Correlate changes in ctDNA variant allele frequencies with response, Using ctDNA for correlation., Up to 2 years|Assess emergent resistant mutations, Includes BRCA reversion., At progression|Analysis of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded and blood and blood samples, DNA, RNA, and protein analysis conducted., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate clinical response to the combination of BET bromodomain inhibitor ZEN-3694 (ZEN003694 \[ZEN-3694\]) and talazoparib using objective response rate (ORR) = (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To confirm the safety and toxicity profile of the combination of ZEN003694 (ZEN-3694) and talazoparib.

II. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (stable disease \[SD\] \> 6 months \[m\]+CR+PR) and progression-free survival (PFS).

III. To assess the pharmacodynamics of the combination of ZEN003694 (ZEN-3694) and talazoparib using pre- and on-treatment tumor biopsies.

IV. To characterize pharmacodynamic changes of exploratory biomarkers to the combination of ZEN003694 (ZEN-3694) and talazoparib in pre- and on-treatment tumor biopsies.

V. To assess putative predictive biomarkers of response and resistance to the combination of ZEN003694 (ZEN-3694) and talazoparib.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ZEN-3694 orally (PO) once daily (QD) and talazoparib PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo diagnostic imaging, blood sample collection, and tumor biopsy throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 30 days after administration of the last dose of study drug and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.