Mitotane With or Without Cisplatin and Etoposide After Surgery in Treating Patients With Stage I-III Adrenocortical Cancer With High Risk of Recurrence
This phase III trial studies how well mitotane alone works compared to mitotane with cisplatin and etoposide when given after surgery in treating patients with adrenocortical cancer that has a high risk of coming back (recurrence). Cortisol can cause the growth of adrenocortical tumor cells. Antihormone therapy, such as mitotane, may lessen the amount of cortisol made by the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether mitotane alone or mitotane with cisplatin and etoposide after surgery works better in treating patients with adrenocortical carcinoma.
ENSAT Stage I Adrenal Cortex Carcinoma|ENSAT Stage II Adrenal Cortex Carcinoma|ENSAT Stage III Adrenal Cortex Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Mitotane|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), Starting from the date of randomization until documentation of radiological evidence of local recurrence, radiological evidence of distant recurrence, or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), RFS will be compared using the log-rank test between the two arms., From the time of randomization up to 2 years|Local recurrence of adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), Up to 6 months|Distant recurrence of ACC, Up to 6 months
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival will be compared using the log-rank test., From the time of randomization up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the effect of adjuvant mitotane treatment alone (arm A) with that of adjuvant mitotane combined with four 21-day cycles of etoposide/cisplatin (arm B) on recurrence-free survival (RFS) in patients with high-risk adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) after initial surgical resection.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess overall survival (OS), defined as the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of death from any cause.

II. Assess the effect of serum mitotane levels, disease stage, and surgical resection margins on clinical outcomes.

III. Assess the effect of early start (1-6 weeks from surgery) versus (vs.) late start (\> 6 weeks from surgery) of adjuvant therapy on clinical outcomes.

IV. Assess serious adverse events. V. Measure quality of life at baseline, 6 weeks, 6 months after the initiation of adjuvant therapy, and at the end of study participation (recurrence or completing study treatments) using a validated quality of life questionnaire (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer \[EORTC\] QLQ-C30).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Perform molecular profiling on available tissue specimens obtained at the time of initial surgical resection (formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded or frozen tissues) to identify genomic alterations in primary tumors that are associated with the clinical end points.

II. Evaluate markers to detect ACC recurrence or predict response to therapy (including steroid hormones and precursors, circulating tumor cells, and micro ribonucleic acid \[microRNA\]).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive mitotane orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive mitotane as in Arm A. Patients also receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on day 1 and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.