A Study Evaluating The Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, And Efficacy Of Venetoclax In Combination With Atezolizumab, Carboplatin, And Etoposide In Participants With Untreated Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (ES-SCLC).
A study consisting of a dose-escalation phase and a dose-expansion phase to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and efficacy of venetoclax in combination with atezolizumab, carboplatin, and etoposide.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Baseline up until 30 days after the last dose of study drug or until initiation of new systemic anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first (up to a maximum of 6.5 weeks).|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 24 months
Duration of Response (DOR), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 24 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS) After Enrolment, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 49 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate at 6 Months, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 18 months|Overall Survival (OS) Rate at 1 Year, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 18 months|Plasma Concentrations (ng/mL) of Venetoclax at Specified Timepoints, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 24 months|Serum Concentrations (ng/mL) of Atezolizumab at Specified Timepoints, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 24 months|Plasma Concentrations (ng/mL) of Carboplatin at Specified Timepoints, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 24 months|Plasma Concentrations (ng/mL) of Etoposide at Specified Timepoints, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 2 participants were enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 24 months
A study consisting of a dose-escalation phase and a dose-expansion phase to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and efficacy of venetoclax in combination with atezolizumab, carboplatin, and etoposide.