Minocycline Hydrochloride in Reducing Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy and Acute Pain in Patients With Breast Cancer Undergoing Treatment With Paclitaxel
This randomized pilot trial studies how well minocycline hydrochloride works in reducing chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy and acute pain in patients with breast cancer undergoing treatment with paclitaxel. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, may cause damage to nerves that result in aches, pains, and tingling or numbness of fingers and toes. Minocycline hydrochloride may help lessen nerve damage from paclitaxel and improve the quality of life in breast cancer patients.
Acute Pain|Breast Carcinoma|Peripheral Neuropathy
DRUG: Minocycline Hydrochloride|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Area Under the Curve (AUC) Per Assessment (aAUCpa) of Average Pain (Item 3 on the Daily Post-Paclitaxel Questionnaire), Average Area Under the Curve (AUC) per assessment (aAUCpa) of average pain (item 3 on the Daily Post-Paclitaxel Questionnaire; "Please rate the same aches/pain by circling the ONE number that best describes your aches/pains on the AVERAGE in the last 24 hours.") over 12 weeks. Scores are reported on a 0-100 scale, where 100=better outcome quality of life (QOL). The aAUCpa is the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment., Up to 12 weeks|Area Under the Curve (AUC) of EORTC CIPN20 Sensory Neuropathy Subscale, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neurophathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Sensory Neuropathy Subscale. The EORTC CIPN20 scoring algorithm was used for the sensory (items 31-36, 39, 40 and 48) subscale scores on a 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment. For example; for each patient and each subscale, the subscale values at treatment-initiation and assessment-1 are used to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) for that assessment time-period. Then these AUCs for all available assessment time-periods up to week-12 are averaged to yield the aAUCpa per patient per subcale., Up to course 12|Area Under the Curve (AUC) Per Assessment (aAUCpa) of Fatigue (Item 10 on the Acute Pain Syndrome Summary Questionnaire), Area Under the Curve (AUC) Per Assessment (aAUCpa) of Fatigue (Item 10 on the Acute Pain Syndrome Summary Questionnaire); "Over the past week, did you experience fatigue?") over 12 weeks. Scores are reported on a 0-100 scale, where 100=better outcome quality of life (QOL). The aAUCpa is the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment., Baseline to up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate whether minocycline hydrochloride (minocycline) can alleviate paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy.

II. To estimate whether minocycline can alleviate paclitaxel acute pain syndrome (P-APS).

III. To examine the possible relative toxicities related to minocycline therapy in this study situation.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive minocycline hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 7 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive a placebo PO BID on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 7 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of the study, patients are followed up every month for 6 months.