Antiviral Cellular Therapy for Enhancing T-cell Reconstitution Before or After Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether virus-specific T cell lines (VSTs) are safe and can effectively control three viruses (EBV, CMV, and adenovirus) in patients who have had a stem cell transplant and also in patients that have a primary immunodeficiency disorder with no prior stem cell transplant.
Cytomegalovirus Infections|Adenovirus Infection|EBV Infection
BIOLOGICAL: Virus Specific T-cell (VST) infusion
Feasibility to identify suitable HLA matched VST products, Feasibility will be defined as the ability of the investigators to identify suitable partially HLA- matched VST products from the VST bank at Children's National Medical Center for referred study subjects. The percentage of referred patients with potential partially-matched VST products identified will be recorded, as will timing between patient referral and treatment., 30 days|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, The safety endpoint, dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), will be defined as acute GvHD grades III-IV or grades 3-5 infusion-related adverse events or grades 4-5 non-hematological adverse events related to the T cell product within 30 days of each VST dose and that are not due to the pre-existing infection or the original malignancy or pre-existing co-morbidities as defined by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 4.03., 30 days|Efficacy of VST at 30 days as measured by viral load, Peripheral blood and, where relevant, stool and urine will be monitored for CMV, EBV, and/or adenovirus viral load. For patients with multiple viral infections, the response against the primary viral target will determine the classification. For the infection under treatment response in viral load will be assessed at 30 days after the first VST infusion, 30 days
Reconstitution of Antiviral Immunity following VST infusions, Patient serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be monitored for virus-specific activity during the 3 months following VST infusion by the following measures:

1. T cell phenotyping by flow cytometry (including % CD3, CD4, CD8, TCRalpha/beta and CD45RA-/CCR7+, among other markers)
2. Antiviral T cell responses to CMV, EBV, and/or Adenovirus antigens by IGN-g ELIspot (spot forming units) and Intracellular cytokine staining ( %IFN-gamma and TFNa+ of CD4 and CD8 cells)
3. T cell repertoire and antiviral specificity by TCR sequencing (%clonotype frequencies), 3 months|Persistence of infused VSTs, Persistence of infused T cells will be monitored at 1 month and 3 months following VST infusion using deep sequencing and additional tests as indicated to track the TCR v-beta repertoire in the patient peripheral blood prior to and post-infusion., 1 month and 3 months|Effects on Clinical Signs of Viral Infection, If a patient has organ involvement, clinical response will be monitored. For patients with EBV lymphoma and measurable disease, response will be assessed by RECIST criteria., 3 months|Survival, Overall survival at 6 and 12 months post VST infusion will be computed., 6 months and 12 months
The primary purpose of the study is to evaluate whether most closely HLA-matched multivirus-specific T cell lines obtained from a bank of allogeneic virus-specific T cell lines (VSTs) have antiviral activity against three viruses: EBV, CMV and adenovirus.

Reconstitution of anti-viral immunity by donor-derived VSTs has shown promise in preventing and treating infections associated with CMV, EBV and adenovirus post-transplant. However, the time required to prepare patient-specific products and lack of virus-specific memory T cells in cord blood and seronegative donors, limits their value. An alternative is to use banked partially HLA-matched allogeneic VSTs. A prior phase II study at Baylor College of Medicine using trivirus-specific VSTs generated using monocytes and EBV-transformed B cells gene-modified with a clinical grade adenoviral vector expressing CMV-pp65 to activate and expand specific T cells showed the feasibility, safety and activity of this approach for the treatment of refractory CMV, EBV and Adenovirus infections. More recent protocols utilizing synthetic viral peptide pools allow ex vivo expansion of T-cells targeting multiple viral antigens in 10-12 days without use of viral transduction.

The study will evaluate whether partially-HLA matched allogeneic multivirus-specific VSTs, activated using overlapping peptide libraries spanning immunogenic antigens from CMV, adenovirus and EBV, will be safe and produce anti-viral effects in immunodeficient recipients infected with one of more of the targeted viruses that are persistent despite conventional anti-viral therapy.

This study will evaluate safety and efficacy of partially-matched VST therapy in A) patients who have persistent viral infections in the post-HSCT period, and B) patients with primary immunodeficiency conditions who have persistent viral infections and have not undergone HSCT.

The study agent will be assessed for safety and antiviral activity.