A Pilot Study Using 18F-DOPA PET-guided Radiotherapy in Gliomas
For most brain tumors, radiation treatment is guided by a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan. In this study, information from a special scan, called a Positron Emission Tomography/ Computed Tomography (PET/CT) scan using an amino acid called Fluorine-18-L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (18F-DOPA) will also be used. This type of scan has shown promise in being able to better distinguish tumor from normal brain tissue and may help to more accurately plan radiation treatment. This type of scan can also assist the radiation oncologist in identifying the most aggressive regions of the tumor. The goal of this study is to compare the 18F-DOPA PET/CT scan with the MRI scan for identifying where the disease is that needs to be treated with radiation.
Malignant Glioma
DRUG: Fluorine-18-L-dihydroxyphenylalanine
Treatment volume comparison, The primary endpoint for this pilot study will be to compare radiotherapy treatment volumes defined by conventional MR-only with treatment volumes defined with both 18F-DOPA PET and conventional MR information, 6 weeks
Advanced imaging volume comparison, For patients who have advanced MRI scans performed as part of standard clinical care, advanced MRI volumes will be compared with conventional MRI volumes as well as 18F-DOPA PET volumes, 6 weeks|Concordance with recurrence, For patients who progress radiographically within the observation period of this study will compare concordance of recurrence locations with pre-treatment 18F-DOPA PET uptake, up to 10 years
For most brain tumors, radiation treatment is guided by a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan. In this study, information from a special scan, called a Positron Emission Tomography/ Computed Tomography (PET/CT) scan using an amino acid called Fluorine-18-L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (18F-DOPA) will also be used. This type of scan has shown promise in being able to better distinguish tumor from normal brain tissue and may help to more accurately plan radiation treatment. This type of scan can also assist the radiation oncologist in identifying the most aggressive regions of the tumor. The goal of this study is to compare the 18F-DOPA PET/CT scan with the MRI scan for identifying where the disease is that needs to be treated with radiation.