Determination of Autonomic Responses to Exposure to Electromagnetic Fields With Low Energy Modulated Frequency
This is an exploratory study, national, unicentric, double-blind, to be conducted at the Institute for Teaching and Research of the Hospital Sírio-Libanês in order to detect possible autonomic responses resulting from Exposure to Electromagnetic Fields of Low Energy (EEFLE) in healthy subjects and in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma or in patients with advanced breast carcinoma. Autonomic responses have been described in patients with cancer during the exposure of EEFLE. This autonomic response, or biofeedback, due to exposure to EEFLE seems to be associated with a specific set of modulation frequencies when applied to patients with malignancies. Moreover, healthy individuals exposed to modulated EEFLE a specific set of frequency do not appear to autonomic response. Biofeedback is defined by a change in amplitude of the radial pulse during exposure to EEFLE, modulated according to a set of specific frequencies. This phenomenon is not yet fully elucidated. In exploratory survey of one patient was observed a change of the pressure pulse immediately after the start of and during exposure to EEFLE, modulated according to a set of specific frequencies recorded by digital photoplethysmography. This study aims to evaluate an autonomic response in individuals exposed in a single moment, by electromagnetic fields. This study does not intend to study a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. For this reason, evolutive clinical data will not be considered during and after the study.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Electromagnetic Fields of Low Energy (EEFLE)
Autonomic response monitoring (blood pressure digital and manual monitoring), 60 minutes
Cardiovascular electronic monitoring (digital photoplethysmography and electrocardiography), 60 minutes|Baroreflex sensitivity (by the method of sequence), 60 minutes
This is an exploratory study, national, unicentric, double-blind, to be conducted at the Institute for Teaching and Research of the Hospital Sírio-Libanês in order to detect possible autonomic responses resulting from Exposure to Electromagnetic Fields of Low Energy (EEFLE) in healthy subjects and in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma or in patients with advanced breast carcinoma. Autonomic responses have been described in patients with cancer during the exposure of EEFLE. This autonomic response, or biofeedback, due to exposure to EEFLE seems to be associated with a specific set of modulation frequencies when applied to patients with malignancies. Moreover, healthy individuals exposed to modulated EEFLE a specific set of frequency do not appear to autonomic response. Biofeedback is defined by a change in amplitude of the radial pulse during exposure to EEFLE, modulated according to a set of specific frequencies. This phenomenon is not yet fully elucidated. In exploratory survey of one patient was observed a change of the pressure pulse immediately after the start of and during exposure to EEFLE, modulated according to a set of specific frequencies recorded by digital photoplethysmography. This study aims to evaluate an autonomic response in individuals exposed in a single moment, by electromagnetic fields. This study does not intend to study a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. For this reason, evolutive clinical data will not be considered during and after the study.