Comparing Efficacy and Safety Between Pertuzumab® and Perjeta® in Neoadjuvant Treatment of HER2+ Breast Cancer
This study was a phase III, multicenter, triple-blind, equivalency clinical trial to determine the therapeutic efficacy and safety between Pertuzumab® (CinnaGen Co.) compared to originator pertuzumab in HER2-positive early breast cancer patients.

Patients were stratified dynamically for random assignment to treatment with either Pertuzumab® (CinnaGen Co.) or originator pertuzumab, and received neoadjuvant TCHP regimen every 3- weeks.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel
Breast Pathological Complete Response (bpCR), bpCR defined as the absence of invasive neoplastic cells in the breast at microscopic examination of the primary tumor at surgery following primary systemic therapy (ypT0/is), 18-20 weeks after first intervention
Total Pathological Complete Response (tpCR), tpCR defined as no invasive tumor residues in the breast and lymph nodes (ypT0/is ypN0), 18-20 weeks after first intervention|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined as the proportion of patients who achieved a complete or partial response, 18-20 weeks after first intervention|Rate of Breast-conserving Surgery (BCS), Rate of BCS for patients for whom mastectomy was planned before treatment (T2-3), 18-20 weeks after first intervention|Safety Assessment Including Treatment Related Adverse Events, Safety assessment, including the incidence of all reported AEs and abnormal laboratory results was done. All AEs were classified based on the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA Desktop Browser 4.0 Beta) terms as System Organ Class (SOC) and Preferred Term (PT). All the reported events were graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0). Moreover, seriousness of AEs was assessed according to International Council for Harmonization (ICH-E2B) guidelines. The causality relation was assessed based on the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria., Throughout the study duration (from first visit to week 18-20)|Abnormal Laboratory Data, Laboratory data including CBC diff have been assessed. All abnormal values were recorded as adverse event., Throughout the study duration (from first visit to week 18-20)|Decrease in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF), LVEF decrease was measured by echocardiography. All cases with a decrease more than 10% from baseline which meet \<50%, will be recorded as adverse events., every 6 week (from first visit to week 18-20)|Incidence of Symptomatic Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction (LVSD), In this study, LVSD was evaluated by measuring the decrease in LVEF (outcome measure 5) and assessing the clinical symptoms of the study participants based on physician opinion., Throughout the study duration (from first visit to week 18-20)|Immunogenicity, The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method was used for the assessment of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs)., Every 3 weeks (from first intervention to week 18)
This study was a phase III, multicenter, triple-blind , equivalency clinical trial to determine the therapeutic efficacy and safety between Pertuzumab® (CinnaGen Co.) compared to originator pertuzumab in HER2-positive early breast cancer patients.

Patients stratified dynamically according to two factors: type of breast cancer (inflammatory, locally and operable) and estrogen/ progesterone receptor (ER/PR) (positive or negative) with 1:1 allocation ratio.

Study drugs were administered intravenously on a 3-weekly schedule and were given consecutively on the same day in the following sequence: trastuzumab, followed by pertuzumab, carboplatin, and docetaxel (TCHP regimen).

The primary endpoint was breast pCR (bpCR). Secondary efficacy endpoints included total pCR (tpCR); objective response rate (ORR) and rate of breast-conserving surgery (BCS) for patients for whom mastectomy was planned before treatment (T2-3).

During this study, adverse events (AEs) were monitored continuously. As an adverse event of special interest (AESI), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decreased was monitored and assessed by echocardiography throughout the study. Immunogenicity was also assessed.