Safety and Efficacy of APG-157 in Head and Neck Cancer
The purpose of this clinical research study is to study safety and efficacy of orally administered APG-157 as the neoadjuvant/induction therapy in newly diagnosed, locally advanced patients with Head \& Neck Cancer of oral cavity and/or oropharynx.

The study hypothesis is that neoadjuvant use of APG-157 will reduce the tumor burden prior to any definitive therapy to improve the outcomes over current standard of care.
Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Oral Cavity|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx
DRUG: APG-157
Imaging to assess drug's ability to impact tumor size, Change in Tumor Size from Baseline to end of dosing using MRI with or without contrast and PET/CT imaging., Baseline to end of dosing is four weeks (extendable up to 6 weeks) of APG-157 dosing. Baseline is at time of diagnosis. End of dosing is day before surgery or start of other definitive therapy and/or radiation
Biopsy, Change in Immunohistochemistry profile (including the levels of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes TILs) of tumor biopsy from baseline to end of dosing., Baseline to end of dosing is four weeks (extendable up to 6 weeks) of APG-157 dosing. Baseline is at time of diagnosis. End of dosing is day before surgery or start of other definitive therapy and/or radiation|Saliva Profile, Change in cytokine levels (IL-1β , TNF-α, IL-8) and oral microbiome (phyla and genus level changes in microbial composition using 16s RNA sequencing) in saliva from baseline to end of dosing., Baseline to end of dosing is four weeks (extendable up to 6 weeks) of APG-157 dosing. Baseline is at time of diagnosis. End of dosing is day before surgery or start of other definitive therapy and/or radiation|Cell-free RNA analyses of saliva and blood, Change in cell-free RNA biomarkers in blood and saliva from baseline to end of dosing., Baseline to end of dosing is four weeks (extendable up to 6 weeks) of APG-157 dosing. Baseline is at time of diagnosis. End of dosing is day before surgery or start of other definitive therapy and/or radiation
The patient will receive neoadjuvant therapy (APG-157) during the period between initial diagnosis and time of definitive treatment. APG-157 is an orally administered drug in a form of pastille (soft lozenge) taken three times a day. It dissolves in the mouth. After the neoadjuvant treatment, the patient undergoes surgery or any other definitive therapy and/or postoperative radiotherapy as determined by the patient's doctor. Duration of treatment is four weeks that may be extended up to six weeks by mutual consent of the patients and the investigators.

Objectives:

1. To conduct Phase 2A to determine how tumor size, tumor tissue biomarkers, and the cancer stem cell markers, in head and neck squamous cell cancer patients are affected by the administration APG-157 pastilles using imaging and other clinical measurements.
2. To determine the degrees of response of each patient to APG-157 (considering patient's diagnosis/staging and local treatment) using proposed primary, secondary and exploratory endpoints.
3. The results from this study will be used to finalize the design of subsequent Phase 2B study (single arm for specific patient population and local treatment) to demonstrate statistically significant efficacy outcomes.