Mezigdomide Plus Ixazomib and Dexamethasone for Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma
Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common hematologic malignancy with an estimated annual incidence of nearly 35,000 cases. While still considered an incurable disease, new treatments have improved outcomes dramatically over the last two decades. Around the turn of the millennium, classical cytotoxic chemotherapy and radiation were the only available treatment modalities and median OS was estimated at 2-3 years. Currently, there are now 17 FDA-approved anti-myeloma agents and median OS is approaching 10 years. More recently, next generation cellular and immune therapies are demonstrating unprecedented efficacy in highly refractory patients with otherwise a very short life expectancy. In this study, the starting dose of ixazomib will be reduced to 3mg, as this is the first FDA-recommended dose recommendation (from 4mg). The starting dose of mezigdomide will be 0.6mg. Frequent toxicity and AE monitoring as outlined in this trial (weekly in C1, every 2 weeks in C2-C4) asserts maximization of patient safety. Dexamethasone (DEX) will be dosed at 40mg weekly in patients \< 75 years old and 20mg for patients \> 76 years old. Additionally, the staring dose of DEX may be reduced to 20mg in any patient, per study provider discretion, based on several factors such frailty, prior adverse side effects or existing comorbidities.
Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Mezigdomide|DRUG: Ixazomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Phase l: Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D), Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) per adverse events as defined using National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE v5.0. Hematologic DLTs: Grade 4 neutropenia \< 500/μL for more than 5 days, Grade 3 neutropenia with fever \> 38.3°C (one time) or fever \> 38.0°C sustained for one hour, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding; Non-Hematologic DLTs: Grade 3 diarrhea lasting \>3 days (not recovering to \< grade 2) despite supportive care, Grade 3 nausea or vomiting \>3 days (not recovering to \< grade 2) days despite supportive care, Grade 3 fatigue lasting \>7 days (not recovering to \< grade 2) days despite supportive care, Grade 4 diarrhea, Grade 4 nausea or vomiting, Allergic reaction or hypersensitivity if unable to be corrected to \<grade 1 within 48 hours, Any other non-hematologic grade \>3 toxicity for which there is not a clear alternative explanation; General: dose modification or delay of mezigdomide or ixazomib during cycle 1 due to treatment related toxicity., Up to 17 months|Phase ll: Overall Response Rate (ORR), Preliminary efficacy of mezigdomide when given in combination with ixazomib and dexamethasone as estimated by ORR, as defined by the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria. This will be expressed as the proportion of patients who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR is defined as negative serum and urine M-protein immunofixation (IF), along with the presence of \< 5% plasma cells (PCs) in bone marrow (BM) biopsy. PR is defined as ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in 24-hour urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg per 24 hours., Up to 36 months
Incidence and severity of Adverse Events, Incidence and severity of adverse events AEs, as defined by the NCI-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0, tabulated by type, grade and relatedness to treatment for each dose level achieved in the study and overall., Up to 36 months|Depth of Response, Depth of Response will be measured as the proportion of participants in each category, given IMWG Uniform Response Criteria at each dose level and overall., Up to 36 months|Duration of Response (DOR), The time from the date of the earliest documented response (PR, VGPR, CR or sCR) to the earliest date of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first. Disease progression will be determined by the investigator per IMWG Uniform Response Criteria., Up to 36 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The time from the date of first treatment to the earliest date of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first. Disease progression will be determined by the investigator per IMWG Uniform Response Criteria., Up to 36 months
Mezigdomide is a novel cereblon E3 ligase modulator (CELMoD). It is an oral small-molecule compound that potentiates the cereblon-mediated ubiquitination of key cellular transcription factors (Ikaros and Aiolos), which ultimately results in multiple myeloma cell death and other immunomodulatory activity. Mezigdomide has demonstrated acceptable safety in two phase I clinical trials in combination with DEX as a "doublet," and as a "triplet" in combination with bortezomib and DEX. Early estimates of efficacy are high compared to historical date: 55% ORR in combination with DEX in a highly pre-treated and refractory patient population, and 75% in combination with bortezomib. By comparison, the most recent oral therapy approved by the FDA for RRMM was Selinexor, which demonstrated a 25% ORR in patients who received a median of 7 prior lines of therapy and 100% of whom were refractory to a PI, IMID and DARA. This comparison serves as very exploratory estimate as no conclusions can be drawn from cross-trial comparisons, especially with very small patient populations. While important efficacy measures such overall survival, progression-free survival and duration of response are maturing, these estimates suggest mezigdomide could be an efficacious, oral treatment option for patients with RRMM.