Personalized Targeted Inhibitors Treatment in Renal Cell Cancer
This is for subjects with metastatic Renal Cell Cancer (RCC). There are four Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved drugs for first-line therapy of Renal Cell Cancer (RCC) and two for second-line therapy. Each of these drugs targets a specific molecular pathway. At present oncologists select therapy based on current guidelines. There is a new method for trying to use biomarker information from the subject's tumor to select the best drug to treat the subject. This process is investigational, which is why this study is being done.

Biomarkers are genes, proteins and other molecules that affect how cancer cells grow, multiply, die and respond to other compounds in the body. These biomarkers build a tumor profile or "fingerprint" of the subject's tumor. A new focus in cancer care is personalized treatment, where doctors select a drug based on the subject's tumor's unique "fingerprint" which is more likely to be effective in fighting the tumor. Selecting the treatment the subject is more likely to respond to requires a thorough understanding of the relationship between biomarker and treatment effect. The PI wants to gather data to understand that relationship to help treat future cancer patients. The purpose of this study is to evaluate efficacy of treatments that are selected based on tumor profiles.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Sunitinib|DRUG: Temsirolimus|DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Pazopanib|DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Axitinib
Number of Participants Who Progressed, The PFS is defined as the time elapsed between treatment initiation and tumor progression or death from any cause, with censoring of patients who are lost to follow-up. Progression is defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1): " At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression).", From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, date of death from any cause, or date that the study was stopped, whichever came first, an average of 16 months
This will be a prospective, one-arm, proof of concept study designed to evaluate the efficacy of algorithm-based allocation (based on genomic/proteomic profile) of first-line therapy in renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

After eligibility review, patients will receive one of the four first-line therapy agents based on their tumor's molecular profile as determined using fresh biopsy tissue from an accessible metastatic site. Upon disease progression, patients will then receive one of two second-line agents based on their tumor's molecular profile.

Because this is a proof-of-concept study, the sample size is based on feasibility of accrual. The clinic should be able to recruit 100 patients within a reasonable timeframe for the study. The number of patients receiving each drug will vary based on the frequency of molecular alterations in the population. Therefore, groups will not be compared with one another - the research goal is to determine whether the progression-free survival (PFS) for each drug is improved over the PFS reported in FDA approval trials for each drug when they are assigned based on molecular analysis.