Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy for Oligometastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Oligometastasis is a definition that has been described in the past in the 1990s, and in some patients, metastases are not extensive and are limited to a small number of metastases. The local ablative treatment for oligometastasis is not a new concept. In case of liver metastasis from colorectal cancer, long-term survival can be expected if the liver resection is performed. Effectiveness has been demonstrated in studies of adrenal and brain metastasis from lung cancer as well as lung metastasis from sarcoma. A recent non-randomized study reported that patients with oligometastasis improved treatment outcomes with aggressive treatment. This study demonstrated that local ablative treatment for oligometastasis showed better treatment outcomes than expected. Also, the long-term outcomes in SABR-COMET trial showed that the overall survival were increased by 22 months. So far, the standard treatment for metastatic disease is systemic chemotherapy. However, based on these results from studies, active local treatment for patients with oligometastasis is currently being performed in the clinic. In this study, we aimed to apply this concept to patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. To confirm the efficacy and safety of stereotactic radiotherapy in patients with oligometastasis hepatocellular carcinoma
Oligometastasis Hepatocellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: Radiation: Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)
Treatment efficacy (Overall survival), The overall survival of patients from the start date of SBRT to either date of death or date of last follow up is evaluated, 2 year|Treatment efficacy (Disease free survival), The disease free survival from the start date of SBRT to date of disease progression or date of death or date of last follow up is evaluated, 2 year
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events (acute and late toxicity) as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, The acute and late treatment-related toxicity are evaluated., 2 year
Oligometastasis is a definition that has been described in the past in the 1990s, and in some patients, metastases are not extensive and are limited to a small number of metastases. The local ablative treatment for oligometastasis is not a new concept. In case of liver metastasis from colorectal cancer, long-term survival can be expected if the liver resection is performed. Effectiveness has been demonstrated in studies of adrenal and brain metastasis from lung cancer as well as lung metastasis from sarcoma. A recent non-randomized study reported that patients with oligometastasis improved treatment outcomes with aggressive treatment. This study demonstrated that local ablative treatment for oligometastasis showed better treatment outcomes than expected. Also, the long-term outcomes in SABR-COMET trial showed that the overall survival were increased by 22 months. So far, the standard treatment for metastatic disease is systemic chemotherapy. However, based on these results from studies, active local treatment for patients with oligometastasis is currently being performed in the clinic. In this study, we aimed to apply this concept to patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. To confirm the efficacy and safety of stereotactic radiotherapy in patients with oligometastasis hepatocellular carcinoma