Refining Local-Regional Therapy for IBC
This Feasibility study is trying to determine:

* If Lymphoscintigraphy (imaging of the lymphatic drainage patterns) is effective in demonstrating the drainage to the sentinel lymph nodes in patients with inflammatory breast cancer.
* The likelihood of identifying the sentinel lymph nodes in the operating room, using both blue dye and the radioactive substance used for lymphoscintigraphy.
* The incidence of lymphedema (arm swelling which occurs after lymph node surgery) in women with inflammatory breast cancer
* Outcomes for women with inflammatory breast cancer, whether or not the sentinel lymph nodes can be identified.
Breast Cancer|Inflammatory Breast Cancer|Sentinel Lymph Node
PROCEDURE: Lymphoscintigraphy
Sentinel Lymph Node (SLN) identification rate, The identification rate will be calculated as a ratio of the number of patients in whom SLN(s) were successfully identified over the total number of patients in whom SLN mapping was attempted., Up to 6 months
Prevalence of lymphedema, Assess the prevalence of lymphedema following comprehensive local therapy (surgery + regional RT) using the patient-reported Lymphedema Symptom Intensity and Distress Survey - Arm (LSIDS-A) (Appendix A)., Every 6 months post surgery up to 2 years|Local-regional recurrence free survival rate (LRRFS), Duration of time from surgery until invasive ipsilateral local-regional recurrence or death from any cause; in the absence of an event, LRRFS will be censored at the date last know alive and free from local regional recurrence (LRR)., Within 2 years from surgery|Distant recurrence-free survival rate (DRFS), Duration of time from surgery until distant recurrence or death from any cause; in the absence of an event, DRFS will be censored at the date last know alive and free from distant recurrence, Within 2 years from surgery|Disease-free survival (DFS), Duration of time from surgery until invasive ipsilateral local regional recurrence, invasive contralateral breast cancer, distant recurrence, or death from any cause; in the absence of an event, DFS will be censored at the date last know alive and free from all events., Within 2 yhears from surgery
This research study is a Feasibility Study, which means the investigators are collecting information from a relatively small group of patients to determine if the sentinel lymph node procedure identifies the first nodes that drain the breast in patients with inflammatory breast cancer.

The sentinel node procedure is a standard method to evaluate whether breast cancer has spread to the axillary lymph nodes (lymph nodes under the arm) or remains in the lymph nodes under the arm after chemotherapy in non-inflammatory breast cancer. "Standard" means that sentinel lymph node biopsy is accepted by the majority of the medical community as a suitable method to determine if breast cancer has spread to the lymph nodes or remains in the lymph nodes after chemotherapy. In women with non-inflammatory breast cancer, these lymph nodes are tested first and if they are free of cancer additional lymph nodes are not removed. By safely limiting the amount of lymph node surgery to only the sentinel lymph nodes, the likelihood of developing lymphedema (arm swelling after lymph node surgery) has declined among women with non-inflammatory breast cancer.

Currently, sentinel lymph node biopsy is not performed in inflammatory breast cancer as there are little data supporting that it works or is accurate. For inflammatory breast cancer, performing lymphoscintigraphy (imaging study to show the drainage from the breast to the lymph nodes) and sentinel lymph node biopsy is investigational. "Investigational" means that this is being studied. If in this study it is determined that sentinel lymph nodes can be accurately identified and tested in patients with inflammatory breast cancer, this could lead to future studies testing whether complete lymph node dissection can be avoided in women with inflammatory breast cancer whose sentinel nodes are free of cancer. Thus, potentially also reducing the likelihood of lymphedema in patients who receive treatment for inflammatory breast cancer.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, imaging evaluation, lymphoscintigraphy, sentinel lymph node evaluation, a mandatory research biopsy, research blood draws and questionnaires.

It is expected that about 50 people will take part in this research study at participating sites around the United States

Johns Hopkins University on behalf of the Translational Breast Cancer Research Consortium (TBCRC) is supporting this research study by providing funding for the research study. The TBCRC is a group of academic medical centers across the United States that work together to conduct breast cancer research.