PRIORITY-CONNECT 2 Trial
Objectives:

The primary aim of this project is to establish the effectiveness of an individualised stepped, multidisciplinary intervention, including education and peer support group, delivered via a virtual multimodal (pre)rehabilitation hub, in reducing postoperative complications within 30-days following colorectal cancer surgery, compared to usual care alone.

The secondary aims will be to obtain data on the likely difference in key outcomes including:

(i) Quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR29) (ii) Number of days at home within 30, 90 and 365 days after surgery (DAH-30, 90, 365) (iii) Quality of recovery (QoR-15) (iv) Cost-effectiveness (v) Implementation metrics (RE-AIM)

Our hypothesis is that the PRIORITY-CONNECT 2 intervention will be more effective in reducing postoperative complications and more cost-effective than usual care.

Study design:

Pragmatic Randomised Type I Hybrid Effectiveness-Implementation Trial.

Planned sample size:

To achieve the primary aim, 564 participants will provide 90% power to detect a 15% difference in 30-day postoperative complication rates between the intervention and control groups. The sample size calculation accounts for up to 10% loss to follow-up, 5% non-compliance and a two-side alpha of 0.05.

Selection criteria:

A sample of 564 participants undergoing colorectal cancer surgery including open, laparoscopic or robotic-assisted surgery (mostly, anterior resection, sigmoid colectomy, hemicolectomy, total proctocolectomy, subtotal colectomy, total colectomy) at sites throughout Australia will be included. These are common colorectal cancer surgeries performed at the participating centres. All the surgeons involved in this study have clinical appointments in their respective hospitals.

Inclusion: Adults aged ≥18 years undergoing elective major surgery for colon or rectal cancer with curative intent; and consulting a colorectal surgeon at least 1 week prior to scheduled surgery.

Exclusion: Cognitive impairment such that they are unable to provide informed consent.

Study Procedure:

Participant's treating team will screen and provide an information sheet about the trial to consecutive patients. Interested patients will be contacted by a study researcher to discuss the trial further, answer any questions, confirm eligibility against the inclusion and exclusion criteria, and consent patients. Consenting patients will undergo baseline assessment and be randomised to a virtual multimodal hub (Intervention group) or usual care alone (Control group). The intervention will include the delivery of usual care and evidence-based exercise, nutritional, psychological and nursing interventions, and / or group-delivered peer support. All interventions will be conducted before and after surgery.

Duration of the Study:

Approximately 60 months.

Funding:

Medical Research Future Fund (MRFF) 2023 Early and Mid-Career Researchers (Application ID: 2031563).

Sponsor:

The University of Sydney.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Preoperative Exercise|BEHAVIORAL: Postoperative Exercise|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Preoperative Nutrition|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Postoperative Nutrition|BEHAVIORAL: Preoperative Psychology|BEHAVIORAL: Postoperative Psychology|OTHER: Preoperative Nursing|OTHER: Postoperative Nursing|BEHAVIORAL: Preoperative Peer Support Group|BEHAVIORAL: Postoperative Peer Support Group|OTHER: Usual Care
Proportion of participants developing postoperative complications within 30 days after surgery., The primary outcome will be the proportion of participants developing postoperative complications within 30 days after surgery, defined as any deviation from the normal postoperative course and classified according to the Clavien-Dindo classification. The risk of developing complications following colorectal cancer surgery is highest in the first 30-days after surgery; this is a critical determinant of recovery, long-term outcomes, and colorectal cancer treatment costs., First 30-days after surgery
Quality of life outcome EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-C30 (European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire) is a 30-item cancer-specific tool measuring five functioning scales, nine symptom scales, financial impact and overall quality of life. This tool is a common (excellent reliability and validity) quality of life tool for colorectal cancer patients. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level. Thus, a high score for a functional scale represents a high / healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status / quality of life represents a high quality of life, but a high score for a symptom scale / item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems, Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Quality of life outcome EORTC QLQ-CR29, EORTC QLQ-CR29 (European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire) is a 29-item tool to evaluate symptoms (gastrointestinal, urinary, pain and others) and functional areas (sexual, body image and others) that are associated with colorectal cancer and its treatments. This tool is a common (excellent reliability and validity) quality of life tool for colorectal cancer patients. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level. Thus, a high score for a functional scale represents a high / healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status / quality of life represents a high quality of life, but a high score for a symptom scale / item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Quality of Recovery (QoR-15), The QoR-15 is a validated tool designed to assess the quality of recovery after surgery. It consists of 15 items rated on an 11-point numerical rating scale ranging from 0 to 10. The overall QoR-15 score is calculated by summing all individual item scores, resulting in a total score ranging from 0 to 150, where higher scores indicate a better quality of recovery. Recovery will be defined as return to baseline values or better in each of the questions or assessments., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Number of days at home within 30, 90 and 365 days of surgery (DAH-30, 90, 365), Validated (Australian-population) patient-centred outcome metrics that integrates length of hospital stay, discharge destination (other than home), hospital readmission and early death. The number of days at home is reduced by, for example, complications elongating acute hospital bed stay, discharge to a care facility, re-admission, and death. This is quantified as the days alive and at home during the 30 days after surgery. Days at home is calculated using mortality and hospitalisation data from the date of the index surgery (= Day 0)., Days at home within 30, 90 and 365 days of index surgery|Resource use (costs), Patient and health system resource use, including the cost of the virtual multimodal hub interventions, hospitalisations, will be collected (surveys) from randomisation (1-6 weeks prior to surgery) to 12 months post index surgery., Measured at baseline, 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Implementation outcome: Reach, RE-AIM Framework, including:

Reach: Measured through proportion of eligible patients recruited into the study, baseline characteristics (referral pathways, age, postcode, marital, work status, and, cultural and linguistic diversity) of all potential participants., Through study completion, an average of 12 months|Implementation outcome: Effectiveness (quantitative and qualitative questionnaires), RE-AIM Framework, including:

Effectiveness: Measured patient reported satisfaction questionnaires using a 5-point Likert scale from extremely dissatisfied to extremely satisfied and qualitative feedback via questionnaires and/or interviews with participants., Through study completion, an average of 12 months|Implementation outcome: Adoption (quantitative and qualitative measures), RE-AIM Framework, including:

Adoption: Measured through referral rates (frequency and number of patients screened per site), and qualitative interviews with patients, carers, surgeons, clinical and administrative staff post intervention to determine enablers and barriers to adoption., Through study completion, an average of 12 months|Implementation outcome: Implementation (quantitative and qualitative measures), RE-AIM Framework, including:

Implementation: measured through individual level: Participant adherence to virtual intervention measured as number of sessions attended compared to number of sessions recommended and/or scheduled., Through study completion, an average of 12 months|Implementation outcome: Maintenance, RE-AIM Framework, including:

Maintenance: Measured through rates of referral over time of the study; stakeholder interviews regarding refinements and infrastructure needed to maintain and scale intervention beyond the project period., Through study completion, an average of 12 months|Pain (NPRS), The Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) is a widely used tool for assessing pain intensity in individuals. It is a segmented numeric scale where respondents select a whole number (0-10) that best reflects their pain intensity. The scale ranges from 0, indicating "no pain," to 10, representing "the worst pain imaginable." This method allows for a straightforward and quantifiable measure of pain, facilitating communication between patients and healthcare providers., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Exercise capacity (30sSTS), 30 seconds Sit-to-Stand Test (30sSTS) is a reliable and valid tool in evaluating functional exercise capacity in patients.The 30sSTS involves an armless chair and the performance of as many sit-to-stand actions as possible in 30 seconds without upper limb involvement., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Self-reported physical activity (IPAQ-SF), International Physical Activity Questionnaire short form (IPAQ-SF) measures the types of intensity of physical activity and sitting time that people do as part of their daily lives. The questionnaire asks participants to report any physical activity (performed for at least 10 minutes) during the last seven days reported as hours per day, minutes per day, and days per week. This aims to be an estimate of total physical activity. IPAQ-SF has demonstrated high reliability and validity., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Nutritional Status (PG-SGA SF), Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment Short Form (PG-SGA SF) includes four patient-generated historical components (Weight History, Food Intake, Symptoms and Activities and Function)., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Anxiety (GAD-7), General Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) is a self-administered patient questionnaire used as a screening tool and severity measure for generalised anxiety disorder (GAD). Scores of 5, 10, and 15 are taken as the cut-off points for mild, moderate and severe anxiety, respectively., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Depression (PHQ-9), Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) is a self-administered version of the PRIME-MD diagnostic instrument for common mental disorders.The PHQ-9 is the depression module, which scores each of the nine DSM-IV criteria as "0" (not at all) to "3" (nearly every day). PHQ-9 is used to monitor the severity of depression and response to treatment., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Fear of cancer recurrence (FCR-1r), Fear of cancer recurrence (FCR-1r) is a single-item screening measure for fear of cancer recurrence.The FCR-1r is a valid tool for FCR screening in colorectal cancer survivors with excellent ability to discriminate between clinical and non-clinical fear of cancer recurrence., Measured at baseline, 1-2 day(s) before surgery, perioperative (within 1 day of hospital discharge), 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Adverse events (NHMRC Safety Monitoring and Reporting of Clinical Trials), The NHMRC publication Safety monitoring and reporting in clinical trials involving therapeutic goods sets out the requirements for the monitoring, collection and reporting of adverse events and adverse reactions that occur in clinical trials., From date of opening recruitment to date of trial close-out|Self-efficacy (GSE), General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSE) is a self-reported measure of self-efficacy.The General Self-Efficacy Scale is correlated to emotion, optimism, work satisfaction.The total score is calculated by finding the sum of the all items. For the GSE, the total score ranges between 10 and 40, with a higher score indicating more self-efficacy., Measured at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Treatment & Health Services, Data on postoperative treatment and health service utilisation including instance of treatment received, number of diagnostic imaging, number of GP/specialists visits, number of emergency department visits, number of hospital readmissions, number of support services received, hours of paid and unpaid work performed., Measured at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Satisfaction & Experience, Self-reported questionnaire asking participants to answer questions regarding their level of satisfaction with various components of the intervention reported on a 5-point Likert scale from extremely dissatisfied to extremely staisfied.

Moreover, satisfaction feedback regarding the program, barriers and facilitators for future implementation will be obtained through interviews with clinicians, patients and caregivers at the end of the study period., Measured at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post index surgery.|Return to work, Safe Work Australia reports will be accessed to obtain return to work information., Measured between 1 and 12 months post index surgery.
Acceptability of the intervention, Patients, clinicians and carers acceptability to the virtual multimodal hub (Intervention) will be assessed with a semi-structured questionnaire administered at 12-months (last survey). The semi-structured questionnaire contains 11 questions and participants (Patients, clinicians and carers) will be instructed to use a 5-point Likert Scale (ranked from strongly disagree to strongly agree) to express how much they agree or disagree with each statement. In addition, patients will be asked how satisfied they were with the virtual multimodal program and how confident they were in their ability to follow the advice given. The investigators will also take the opportunity to seek further feedback about the virtual multimodal hub (open ended question)., Measured at 12 months post index surgery.
Further details on the study procedures:

Patients will be identified by their treating team (including but not limited to colorectal surgeon, allied health, research and nursing staff). The treating team will screen and provide the information sheet about the trial to consecutive patients. Interested patients will be contacted by a study researcher to discuss the trial further, answer any questions, confirm eligibility against the inclusion and exclusion criteria, and consent patients. Consenting patients will undergo baseline assessment and be randomised to a virtual multimodal hub (Intervention group) or usual care alone (Control group). Patients randomised to the intervention group, will undergo an immediate second randomisation to determine their virtual hub assignment (Royal Prince Alfred Hospital Hub or The Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre Hub).

The participants will then be contacted by a range of allied health workers, depending on their individual needs. These may include a physiotherapist, dietitian, psychologist, nurse and/ or a social worker. The intervention will provide the participants support as they navigate the health system. These health workers will communicate with them via the virtual hub for sessions to provide support before surgery and help with their recovery. Participant's individual needs will determine the frequency, intensity, time, type, volume, and progression of these sessions. This intervention may last for up to 12 months after their surgery, but they will be discharged from the intervention once they have reached their treatment goals. If participants do not have access to a smart device and/or internet, the investigators can provide them with a tablet with internet connectivity to engage in virtual delivery of sessions.

Data and safety monitoring:

An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), will be monitored by a multidisciplinary panel (including statistician(s)). This panel will assess for adverse events and adherence to the protocol at regular intervals to ensure the safety of participants. The frequency of DSMB meetings and the stopping rules for the study will be defined a priori in a charter, in consultation with the DSMB members and study investigators. This will include after commencing participant recruitment and once one fourth of participants have been recruited.

ProCoMida:

The PRO CoMiDa form is a data management tool, designed to provide standardised documentation of the completion, or reasons for non-completion, of patient reported outcomes assessments by patients in a clinical trial. Such documentation is crucial for quality assurance since missing data is the greatest threat to the integrity and interpretability of patient reported outcomes data. The PRO CoMiDa form must be completed at each scheduled patient reported outcomes assessment.

GCP Certificates:

The trial will conform to all relevant ICH GCP guidelines and regulations. Annual audits will be conducted by research officers to ensure that all study staff maintain current GCP certification.