Image-Guided Biopsies in Identifying Mechanisms of Resistance in Participants With Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer Undergoing Radioligand Therapy
This trial studies image-guided biopsies work in identifying mechanisms of resistance in participants with castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body and who are undergoing radioligand therapy (RLT). Tissue sample collected from a biopsy may help determine why response to RLT varies among patients, and this may help researchers to find better treatments for advanced prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Image Guided Biopsy
Proportion of patients with a successful evaluable biopsy with altered signaling pathways after radioligand therapy (RLT), No statistical power analysis was performed as this is a pilot study. An unbiased proteomic/phospho-proteomics analysis will be done and it is unknown how many and which parameters will change in response to radioligand therapy. The study will in subsequent studies use the information obtained here to design a more definitive trial., Up to 3 years
Proportion of patients with gene mutation in regulators of replication stress response according to sequencing, No statistical power analysis was performed as this is a pilot study. An unbiased proteomic/phospho-proteomics analysis will be done and it is unknown how many and which parameters will change in response to radioligand therapy. The study will in subsequent studies use the information obtained here to design a more definitive trial., Up to 3 years|Generation of xenografts, No statistical power analysis was performed as this is a pilot study. An unbiased proteomic/phospho-proteomics analysis will be done and it is unknown how many and which parameters will change in response to radioligand therapy. The study will in subsequent studies use the information obtained here to design a more definitive trial., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Proportion of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients with altered signaling pathways after radioligand therapy assessed by phospho-proteomics of biopsy samples.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Generation of patient derived xenograft (PDX) models to determine if tumor levels of activity for individual adaptive pathways are related to the best prostate specific antigen (PSA) response.

II. Sequencing to identify frequently mutated genes such as TP53 and ATM.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo image-guided biopsy over 45 minutes prior to first RLT course and 1-2 days after the third RLT course.