Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Cholangiocarcinoma, or Liver Metastasis Who Have Impaired Liver Function
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of radiation therapy in treating patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, cholangiocarcinoma, or cancer that has spread from the original (primary) tumor to the liver who also have impaired liver function (liver damage caused by cirrhosis, chemotherapy, or surgery). Radiation therapy (RT) uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. New methods of giving RT to the liver may help control cancer.
Cholangiocarcinoma|Cirrhosis|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Liver
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Survey Administration
Maximum dose constraint, Defined as the highest level dose constraint at which no more than 1 of 6 evaluable patients has had a dose limiting toxicity. Toxicities will be summarized with frequency by type, severity and their relationship to the treatment., 4-8 weeks after completion of radiation therapy
Local disease control rate, The Kaplan Meier method will be used to estimate 2-year local disease control rate., Up to 2 years|Tumor response, Will be observed., Up to 2 years|Patterns of failure, Will be observed., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, The Kaplan Meier method will be used to estimate the probability of overall survival., Up to 2 years
Tumor biomarker expression in serum, Imaging- and serum-based biomarkers will be correlated with hepatic toxicity and tumor response. Plots such as box plot and scatter plots will be used to evaluate expressions of markers between patients with and without response, and between patients having experienced DLTs and patients having not experienced DLTs, and Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to compare expressions of markers between these patients., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of high dose radiotherapy in patients who have liver tumors (hepatocellular carcinoma \[HCC\]/cholangiocarcinoma/liver metastases from any primary) and who have impaired liver function or low functional liver volume or who have received prior liver radiation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate 2 year local control with radiotherapy in these patients. II. To evaluate tumor response, patterns of failure, and survival in these patients.

III. To evaluate imaging- and serum-based biomarkers in these patients, as correlates of hepatic toxicity and tumor response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients undergo radiation therapy 5 days a week for a total of 15 or 25 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-8 weeks and then every 3-4 months for 2 years. Patients who progress during the two year follow-up period are followed up every 6 months.