Talimogene Laherparepvec in Treating Patients With Recurrent Breast Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well talimogene laherparepvec works in treating patients with breast cancer that has come back and cannot be removed by surgery. Biological therapies, such as talimogene laherparepvec, use substances made from living organisms that may stimulate or suppress the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing.
Malignant Chest Wall Neoplasm|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Inflammatory Breast Carcinoma|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Inflammatory Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Talimogene Laherparepvec
Number of Participants With Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall Response Rate defined as the rate of patients who achieved a partial response or complete response as the best response for the measurable and nonmeasurable disease. Evaluated using RECIST ver.1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions at a minimum of 4 weeks. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of the target lesions at a minimum of 4 weeks, taking as a reference the baseline sum of the longest diameter with target., at the end of cycle 4 , cycle 8, and cycle 10, up to 5 months
Median Progression-Free Survival, Progressive disease is measured based on Response Evaluation Criteria (RECIST v1.1) beyond 10 cycles. Uncontrolled disease progression is defined as rapid growth of multiple measurable or non-measurable new lesions or sum of the longest diameter of existing targeted lesions is \>40% from the baseline., Time from treatment initiation until disease progression, uncontrolled disease progression or death. Maximum PFS follow-up for this study cohort was 3.9 months.|Median Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from treatment initiation until death. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method with 95% confidence intervals (CIs)., From the date of treatment initiation until 1 year after removal from the study or until death, whichever occurs first|Number of Adverse Events, The number of Grade 2 or higher adverse events possibly, probably, or definitely related to T-VEC. Evaluated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., before each cycle and 30 days after the last dose of trial treatment or before the initiation of a new anti-cancer treatment, whichever comes first
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of talimogene laherparepvec in inflammatory breast cancer or non-inflammatory breast cancer patients with inoperable local recurrence measured by the overall response rate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of talimogene laherparepvec in inflammatory breast cancer or non-inflammatory breast cancer patients with inoperable local recurrence measured by the overall disease control rate.

II. To determine the rate of local overall response and disease control rate, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) in all patients.

III. To determine the rate of local overall response and disease control rate, PFS, and OS in patients without distant metastases.

IV. To determine the rate of local overall response and disease control rate, PFS, and OS in patients with distant metastases.

V. To determine the safety of talimogene laherparepvec injection to local disease.

CORRELATIVE STUDIES:

I. To determine the effect of talimogene laherparepvec on injection sites and distant metastatic sites by evaluating immune function and apoptosis with immune cell surface markers and cytokines.

II. To assess changes in the following: serum or plasma levels of interleukin (IL)-2, IL-12, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and interferon (IFN)- alpha; (Reuben's Lab); phenotype for T-cell subsets (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25) and natural killer cell (NK-cell) subsets (CD16, CD56), which will be determined via multiparameter fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis (percentage and absolute numbers) in peripheral blood at Dr. James Reuben's laboratory of MD Anderson; serum analysis of herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 serology with immunoglobulin (Ig)G and IgM (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay \[ELISA\]).

III. To assess distant tumor tissue changes by evaluating necrosis and immune cell infiltration (T-/B-/NK-Cell, macrophage, dendritic cell) by immunohistochemistry assay (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, CD16, CD56, granzyme B, cleaved caspase 3, and Ki-67) when distant tumor sample is obtained; if the sample volume is ample, additional immunohistochemistry assays will be performed for CD45RO, TIA-1, FoxP3, CD25, OX-40, CD57, CD1a, CD208, myeloperoxidase, CD68, COX-2, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and MHC class II in Dr. Savitri Krishnamurthy's laboratory at MD Anderson.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive talimogene laherparepvec intratumorally (IT) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in cycle 1 and every 2 weeks thereafter in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 1 year.