A Window of Opportunity Trial of Intratumoral Injection of Copaxone® in Patients With Percutaneously Accessible Tumors
The investigator believes that injecting Copaxone into tumors will help participants immune system fight cancer. This has been studied in mice and has shown encouraging results. Copaxone is a safe medication currently used to treat Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and has very few side effects. To be considered for this trial a tumor must be easy to be injected and must be at least the size of a pea. Participants will be closely monitored for any side effects. Tissue from before surgery will be compared to tissue after the treatment and surgery to be checked for immune response and anti-tumor effects.
Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Basal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Copaxone
Proportion of participants that experience Treatment Related Adverse Events (TRAEs) or Treatment Related Serious Adverse Events (TRSAEs), Participants will be evaluated for TRAEs and TRSAEs from the time of the first injection (Day 1) through the time they go to surgery. TRAEs and TRSAEs will be evaluated per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, up to 6 weeks
Immune Biomarker Level, The Human V2 nCounter® Immunology Panel (NanoString Technologies) will be used to measure the difference of immune biomarker levels at pre-treatment and post-treatment., Up to 6 weeks
The investigator believes that injecting Copaxone into tumors will help participants immune system fight cancer. This has been studied in mice and has shown encouraging results. Copaxone is a safe medication currently used to treat Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and has very few side effects. To be considered for this trial a tumor must be easy to be injected and must be at least the size of a pea. Participants will be closely monitored for any side effects. Tissue from before surgery will be compared to tissue after the treatment and surgery to be checked for immune response and anti-tumor effects.