A Safety Study in Patients With Advanced Prostate Cancer Treated With FIRMAGON
This study is a large observational study, set-up to observe how long-term treatment with FIRMAGON (hormone regulator) compare to other treatments in regards to cardiovascular events, changes in bone density, changes in blood sugar levels or liver enzyme levels in subjects with prostate cancer. Subjects will be treated according to their routine clinical care and not dictated by the study. As the study is observational in nature, the study will collect data relating to the events specified above. Subjects that agree to this study will be followed-up for 5 years. Subject data will be collected every 3 months for the first 2 years and every 6 months for the last 3 years.
Prostate Cancer
Incidence Rate of Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI): Cardiovascular Events, The incidence rate (IR) expressed as number of events per 100 patient-years of exposure (PYE)., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|Incidence Rate of AESI: Decreased Bone Density, IR of osteoporosis or osteopenia and bone fracture events are presented. The IR is expressed as number of events per 100 PYE., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|Incidence Rate of AESI: Glucose Intolerance or Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM), IR of new onset or exacerbation of glucose intolerance or T2DM were presented. The IR expressed as number of events per 100 PYE.

Glucose intolerance events were defined as events of levels of fasting glucose of 6.1 to 6.9 mmol/L, From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|Change in Hepatic Enzymes, Change from baseline in hepatic enzyme levels (alanine aminotransferase \[ALT\], aspartate aminotransferase \[AST\], and alkaline phosphatase \[ALP\]) are presented., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|Change in Hepatic Enzymes, Change from baseline in hepatic enzyme level (bilirubin) is presented., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|Change in Serum Glucose, Change from baseline in serum glucose are presented., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)
Number and Classification of New Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs), An ADR was defined as an AE assessed by investigator as possibly/probably related to the investigational product. Any new potentially unrecognized ADRs were presented., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|Long Term Evaluation of Clinical Evolution of Prostate Cancer, Change in prostate specific antigen (PSA) is presented., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|Changes in Testosterone Levels, Change from baseline in testosterone levels are presented., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)|All-cause of Mortality, A summary of IRs of all-cause mortality is presented., From baseline upto 5 years (every 3 months from the first 2 years of the study; every 6 months for the last 3 years of the study)
This study is a large observational study, set-up to observe how long-term treatment with FIRMAGON (hormone regulator) compare to other treatments in regards to cardiovascular events, changes in bone density, changes in blood sugar levels or liver enzyme levels in subjects with prostate cancer. Subjects will be treated according to their routine clinical care and not dictated by the study. As the study is observational in nature, the study will collect data relating to the events specified above. Subjects that agree to this study will be followed-up for 5 years. Subject data will be collected every 3 months for the first 2 years and every 6 months for the last 3 years.