A Study Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of Rituximab in Patients With Myasthenia Gravis
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter study evaluating the safety and efficacy of Rituximab (Mabthera®) in patients with new onset generalized myasthenia gravis (MG).
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Sodium Chloride solution
Percentage of Patients With Quantitative MG Score (QMG) Score ≤ 4 and a Daily Prednisolon Dose of ≤ 10mg at 16 Weeks After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo., The Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) score is a physician rated disease activity score that ranges from 0 to 39, where lower indicates better outcome. QMG was measured at 16 weeks under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline esterase inhibitors. Patients meeting the primary outcome had a QMG score of 4 or less whilst also requiring a daily oral Prednisolone dose of 10 mg or less., 16 weeks
Change in QMG Score From Week 0 to Week 24 After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo., The Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) score is a physician rated disease activity score that ranges from 0 to 39, where lower indicates better outcome. QMG was measured under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline esterase inhibitors. Change in QMG scores between the two time points was compared between groups., 24 weeks|Change in Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) Score From Week 0 to Week 16 After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo, The Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) score is a patient rated disease activity score that ranges from 0 to 24, where lower indicates better outcome. MG-ADL was assessed at 16 weeks under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline esterase inhibitors. Change in MG-ADL scores between the two time points was compared between groups., 16 weeks|Change in Myasthenia Gravis Quality of Life (QoL) Score From Week 0 to Week 16 After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo., The Myasthenia Quality of Life (QoL) score is a patient rated quality of life score that ranges from 0 to 60, where lower indicates better outcome. Change in MG-QoL scores between the two time points was compared between groups.

., 16 weeks
Percentage of Patients With Quantitative MG Ascore (QMG) Score ≤ 4 and a Daily Prednisolon Dose of ≤ 10mg at 24 Weeks After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo., The Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) score is a physician rated disease activity score that ranges from 0 to 39, where lower indicates better outcome. QMG was measured at 24 weeks under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline esterase inhibitors. Patients meeting the primary outcome had a QMG score of 4 or less whilst also requiring a daily oral Prednisolone dose of 10 mg or less., 24 weeks|QMG Scores at 16, 36 and 48 Weeks After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo., QMG is measured under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline esterase inhibitors, 16, 36 and 48 weeks|MG-activities of Daily Living (ADL) Score at 24, 36 and 48 Weeks After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo, MG-ADL is a patient-reported outcome measured under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline esterase inhibitors, 24, 36 and 48 weeks|EQ5D Score at 16, 24, 36 and 48 Weeks After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo, The EQ5D scale is a generic QoL score measured under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline e, 16, 24, 36 and 48 weeks|MG-QoL Score at 24, 36 and 48 Weeks After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo, MG-QoL is a patient-reported outcome measured under standardized conditions with at least 12 hours since last intake of choline esterase inhibitors, 24, 36 and 48 weeks|Number of Hospital Admissions for MG Worsening During Week 0 to 24 After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo, The total number of hospital admissions for MG worsening during week 0 to 24 of the study., 24 weeks|Rescue Treatments During Week 8 to 24 After Administration of Study Drug/Placebo, The number of events when rescue treatment was given during week 8-24 of the study. Rescue treatments were defined as i.v immunoglobulins, plasma exchange, high dose corticosteroids and biologics (rituximab, tocilizumab)., 8 - 24 weeks
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction caused by auto-antibodies. MG is characterized by weakness in skeletal muscles and occurs in all ages, but mostly among young adult women and in people of both sexes over the age of 60 years. The disease has a wide variation in severity, where in milder cases only symptom-relieving choline esterase blockers may be sufficient. In many cases, however, immunomodulatory drugs are required. Traditionally MG has been treated with high doses of corticosteroids over longer time periods, which causes significant risks of side effects. Therefore, since several decades, oral immunosuppressive drugs have been used in order to reduce the need for steroids. This group includes azathioprine, cyclosporine and mycophenolate. However, none of these drugs has been approved for use in MG and the effect is usually delayed. There is thus a great need to develop newer treatment algorithms for MG, for example including more effective biological drugs. Several small observational studies have shown that rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that eliminate B cells, can have good effects in treatment refractory MG. The aim of the present study is to study the effect of rituximab compared to placebo in the treatment of new onset MG of moderate to severe symptomatology.