Neoadjuvant Therapy for Stage II-IVA Resectable Esophageal Squamous Cell
The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab combined with albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin versus albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin in neoadjuvant therapy for stage II-IVa resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The study plans to enroll 114 eligible patients who will be randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 3 cycles of neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy (pembrolizumab plus albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin;Pembrolizumab plus 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin) or chemotherapy alone (5-fluorouracil and cisplatin), followed by surgery 3 weeks later, followed by 16 cycles of adjuvant immunotherapy (pembrolizumab).Patients were followed up for efficacy and safety during treatment.Tumor evaluation will be performed at screening, after neoadjuvant therapy, before surgery, and after adjuvant therapy until objective disease progression is confirmed.
Neoadjuvent|PD-1 Inhibitor|Chemotherapy|Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab, Albumin Paclitaxel, 5-fluorouracil, Cisplatin
Pathologic complete response rate (pCR), Pathologic complete response rate (pCR), up to 4 months
Major pathological response(MPR), Major pathological response(MPR), up to 4 months|Event free survival(EFS), Event free survival(EFS), up to 10 years|Overall survival(OS), Overall survival(OS), up to 10 years
The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab combined with albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin versus albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin in neoadjuvant therapy for stage II-IVa resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The study plans to enroll 114 eligible patients who will be randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 3 cycles of neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy (pembrolizumab plus albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin;Pembrolizumab plus 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin) or chemotherapy alone (5-fluorouracil and cisplatin), followed by surgery 3 weeks later, followed by 16 cycles of adjuvant immunotherapy (pembrolizumab).Patients were followed up for efficacy and safety during treatment.Tumor evaluation will be performed at screening, after neoadjuvant therapy, before surgery, and after adjuvant therapy until objective disease progression is confirmed.

Study Endpoints Primary Endpoints PCR: This was assessed by examining the postoperative pathological tissue for the absence of tumor cells in the primary tumor and lymph nodes.

Safety: Adverse reactions during neoadjuvant therapy were recorded following CTCAE version 5.0 guidelines. Perioperative complications were assessed using the Clavien-Dindo classification. Grade I complications included any deviation from the normal postoperative recovery process without requiring medical, surgical, endoscopic, or radiological intervention. Acceptable medical management included antiemetics, antipyretics, analgesics, diuretics, electrolytes, and physical therapy. Bedside open incisional infections were included under this category. Grade II complications were those that required medications beyond those used for treating Grade 1 complications, including blood transfusions and total parenteral nutrition. Grade III complications were those that required surgical, endoscopic, or radiological intervention. Grade IV complications were those considered life-threatening and requiring mid-term care or admission to an intensive care unit (including central nervous system complications, such as cerebral hemorrhage, ischemic stroke, and subarachnoid hemorrhage, and excluding transient ischemic attacks). Grade V complications included patient deaths.

Secondary Endpoints

1) Major pathological response (MPR) refers to the proportion of residual tumor cells in the primary tumor and lymph nodes in the postoperative pathological tissue being \<10%, or the primary tumor completely disappearing, and the number of positive lymph nodes being ≤1. 2) R0 resection rate: R0 resection was defined as achieving negative upper and lower resection margins. 3) RECIST Criteria Assessment: Complete response (CR): complete response of target lesions; PR: \>30% regression of target lesions; Non-CR/Non-PD: target lesions did not completely disappear and did not increase by \>20%, or other new lesions appeared in the body; Stable disease (SD): target lesions were reduced or increased by \<20%; Progressive disease (PD): target lesions had increased by \>20%.

Statistical Methods The sample size was determined using Simon's two-stage design. With a minimum expected pCR of 20% and an expected pCR of 40%, a Type I error (α) of 0.05, and a Type II error of 80%, a sample size of 34 was calculated. In the first stage, 17 patients were enrolled. The study was carefully monitored to limit the number of pCR cases to three or below, and any increase in the risk of surgery and mortality due to the treatment regimen would have led to its discontinuation. All continuous variables were presented as frequencies. Statistical significance was set at P \<0.05.