Anti-CEA CAR-T Cells to Treat Colorectal Liver Metastases
Recurrence of liver metastasis in colorectal cancer after R0 resection is mainly due to the invisible minimal residual disease, which are the main factors leading to metastasis and recurrence. Positive circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is the direct evidence of the minimal residual disease (MRD). In recent years, Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Immunotherapy (CAR-T) has made great breakthroughs, and has achieved good therapeutic effects in hematological tumors, but the research on solid tumors is limited. CEA expression is generally elevated in gastrointestinal tumors and is associated with high aggressiveness of tumors. At present, solid tumor cell therapy targeting CEA has been carried out at home and abroad, and has achieved certain efficacy. Anti-CEA CAR-T cells targeting CEA have been constructed in the pre-clinical study of this project, and the pre-clinical study results suggest good safety and effectiveness. Formation of minimal residual disease is associated with circulating blood in the residual tumor cells. Using this feature, this project intends to conduct a phase I clinical study on patients with minimal residual disease /positive ctDNA after R0 resection of colorectal cancer liver metastasis, so as to conduct preliminary exploration of anti-CEA CAR-T cell therapy, evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the therapy, determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and provide guidance for subsequent drug dosage and clinical trials.
Colorectal Cancer|Metastatic Liver Cancer
DRUG: Anti-CEA CAR-T Cells
Security (Incidence and severity of adverse events), To evaluate the possible reatment related adverse events(TEAEs) occurred within the first 28 days after anti-CEA CAR-T infusion, including replicative lentiviruses(RCL), anti-drug antibody(ADA), and the incidence and severity of symptoms such as cytokine release syndrome(CRS) and CAR-T related encephalopathy syndrome(CRES)., Observation 28 days after CAR-T cells infusion|Effectiveness (minimal residual disease), Recurrence by ctDNA MRD detection or imaging diagnosis, 24 months after R0 resection|Efficacy (recurrence-free survival), 2-year recurrence-free survival rate based on imageological examination., 2 years after CAR-T cells infusion
Pharmacokinetics (PK) indicator (Cmax), The peak concentration of anti-CEA CAR-T cells amplified in the peripheral blood (Cmax, detected by flow cytometry and qPCR)., 2 years after CAR-T cells infusion|Pharmacokinetics (PK) indicator (AUC), The exposed quantity of anti-CEA CAR-T cells amplified in the peripheral blood(aera under the curve, AUC, detected by flow cytometry and qPCR)., 2 years after CAR-T cells infusion
Recurrence of liver metastasis in colorectal cancer after R0 resection is mainly due to the invisible minimal residual disease, which are the main factors leading to metastasis and recurrence. Positive circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is the direct evidence of the minimal residual disease (MRD). In recent years, Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Immunotherapy (CAR-T) has made great breakthroughs, and has achieved good therapeutic effects in hematological tumors, but the research on solid tumors is limited. CEA expression is generally elevated in gastrointestinal tumors and is associated with high aggressiveness of tumors. At present, solid tumor cell therapy targeting CEA has been carried out at home and abroad, and has achieved certain efficacy. Anti-CEA CAR-T cells targeting CEA have been constructed in the pre-clinical study of this project, and the pre-clinical study results suggest good safety and effectiveness. Formation of minimal residual disease is associated with circulating blood in the residual tumor cells. Using this feature, this project intends to conduct a phase I clinical study on patients with minimal residual disease /positive ctDNA after R0 resection of colorectal cancer liver metastasis, so as to conduct preliminary exploration of anti-CEA CAR-T cell therapy, evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the therapy, determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and provide guidance for subsequent drug dosage and clinical trials.