Radiation Therapy and Durvalumab With or Without Tremelimumab in Treating Participants With Unresectable, Locally Advanced, or Metastatic Bladder Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well radiation therapy and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab work in treating participants with bladder cancer that cannot be removed by surgery, has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes, or that has spread to other parts of the body. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab and tremelimumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. It is not yet known whether giving radiation therapy and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab will work better in treating participants with bladder cancer.
Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage IV Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Bladder Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Tremelimumab
Incidence of adverse events assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 4.03 criteria (Safety lead-in cohort), Observed toxicities will be tabulated using frequencies and percentages based on the CTCAE v 4.03., Up to 90 days after last dose of investigation product|Progression- free survival (PFS) assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v 1.1 (Expansion cohort), PFS will be estimated in each study arm by Kaplan-Meier estimate, where PFS is a composite endpoint based on radiologic progression, clinical deterioration or death. A log rank test will be used to test if there is significant difference in PFS between two arms. PFS will be also estimated for localized patients and metastatic patients separately within each arm and stratified log rank test will be used as well., From the first day of the treatment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death, assessed up to 3 years
Local control at the primary irradiate site determined by RECIST v 1.1, The stratified Kaplan Meier method will be used to describe local control for each arm along with their median., Up to 3 years|Pathologic complete rate (CR) of primary irradiated tumor, The point estimate and its 95% confidence interval will be obtained for the pathologic CR rate of the primary irradiated tumor for each arm and for localized patients and metastatic patients separately within each arm. A two-sample proportion test will be used to test if there is significant difference in pathologic CR (pCR) rates between two arms and the CochranMantel-Haenszel test will be used when accounting for the stratified design., Up to 3 years|Overall response rate (ORR) defined as the number (%) of patients with at least 1 visit response of CR or partial response (PR) determined by RECIST v 1.1, The point estimate and its 95% confidence interval of ORR will be obtained by arm and for localized patients and metastatic patients separately within each arm. A two-sample proportion test will be used to test if there is significant difference in ORR rates between two arms and the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test will be used when accounting for the stratified design., Up to 3 years|Abscopal response (in patients with metastatic disease) determined by RECIST v 1.1 with response (PR and CR) sites away from the primary irradiated tumor, The point estimate and its 95% confidence interval will be obtained by arm and for localized patients and metastatic patients separately within each arm. Furthermore, a two-sample proportion test will be used to test if there is significant difference between two arms and the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test will be used when accounting for the stratified design., Up to 3 years|Duration of response, The stratified Kaplan Meier method will be used to describe the duration of response for each arm along with their median., From date of the first documented response until the first date of documented progression or death, assessed up to 3 years|Disease-specific survival, The stratified Kaplan Meier method will be used to describe disease-specific survival for each arm along with their median., From the date of randomization to the date of death related to treatment and/or disease determined, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival, The stratified Kaplan Meier method will be used to describe overall survival for each arm along with their median., From the date of randomization to the date of to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events assessed by National Cancer Institute CTCAE v4.0, Will be summarized according to the subjects? baseline grade and maximum grade for each cycle of therapy., Up to 3 years
Immune cell subsets and PD-L1 assessed by immunohistochemistry in tumor biopsies, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Frequency distribution and percentage will be used to summarize PD-L1 expression at baseline and at time of progression., Up to 3 years|Gene signature biomarker, Two-sample Wilcoxon tests to compare patients who achieve uncoupling and those who do not for each arm. Adjusted P values controlling for false discovery rate (Benjamini and Hochberg method) will be derived. For genes or signatures that emerge as significantly associated with response, logistic regression models will be used to assess their independent association with response. Association of gene expression levels at baseline and PFS will be explored using the Cox proportional hazards regression model. Hierarchical clustering superimposed with response status, relevant baseline or prognostic characteristics or experimental factors will be performed using Spearman correlation and complete linkage to visualize the discriminating power of the immune gene expression and the correlative structure among the genes and the samples., Baseline|Circulating immune cell subsets assessed via flow cytometry in peripheral blood mononuclear cell, Established flow cytometry panels will examine B cell and T cell populations. Immune cell quantification will be summarized by changes from baseline, on-, to post-treatment using descriptive statistics. Furthermore, paired Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be applied to test the pre-on, and on-post treatment changes. When available, immune cells digested from resected tumor tissues will also be assessed by flow cytometry., Up to 3 years|Change in circulating and tumor-infiltrating T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire, Will be assessed by calculating the number of unique clonotypes, read depth and Shannon diversity index. Repertoire overlap and change between sequencing experiments will be measured using Baroni-Urbani and Buser overlap index and Morisita?s distance, respectively., Baseline up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of radiation therapy (RT) and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab. (Safety lead-in cohort) II. To determine the median progression-free survival with RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab. (Expansion cohort)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of local control of irradiated bladder tumor.

II. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of pathologic complete response (CR) rate of irradiated bladder tumor.

III. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms overall response rate.

IV. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of abscopal response rate.

V. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of duration of response.

VI. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of disease specific survival.

VII. To assess the efficacy of RT and durvalumab with or without tremelimumab in terms of overall survival.

VIII. To further determine the safety and tolerability of RT + durvalumab with or without tremelimumab (expansion cohorts).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the immunologic changes associated with the combination of durvalumab and RT +/- tremelimumab.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 regimens.

REGIMEN A: Participants receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants also undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) for 5 fractions beginning on day 8 of course 1.

REGIMEN B:

Participants receive tremelimumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 for up to 2 courses and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity. Participants also receive undergo EBRT for 5 fractions beginning on day 8 of course 1.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 8 weeks and then every 12 and 16 weeks.