VEGF Trap in Treating Patients With Recurrent Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial is studying how well VEGF Trap works in treating patients with recurrent stage III or stage IV melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Combinations of biological substances in VEGF Trap may be able to carry tumor-killing substances directly to melanoma cells. It may also stop the growth of melanoma by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Ciliary Body and Choroid Melanoma, Medium/Large Size|Extraocular Extension Melanoma|Iris Melanoma|Metastatic Intraocular Melanoma|Recurrent Intraocular Melanoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage III Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: ziv-aflibercept|OTHER: pharmacological study
Objective Response Rate (CR + PR), Using the RECIST v1.0 criteria for target lesions assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response = CR + PR.",, Start of treatment to disease progression/recurrence, up to 5 years|4 Month Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 4 months
Overall Survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From the initial date of treatment to the recorded date of death, assessed up to 5 years|Number of Participants With Toxicities, The descriptions and grading scales found in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 were utilized for AE grading and reporting. Grade 3 and higher adverse events considered possibly, probably or definitely related to aflibercept are summarized., Up to 5 years|Impact of the VEGF Trap Therapy on Laboratory Correlates, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the antitumor response rate (complete and partial response) in patients with recurrent inoperable stage III or IV melanoma treated with VEGF Trap.

II. Compare the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen vs historical controls.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen. II. Determine the toxicity and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the impact of this regimen on laboratory correlates including anti-VEGF Trap antibody testing and pharmacokinetics in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive VEGF Trap IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for at least 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood samples are collected at baseline, prior to course 2, and 60 days after completion of study treatment for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. Samples are analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.