Olverembatinib Combined With Venetoclax and Azacitidine in Blast Phase Ph Chromosome-positive CML
Even in the TKI era, the outcoms of patients with blast phase is still poor.The response rate to conventional intensive chemotherapy is only 12.5% and the 5-year survival rate is 0 for patients with myeloid blast crsis. The response rate of TKI monotherapy is about 50% and the response rate is further improved when combined TKI and chemotherapy for patients with lymphoid blast crsis. The induction remission rate of chemotherapy alone for patients with Ph-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia is 50-60%, and the remission rate increases to more than 95% when combined with TKI. Therefore, the application of TKI for patients in the blast crisis phase is of great significance. Olverembatinib is the only third-generation TKI drug approved in the Chinese mainland at present. Preclinical research data show that olverembatinib has a significant inhibitory effect on wild-type and mutant ABL resistant to the first and second-generation TKIs, as well as some complex mutations resistant to ponatinib. Phase I and II clinical studies have shown that for CML patients in the chronic and accelerated phases with resistance or intolerance to various TKIs, with or without T315I mutations, there are significant hematological and molecular responses and survival benefits. Olverembatinib can also inhibit many other kinases related to tumors. In vitro studies have shown that olverembatinib downregulates MCL-1 expression and acts synergistically with BCL-2 inhibitors to induce apoptosis of AML cells.

Preclinical studies have shown that venetoclax has a synergistic effect with TKIs. It upregulates apoptosis-inducing proteins, downregulates anti-apoptotic protein MCL1, inhibits the anti-apoptotic activity of BCL-XL, induces apoptosis of Ph+ cells, overcomes TKI resistance, and eliminates CML leukemia stem cells.

A large amount of evidence indicates that DNA hypermethylation plays an important role in the progression of CML, and abnormal DNA methylation is associated with progression to the accelerated and blast crisis phases and resistance to TKIs.Domestic scholars have reported successful cases of combined treatment with TKI, venetoclax, and demethylating agent azacitidine for CML patients with lymphoid blast crisis.

Therefore, we designed this study to explore the efficacy and safety of olverembatinib, venetoclax, and azacitidine in the treatment of CML patients in the blast crisis phase.
CML,Blast Phase
DRUG: Olverembatinib|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Azacitidine
To determine the maximum tolerated dose of combination with olverembatinib, venetoclax and azacitidine, The standard "3+3" method is used to determine the maximum tolerated dose. There are 3 dose groups., six weeks from day 1 of each course|Determine complete hematological response rate (CHR) after 2 courses, CHR is one of the evaluation criteria of treatment., six weeks after day 1 of 2nd courses of the treatment
Partial Cytogenetic Response（PCyR）, PCyR is an important clinical indicator for determining whether patients with CML are responding well to the treatment they are receiving., up to 2 years|Complete Cytogenetic Response（CCyR）, It is another important indicator used to assess the response to treatment in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). In the CCyR state, the patient's bone marrow cells no longer detect any abnormal cells carrying the Philadelphia chromosome., up to 2 years|Major Molecular Response（MMR）, When the test results show that the expression level of the BCR-ABL gene is reduced below a specific threshold, the patient is considered to have achieved MMR., up to 2 years|Deep Molecular Response（DMR）, It is an advanced indicator to assess the response of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) to treatment. DMR indicates that the expression level of the BCR-ABL fusion gene has been reduced to a very low level, which usually indicates that the patient's disease is in a very stable controlled state with a low risk of recurrence., up to 2 years|overall survival (OS), Used to evaluate all patients who enter clinical trials. From the date of entry into the trial until the date of patient death (including any cause) or last survival follow-up., up to 2 years after the date of the last enrolled participants|Relapse-free survival (RFS), Defined only for patients achieving CRc; measured from the date of achievement of remission until the date of hematologic relapse or death from any cause; patients not known to have relapsed or died at last follow-up are censored on the date they were last known to be alive, up to 2 years after the date of the last enrolled participants|Therapeutic toxicity, This is a safety indicator and focuses on treatment-related toxicity., up to 2 years after the date of the last enrolled participants
In patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in the blase crsis phase who are aged≥15 years, olverembatinib combined with venetoclax and azacitidine was applied for induction and consolidation therapy. After remission, allogeneic stem cell transplantation was performed or olverembatinib combined with venetoclax and azacitidine was continued for consolidation and maintenance therapy. The maximum tolerated dose of the combined chemotherapy of olverembatinib, venetoclax and azacitidine was determined, and the efficacy and safety of the combined chemotherapy were evaluated.

Primary Endpoints Phase I: Determine the maximum tolerated dose of the combined chemotherapy of olverembatinib, venetoclax and azacitidine.

Phase II: Determine the complete hematological response rate (CHR) after 2 courses of treatment.