MBM-02 (Tempol) for the Treatment of Biochemical Recurrent Prostate Cancer
This is an open label trial to assess the efficacy of MBM-02 (Tempol) as a treatment for patients diagnosed with prostate cancer in biochemical recurrence.
Prostate Cancer Recurrent|Biochemical Recurrent Prostate Cancer
DRUG: MBM-02
Reduction in Serum PSA, To determine whether the proportion of patients who achieve a ≥ 50% decline in serum PSA after 16 weeks of protocol therapy., baseline to week 20
PSA progression, To determine the median time to PSA progression from the start of protocol therapy with MBM-02 among men with biochemically recurrence prostate cancer., baseline to week 20|Percent Change in PSA, To determine the mean percent change from baseline after 16 weeks of protocol therapy compared with pre-treatment in PSA doubling time. The pre-treatment PSA doubling time will be determined based upon all PSA measurements obtained within 3 months prior to Day 1 of protocol therapy, with a minimum of three PSA measurements spaced at least 14 days apart, baseline to week 20
Preliminary data shows MBM-02 has anti-prostate cancer activity without hormone suppression or toxicity to non-cancerous cells and organs.

Solid tumors contain hypoxic regions (low oxygen) due to their high rates of cell proliferation and formation of aberrant blood vessels. Intratumoral hypoxia is associated with increased risk of invasion, metastasis, and patient mortality. Cancer cells respond to hypoxia by stabilizing hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) and hypoxia inducible factor 2 (HIF-2). HIF-1 and HIF-2 activate a transcription of genes encoding proteins that mediate major adaptive responses to hypoxia that are critical for cancer cell survival. Without activation of HIF-1 and HIF-2, cancer cells would not survive.

MBM-02 has been shown to inhibit the genes responsible for prostate carcinogenesis, HIF-1 and HIF-2.

This trial is an open label study that will employ a 3+3 escalation design up to 1600 mg/day. Patients will be exposed to study drug for 20 weeks. PSA and scans will be taken at baseline and week 20 for efficacy.