Venetoclax in Combination With ASTX727 for the Treatment of Treatment-Naive High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome or Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of venetoclax in combination with cedazuridine and decitabine (ASTX727) in treating patients with high risk myelodysplastic syndrome or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia who have not received prior treatment (treatment-naive). Chemotherapy drugs, such as venetoclax, cedazuridine, and decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Decitabine and Cedazuridine|DRUG: Venetoclax
Incidence and severity of all reported adverse events (Phase I), The overall incidence and severity of all reported adverse events using Common Toxicity Criteria version 5.0., Up to 28 days|Overall response rate (ORR) (Phase II), ORR will be defined as the proportion of patients who had complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR) or marrow CR (mCR), or hematologic improvement (HI) lasting at least 8 weeks. Will estimate the ORR for the combination treatment, along with the 95% credible interval., Up to 8 weeks
Rate of complete remission, Will be estimated with the 95% credible interval., Up to 5 years post treatment|Rate of marrow/morphologic complete remission, Will be estimated with the 95% credible interval., Up to 5 years post treatment|Rate of hematologic improvement (HI; erythroid/platelet/neutrophil responses), Will be estimated with the 95% credible interval., Up to 5 years post treatment|Rate of red blood cell transfusion independence, Will be estimated with the 95% credible interval., Up to 5 years post treatment|Rate of platelet transfusion independence, Will be estimated with the 95% credible interval., Up to 5 years post treatment|Rate of cytogenetic response, Will be estimated with the 95% credible interval., Up to 5 years post treatment|Rate of bone marrow blast response, Will be estimated with the 95% credible interval., Up to 5 years post treatment|Duration of response, From the date of initial response (PR or better) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Time to transformation to acute myeloid leukemia, Time to transformation to acute myeloid leukemia is defined as the period from treatment till transformed to acute myeloid leukemia., Up to 5 years post treatment|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From treatment start till death, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From treatment start till disease progression or death, assessed up to 5 years|Disease-free survival, Up to 5 years post treatment|Time to next myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) treatment, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From initial treatment start till the next MDS treatment, assessed up to 5 years|Event-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From treatment initiation to the date of documented treatment failure, relapses from CR, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years
Biomarker analysis, The association between cellular biomarker, and antitumor activity will be compared using Wilcoxon's rank sum test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate., Up to 5 years post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability (phase 1) and overall response rate (ORR) (phase 2) of venetoclax in combination with ASTX727 in patients with treatment-naive high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) with bone marrow excess blasts \> 5%.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Rate of complete remission (CR). II. Rate of marrow/morphologic complete remission (mCR). III. Rate of hematologic improvement (HI; erythroid/platelet/neutrophil responses).

IV. Rate of red blood cell (RBC) transfusion independence. V. Rate of platelet (PLT) transfusion independence. VI. Rate of cytogenetic response. VII. Rate of bone marrow blast response. VIII. Time to transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). IX. Duration of response (DOR). X. Overall survival (OS). XI. Progression-free survival (PFS). XII. Disease-free survival (DFS). XIII. Time to next MDS treatment (TTNT). XIV. Event-free survival (EFS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the effects of therapy on MDS and to identify biological markers of response to venetoclax and/or its combination with ASTX727.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of venetoclax, followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Patients also receive ASTX727 PO QD on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 5 years.