Rocket® Pleural Catheters: QOL, Feasibility and Satisfaction in Recurrent MPE Patients
This study will take place in Ottawa, Ontario, and will include 100 patients who are receiving tunnelled pleural catheters to treat their symptoms of MPE. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the shorter versus longer external length Rocket® pleural catheter in managing malignant pleural effusions in terms of patients' self-rated quality of life, its ease of use, the incidence of complications, and levels of health care provider satisfaction.
Malignant Pleural Effusion
DEVICE: Rocket® IPC- Long External Length|DEVICE: Rocket® IPC- Short External Length
Patients' self-rated quality of life - change from baseline compared to 2 and 4 weeks post catheter insertion., Self-rated QOL at baseline compared to 2 weeks and 4 weeks post catheter insertion.

Quality of life will be assessed using the validated EORTC QLQ-C30 (European Organization of Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Evaluation) questionnaire., Assessed at baseline compared to changes at 2 weeks and 4 weeks post catheter insertion. Questionnaires will be administered at routine medical visits on day O, 14, and 28.|Patients' self-rated quality of life on domains specific to lung cancer-change from baseline compared to 2 and 4 weeks post catheter insertion., Self-rated QOL in domains specific to lung cancer will be assessed at baseline compared to 2 weeks and 4 weeks post catheter insertion.

Quality of life will be assessed using the validated lung cancer specific EORTC QLQ-LC13 (European Organization of Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life QLQ-LC13 disease specific) questionnaire., Assessed at baseline compared to changes at 2 weeks and 4 weeks post catheter insertion. Questionnaires will be administered at routine medical visits on day O, 14, and 28.
Ease of use of the short versus long Rocket® pleural catheter., Ease of use of the short versus long Rocket pleural catheter as reported by the study doctor as well as the hospital and home care nursing staff.

Ease of use will be measured using a non-validated questionnaire, which will assess the functionality of the short versus long Rocket® pleural catheter., Questionnaire will be administered at routine medical visits on day O, 14, and 28.|Feasibility: measured by incidence of complications (adverse events reports), Feasibility will be measured by the incidence of complications found in patients using short versus long Rocket® pleural catheters to treat symptoms of MPE as well as hospital and home care nursing staffs' level of satisfaction with the Rocket® catheter.

The time to removal of the Rocket catheter will also be followed and complications will be quantified and described based on patients' reporting of adverse events (at 2 week and 4 week medical assessments) and ongoing reports from home care nurses. All complications will be documented, the most clinically relevant include pleural infection and cellulitis, pain, and catheter obstruction and symptomatic loculated effusion., Complications will be quantified and described based on patients' reporting of adverse events (at 2 week and 4 week medical assessments). Satisfaction with device questionnaires will be administered at routine medical visits on day 0, 14 and 28.
Levels of Satisfaction with the device, Levels of satisfaction with the Rocket® catheter will be measured using a non-validated questionnaire which will assess comfort with the short versus long Rocket® pleural catheter., Satisfaction with device questionnaires will be administered at routine medical visits on day 0, 14 and 28.
Pleural effusion is a medical condition, which occurs when too much fluid collects in the space between the lungs and the chest wall. This extra fluid makes it hard for the lungs to fully expand and take in enough air when inhaling. Malignant pleural effusions (MPE) are effusions related to cancer. Common symptoms of MPE include: dyspnea (shortness of breath), cough, weight loss, and chest pain. Tunneled pleural catheters (which are inserted into the body) are now commonly used to treat the symptoms of malignant pleural effusions by draining this extra fluid on a daily basis. This drainage can be done and home and need not be performed at a hospital.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the shorter versus longer external length Rocket® pleural catheter in managing malignant pleural effusions in terms of patients' self-rated quality of life, its ease of use, the incidence of complications, and levels of health care provider satisfaction. The Rocket® pleural catheter has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Health Canada for the management of malignant pleural effusions.

This study will take place in Ottawa, Ontario, and will include 100 patients who are receiving tunnelled pleural catheters to treat their symptoms of MPE. All information required to evaluate the Rocket® catheter will be collected from routine medical follow-up visits. The period of time for the study is approximately 4 weeks (28 days).

The Rocket® catheter will be provided to patients who wish to participate in this study. If patients do not wish to participate, they will receive the current standard of care (the PleurX catheter) and will undergo the same standard medical assessments that will be performed in this study.

All patients eligible for the study will have a regular full length Rocket catheter inserted at baseline, with an external length of 16cm. All patients will have their catheter length modified at 2 weeks in clinic and shortened to an external length of 5cm.