Pyridoxine in Preventing Hand-Foot Syndrome in Patients Who Are Receiving Liposomal Doxorubicin for Cancer
RATIONALE: Pyridoxine (vitamin B6) may prevent or lessen hand-foot syndrome caused by chemotherapy. It is not yet known whether pyridoxine is more effective than a placebo in preventing hand-foot syndrome.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying pyridoxine to see how well it works compared to a placebo in preventing hand-foot syndrome in patients who are receiving liposomal doxorubicin for recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer, metastatic breast cancer, or advanced endometrial cancer.
Breast Cancer|Drug/Agent Toxicity by Tissue/Organ|Endometrial Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: pyridoxine hydrochloride|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: doxorubicin HCL liposome
Number of Participants With Palmar-plantar Erythrodysesthesia (PPE), Patients were monitored weekly with phone calls from the research nurse and monthly at clinic visits for overall (including pyridoxine) and specific doxorubicin HCl liposome related toxicities using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3.0., Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
Quality of Life (QOL) as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G), QOL was measured with the FACT-G questionnaire following the third course of doxorubicin HCl liposome before the patient was seen by the treating physician and before chemotherapy was administered. The FACT-G, version 4, is a 27-item core questionnaire evaluating the domains of physical, functional, family-social, and emotional well-being (PWB, FWB, SWB, EWB). Total score ranges from 0-108 and higher scores indicate better QOL., After Cycle 3 of chemotherapy (on average at 3 months)
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Compare the efficacy of pyridoxine vs placebo in preventing palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE) in patients receiving doxorubicin HCl liposome for recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cavity cancer, metastatic breast cancer, or advanced endometrial cancer.
* Compare quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind study. Patients are stratified according to cancer type (ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cavity cancer vs breast cancer vs endometrial cancer). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin HCl liposome IV 40mg/m2 over 1 hour on day 1 and oral pyridoxine 100 mg twice daily on days 1-28.
* Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin HCl liposome IV 40mg/m2 over 1 hour on day 1 and oral placebo 100 mg twice daily on days 1-28.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients who develop grade 2-3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia despite dose reduction of doxorubicin HCl liposome are unblinded and removed from the study (for patients in arm I) OR receive oral pyridoxine twice daily beginning day 1 of the next planned therapy (for patients in arm II).

Quality of life is assessed at baseline and after every third course of therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 6 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.