Allogeneic B7H3 CAR-γδT Cell Therapy for Advanced Solid Tumors
γδT cells can directly recognize non-peptide tumor antigens, such as IPP phosphorylated metabolites, without relying on specific major histocompatibility complexes (MHCs). This unique characteristic leads to a lower risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The clinical safety of γδT cells in allogeneic tumor therapies has been validated multiple times, highlighting their significant potential in developing universal CAR-T cell therapies.

B7H3 (CD276), a member of the B7 negative co-stimulatory molecule family, is minimally expressed or absent in normal tissues but highly expressed in various tumor tissues. As a result, B7H3 is regarded as a highly promising tumor-associated antigen and a universal drug target with substantial therapeutic potential.

By utilizing γδT cells as carrier cells, the development of universal B7H3 CAR-γδT cell injections for advanced solid tumors can effectively address risks such as autologous cell preparation failure and treatment delays. This innovative approach offers a highly efficient solution for solid tumor treatment and holds great promise for advancing immunotherapy in this field
Advanced Solid Tumors|Ovarian Cancers|Peritoneal (metastatic) Cancer
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: B7H3 CAR-γδT cells
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), AE is defined as any adverse medical event from the date of randomization to 12 months after B7H3 CAR-γδT cells infusion. Among them, cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) were graded according to American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) criteria, graft-versushost disease (GVHD) according to criteria defined by the Mount Sinai Acute GVHD International Consortium. Other AEs were graded according to common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v5.0., 12 months
Best objective Response Rate, The incidence of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD), or unevaluable (UE) as the best response to treatment assessed by investigators and based on the RECIST 1.1 criterion., 12 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the date of their first CR or PR (which is subsequently confirmed) to PD assessed by investigators and based on the RECIST 1.1 criterion, or death regardless of cause., 12 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the B7H3 CAR-γδT cells infusion date to the date of disease progression assessed by investigators and based on the RECIST 1.1 criterion, or death any cause. Participants not meeting the criteria for progression by the analysis data cutoff date were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date., 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from B7H3 CAR-γδT cells infusion to the date of death. Subjects who have not died by the analysis data cutoff date will be censored at their last contact date., 12 months|Immunogenicity: Proportion of subjects with anti drug antibody (ADA), ADAs include anti-donor γδT antibody or anti-B7H3 CAR single-chain variable fragment antibody., 12 months|Pharmacodynamics, The cytokines mainly include interleukin-2 (IL-2 ), IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), C reactive protein (CRP), ferritin. Peak was defined as the maximum post-baseline level of the cytokine., Up to 28 days after infusion|Pharmacokinetics, Persistence of B7H3 CAR-γδT cell assessed by number in peripheral blood and ascites, 12 months
This study is an open-label, dose-escalation exploratory clinical trial using γδ T cells derived from healthy donors, genetically engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting B7H3 on their membrane. Preclinical in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated the modified CAR-γδ T cells possess specific cytotoxicity against B7H3-positive tumor cells.

According to the patients' disease conditions, they were divided into an intravenous infusion group and an intraperitoneal infusion group. Both groups underwent a dose-escalation study using the "3+3" design.