Vorinostat and Doxorubicin in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Locally Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with doxorubicin in treating patients with metastatic or locally advanced solid tumors. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Vorinostat may help doxorubicin work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: vorinostat|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Safety and tolerability as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0, Up to 30 days after completion of treatment|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0, 28 days
Effects of vorinostat on histone acetylation, At baseline and at day 3 prior|Correlation of dose and response with biological markers for histone acetylation, Topo II expression, assays for comet moments and expression patterns of chromatin structural proteins dose, Our initial analysis of efficacy will be descriptive and exploratory with the goal of discerning trends in various response endpoints and correlation with biological markers., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Response rate (CR and PR) and clinical benefits rate (CR, PR, and stable disease) according to RECIST, Our initial analysis of efficacy will be descriptive and exploratory with the goal of discerning trends in various response endpoints and correlation with biological markers., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Duration of response (overall response, complete response, and stable disease), Using Cox regression with dose as an independent variable., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of vorinostat (SAHA) and doxorubicin hydrochloride in patients with metastatic or locally advanced solid tumors.

II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of vorinostat when administered with doxorubicin hydrochloride in patients treated with this regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate (complete response \[CR\] and partial response \[PR\]) and clinical benefits rate (CR, PR, and stable disease \> 12 weeks) in patients treated with this regimen.

II. Determine the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of vorinostat and doxorubicin hydrochloride and their interaction.

III. Determine the effects of vorinostat on histone acetylation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and tumors.

IV. Determine the effects of vorinostat on DNA damage induced by doxorubicin hydrochloride as a function of topoisomerase II expression.

V. Determine the effects of vorinostat on genes and proteins crucial for the maintenance of chromatin structure.

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, dose-escalation study of vorinostat.

Patients receive oral vorinostat twice daily for 5 doses on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 3, 10, and 17. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with responding or stable disease after 6 courses of treatment may continue to receive vorinostat alone in the absence of disease progression.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of vorinostat until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Up to15 patients are treated at the MTD. Mandatory biopsies are required in these patients. Patients undergo blood collection and tumor biopsies periodically during the study for pharmacologic, pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, and biomarker correlative studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued to this study.