Real World Study of Biosimilar Trastuzumab in Her2 Positive Breast Cancer
Zedora registration was based on studies of women with metastatic breast cancer, but its approval includes adjuvant treatment. Thus, prospective data of drug use in localized disease are lacking, as well as are real-world safety and efficacy data, taking into consideration comorbidities and compliance difficulties.

This will be an observational study of patients receiving adjuvant Zedora at several Brazilian institutions for the purpose of describing its efficacy and safety.
Breast Cancer
Efficacy endpoints: Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, 18 months|Efficacy endpoints: Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, 24 months|Efficacy endpoints: Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, 30 months|Efficacy endpoints: Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, Invasive disease relapse-free survival rate, 36 months|Efficacy endpoints: Invasive disease relapse-free survival after curative-intent surgery, Invasive disease relapse-free survival after curative-intent surgery, 5 years|Efficacy endpoints: Overall survival after curative intent surgery, Overall survival after curative intent surgery, 5 years|Safety endpoints: Incidence of Related Adverse Events, Incidence of Related Adverse Events, 5 years|Safety endpoints: Total cycles per patient, Total cycles per patient, 5 years|Safety endpoints: Incidence of dose interruption, Incidence of dose interruption, 5 years
An observational, multicenter, prospective, real-world study at Brazilian institutions.

Adult patients with early HER2+ breast cancer receiving adjuvant biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora) at the participating sites after the start of the study and meeting the eligibility criteria will be invited to participate. Demographics, comorbidities, disease history, extent of exposure to biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora), adverse events and LVEF values will be collected.

Data collection will be performed using a case report form (CRF) specifically designed for the study.

Study Treatment:

Biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora) must be prescribed at the dosage described in the product label.

Treatment duration will be 12 months for patients starting upfront with biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora). Patients switching at any time to biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora) after a period of adjuvant or neoadjuvant Herceptin® use will also be included in the overall analysis and subsequently assessed in a subgroup analysis.

Sample Size:

Number of patients = 170 Given the inexistence of a specific hypothesis to be tested, the statistical analysis will be basically descriptive.

Sample size is based on the two-sided 95% confidence interval (95% CI) for the invasive disease relapse-free survival rate.

The table below shows the 95% CIs for different rates in a sample of 170 patients, with an interval size ranging between 9% and 15%.

Based on literature, a 3-year relapse-free survival between 88 and 96% is expected. According to the table above, a sample of 170 patients allows assessing this endpoint with +/- 6.0% accuracy.

Study duration:

The estimated time for patient enrollment in the study is one year and may be extended in case the sample size is not reached in this period. Biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora) must be prescribed according to the product label and treatment duration will be up to one year. The patient will be maintained in the study for 5 years (from start of treatment), unless there is tumor recurrence (local or distant).