Niraparib + Dostarlimab In BRCA Mutated Breast Cancer
This research study involves pre-operative therapy that is specifically targeted for breast cancer in individuals with BRCA and PALB2 mutations.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Niraparib (Zejula)
* Dostarlimab
Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage III Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer|HER2-negative Breast Cancer|Germline BRCA1 Gene Mutation|Germline BRCA2 Gene Mutation|Deleterious PALB2 Gene Mutation
DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Dostarlimab
Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), The primary evaluation of change in TILs within each arm will be based on a Wilcoxon signed rank test (absolute difference) using a one-sided alpha = 0.05 for each arm, baseline to 21 days|The number and proportion of participants achieving Pathologic Complete Response (pCR), The number and proportion of participants achieving pCR among all participants who initiate protocol therapy will be summarized with a two-sided 90% exact confidence interval., 18 weeks
pCR rate (ER+/HER2- BC patients), the analysis of pCR will be exploratory and estimation-only, and reported with a two-sided exact 90% confidence interval, 18 weeks|Changes in TILs, Within each arm, the association between changes in TILs and pCR will be evaluated using a two-sample Wilcoxon rank sum test, and the log odds ratio for a fixed change in TILs will be estimated using a simple logistic regression model., baseline up to 3 weeks|Rate of Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) 0/1 response, Rate of RCB 0/1 response with preoperative combined niraparib and PD-1 blockade in patients with early stage TNBC and ER-positive HER2-negative breast cancer with BRCA-mutations.

The rate of RCB 0/1 response with preoperative combined niraparib and PD-1 blockade in patients with early stage TNBC (Arm A and B) and ER-positive HER2-negative breast cancer (Arm C) with BRCA-mutations will be estimated and the associated two-sided 90% exact confidence interval will be reported., 18 Weeks|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, baseline up to 5 years
The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including laboratory evaluations, two mandatory research biopsies, imaging assessments, and follow up visits.

Participants will receive treatment for 18 weeks. After 18 weeks, participants will be evaluated to determine if a candidate for surgery or if additional treatment outside of the study.

Participants with triple negative breast cancer will be randomized to one of two treatment arms.

* Arm A: Niraparib with Dostarlimab for 18 weeks
* Arm B: Niraparib alone for 3 weeks, followed by Niraparib with Dostarlimab for 15 weeks

Participants with estrogen receptor positive breast cancer will be placed directly into Arm C. There is no randomization for these participants.

- Arm C: Niraparib with dostarlimab for 18 weeks

It is expected that about 62 people will take part in this research study.

This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug or drug combination to learn whether the drug combination works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the study drugs, Niraparib and Dostarlimab, are being studied for use in this setting and the research doctors are trying to learn more about the drug combination-the side effects the combination may cause and if it is effective in treating this type of cancer.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not yet approved either of the drugs in this study for your type of cancer. Niraparib has been approved by the FDA for treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in BRCA mutation carriers.

The use of Dostarlimab in this research study is experimental, which means that it is not approved by any regulatory auit is not approved by any regulatory authority, including the FDA, for treatment of breast cancer, or any other disease.