Comparison of Anesthesia Effects of Sevoflurane and Propofol Combined With Dexmedetomidine in Intraoperative Neuromonitoring During Thyroidectomy
According to the previous studies, it is reported that the use of sevoflurane in the maintenance of anesthesia may lead to delayed occurrence of positive electromyographic (EMG) signal and lower obtained signal amplitude. In this study, the investigators aimed to investigate the anesthetic effect of sevoflurane combined with dexmedetomidine for neuromonitoring during thyroid surgery. The investigators hypothesize that sevoflurane combined with dexmedetomidine can reduce the movement or spontaneous activity of vocal cords in patients and without affecting the EMG signals.
Thyroid Nodule
DRUG: Anesthesia was maintained with sevoflurane|DRUG: Anesthesia was maintained with propofol
The times of movements or the times of spontaneous vocal cords activities, If one of the following occurred, it would be seen as 1 "movement" and add 1 in the counting: (1) visually observed body movement, including bucking. (2) spontaneous vocal cords activity. (Spontaneous vocal cords activity due to insufficient neuromuscular blocking agents, a coarsening of the monitor baseline can be seen, with a series of small waveforms typically varying from 30 to 70 μV) ., During the surgery
Recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) injury is one of the most serious common complications in thyroid operation. Compared with the traditional operation under direct eye vision alone, application of intraoperative neural monitoring (IONM) is able to help surgeon in identifying the RLN during thyroid dissection, and enabling continuous monitoring of the neurological function during operation, thus reducing the incidence of intraoperative RLN injury. Sevoflurane is a common inhaled anesthetic in clinical practice, with the effect of prolonging the action time of muscle relaxants. According to the previous studies, it is reported that the use of sevoflurane in the maintenance of anesthesia may lead to delayed occurrence of positive electromyographic (EMG) signal and lower obtained signal amplitude, which may affect the surgeon's judgment on neurological function during the operation. In this study, the investigators aimed to investigate the anesthetic effect of sevoflurane combined with dexmedetomidine for neuromonitoring during thyroid surgery. The investigators hypothesize that sevoflurane combined with dexmedetomidine can reduce movement or spontaneous activity of vocal cords in patients without affecting the IONM signal.