Electroencephalographic Changes Under General Anesthesia in Patients With Gynecologic Cancers With and Without History of Chemotherapy
This study compares changes in brain waves in women with gynecologic cancers who have or have not received chemotherapy and who are scheduled to receive surgery as part of their standard care. Electroencephalography is a test that measures brain waves and may help learn if sensitivity to anesthesia is higher in women who have received chemotherapy than women who have not. This study may help researchers learn if receiving chemotherapy before surgery can affect the way the brain responds to anesthesia during and after surgery.
Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BEHAVIORAL: BrainCheck Cognitive Assessment|PROCEDURE: Cognitive Assessment|PROCEDURE: Electroencephalography
Difference in the amplitude of alpha oscillations 15 minutes after incision, Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and visualizations of the data to establish patterns of symmetry, skewness, and outliers. Will explore differences in the analysis of the alpha oscillations, 15 minutes after incision
Patient State Index (PSI), For each participant, the PSI will be recorded from the SedLine monitor. Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and visualizations of the data to establish patterns of symmetry, skewness, and outliers. PSI will be analyzed between both groups of patients using an independent samples t-test or Wilcoxon's ranksum test, if more appropriate. Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests will be used if study outcomes are categorical. Finally, will also use both Pearson and Spearman's correlation to assess the association between study features such as PSI and cognitive function., Up to 2 days post surgery|Electroencephalography (EEG) power, For each participant, will calculate the slow (0.1-1 Hz), delta (1-4 Hz), theta (4-8 Hz), alpha (8-12 Hz), beta (12-25 Hz), gamma (25-40Hz), and total power (0.1-40Hz). Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and visualizations of the data to establish patterns of symmetry, skewness, and outliers. Will explore EEG power between both groups of patients using an independent samples t-test or Wilcoxon's ranksum test, if more appropriate. Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests will be used if study outcomes are categorical. Finally, will also use both Pearson and Spearman's correlation to assess the association between study features such as EEG power and cognitive function., During surgery|Burst suppression analysis, When delivered in a sufficiently high dose, intravenous and volatile anesthetics induce burst suppression. This will be obtained from visual inspection of EEG spectrograms. For each participant, burst suppression will be considered significant if three or more events are observed within 2 min period of stable anesthesia. Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and visualizations of the data to establish patterns of symmetry, skewness, and outliers. Will explore burst suppression between both groups of patients using an independent samples t-test or Wilcoxon's ranksum test, if more appropriate. Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests will be used if study outcomes are categorical., During surgery|Burst suppression ratio, Burst suppression ratio is defined as a time domain measure used to track quantitatively the level of burst suppression. It ranges from 0 to 1 and is one of the parameters used to determine depth-of- anesthesia. Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and visualizations of the data to establish patterns of symmetry, skewness, and outliers. Will explore burst suppression ratio between both groups of patients using an independent samples t-test or Wilcoxon's ranksum test, if more appropriate. Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests will be used if study outcomes are categorical. Finally, will also use both Pearson and Spearman's correlation to assess the association between study features such as burst suppression ratio for each band and cognitive function., During surgery|Coherence analysis, Will be calculated as a measure of synchrony between two signals at the same frequency as previously described by Purdon et al. Data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and visualizations of the data to establish patterns of symmetry, skewness, and outliers. Will explore coherence between both groups of patients using an independent samples t-test or Wilcoxon's ranksum test, if more appropriate. Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests will be used if study outcomes are categorical., During surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess electroencephalography (EEG) changes of women with and without history of chemotherapy exposure undergoing volatile general anesthesia.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate if chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairment is associated with an increased sensitivity to general anesthetic agents captured by the patient state index (PSI) and observable in changes in alpha (8-12 H) activity in the frontal regions of the EEG) and other study features such as EEG power, burst suppression analysis, burst suppression ratio, and coherence analysis.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the relationship between preoperative cognitive function and electroencephalographic changes under general anesthesia.

II. To assess the relationship between EEG signatures under general anesthesia and postoperative cognitive function.

III. To collect blood specimens for extracting information on serum lipids and cytokines at two different times, before anesthetic induction, and 30 to 60 minutes upon arrival to the postoperative anesthesia care unit.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo cognitive function assessment BrainCheck over 10 minutes before surgery, day 1 after surgery, and day 2 after surgery (if patients are still admitted to the hospital) and 3D-confusion assessment over 10 minutes twice daily (BID) on day 1 after surgery and day 2 after surgery (if patients are still admitted to the hospital). Patients also undergo EEG during surgery and collection of blood samples 30-60 minutes after surgery.