A Study of Opevesostat (MK-5684) Versus Alternative Next-generation Hormonal Agent (NHA) in Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC) Post One NHA (MK-5684-004)
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of opevesostat plus hormone replacement therapy (HRT) compared to alternative abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide in participants with Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC) previously treated with one next-generation hormonal agent (NHA). The primary study hypotheses are that opevesostat is superior to alternative abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide with respect to radiographic progression free survival (rPFS) per Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG) Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) and overall survival (OS), in androgen receptor ligand binding domain (AR LBD) mutation positive and negative participants.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC)|Prostatic Neoplasms
DRUG: Opevesostat|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Fludrocortisone acetate|DRUG: Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Abiraterone acetate|DRUG: Prednisone acetate|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Radiographic Progression-free Survival (rPFS), rPFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per PCWG-modified RECIST 1.1 by BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 82 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 82 months
Time to Initiation of the First Subsequent Anticancer Therapy (TFST), TFST is defined as the time from randomization to initiation of the first subsequent anti-cancer therapy or death; whichever occurred first., Up to approximately 82 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). The percentage of participants who experience CR or PR as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) will be presented., Up to approximately 82 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrate confirmed CR or PR, duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression per PCWG-modified RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 82 months|Time to Pain Progression (TTPP), TTPP is defined as the time from randomization to pain progression. TTTP is assessed by Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) Item 3 ("Worst Pain in 24 Hours") and opiate analgesic use (Analgesic Quantification Algorithm \[AQA\] Score)., Up to approximately 82 months|Prostrate-specific Antigen (PSA) Response Rate, The Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) response rate is the percentage of participants who had PSA response defined as a reduction in the PSA level from baseline by ≥50%. The reduction in PSA level was confirmed by an additional PSA evaluation performed ≥3 weeks from the original response., Up to approximately 82 months|Time to Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Progression, The time to PSA progression is the time from randomization to PSA progression. The PSA progression date is defined as the date of: 1) ≥25% increase and ≥2 ng/mL above the nadir, confirmed by a second value ≥3 weeks later if there was PSA decline from baseline; OR 2) ≥25% increase and ≥2 ng/mL increase from baseline., Up to approximately 82 months|Time to first symptomatic skeletal-related event (TSSRE), TSSRE is the time from randomization to the first symptomatic skeletal-related event defined as: 1. use of external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to prevent or relieve skeletal symptoms 2. occurrence of new symptomatic pathologic bone fracture (vertebral or non-vertebral) 3. occurrence of spinal cord compression 4. tumor-related orthopedic surgical intervention, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 82 months|Number of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, disease, or worsening of preexisting condition temporally associated with study treatment and irrespective of causality to study treatment. The number of participants who experience one or more AE will be reported., Up to approximately 82 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, disease, or worsening of preexisting condition temporally associated with study treatment and irrespective of causality to study treatment. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 82 months|Change From Baseline in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) Total Score, The FACT-G is a health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 27-item questionnaire in participants being treated for cancer. The FACT-G subscales include Physical Well-Being (PWB), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB), Emotional Well-Being (EWB), and Functional Well-Being (FWB). All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale of 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total score can range from 0 to 108. Higher scores indicate higher HRQoL. The change from baseline in FACT-G total score will be reported., Baseline, and up to approximately 82 months|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in FACT-G Total Score, The FACT-G is a health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 27-item questionnaire in participants being treated for cancer. The FACT-G subscales include Physical Well-Being (PWB), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB), Emotional Well-Being (EWB), and Functional Well-Being (FWB). All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale of 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total score can range from 0 to 108. Higher scores indicate higher HRQoL. TTD in FACT-G total score will be reported., Up to approximately 82 months|Overall Improvement in FACT-G Total Score, The FACT-G is a health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 27-item questionnaire in participants being treated for cancer. The FACT-G subscales include Physical Well-Being (PWB), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB), Emotional Well-Being (EWB), and Functional Well-Being (FWB). All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale of 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total score can range from 0 to 108. Higher scores indicate higher HRQoL. The overall improvement in FACT-G total score will be reported., Up to approximately 82 months
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of opevesostat plus hormone replacement therapy (HRT) compared to alternative abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide in participants with Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC) previously treated with one next-generation hormonal agent (NHA). The primary study hypotheses are that opevesostat is superior to alternative abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide with respect to radiographic progression free survival (rPFS) per Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG) Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) and overall survival (OS), in androgen receptor ligand binding domain (AR LBD) mutation positive and negative participants.