A Study of Pemetrexed and Bevacizumab for Participants With Advanced Non-Small Cell Cancer
Participants with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) will receive a first-line treatment of Pemetrexed, Cisplatin and Bevacizumab as induction therapy followed by a maintenance treatment of Pemetrexed and Bevacizumab. Treatment will continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. The primary objective of this study is to measure how long this treatment could prevent the disease progression.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Progression-Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of study enrollment to the first date of objectively determined PD or death from any cause. PD is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) Guidelines (Version 1.0), as at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as references the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For participants not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who do not have objective PD, PFS will be censored at the date of the last objective progression-free disease assessment. For participants who receive subsequent systemic anticancer therapy, PFS will be censored at the date of the last objective progression-free disease assessment prior to post-discontinuation systemic therapy., From enrollment to the first date of objectively determined Progressive Disease (PD) or death from any cause (every other cycle during study treatment and then every 6 weeks during follow-up period)(Baseline up to 36.1 Months)
Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of study enrollment to the date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the data cut-off date, OS will be censored at the last contact date., From enrollment to the date of death from any cause (every cycle during study treatment, every 6 weeks during follow-up period until PD, and then at least every 3 Months) (Baseline up to 36.3 Months)|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Complete Response or Partial Response During Study Treatment (Induction and Maintenance), Overall Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of participants whose best response is complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST Guidelines, Version 1.0. CR is disappearance of all tumor lesions. PR is either a) at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LDs, or b) complete disappearance of target lesions, with persistence (but not worsening) of 1 or more nontarget lesions. In either case, no new lesions may have appeared., From enrollment to objectively determined PD (assessment during study treatment completed at every other cycle till PD and at 30 day follow-up)(Baseline up to 104.1 Weeks)|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Response Complete or Partial Response During the Induction Treatment Only, CR and PR defined per RECIST Guidelines, Version 1.0. CR is disappearance of all tumor lesions. PR is either a) at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LDs, or b) complete disappearance of target lesions, with persistence (but not worsening) of 1 or more nontarget lesions. In either case, no new lesions may have appeared., From the time of study enrollment to the first date of objectively determined PD during the induction therapy (assessment during study treatment completed at every other cycle up to four cycles) (Baseline up to 4 cycles)|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Complete Response or Partial Response During the Maintenance Therapy Only, CR and PR defined per RECIST Guidelines, Version 1.0. CR is disappearance of all tumor lesions. PR is either a) at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LDs, or b) complete disappearance of target lesions, with persistence (but not worsening) of 1 or more nontarget lesions. In either case, no new lesions may have appeared., From the start of the maintenance to the first date of objectively determined PD during the maintenance therapy (assessment during maintenance treatment completed at every other cycle till PD and at 30 day follow-up)(Cycle 5 up to 104.1 Weeks)
The study will have 3 periods: a baseline period; a study treatment period, including both induction and maintenance treatment; and a follow-up period. Approximately 110 participants will be enrolled into the study, with the aim of having 100 evaluable participants. Eligible participants will first receive 4 cycles of induction chemotherapy with pemetrexed-cisplatin-bevacizumab. Participants who achieve a response or do not progress after completion of induction chemotherapy and have an adequate performance status will receive maintenance therapy with pemetrexed-bevacizumab. Treatment will continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. When treatment is discontinued, the participants health status will be monitored till death, loss to follow-up or data cut-off date.

Participants who continue to receive benefit from treatment at the time of data cut-off may receive continued access to pemetrexed and bevacizumab until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or any other reason at investigator or participants decision.