Cladribine Based Induction Therapy With All-Trans Retinoic Acid and Midostaurin in Relapsed/Refractory AML
This study will evaluate the investigational drug Midostaurin in various doses given with ATRA and CLAG chemotherapy. Midostaurin is a FLT3 inhibitor that is activated or overexpressed in a significant proportion of AML patients. Research has shown that midostaurin and drugs like midostaurin may work better in combination with chemotherapy, like CLAG. CLAG is a combination of cladribine, cytarabine, and G-CSF which is approved by the FDA and used to treat AML.
Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute
DRUG: Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)|DRUG: Cladribine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: All-Trans Retinoic Acid (ATRA)|DRUG: Midostaurin
Tolerability of midostaurin + ATRA given with CLAG chemotherapy, 28 days following completion of therapy|Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of midostaurin + ATRA with CLAG chemotherapy, 28 days following completion of therapy
Response, To determine the response rate 3, morphologic leukemia-free state, morphologic complete remission rate (CRm), cytogenetic CR (CRc) rate, CR with incomplete blood counts 1 rate, and partial remission 48 rate (PR) of patients treated with midostaurin + ATRA given with CLAG chemotherapy, 1 year|Survival, To determine the duration of response and survival including disease-free survival (DFS), event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS) in these patients, 1 year|Toxicity profile of midostaurin + ATRA, 28 days following completion of treatment|Pharmacokinetics of midostaurin, Cycle 1 Day 7, Cycle 1 Day 14, and Cycle 1 Day 20
The main purpose of this study is to gather information about the use of a drug called midostaurin when given with ATRA and CLAG chemotherapy. Midostaurin is an investigational drug. It is a drug that inhibits FLT3 that is mutated or overexpressed in a significant proportion of AML patients. Research has shown that midostaurin and drugs like midostaurin may work better in combination with chemotherapy, like CLAG. ATRA is known to promote myeloid differentiation and has also been shown to augment cancer cell death in combination with chemotherapy. CLAG is a combination of cladribine, cytarabine, and G-CSF which is approved by the FDA and used to treat AML. This study will look at how safe this combination is, how you tolerate the treatment, and to see what dose of midostaurin is appropriate.