Zalutumumab in Combination With Radiotherapy in Head and Neck Cancer Patients Ineligible for Platinum Based Chemotherapy
The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety of zalutumumab in combination with radiotherapy as the treatment of patients with head and neck cancer who are not eligible for platinum based chemotherapy.
Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Zalutumumab
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Number of participants with at least one adverse event. All adverse events are collected during 12 weeks and all serious adverse events are collected during 2 years., From first dose date up to end of the safety follow up period (Up to 2 years)
Number of Participants With Best Overall Tumour Response, The Best Overall Tumour Response defined as the best response recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression or recurrence per RECIST criteria. Complete response (CR) defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR) defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter. Progressive disease (PD) defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more new lesions since the prior scan. Stable disease (SD) defined as responses not fulfilling CR, PR or PD., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response is defined as CR or PR according to RECIST criteria. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter., Up to 2 years
This is an open label, multi-center, phase I/II dose-escalation clinical trial investigating the safety of zalutumumab in combination with radiotherapy. The safety of zalutumumab doses in combination with radiotherapy (RT) will be investigated using 3 patient cohorts in a dose-escalation / de-escalation design based on Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT). The dose-escalation starts at 8 mg/kg zalutumumab in combination with RT. Initially, three patients will be treated at a dose level and observed for DLTs. If none of the three patients experience a DLT, then the next cohort of three patients is treated at the next higher dose of zalutumumab. If one of three patients treated at a dose level experience a DLT, then three more patients are treated at the same dose level. If two or more of the three patients experience DLTs, then the next cohort of three patients should be treated at the next lower dose of zalutumumab, unless at least six patients on that dose have already been dosed. Furthermore, if 1 or fewer DLTs are observed among six patients at a given dose level, then the next cohort of three patients is treated at the next higher dose of zalutumumab. The maximum tolerated dose will be decided by Genmab based on the recommendations made by the IDMC on the basis of their review of the aggregated safety data.