Adjuvant Radiotherapy in Early Stage Oral Cancers
This study will assess the benefit of postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy in patients with an early oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) having tumor thickness more than or equal to 5mm. The study population will consist of patients who have been treated by surgery for early stage oral tongue cancers. Patients with a close or positive margin (\</= 5mm) and or with metastatic neck node(s) will be excluded. Selected patients will be randomized into two groups. The group I will be observed after surgery and group II will receive adjuvant radiotherapy as per protocol.
Cancer of Mouth|Cancer of the Tongue|Cancer of the Head and Neck|Buccal Mucosa Cancer|Floor of Mouth Carcinoma
RADIATION: Post-operative adjuvant radiotherapy
loco-regional recurrence free survival, Measures the number of local or regional recurrences in both arm over a defined time frame., Date of randomization to loco regional recurrence (date of proven biopsy date) or at the end of 36 months after recruitment of the last participant.
Disease free survival, time from the beginning of an intervention until patient experiences a recurrence, a new primary cancer or death., Calculated as difference of date of randomization to date of first documented recurrence or relapse, second primary or death or at the end of 36 months after recruitment of the last participant.|Overall survival, Date of Randomization to death from any cause, Date of randomization to death from any cause or at the end of 36 months after recruitment of the last participant.
Quality of life Measurement, Measured using EORTC QLQ H\&N-35 and EORTC QLQ-C 30, at Randomization, 3 months after completion of all treatments, 1 year, 2 years and 3 years after completion of all treatments.|Acute and long-term Radiation toxicity rate, The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE V 4.0) will be used for assessing the Adverse events. The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) acute and late radiation morbidity scoring criteria will be used for assessing the radiotherapy related toxicity., From the date of randomization until the date of first documented disease recurrence or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.
The aim of this study is to assess the benefit of postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy in patients with an early oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) having a tumor depth of invasion more than or equal to 5mm.

Primary objective:

To determine the impact of postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy on locoregional recurrence-free survival in patients with early-stage oral tongue cancer with tumor thickness ≥ 5 mm.

Secondary objectives:

1. To compare disease-free survival and overall survival between the two groups.
2. To assess and compare the quality of life changes between the two groups.
3. To assess the acute and long-term radiation toxicity.

We will be conducting a Phase III Open-Label Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial using stratified randomization. Patients will be randomized into two groups:

Group I: Control arm (Observation only) Group II: Study arm (Postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy)

Patients will be stratified on the following factors

1. Presence of Perineural Invasion (PNI)/Lympho-Vascular Emboli (LVE)
2. Histological grade (well-differentiated/moderately differentiated vs poorly differentiated)
3. Tongue/Floor of Mouth vs Buccal Mucosa.

Study procedures:

The study population will consist of patients who have been treated by surgery for early-stage oral cancers. Patients satisfying the inclusion-exclusion criteria will be included in the study after obtaining a valid, written and informed consent. The depth of invasion will be assessed microscopically by measuring the maximum vertical bulk of the tumor from the normal mucosal surface to the deepest point of invasion. After reviewing the histopathological report, patients will be randomized to one of the 2 arms. Patients belonging to study arm (Group II) will receive adjuvant radiotherapy 60 Gray, 30 fractions for 30 days over 6 weeks as routinely prescribed at Tata Memorial Center (TMC) and will receive the treatment within or by 6 weeks after surgery.

Both the groups (Group I and Group II) will be under regular follow-up with 3 monthly intervals for the first 2 years and 6 monthly for the next 3 years and once a year thereafter. At each follow-up, patients will be evaluated clinically for evidence of locoregional tumor recurrence. The locoregional recurrence-free survival will be calculated based on the difference between the date of randomization and the date of biopsy-proven recurrence. We will also record the overall survival in both groups. The quality of life will be assessed at each follow-up regular intervals using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ H\&N-35 ) and EORTC QLQ-C 30. The radiation toxicity will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0.