Proglumide and Chemotherapy for Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This is a Phase 2 study with an open labelled lead-in study to approximately treat 30 patients \[6 subjects for Lead-in and 24 for Phase 2\] enrolled with metastatic pancreatic cancer with combination therapy using standard of care first line therapy with GEM-NAB-P (GEM 1000mg/m2 IV and NAB-P 125 mg/m2 given days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days, and proglumide will be tested at the daily dose of 1200 mg orally given as 400 mg po TID. The lead-in study will determine the safety and tolerability of the 1200 mg daily dose of proglumide with standard of care GEM-NAB-P. If 0 or 1 of a total of 6 patients at 400mg experiences a DLT, then we will proceed to the Phase 2 randomized trial.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Proglumide|DRUG: Placebo
Safety of oral proglumide therapy at 1200mg daily dose with chemotherapy, The number of abnormal serum chemistry values occurring in those on proglumide compared to those on placebo, 18 months
Fibrosis in the pancreatic tumor microenvironment, The amount of fibrosis measured on the tumor biopsy with histologic staining in subjects on the proglumide arm compared to the measurment of fibrosis (by intergartive density score) to those on placebo, 3 years|Overall survival (OS), median overall survival will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier curves., 4 years|Progression-free survival, median progression free survival will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier curves., 4 years|Effects of proglumide on Pain, compare pain intensity and management in those on proglumide compared to placebo using the McGill Pain Survey., 4 years
After the Lead-in study, in the Phase 2 portion, patients will be randomized 1:1 to standard of care chemotherapy using gemcitabine (GEM) and nab-paclitaxel (NAB-P) (GEM 1000 mg/m2 IV and NAB-P 125 mg/m2 given days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days) plus placebo or proglumide at the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for proglumide determined in the Lead-in study. Patients will be monitored for safety and toxicity by laboratory blood testing, physical examinations, neurological check, and cardiac monitoring in the Lead-in study. Dosing of chemotherapy will be managed following USPI recommendations. If dose-related toxicity occurs with proglumide, the medication will be held until the AE resolves. Proglumide will then be re-administered at the prior lower dose.

A research tumor biopsy will be performed before starting therapy. Every 8 weeks radiographic imaging will be done for assess tumor burden according to Standard of Care (SOC). Blood work for safety analysis will be done at 2 weeks, then every 4 weeks, interim vital signs and history is done every 4 weeks. Radiographic imaging and CA19-9 tumor marker will be done every 8 weeks according to SOC. A repeat tumor biopsy will be done at week 8 only for research purposes to examine the tumor microenvironment. A blood sample for research Biomarkers will be collected before starting therapy and every 8 weeks. Patients will be treated for 24 weeks or until progression is documented, unacceptable toxicities develop, or treatment is no longer required