Immediate Breast Reconstruction With Free Greater Omentum
Luminal subtype breast cancer, accounting for 70 to 80% of all breast cancers, has been reported to be associated with good prognosis. However, for the patients with large mass or worse mass position, free greater omentum transplantation may provide a new option for breast reconstruction.
Breast Reconstruction
severe related complication, Serious adverse effect occur within 1 years after implantation, 1 year after surgery
cosmetic outcome, Four-point scale was formulated to evaluate the cosmetic score as excellent (size and shape of recon-structed breast are identical to the original breast); good (deformity of the reconstructed breast in-volved less than 1/4 of the original breast; fair (deformity of the reconstructed breast involves less than 1/4-1/2 of the original breast); and poor (breast deformity involves more than 1/2 of the original breast), 6 months after surgery|greater omentum survival, At each follow up time point the proportion of patients with omentum transplantation will be estimated., 2 and 5 years after surgery|Patient satisfaction, Patients also rate their level of satisfaction, with the help of a numeric rating scale (NRS: 0-10), in terms of how the outcome met up to their preoperative expectations of the arthroplasty. Finally, they will be asked whether - with their current knowledge of the outcome - they would again choose the operation if they found themselves in similar circumstances to those which prevailed preoperatively., 6months, 1 and 2 years after surgery
Breast-conserving surgery, laparoscopic greater omentum harvest and vascular anastomosis was carried out orderly. The omentum was harvested laparoscopically, following breast-conserving surgery . Following the remove of resected omentum, the harvested greater omentum was poured by ice protection fluid from right gastric omentum artery. Besides, right arteriovenous vein of stomach omentum was dissected carefully under microscope. When operation started, front latissimus dorsi was separated from subaxillary incision, as well as the right thoracic dorsal artery and accompanying vein. Separated greater omentum was put on the subcutaneous deficient site of right breast incision and vascular pedicle was pulled through tunnel, reaching to the axillary incision. Under the help of microscope, vascular anastomosis between right stomach omentum arteriovenous and right thoracic dorsal arteriovenous was proceeded. Consequently, greater omentum was filled to shape the reconstructed breast. Finally, drainage tube and drainage strip were left at subcutaneous and subaxillary incision, respectively.