Taxane Combined Targeted Therapy for Low-risk HER2 Positive and Lymph Node Negative Breast Cancer
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer is a molecular subtype with high malignancy and high risk of recurrence and metastasis. HER2 targeted drugs has greatly improved the prognosis and survival of such patients. At present, for HER2 positive breast cancer patients with negative lymph nodes, chemotherapy drugs combined with trastuzumab is the current standard treatment scheme, and in most cases, chemotherapy uses a combination of two drugs, while the main beneficiaries of the trastuzumab and paltuzumab are concentrated in the group of patients with positive lymph nodes. Can targeted therapy be used to reduce the progression of chemotherapy and further achieve efficient and low toxicity strategies. To explore the efficacy and safety of adjuvant therapy of taxane chemotherapy combined with trastuzumab targeting therapy for low-risk HER2 positive and lymph node negative early breast cancer.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer
invasive disease free survival, The time from enrollment to the first occurrence of the following events defined as failure: local recurrence of ipsilateral invasive breast cancer, contralateral invasive breast cancer, distant recurrence or death from any cause., 5 years
disease free survival, The time from enrollment to the first occurrence of the following events defined as failure, including ipsilateral local recurrence, contralateral breast cancer, distant recurrence or death from any cause., 5 years|distant disease free survival, The time from enrollment in the study to the occurrence of distant recurrence and metastasis., 5 years|breast cancer specific survival, Time from enrollment to death due to breast cancer. Time from enrollment to death due to breast cancer., 5 years|overall survival, The time from enrollment in the study to death caused by any reason, 5 years
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer is a molecular subtype with high malignancy and high risk of recurrence and metastasis. HER2 targeted drugs has greatly improved the prognosis and survival of such patients. At present, for HER2 positive breast cancer patients with negative lymph nodes, chemotherapy drugs combined with trastuzumab is the current standard treatment scheme, and in most cases, chemotherapy uses a combination of two drugs, while the main beneficiaries of the trastuzumab and paltuzumab are concentrated in the group of patients with positive lymph nodes. Can targeted therapy be used to reduce the progression of chemotherapy and further achieve efficient and low toxicity strategies. To explore the efficacy and safety of adjuvant therapy of taxane chemotherapy combined with trastuzumab targeting therapy for low-risk HER2 positive and lymph node negative early breast cancer.