A Study on the Efficacy of Disitamab Vedotin in Advanced HER2-positive Paget's Disease.
This study is a single-center, phase II clinical trial. Patients with HER2-positive advanced breast and extramammary Paget's disease who met the eligibility criteria were enrolled after signing an informed consent form. All patients received treatment with 2mg/kg of trastuzumab deruxtecan intravenous infusion every 3 weeks until disease progression. Follow-up was conducted until disease progression, withdrawal of informed consent by the subject, loss to follow-up, or death. Clinical tumor imaging assessments were performed using RECIST during the treatment process.
Mammary or Extramammary Paget's Disease
DRUG: RC48
Objective Response Rate, ORR includes two categories:

Complete Response (CR): All target lesions in the patient have completely disappeared, and no new lesions have appeared for a certain time.

Partial Response (PR): The tumor in the patient has reduced in size by at least 30%, and this reduction has been maintained for a certain period., every 6 weeks,up to 24 weeks
Progression free survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is a clinical endpoint used primarily in oncology to measure the effectiveness of a treatment in delaying the progression of a disease. It is defined as the length of time during which a patient's disease does not get worse after starting a treatment. PFS takes into account the time from the start of treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression, or the patient's death if it occurs before progression., through study completion, an average of 2 year|advance events, advance events, through study completion, an average of 2 year
This study is a single-center, phase II clinical trial. Patients with HER2-positive advanced breast and extramammary Paget's disease who met the eligibility criteria were enrolled after signing an informed consent form. All patients received treatment with 2mg/kg of trastuzumab deruxtecan intravenous infusion every 3 weeks until disease progression. Follow-up was conducted until disease progression, withdrawal of informed consent by the subject, loss to follow-up, or death. Clinical tumor imaging assessments were performed using RECIST during the treatment process.