Identification of Breath Biomarkers in Esophageal Cancer
Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) followed by surgery or definitive CRT is the standard treatment for locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), but the clinical outcomes are not satisfactory. Breathomics testing is a promising, non-invasive, simple method for detection and screening for ESCC. This observational study aimed to role of exhaled volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in predicting the efficacy and risk of recurrence in patients with locally advanced ESCC who received CRT.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Breathing test
overall survival., A predictive model based on exhaled volatile organic compounds to predict overall survival., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months.
clinical complete response., A predictive model based on exhaled volatile organic compounds to predict clinical complete response. Tumor response was evaluated 3 months after the completion of treatment based on CT or PET-CT scans, endoscopy with biopsies. RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria was used to determine the tumor response., 3 months after the treatment (plus or minus 7 days)|recurrence., A predictive model based on exhaled volatile organic compounds to predict recurrence., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or the date of first documented disease progression whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months.
Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) followed by surgery or definitive CRT is the standard treatment for locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), but the clinical outcomes are not satisfactory. Breathomics testing is a promising, non-invasive, simple method for detection and screening for ESCC. This observational study aimed to role of exhaled volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in predicting the efficacy and risk of recurrence in patients with locally advanced ESCC who received CRT. All patients will receive standard fractionation radiation therapy (RT) scheme: 40-50.4 Gy in 20-28 fractions over 4-6 weeks using intensity-modulated radiotherapy, concurrently with platinum- or taxane-based chemotherapy, with or without PD-1 inhibitors. All patients will undergo esophagectomy 6-8 weeks after the completion of neoadjuvant CRT. Dynamic breathing testing was performed before, during, and after radiotherapy.