Sipuleucel-T With or Without Tasquinimod in Treating Patients With Metastatic Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well sipuleucel-T with or without tasquinimod works in treating patients with hormone-resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Vaccines made from a person's tumor cells and white blood cells may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Tasquinimod may stop the growth of prostate cancer by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. It is not yet known whether sipuleucel-T is more effective with or without tasquinimod in treating prostate cancer.
Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Sipuleucel-T|DRUG: Tasquinimod
Change in Immune Response Assessed by IFN-g ELISPOT Specific for PA2024, Baseline up to 50 weeks
Change in PSA Response, PSA doubling time, PSA slope, Baseline to up to 3 years|Duration of PSA Response, Up to 3 years|Frequency of Toxicities Assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4, The frequency of participants with toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and courses., Up to 3 years|Immune Response, Week 6|Immune Response, Week 10|Immune Response, Week 26|Immune Response, Week 50|Immune Response (Arm 2 Only), Week 0|Objective Response Rates (Partial or Complete), Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival, Up to 3 years|Time to PSA Progression, Up to 3 years
Effects of Tasquinimod on the Inhibition of Immune Cells, Up to week 50
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether tasquinimod augments immune response to sipuleucel-T.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of sipuleucel-T and tasquinimod in patients with castration-resistant metastatic prostate cancer.

II. To obtain preliminary evidence of the clinical benefit of the combination of sipuleucel-T and tasquinimod; to include changes in prostate specific antigen (PSA) over time, and duration of progression-free survival/overall survival.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive sipuleucel-T intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 4. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive tasquinimod orally (PO) once daily (QD) beginning on day -14 and sipuleucel-T IV over 60 minutes on day 4. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients continue on tasquinimod treatment after day 42 until disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.