A Study of Belzutifan (MK-6482) Versus Everolimus in Participants With Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (MK-6482-005)
The primary objective of this study is to compare belzutifan to everolimus with respect to progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) and to compare everolimus with respect to overall survival (OS). The hypothesis is that belzutifan is superior to everolimus with respect to PFS and OS.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Belzutifan|DRUG: Everolimus
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review is presented here., Up to approximately 39 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up., Up to approximately 49 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a complete response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a partial response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience a CR or PR as assessed by blinded independent central review based on RECIST 1.1 is presented here., Up to approximately 31 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed complete response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed partial response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death. The DOR as assessed by blinded independent central review is presented here. The Median DOR was analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method for censored data., Up to approximately 49 months|Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An adverse event (AE) is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 78 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to approximately 78 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in Health-Related Quality-of-Life (HRQoL) Using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Items 29 and 30 Combined Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to the questions regarding Global Health Status (GHS; "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?") and Quality of Life (QoL; "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent), then summed. Summed raw scores were standardized by linear transformation so that scores ranged from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating a better overall outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in Items 29 and 30 scale scores. If the first deterioration is at the last PRO assessment timepoint at the time of analysis, then no confirmation is required. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. TTD is reported based on the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Up to approximately 39 months|TTD in Physical Functioning Using the EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1- 5 Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much), then summed. Summed raw scores were standardized by linear transformation so that scores ranged from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating a better overall outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in physical functioning Items 1 to 5 scale scores. If the first deterioration is at the last PRO assessment timepoint at the time of analysis, then no confirmation is required. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. TTD is reported based on the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Up to approximately 39 months|TTD in Disease Symptoms Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Kidney Symptom Index-Disease-related Symptoms (FKSI-DRS) Items 1-9 Score, The FKSI-DRS was a questionnaire that asked the participant to rate 9 kidney cancer-related symptoms: lack of energy, fatigue, weight loss, pain, bone pain, shortness of breath, cough, fever, or blood in the urine. Each item was scored on a 5-point scale (0=not at all to 4=very much). FKSI-DRS total score ranged from 0 (most severe symptoms) to 36 (no symptoms) with a higher score indicating a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time to first onset of a ≥3-point decrease in symptom score from baseline with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥3-point deterioration from baseline under right-censoring rule. If the first deterioration is at the last PRO assessment timepoint at the time of analysis, then no confirmation is required. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. TTD is reported based on the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Up to approximately 39 months|Change From Baseline to Week 17 in the HRQoL Using the EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 Combined Score, The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the Global Health Status (GHS) question "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" (Item 29) and the Quality of Life (QoL) question "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" (Item 30) were scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores were standardized so that scores ranged from 0 to 100; a higher score indicating a better overall outcome. Change from baseline to Week 17 in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined scores was calculated based on a constrained longitudinal data analysis (cLDA) model with scores as response variable with covariates for treatment by time interaction, stratification factors (IMDC Risk Category, and Number of Prior VEGF/VEGF-Receptor Targeted Therapies for RCC) as covariates., Baseline (Day 1) and week 17|Change From Baseline to Week 17 in Physical Functioning Using the EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1- 5 Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much), then summed. Summed raw scores were standardized by linear transformation so that scores ranged from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating a better overall outcome. The change from baseline to Week 17 in physical functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) score was calculated based on a constrained longitudinal data analysis (cLDA) model with scores as response variable with covariates for treatment by time interaction, stratification factors (IMDC Risk Category, and Number of Prior VEGF/VEGF-Receptor Targeted Therapies for RCC) as covariates., Baseline (Day 1) and week 17|Change From Baseline to Week 17 in Disease Symptoms Using the FKSI-DRS Items 1-9 Score, The FKSI-DRS was a questionnaire that asked the participant to rate 9 kidney cancer-related symptoms: lack of energy, fatigue, weight loss, pain, bone pain, shortness of breath, cough, fever, or blood in the urine. Each item was scored on a 5-point scale (0=not at all to 4=very much). FKSI-DRS total score ranged from 0 (most severe symptoms) to 36 (no symptoms) with a higher score indicating a better outcome. The change from baseline to Week 17 in Disease Symptoms using the FKSI-DRS Items 1-9 score was calculated based on a constrained longitudinal data analysis (cLDA) model with the PRO scores as response variable with covariates for treatment by time interaction, stratification factors (IMDC Risk Category, and Number of Prior VEGF/VEGF-Receptor Targeted Therapies for RCC) as covariates., Baseline (Day 1) and week 17|Change From Baseline to Week 17 in Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Score on the European Quality of Life 5 Dimension, 5-level Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) Health Utility Score, The EQ-5D-5L questionnaire assesses 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/ depression. Each dimension has 5 response options that reflect increasing levels of difficulty, which are coded on a scale from 1 (no problems) to 5 (extreme problems). The VAS is a component of EQ-5D-5L that asks participants to rate their overall health on a vertical visual analogue scale, with the scale's ends labelled 'The best health you can imagine' (equivalent to a score of 0) and 'The worst health you can imagine' (equivalent to a score of 100). The change from baseline to Week 17 in Health Utility using the EQ-5D-5L VAS score was calculated based on a constrained longitudinal data analysis (cLDA) model with the PRO scores as response variable with covariates for treatment by time interaction, stratification factors (IMDC Risk Category, and Number of Prior VEGF/VEGF-Receptor Targeted Therapies for RCC) as covariates., Baseline (Day 1) and week 17
Per protocol, all participants enrolled in the Safety Run-In were not randomized and not included in the protocol-specified analyses for any of the outcome measures.