Adjuvant Protontherapy of Cervical and Endometrial Carcinomas
The APROVE study is a prospective single-center single-arm phase-II study. Patients with cervical or endometrial cancer after surgical resection who have an indication for postoperative pelvic radiotherapy will be treated with proton therapy instead of the commonly used photon radiation. A total of 25 patients will be included in this trial. Patients will receive a dose of 45-50.4 Gray in 1.8 Gray fractions 5-6 times per week using active raster-scanning pencil beam proton radiation. Platinum-based chemotherapy can be administered if indicated. The primary endpoint of the study is the evaluation of safety and treatment tolerability of pelvic radiation using protons defined as the lack of any CTC AE Grade 3 or 4 toxicity. Secondary endpoints are clinical symptoms and toxicity, quality of life and progression-free survival. The aim is to explore the potential of proton therapy as a new method for adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy to decrease the dose to the bowel, rectum and bladder thus reducing acute and chronic toxicity and improving quality of life.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms|Endometrial Neoplasms Malignant
RADIATION: Adjuvant pelvic proton radiation
Incidence of acute treatment-associated adverse events ≥ grade 3 [Safety and Tolerability], Assessment of toxicity according to the CTC AE v4.0 (Common Toxicity Criteria for adverse events), 3 months
clinical symptoms according to the CTC AE v4.0. criteria, clinical symptoms of any grade will be assessed, 2 years|Quality of life of all patients included in the study, assessed by the EORTC questionnaires QLQ-C30, 2 years|Quality of life of cervical cancer patients included in the study, assessed by the EORTC questionnaires QLQ-CX24, 2 years|Quality of life of endometrial cancer patients included in the study, assessed by the EORTC questionnaires QLQ-EN24, 2 years|Progression-free survival, regular MRI-scans, 2 years
The APROVE study is a prospective single-center single-arm phase-II study. Patients with cervical or endometrial cancer after surgical resection who have an indication for postoperative pelvic radiotherapy will be treated with proton therapy instead of the commonly used photon radiation. A total of 25 patients will be included in this trial. Patients will receive a dose of 45-50.4 Gray in 1.8 Gray fractions 5-6 times per week using active raster-scanning pencil beam proton radiation. Platinum-based chemotherapy can be administered if indicated. The primary endpoint of the study is the evaluation of safety and treatment tolerability of pelvic radiation using protons defined as the lack of any CTC AE Grade 3 or 4 toxicity. Secondary endpoints are clinical symptoms and toxicity, quality of life and progression-free survival. The aim is to explore the potential of proton therapy as a new method for adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy to decrease the dose to the bowel, rectum and bladder thus reducing acute and chronic toxicity and improving quality of life.