PREVENT HPV-Related Cancers Trial
This study will serve as one of the first to develop and test the effectiveness of strategies to promote HPV vaccination among diverse rural parents and caregivers of children ages 9-17 years in the Mountain West. Once implemented into practice, our intervention could significantly reduce disparities in the burden of HPV-associated cancers among rural populations in the United States.

The proposed study will assess the effectiveness of clinic-based outreach to increase vaccination rates for HPV at four community clinics in rural counties in Washington. This study is a boot camp translation to tailor messaging based on patient and provider input The proposed study includes the following: (1) boot camp translation to tailor messaging based on patient and provider input; (2) PREVENT randomized controlled trial (RCT) that will assign adult parent/caregiver participants to a timeline for receiving intervention; and (3) qualitative interviews with parents/caregivers, providers, and other healthcare team members and development of best practices, implementation guides and dissemination of findings for other clinics to implement the program on a broader scale. At the end of the trial, personal interviews with parents/caregivers, clinical staff, and providers will be conducted to understand reactions to the program and persistent barriers to initiating and completing HPV vaccination.
HPV Vaccination|Uptake Vaccination|Series Completion
BEHAVIORAL: PREVENT
Intervention Reach: Vaccination Next Step Initiation (Next HPV dose completion), The investigators will track intervention reach using the Proctor Implementation and RE-AIM frameworks. The primary outcome is whether patients initiate the next step in the HPV vaccination series at 6 months, which will be captured via the EHR and the state vaccine registry. Completing the next step in the vaccine series outcome will be compared via logistic generalized estimating equations (GEE) models, with bias-reduced robust sandwich variance estimators clustered by the clinic. These logistic GEEs will be adjusted for P/C and patient features that may influence the HPV vaccination series next step and completion, including age, sex, race/ethnicity, rurality, and HPV vaccination initiation status at study enrollment. Pre-defined subgroup analyses will be performed by P/C and/or patient sex, age group, race/ethnicity, rurality, and HPV vaccination initiation status at study enrollment, and each of these characteristics will be assessed for effect moderation., 6 Months
RCT Arm Effectiveness: Next HPV Vaccination Step Completion, The investigators will track intervention effectiveness using the Proctor Implementation and RE-AIM frameworks. The primary comparisons are the rates of completing the next step in the HPV vaccination series at 6 months (N C/A complete next HPV vaccine dose/ N anticipated) between the Auto, Auto-Plus, and UC arms. Little missing data is expected for these outcomes. Completing the next step in the vaccine series outcome will be compared via logistic generalized estimating equations (GEE) models, with bias-reduced robust sandwich variance estimators clustered by the clinic. The GEEs will be adjusted for P/C and patient features that may influence the HPV vaccination series next step and completion, including age, sex, race/ethnicity, rurality, and HPV vaccination initiation status at study enrollment. Pairwise differences between arms will be assessed with a Bonferroni correction to achieve type I error control at 0.05, with p\<0.017=0.05/3 needed for statistical significance., 6 Months|Intervention Reach: Vaccination Next Step Initiation (Next HPV dose completion), Using the Proctor Implementation and RE-AIM frameworks, the investigators will track intervention reach. The primary outcome is whether patients initiate the next step in the HPV vaccination series at 13 months, which will be captured via the EHR and the state vaccine registry. Completing the next step in the vaccine series outcome will be compared via logistic generalized estimating equations (GEE) models, with bias-reduced robust sandwich variance estimators clustered by the clinic. These logistic GEEs will be adjusted for P/C and patient features that may influence the HPV vaccination series next step and completion, including age, sex, race/ethnicity, rurality, and HPV vaccination initiation status at study enrollment. Pre-defined subgroup analyses will be performed by P/C and/or patient sex, age group, race/ethnicity, rurality, and HPV vaccination initiation status at study enrollment, and each of these characteristics will be assessed for effect moderation., 13 Months|RCT Arm Effectiveness: Next HPV Vaccination Step Completion, The investigators will track intervention effectiveness using the Proctor Implementation and RE-AIM frameworks. The primary comparisons are the rates of completing the next step in the HPV vaccination series at 13 months (N C/A complete next HPV vaccine dose/ N anticipated) between the Auto, Auto-Plus, and UC arms. The investigators anticipate little missing data for these outcomes. Completing the next step in the vaccine series outcome will be compared via logistic generalized estimating equations (GEE) models. These GEEs will be adjusted for P/C and patient features that may influence the HPV vaccination series next step and completion, including age, sex, race/ethnicity, rurality, and HPV vaccination initiation status at study enrollment. Pairwise differences between arms will be assessed with a Bonferroni correction to achieve type I error control at 0.05, with p\<0.017=0.05/3 needed for statistical significance., 13 Months
The clinical trial in the PREVENT study is a patient-randomized control trial (RCT) of two human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination patient reminder intervention arms that will take place in rural clinics operated by Sea Mar Community Health Centers. Results from the BootCamp Translation (BCT) activities will be conducted in English and Spanish and will inform the PREVENT RCT development and messaging strategies; BCT activities are not part of the RCT.

The PREVENT RCT will administer a three-arm patient randomized controlled trial that will assess completion of the next needed dose of HPV vaccination and on-time completion of the multi-dose HPV vaccine series. The study arms for each trial will consist of automated reminders, automated plus live reminders, and usual care. Parents/caregivers of children and adolescents selected for the trial will be chosen using established study criteria applied to the electronic health records linked to state immunization registries. As a minimal-risk study, for the intervention only, the investigators will apply for a waiver of informed consent. The RCT will be delivered as part of standard care, and patients will be unaware they are in the trial. Delivered vaccination messages will include opt-out choices as directed by BCT activities and local policies.

Depending on the specific interventions defined during BCT, parents/caregivers (P/C) of children and adolescents (C/A) will be sent any number of reminders to encourage parents to obtain an HPV vaccine for their age-eligible C/A. Reminders may include text messages, automated phone calls, mailed letters, live calls, or patient navigation. Reminders will be delivered by a vendor (automated reminders) or clinic staff (live reminders). Reminders will be delivered in English and Spanish, and interpreter services may be used for live reminders to the small proportion of patients who speak languages other than English or Spanish. The investigators will use electronic health record data to document HPV vaccination events as our primary outcome of interest. The investigators will also assess the reach for each intervention component, defined as the proportion of patients who receive a given intervention component. The investigators will also assess missed opportunities, defined as the proportion of patients who receive other recommended vaccines (e.g., Tdap or meningococcal) but not HPV, for each study arm, during the study. Aim 3 will gather patient- and provider-level qualitative data to assess reaction to the program, factors associated with implementation and long-term sustainability, and opportunities for additional clinic-based interventions. During active study recruitment, the investigators will convene a meeting of our data safety monitor board every six months. The investigators will disseminate study findings and research products in accordance with our dissemination plan. The study findings will serve as a basis for a larger multi-level trial of HPV vaccination in rural communities.