Niraparib for the Treatment of Leiomyosarcoma
This phase II trial tests whether niraparib works to shrink tumor in patients with leiomyosarcoma. Niraparib is an inhibitor of PARP, an enzyme that helps repair deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) when it becomes damaged. Blocking PARP may help keep cancer cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. PARP inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy.
Locally Advanced Leiomyosarcoma|Metastatic Leiomyosarcoma|Stage III Retroperitoneal Sarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Retroperitoneal Sarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Retroperitoneal Sarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Retroperitoneal Sarcoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Leiomyosarcoma
DRUG: Niraparib Tosylate Monohydrate
Confirmed objective response rate (ORR), Defined as complete response + partial response measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECISTv1.1). Will be calculated as the proportion of patients who achieve a response (complete response + partial response) within the first 6 months of treatment divided by the total number of evaluable patients. An evaluable patient is defined as an eligible patient who has received at least one dose of therapy. All evaluable patients will be included in calculating the ORR for the study along with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals (CIs) (assuming that the number of patients who respond is binomially distributed)., Within first 6 months of study treatment
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Frequency and severity of AEs and tolerability of the regimen will be collected and summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. All patients who have received at least one dose of the therapeutic agents will be evaluable for toxicity and tolerability., Up to 2 years after study treatment|Confirmed clinical benefit rate (CBR), Defined as complete response + partial response + stable disease. Will be calculated with 95% binomial CIs., Within first 6 months of study treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will initially be modeled using Kaplan-Meier methods, resulting in median survival times with 95% CI, assuming sufficient events have occurred., From first treatment with the study drug to the earliest of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Will initially be modeled using Kaplan-Meier methods, resulting in median survival times with 95% CI, assuming sufficient events have occurred., From first treatment with the study drug to the death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether niraparib tosylate monohydrate (niraparib) shows preliminary evidence of clinical activity among subjects with leiomyosarcoma (LMS) with genomic alterations in the homologous recombination (HR) pathway as measured by the confirmed objective response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (CBR) associated with niraparib treatment in the study population.

II. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) associated with niraparib treatment in the study population.

III. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) associated with niraparib treatment in the study population.

IV. To evaluate the overall safety and tolerability of niraparib treatment in the study population.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate predictive biomarkers of response to niraparib. II. To evaluate genomic mechanisms of resistance following treatment benefit with niraparib.

III. To evaluate previous treatment response as a marker of response to niraparib.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive niraparib orally (PO) once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 28 days for 15 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years or until death.