Nodes-sparing Short-course Radiation Combined With CAPOX and Tislelizumab for MSS Middle and Low Rectal Cancer
This is an open-label, prospective, multicenter phase II clinical trial to evaluate modified short-course radiation (Radiation targeting the tumor bed without irradiating surrounding tumor-draining lymph nodes) combined with CAPOX and PD-1 Inhibitor (Tislelizumab) for patients with MSS middle and low rectal cancer. A total of 32 patients will be enrolled in this trial. The primary endpoint is the rate of pathological complete response (pCR). The organ preservation rate, tumor regression grade, long-term prognosis, and adverse effects will also be analyzed.
Low Rectal Cancer
RADIATION: Modified short-course radiotherapy|DRUG: PD-1 antibody|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Pathological complete response (pCR) rate, The status of pCR will be evaluated after the TME surgery., within 10 days after surgery
Tumor regression grade, TRG is evaluated according to the AJCC system. TRG0-1 is defined as good response, TRG2 as moderate response, and TRG3 as poor response., within 10 days after surgery|Local recurrence rate(LRR), Presence of adenocarcinoma within the rectal wall or within the mesorectum confirmed by pathology., 3 years after sugery|Disease free survival(DFS), The three-year disease-free survival of patients., 3 years after surgery|Overall survival(OS), The three-year overall survival of patients., 3 years after surgery|Adverse effects rate, Rate of radiotherapy, chemotherapy and immunotherapy related adverse events, From date of initiation of treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Rectal specific quality of life assessment via QLQ-CR29, Rectal specific quality of life according to European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer ( EORTC) Quality of life questionnaire QLQ-CR29. scale from 0 to 100, A higher scale represents better function and a higher quality of life., Baseline and months 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 60 after the surgery|Quality of life assessment via QLQ-C30, Quality of life according to EORTC Quality of life Questionnaire QLQ-C30 version 3.0. Score range from 0 to 100 points. A higher score represents better function and a higher quality of life., Baseline and months 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 60 after the surgery|Validation of the Wexner score, The change of severity of fecal incontinence assessment according to Wexner score. a score from 0-20, where 0 is perfect continence and 20 is complete incontinence., Months 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 60 after the surgery
This is an open-label, prospective, multicenter phase II clinical trial to evaluate modified short-course radiation (Radiation targeting the tumor bed without irradiating surrounding tumor-draining lymph nodes) combined with CAPOX and PD-1 Inhibitor (Tislelizumab) for patients with MSS middle and low rectal cancer. A total of 32 patients will be enrolled in this trial. The primary endpoint is the rate of pathological complete response (pCR). The organ preservation rate, tumor regression grade, long-term prognosis, and adverse effects will also be analyzed.