Adaptive Nutrition and Exercise Weight Loss (A-NEW) Study
This is a single arm phase II study designed to determine the effects of pharmacotherapy and a remote behavioral weight loss intervention on weight loss in breast cancer survivors who are overweight or obese, and the impact of successful weight loss on serum biomarkers and gut microbiome.
Breast Cancer|Overweight or Obesity
DRUG: Contrave|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Weight Loss
Number of Patients With 5 Percent Weight Loss (in SLOW-BWL), To assess the rate of SLOW-BWL patients attaining at least 5% weight loss of their baseline body weight at 6 months with the addition of Contrave to BWL at week 9., 6 months
Change in Scores on Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Physical Function - Short Form Questionnaire Among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL, as Well as Participants Who Achieve ≥5% Weight Loss at 6 Months vs Those Who Are Unable to, To report the change in scores at 2 and 6 months to baseline among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL arms for Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Physical Function. The total score ranges from 33.5 to 61.7. The higher the score, the better the physical function., Baseline, 2 months and 6 Months|Change in Scores on Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Pain Interference - Short Form Questionnaire Among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL, as Well as Participants Who Achieve ≥5% Weight Loss at 6 Months vs Those Who Are Unable to, To report the change in scores at 2 and 6 months to baseline among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL arms for Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Pain Interference. The total score ranges from 41.0-67.4. The lower the score, the better the pain interference., Baseline, 2 months and 6 Months|Change in Scores on Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue - Short Form Questionnaire Among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL, as Well as Participants Who Achieve ≥5% Weight Loss at 6 Months vs Those Who Are Unable to, To report the change in scores at 2 and 6 months to baseline among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL arms for Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue. The total score ranges from 39.6 to 62.0. The lower the score, the less the fatigue., Baseline, 2 months and 6 Months|Change in Scores on Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Emotional Distress - Depression - Among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL, as Well as Participants Who Achieve ≥5% Weight Loss at 6 Months vs Those Who Are Unable to, To report the change in scores at 2 and 6 months to baseline among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL arms for Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Depression. The total score ranges from 37.1-71.4. The lower the score, the less depression., Baseline, 2 months and 6 Months|Change in Scores on Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Emotional Distress - Anxiety - Among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL, as Well as Participants Who Achieve ≥5% Weight Loss at 6 Months vs Those Who Are Unable to, To report the change in scores at 2 and 6 months to baseline among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL arms for Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety. Scores range 36.3-71.5, with higher scores representing more severe anxiety symptoms., Baseline, 2 months and 6 Months|Change in Scores on the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Sexual Functioning Scale Among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL, as Well as Participants Who Achieve ≥5% Weight Loss at 6 Months vs Those Who Are Unable to, To report the change in scores at 2 and 6 months to baseline among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL arms for Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Sexual Function. Score range 0-100 with higher score indicating less functioning.

Four items are rated on a 5-point scale (1=not a problem, 2=little of a problem, 3=somewhat of a problem, 4=very much of a problem, and 5=not applicable)., Baseline, 2 months and 6 Months|Change in Scores on Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Subscale (FACT-ES) Among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL, as Well as Participants Who Achieve ≥5% Weight Loss at 6 Months vs Those Who Are Unable to, To report the change in scores at 2 and 6 months to baseline among FAST-BWL vs SLOW-BWL arms for Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Subscale (FACT-ES). Scores ranging from 39.0 to 73.0. Higher scores indicate greater impact from symptoms., Baseline, 2 months and 6 Months
Number of Patients With 5% Weight Loss (in FAST-BWL), To assess the proportion of women in the FAST-BWL arm who maintain ≥5% weight loss at 6 months., 6 months
The investigators will evaluate the extent to which implementation of a chronic weight loss medication, Contrave® (Naltrexone/Bupropion), is associated with achieving ≥5% weight loss. All patients will receive the POWER-remote behavioral weight loss intervention (BWL) and have a behavioral coach for the duration of the 6 month study. During months 1-3, the behavioral coach will call weekly. From months 4-6, the behavioral coach will call monthly. At week 9, those who lose ≥5%, designated fast responders, will continue with BWL alone (FAST-BWL) while those who lose \<5%, designated slow responders, will continue BWL and initiate Contrave (SLOW-BWL). The SLOW-BWL arm will receive at least 16 weeks of Contrave (as per Federal Drug Administration \[FDA\] recommended administration) starting at week 9 and discontinue if ≥5% weight loss is not achieved at month 6. During month 3, all participants continue to have weekly calls with the behavioral coach and will be asked about symptoms, which may be related to initiation of pharmacotherapy; any symptoms are reported to the PI for further evaluation. In addition to total weight loss, the investigators will evaluate biomarkers associated with obesity, microbiome and cardiometabolic factors.