Study of BO-112 With Radiotherapy and Nivolumab for Metastatic Refractory NSCLC
This is a study of repeated IT administrations of BO-112 in combination with ablative radiotherapy (SABR) and concurrent nivolumab in patients with metastatic PD-1/PD-L1-refractory NSCLC.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: BO-112 in combination with ablative radiotherapy (SABR) and nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Tissue Biopsies
Incidence of Adverse events and Serious Adverse Events, Number and proportion of subjects with TEAEs with severity ≥ Grade 3 (NCI-CTCAE v. 5.0), Throughout study completion, an average of 1 year
Number and Proportion of Subjects with TEAEs Grade ≥3, Number and proportion of subjects with study treatment-related TEAEs Grade ≥3, number and proportion of subjects with TEAEs (any grade); number and proportion of subjects with related TEAEs (any grade)., Throughout study completion, an average of 1 year|Efficacy: Progression-free survival (PFS), t Time from C1D1 to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, Throughout study completion, an average of 1 year|Efficacy: ORR, DCR, ORR based on the best overall response (BOR); disease control rate (DCR = CR, PR and SD of at least 12 weeks duration) on the global tumor assessment in ITT population.

* DCR = iCR, iPR + iSD of at least 12 weeks duration) in ITT population.
* Overall survival rate at 12 months., Throughout study completion, an average of 1 year|Tolerability: study discontinuations, Number of study discontinuations due to related TEAE., Throughout study completion, an average of 1 year
This is a phase Ib/II study to evaluate feasibility-efficacy of repeated IT administrations of BO-112 in combination with ablative radiotherapy (SABR) and concurrent with systemic administration of nivolumab in patients with metastatic PD-1/PD-L1-refractory NSCLC.

To be eligible, all patients must have metastatic NSCLC with at least one accessible lesion amenable to IT BO-112 injection and radiotherapy administration. The study will include an initial cohort A using a standard "3+3" design to determine the safety profile of SABR in combination with BO-112 and nivolumab, which will start on cycle 4 (week 7) and a cohort B, with the same combination but with nivolumab starting on cycle 3 (week 5).

In the initial cohort A, BO-112 will be IT injected on a weekly basis during the first cycle on the accessible lesions, and every 2 weeks thereafter. On the liver, the maximum frequency for IT injection will be every 2 weeks since the first administration. After the first cycle, BO-112 will continue to be IT injected every 2 weeks on the previously treated lesions provide they are still injectable. A maximum of 2 hepatic lesions will be treated with BO-112 at each cycle and a maximum of 5 multisite tumoral lesion in total. The minimum dose to be injected per visit is 1 mg (unless injected lesion in case of response, if solitary, becomes smaller than 1.5 cm) and the maximum dose is 2 mg (3.4 mL), distributed in the different lesions. Distribution of volume of injection will be determined based on the size of lesion to be injected. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) will be initiated on week 3. Patients will be evaluated for DLTs until 28 days after the first dose of nivolumab.

In cohort B, BO-112 and SABR will be administered as described previously.

Nivolumab will be administered at the dose of 240 mg every 2 weeks in both cohorts, starting at cycle 4 (week 7) in cohort A and at cycle 3 (week 5) in cohort B.