A Non-interventional Trial of Erlotinib (Tarceva) Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This is a non-interventional, open label, single arm, multicenter study to assess the safety and efficacy of erlotinib in participants with non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Time, Time from the first dose of study treatment to the first documentation of objective tumor progression or to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Progression was defined as at least 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Kaplan-Meier estimates were used for calculating PFS., Up to 6 years|Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response, Percentage of participants with best overall response of complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) were reported. Per RECIST Version 1.1: CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis less than \[\<\] 10 millimeter \[mm\]). No new lesions. PR was defined as greater than or equal to (\>=) 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions. PD was defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. SD was defined as not qualifying for CR, PR, PD., Up to 6 years
Overall Survival (OS) Time, Time from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier estimates were used for calculating OS., Up to 6 years
This is a non-interventional, open label, single arm, multicenter study to assess the safety and efficacy of erlotinib in participants with non-small cell lung cancer.