R-(-)-Gossypol Acetic Acid in Treating Patients With Recurrent Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid works in treating patients with recurrent extensive-stage small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of Participants With Confirmed Tumor Response Defined to be Either a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), The number of successes will be estimated by counting the number of participants with confirmed responses. A confirmed tumor response is defined to be either a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions:

A Complete Response (CR) requires the disappearance of all target lesions

A Partial Response (PR) requires a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions from baseline measurements., During the first 6 courses of treatment
Survival Time, Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Disease Progression, Time to disease progression is defined as the time from registration to the earliest date documentation of disease progression. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier.

Per the RECIST criteria, progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of Longest Dimension (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., From registration to the earliest date documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of Response, From the date at which the patient's earliest best objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate of R-(-)-gossypol in patients with recurrent chemotherapy-sensitive extensive stage small cell lung cancer.

II. To determine the time to disease progression. III. To determine the overall survival. IV. To assess the toxicities associated with this drug. V. To explore whether intratumoral Bcl-2 family member expression correlates with sensitivity to targeting by R-(-)-gossypol.

VI. To explore whether the administration of R-(-)-gossypol causes specific induction of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral R-(-)-gossypol once daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood is collected periodically during treatment for pharmacodynamic analysis. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells are analyzed via protein isolation and western blotting for Bcl-2, cytoplasmic release of cytochrome c, and caspase activation. Available tumor tissue blocks are assessed by immunohistochemistry.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.