Comparison of Cabazitaxel/Prednisone Alone or in Combination With Custirsen for 2nd Line Chemotherapy in Prostate Cancer
This Phase 3 study has been designed to confirm that adding custirsen to cabazitaxel/prednisone treatment can slow tumor progression and enhance survival outcomes compared to standard cabazitaxel/prednisone treatment in men with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). This will be a randomized, open-label, multicenter, international trial. Treatment will consist of cabazitaxel/prednisone/custirsen vs. cabazitaxel/prednisone. A total of approximately 630 patients will be randomized with equal probability to the two arms.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: cabazitaxel|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: custirsen sodium
Survival in the intent-to-treat population, To determine whether the survival for patients randomized to the investigational arm (cabazitaxel/prednisone plus custirsen) is consistent with longer survival as compared to patients randomized to the control arm (cabazitaxel/prednisone)., 3.4 years|Survival in the poor-prognosis patient population, To determine whether the survival for patients randomized to the investigational arm (cabazitaxel/prednisone plus custirsen) and identified as having poor prognosis is consistent with longer survival as compared to patients randomized to the control arm (cabazitaxel/prednisone) and identified as having poor prognosis., 2.7 years
Progression-free survival at Day 140, To compare the arms with respect to the proportion of patients having a milestone Day 140 status of Alive Without Event (within the window of Day 125-155 post-randomization). An event is defined as disease progression or death on or before Day 140., From randomization to Day 125 to Day 155
Until recently, options for second-line chemotherapy in CRPC have included docetaxel retreatment, mitoxantrone, or other chemotherapies, without proven clinical benefit. In 2010, a Phase 3 second-line chemotherapy trial (TROPIC) showed a survival advantage for cabazitaxel, a semi-synthetic taxane selected to overcome the emergence of taxane resistance, when compared to mitoxantrone.

Clusterin is a stress-activated cytoprotective chaperone up-regulated by a variety of anti-cancer therapies that confers treatment resistance when over-expressed. Inhibition of clusterin expression using custirsen has been shown to enhance tumor cell death following treatment with chemotherapy.

The clinical activity of custirsen in combination with the taxane docetaxel has been shown in two Phase 2 studies. Given the results observed using a taxane as either first-line or second-line chemotherapy in CRPC, combination with custirsen may decrease taxane resistance and enhance the survival benefit of taxane therapy. Thus, a combination of custirsen with cabazitaxel may further enhance survival in second-line taxane chemotherapy for CRPC.