Testing Diet Intervention Versus Non-Diet Intervention for Management of Bowel Symptoms in Rectal Cancer Survivors
This phase II trial studies how a diet intervention works in improving bowel dysfunction symptoms related in colon or rectal cancer survivors. Changing a diet may be helpful in reducing the severity of bowel symptoms, including diarrhea and constipation, and improve quality of life in colon or rectal cancer survivors and help doctors learn how to help patients better in the future.
Rectal Carcinoma|Rectosigmoid Carcinoma
OTHER: Best Practice|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Message|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Bowel Function, Will be measured by the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Bowel Function Instrument (BFI) total score. Score range 18-90. Higher scores indicate better bowel function. Will be conducted according to a modified intention-to-treat principle. Study arm differences in BFI at 18 weeks will be assessed by a linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, BFI baseline value, and stratification factors., At 18 weeks after randomization
Bowel Function, Will describe using dietary, urgency, and frequency scales. Will be assessed by a repeated measures linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and visit. Robust standard errors will be estimated via generalized estimating equations to adjust for correlation between repeated outcome measures. The dependent variables will be transformed to approximate normality as appropriate., Up to week 26|Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS), LARS will be measured using the LARS Score. Will be assessed by a repeated measures linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and visit. Robust standard errors will be estimated via generalized estimating equations to adjust for correlation between repeated outcome measures. The dependent variables will be transformed to approximate normality as appropriate., Up to week 26|Quality of Life-Assessment, Will be measured by the City of Hope-Quality of Life-Colorectal Cancer. Will be assessed by a repeated measures linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and visit. Robust standard errors will be estimated via generalized estimating equations to adjust for correlation between repeated outcome measures. The dependent variables will be transformed to approximate normality as appropriate., Up to week 26|Dietary Quality, Will be based on the Healthy Eating Index 2015. Will be assessed by a repeated measures linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and visit. Robust standard errors will be estimated via generalized estimating equations to adjust for correlation between repeated outcome measures. The dependent variables will be transformed to approximate normality as appropriate., Up to week 26|Motivation, Will be measured using a 10-item scale assessing motivation to change dietary behaviors in rectal cancer survivors. Will be assessed by a repeated measures linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and visit. Robust standard errors will be estimated via generalized estimating equations to adjust for correlation between repeated outcome measures. The dependent variables will be transformed to approximate normality as appropriate., Up to week 26|Self-efficacy, Will be measured using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Self-Efficacy for Managing Symptoms - Short Form 4a. Will be assessed by a repeated measures linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and visit. Robust standard errors will be estimated via generalized estimating equations to adjust for correlation between repeated outcome measures. The dependent variables will be transformed to approximate normality as appropriate., Up to week 26|Positive and Negative Effects, Will be measured using the International Positive and Negative Affect Schedule Short Form. Will be assessed by a repeated measures linear regression model as a function of randomization assignment, baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and visit. Robust standard errors will be estimated via generalized estimating equations to adjust for correlation between repeated outcome measures. The dependent variables will be transformed to approximate normality as appropriate., Up to week 26|Feasibility of the Intervention, Will be measured by the percentage of patients who successfully complete ("pass") the run-in period, and randomized. Accrual rates and feasibility will be summarized., Up to week 26|Adherence to the Intervention, Will measure successful completion of intervention or attention control coaching calls. Adherence is defined as completing all five of sessions 1-5 and at least three of sessions 6-10 within 18 weeks after randomization. Study arm differences in adherence will be assessed by chi square tests., Up to week 18|Retention to the Intervention, Will be defined by completion of follow-up assessments in step 2, including those administered at follow-up site visits and the dietary recalls. Study arm differences in retention will be assessed by chi square tests., Up to week 26|Acceptability to the Intervention, Will be measured using the Acceptability of Intervention measure. Study program acceptability will be compared across arms via t-test., Up to week 26
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare total bowel function score, as measured by the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Bowel Function Instrument (BFI), at 18 weeks post-randomization between the intervention and attention control arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare total bowel function score at 26 weeks post-randomization between the intervention and attention control arms.

II. To compare bowel function subscale scores (dietary, urgency, frequency), as measured by the BFI at both 18- and 26- weeks post-randomization between the intervention and attention control arms.

III. To compare lower anterior resection syndrome (LARS) scores (for anastomosis participants only), quality of life, and dietary quality at both 18- and 26- weeks post-randomization between the intervention and attention control arms.

IV. To compare motivation, self-efficacy, and positive/negative affect at both 18- and 26- weeks post-randomization between the intervention and attention control arms.

V. To assess study feasibility, adherence, retention, and acceptability at both 18 and 26 weeks post-randomization.

VI. To explore variation in primary and exploratory study outcomes according to sex, and to investigate whether intervention effects on the primary outcome differ across subgroups defined by sex.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive diet modification coaching via telephone for 10 sessions over 30-60 minutes over 17 weeks. Patients also receive 3 motivational messages per week via email and/or text message beginning after session 6.

ARM II: Patients receive general healthy living education via telephone for 10 sessions over 30-60 minutes over 17 weeks. Patients also receive 3 motivational messages per week via email and/or text message beginning after session 6.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 26 weeks.