Combination of Radiation Therapy and Peptide Specific CTL Therapy in Treating Patients With Esophageal Cancer
Immunotherapy is now considered to be one of promising approaches for treating cancer. Radiation therapy has been to be a cornerstone treatment for unresectable advanced esophageal cancer. Radiation-induced mutation genes were identified as new sources of tumor associated antigens using exon sequencing and peptide microarray technologies. Epitope peptides for these targets are able to induce peptide specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). In this clinical trial, investigators evaluate the efficacy and safety of peptide specific CTL therapy in combination with radiation therapy in treating patients with unresectable, advanced or recurrent esophageal cancer.
Esophageal Neoplasms|Esophageal Diseases|Digestive System Diseases
BIOLOGICAL: peptide specific CTL
Local control, occurrence of local or regional progression, two years after enrollment
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by treatment-related adverse events assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 3 months|Objective response rate as assessed by RECIST criteria, 3 months|Time to progression, 1 year|Overall survival, 1 year
Immunotherapy is now considered to be one of promising approaches for treating cancer. Radiation therapy has been to be a cornerstone treatment for unresectable advanced esophageal cancer. Radiation-induced mutation genes were identified as new sources of tumor associated antigens using exon sequencing and peptide microarray technologies. Epitope peptides for these targets are able to induce peptide specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). In this clinical trial, investigators evaluate the efficacy and safety of peptide specific CTL therapy in combination with radiation therapy in treating patients with unresectable, advanced or recurrent esophageal cancer.