Neoadjuvant Carbo/Paclitaxel Followed by Doxorubicin/Cyclophosphamide in Breast Cancer
This is a phase II single-arm, open-label, prospective study to evaluate the efficacy of the low dose weekly Carboplatin/Paclitaxel followed by dose-dense Doxorubicin/Cyclophosphamide in subjects with triple-negative breast cancer in neoadjuvant settings.
Breast Cancer|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Pegfilgrastim|DRUG: Filgrastim
Number and Percentage of Participants With Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) Rate, pCR is defined as the absence of residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy. pCR will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. The point estimate of the primary efficacy endpoint pCR and its exact 95% confidence intervals (CI) will be calculated. In evaluating pCR, subjects with missing data will be considered non-responders., Up to 2 years
Number of Cycles of Chemotherapy Administered, To evaluate the number of cycles low dose weekly Carboplatin/Paclitaxel regimen administered. Simple descriptive statistics will be used to describe the number of cycles of chemotherapy administered., Week 12 to week 18 to account for possible delays|Total Dose of Chemotherapy Administered, To evaluate the total dose of weekly Carboplatin/Paclitaxel regimen administered. Simple descriptive statistics will be used to describe the dose amount of chemotherapy administered., Week 12 to week 18 to account for possible delays|Delays of Administered Chemotherapy, To evaluate the delays of low dose weekly Carboplatin/Paclitaxel regimen administered. Simple descriptive statistics will be used to describe the delays of chemotherapy administered., Week 12 to week 18 to account for possible delays|Number of Treatment-related Toxicities Experienced by Participants, Count of any treatment-related toxicities from the low dose weekly Carboplatin/Paclitaxel regimen. Will be assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Up to week 12|Recurrence-free Survival (RFS), To evaluate two-year RFS after treatment with this neoadjuvant regimen. Count of participants without evidence for local-regional or distant relapse, second primary, or death will be reported., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), To evaluate the two-year overall survival after treatment with this neoadjuvant regimen. Count of participants who achieved 2 year OS is reported., Up to 2 years
This is a phase II single-arm, open-label, prospective study to evaluate the efficacy of the low dose weekly Carboplatin/Paclitaxel followed by dose-dense Doxorubicin/Cyclophosphamide in subjects with triple-negative breast cancer in neoadjuvant settings.