A Study of MK-1088 as Monotherapy and in Combination With Pembrolizumab in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors (MK-1088-002)
The study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of MK-1088 in monotherapy and in combination with pembrolizumab in participants with advanced solid tumors who have not responded to conventional therapy. The effect of MK-1088 on tumor size will also be examined.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: MK-1088|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Percentage of Participants Experiencing a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT is defined as an event with toxicity including the type, severity, time of onset, time of resolution, and the probable association with study treatment that are not due to pre-existing conditions as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0 (CTCAE 5.0). Per protocol participants who switched over from MK-1088 monotherapy into MK-1088 100 mg + Pembrolizumab combination therapy completed the DLT evaluation period in the monotherapy arm assigned. Percentage of participants who experienced a DLT are presented., Up to 21 days|Percentage of Participants Experiencing an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a preexisting condition that is temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product, is also an AE. Safety data from participants who experienced disease progression in the monotherapy arm and crossed over into the combination arm are summarized in their initial monotherapy dose group until the time of cross over and are summarized separately thereafter. The percentage of participants who experienced an AE are presented., Up to ~13 months|Percentage of Participants Discontinuing Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a preexisting condition that is temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product, is also an AE. Safety data from participants who experienced disease progression in the monotherapy arm and crossed over into the combination arm are summarized in their initial monotherapy dose group until the time of cross over and are summarized separately thereafter. The percentage of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is presented., Up to ~10 months
Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve (AUC) of MK-1088, AUC of MK-1088 determined by blood samples collected pre-dose and at designated timepoints post-dose are presented., Pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, and 8 hours post-dose on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1; Pre-dose on Cycle 1 Day 2 and Cycle 2 Day 2; Pre-dose on Cycle 3, Cycle 4 and every 4 cycles up to ~3.5 months. Each cycle = 21 days|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of MK-1088, Cmax of MK-1088 determined by blood samples collected pre-dose and at designated timepoints post-dose are presented., Pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, and 8 hours post-dose on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1; Pre-dose on Cycle 1 Day 2 and Cycle 2 Day 2; Pre-dose on Cycle 3, Cycle 4 and every 4 cycles up to ~3.5 months. Each cycle = 21 days|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG)-Modified RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Investigator, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 or Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG)-modified RECIST 1.1 as assessed by investigator. Efficacy data from participants who experienced disease progression in the monotherapy arm and crossed over into the combination arm will be summarized in their initial monotherapy dose group until the time of cross over and will be summarized separately thereafter. The percentage of participants who experience a CR or PR as assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1 is presented., Up to ~13 months
The study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of MK-1088 in monotherapy and in combination with pembrolizumab in participants with advanced solid tumors who have not responded to conventional therapy. The effect of MK-1088 on tumor size will also be examined.