Trial of Anastrozole and Palbociclib in Metastatic HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
This is an open-label, pilot study designed to evaluate the safety and feasibility of combining anastrozole and palbociclib in the following two cohorts: Cohort A) as first-line therapy and Cohort B) as maintenance therapy after first-line chemotherapy in postmenopausal patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer. Pre- and perimenopausal women must receive therapy with an LHRH agonist. The LHRH agonist will be by choice for an approved LHRH agonist administered according to its respective prescribing information. Following informed consent and eligibility check, subjects will be enrolled to either Cohort A or Cohort B.
Female Breast Carcinoma|Breast Cancer
DRUG: anastrozole|DRUG: Palbociclib
Number of participants with neutropenia that leads to permanent treatment discontinuation, Determined for each subject as a binary variable indicating whether or not the participant experienced any neutropenic adverse event (according to NCI Common Terminology for Adverse Events version 4.0) that leads to permanent treatment discontinuation, From enrollment to treatment discontinuation; participants remain on treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, participant withdrawal, or investigator decision. Assessed for approximately 4 years.
Overall Survival (OS), Defined as the duration from start of first line metastatic chemotherapy to the date of death from any cause. Participants who are alive or lost to follow up at the time of the analysis will be censored at the last known date they were alive., From date of treatment start to date of death, or censored as described; assessed for approximately 4 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from the start of first line metastatic chemotherapy to first occurrence of either progressive disease (PD) or death. PD must be objectively determined per RECIST 1.1 criteria, where progression date is date of the radiologic assessment that identified PD. If subject died without documented PD, progression date will be death date. For surviving subjects who do not have PD, PFS will be censored at the date of last disease assessment. For subjects who received subsequent anti-cancer therapy prior to documented PD, PFS will be censored at the date of last disease assessment prior to commencement of subsequent therapy. Subjects who have an initial PFS event immediately following 2 or more consecutive missed assessments will be censored at date of last assessment prior to missed assessments., From treatment start date to date of progression/death, or censored as described; assessed for approximately 4 years.|Number of participants with an objective response, Objective response will be determined for each subject as a binary variable indicating whether or not the subject achieved a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by RECIST 1.1 response criteria. A CR is indicated by disappearance of all target and non target lesions. A PR is indicated by \>=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions with baseline as reference., From enrollment to best response while on study treatment; participants remain on treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, participant withdrawal, or investigator decision. Assessed for approximately 4 years.|Number of participants with clinical benefit, Clinical benefit will be determined for each subject as a binary variable indicating whether or not the subject achieved a best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) for \>=6 months as determined by RECIST 1.1 response criteria. A CR is indicated by disappearance of all target and non target lesions. A PR is indicated by \>=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions with baseline as reference. SD is indicated by neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient growth from nadir (\>=20%) to indicate progression., From enrollment to best response while on study treatment; participants remain on treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, participant withdrawal, or investigator decision. Assessed for approximately 4 years.
A total of 40 subjects will be enrolled over an enrollment period of 18-24 months. The study is planned to enroll up to 25 patients in Cohort A (upfront) and 15 patients in Cohort B (maintenance). Subjects will be recruited through Levine Cancer Institute locations and through referrals. Women of any race or ethnic origin who meet the study criteria may participate in this clinical trial. Males will not be eligible for this study. Breast cancer in men is rare and the efficacy of aromatase inhibitors in males is limited. Children are not included in this clinical trial because the effects of palbociclib are not known in the pediatric population, but may be eligible for other pediatric trials.