Peginterferon Alfa-2a to Enhance Anti-leukemic Responses After Allogeneic Transplantation in Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This protocol is an open label, single arm, non-randomized, phase I / II clinical trial investigating the use of pegylated interferon alpha-2a (peg-IFN-α, Pegasys®, Genentech) for prevention of relapse in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) not in remission at the time of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT).
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: peg-IFN-α|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplant (HCT)|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Methotrexate
Phase 1: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Peg-IFN-α, The dose level assigned to the most participants is selected as the MTD. Participants from the arms for dose level 1 (90mcg, 3 participants) and dose level 2 (180mcg, 33 participants) were analyzed together to determine the MTD. Dosage levels are determined by dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). Only DLTs encountered during the treatment period, prior to day 56 post HCT (or 14 days after final treatment, whichever comes later), are counted. DLTs after the treatment period are counted only if they reflect an ongoing toxicity that initiated in the treatment period., Up to day 56 post-transplant or up to 14 days after final treatment with peg-IFN-α, whichever comes later. Data was collected up to 63 days.|Phase 2: Number of Patients That Relapse, The cumulative incidence of relapse, estimated using proportional hazard model for the competing risk of non-relapse mortality (NRM)., 6 Months Post HCT
Phase 2: Overall Survival Time, Estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods, overall survival (OS) will be calculated from the day of transplantation (day 0) until death; shown at 6 month and 2 year estimates, 1 year or until study stops, whichever is later. Median time of follow-up was 25 months.|Phase 2: Event Free Survival Time, Defined for this study as Leukemia Free Survival, and estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods., 1 year or until study stops, whichever is later. Median time of follow-up was 25 months.|Acute GVHD, Grade 2-4 Acute GVHD estimated using proportional hazards ratio. Graded according to CTCAE v. 4.0; higher grades represent more severe events., 6 months|Non-Relapse Mortality, The cumulative incidence of non-relapse mortality is estimated by proportional hazard models methods., 1 year or until study stops, whichever is later. Median time of follow-up was 25 months.
This protocol is an open label, single arm, non-randomized, phase I / II clinical trial investigating the use of pegylated interferon alpha-2a (peg-IFN-α, Pegasys®, Genentech) for prevention of relapse in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) not in remission at the time of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT). The inability to attain remission status following induction therapy for AML remains a significant problem and is associated with poor outcomes. While HCT remains a curative option, its activity in the setting of relapsed or refractory AML is significantly diminished due to high relapse.