Percutaneous Cryoablation in Treating Patients With Painful Bone Metastases
RATIONALE: Percutaneous cryoablation may help relieve pain caused by bone metastases.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying the side effects and how well percutaneous cryoablation works in treating patients with painful bone metastases.
Metastatic Cancer|Pain|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: cryosurgery|PROCEDURE: pain therapy|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Average difference in pre- and post-treatment worst pain score in a 24-hour period at week 8
Average difference in pre- and post-treatment worst pain score in a 24-hour period, average pain score, and pain relief score at 6, 12, and 24 months|Average amount of pain per patient over the observation period as represented by the area under the curve (AUC) constructed from weekly pain scores on a visual-analogue scale using a score of 0-10|Percentage of patients who are able to reduce analgesic medications
OBJECTIVES:

* To confirm the safety of percutaneous cryoablation in the palliative treatment of patients with painful bone metastases.
* To determine the benefits of cryoablation of painful bone metastases by assessing pain intensity using a standardized Cleeland Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and quality of life using a standardized SF-8 both before and after treatment.
* To determine the secondary benefits of cryoablation of painful bone metastases by assessing change in analgesic use following therapy.
* To determine the level of anesthesia required for cryoablation with a baseline level of conscious sedation planned for each treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo percutaneous cryoablation to one or two sites of metastatic disease using the Endocare Cryocare system. Patients with a good initial response to treatment (≥ 2 decrease in pain intensity rating on the Brief Pain Inventory) who develop recurrent pain at the same site or a new painful site ≥ 1 month after initial treatment may undergo one additional cryoablation treatment.

Patients complete pain and quality of life questionnaires periodically.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.