Combining Radiation Therapy With Immunotherapy for the Treatment of Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
This phase III trial compares pembrolizumab with radiation therapy to pembrolizumab without radiation therapy (standard therapy) given after pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Pembrolizumab is a type of immunotherapy that stimulates the body's immune system to fight cancer cells. Pembrolizumab targets and blocks a protein called PD-1 on the surface of certain immune cells called T-cells. Blocking PD-1 triggers the T-cells to find and kill cancer cells. Radiation therapy uses high-powered rays to kill cancer cells. Giving radiation with pembrolizumab may be more effective at treating patients with metastatic head and neck cancer than the standard therapy of giving pembrolizumab alone.
Clinical Stage IV HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Fluorouracil|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Overall survival, Time from step 2 randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years
Progression-free survival, Progression will be evaluated based on international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guideline., Time from step 2 randomization to disease progression or death, assessed up to 3 years|Time to treatment failure, Time from step 2 randomization to the cessation of immunotherapy due to progression, treatment-related toxicity, or death, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events (AE), Patients will be monitored for adverse events using the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). All treatment-emergent and baseline adverse events and hematological/biochemical toxicities based on laboratory measurements, as well as drug related AE's, will be summarized by treatment arm and NCI CTCAE worst grade for step 1 and step 2. Non-hematologic AEs of grade 3 or higher will be assessed by treatment arm., Up to 3 years
Patterns-of-failure with respect to local, regional and distant recurrences, Local, regional and distant recurrences will be assessed and compared between the two arms., Up to 3 years|Incidence of tracheostomy and/or gastrostomy, Will be assessed and compared between the arms., At any point during treatment, assessed up to 3 years|Time-to-definitive-deterioration, Defined by the time point at which the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head \& Neck (FACT-HN) trial outcome index (TOI) score is lower than the baseline score by at least 6 points, without a subsequent 6 point increase., At 60 weeks post-baseline|Early change in the FACT-HN TOI, Defined as the difference between the mean FACT-HN TOI at 21 weeks after randomization versus the baseline score at randomization., From randomization up to 21 weeks of treatment|Time-to-deterioration (first), Defined by the time point at which the FACT-HN TOI score is lower than the baseline score by at least 6 points., Up to 3 years|Nadir of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Immune Checkpoint Modulator score, Defined as the lowest score on the immune checkpoint modulator subscale., At week 0 after baseline assessments of Step 2 randomization|Quality-adjusted survival, Defined by the summation of the average utility score for a given time interval multiplied by that time interval. The average utility score for a time interval is defined by the utility value at the beginning of the interval plus the utility value of the end of the interval divided by two., From randomization until death, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare overall survival (OS) between immunotherapy plus consolidative radiotherapy (CoRT) and immunotherapy alone following non-progression with systemic chemoimmunotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) between the two arms. II. To compare time-to-treatment failure (TTF) between the two arms. III. To determine the risk of non-hematologic high-grade (3 or higher) toxicity with the addition of CoRT.

IV. To establish the prognostic value of quantitative positron emission tomography (PET) biomarkers at baseline (standardized uptake value maximum \[SUVmax\], metabolic tumor volume \[MTV\], total lesion glycolysis \[TLG\]) for overall survival in both arms.

V. To establish the predictive value of (a) structured qualitative read (Hopkins Criteria) and (b) quantitative analysis for assessment of the post-radiotherapy or chemotherapy restaging PET/computed tomography (CT) to evaluate its association with overall survival in both arms.

HEALTH-RELATED QUALITY-OF-LIFE (HRQL) OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the time-to-definitive-deterioration (TTDD) between the two arms. (PRIMARY) II. To compare the mean early change in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head \& Neck (FACT-HN) trial outcome index (TOI) between the arms, defined as the difference between the cycle 7 time point and randomization. (SECONDARY) III. To compare the time-to-deterioration (TTD) between the arms (first deterioration). (SECONDARY) IV. To compare the nadir of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Immune Checkpoint Modulator (FACT-ICM) score over the course of study participation between the arms. (EXPLORATORY) V. To compare quality-adjusted survival between the arms. (EXPLORATORY)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify differences in patterns-of-failure with respect to local regional and distant recurrences following CoRT versus immunotherapy alone.

II. To evaluate the risk of tracheostomy and/or gastrostomy in patients treated with CoRT versus immunotherapy alone.

OUTLINE:

STEP 1: Patients who have not completed initial systemic therapy prior to enrollment are assigned to Arm T and patients who have completed initial systemic therapy prior to enrollment are assigned to Arm S.

ARM T: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) with carboplatin IV and paclitaxel IV, or with cisplatin IV and fluorouracil IV, or with carboplatin IV and fluorouracil IV on study.

ARM S: Patients proceed directly to Step II.

STEP II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive one cycle of pembrolizumab IV with carboplatin IV and paclitaxel IV, or with cisplatin IV and fluorouracil IV, or with carboplatin IV, and fluorouracil IV on study and then receive pembrolizumab IV with radiation therapy on study. Patients also undergo CT, PET/CT, and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial.

ARM B: Patients receive one cycle of pembrolizumab IV with carboplatin IV and paclitaxel IV, or with cisplatin IV and fluorouracil IV, or with carboplatin IV, and fluorouracil IV on study and then receive pembrolizumab IV monotherapy on study. Patients also undergo CT, PET/CT, and/or MRI throughout the trial.