Reduced Intensity Donor Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With High Risk Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia in Complete Remission
The reason for doing this study is to determine whether a new method of blood stem cell transplant (also known as bone marrow transplant) is able to treat acute lymphocytic leukemia. Blood stem cells are the "seed cells" necessary to make all blood cells. This new method of transplant uses a combination of low dose radiation and chemotherapy that may be less toxic and cause less harm than a conventional transplant. This lower dose transplant is called a "nonmyeloablative transplant". Researchers want to see if using less radiation and less chemotherapy combined with new immune suppressing drugs after the transplant will help a stem cell transplant to work. Researchers hope that this treatment will cure acute lymphocytic leukemia with fewer side effects. Researchers are hoping to see a mixture of recipient and donor blood cells after transplant. This mixture of donor and recipient blood cells is called "mixed chimerism". Researchers hope that donor cells will attack and eliminate the leukemia. This is called the "graft-versus-leukemia" effect. In addition, after the transplant, white blood cells from the donor may be given to enhance or "boost" the graft-versus-leukemia effect, and hopefully remove all remaining cancer cells. This study is being done because at the present time blood stem cell transplantation (or bone marrow transplantation) is the only known curative therapy for acute lymphocytic leukemia. Because of age or underlying health status acute lymphocytic leukemia patients have a higher likelihood of experiencing severe harm from a conventional blood stem cell transplant. Researchers are doing this study to see if this new nonmyeloablative method of low dose radiation and low dose chemotherapy given before transplant and immune suppressive drugs after transplant will help make the transplant safer and also cure acute lymphocytic leukemia
Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
PROCEDURE: nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: donor lymphocytes|DRUG: cyclosporine|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Leukemia-free survival, Incidence of survival without relapse. Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used to estimate one-year leukemia-free survival., 1 year
Transplant-related mortality, Day +200|Transplant-related mortality, 1 year|Efficacy of DLI for the elimination of MRD, Up to day 120|Toxicity of DLT, graded using a modified version of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria, Up to 5 years|Overall survival, 1 year|Incidence of relapse, 1 year|Incidence of rejection, 1 year|Incidence of acute grade II-IV graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and chronic GVHD, graded using a modified version of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria, Up to 5 years|Karnofsky performance score and Lansky performance score, 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if a one-year disease-free survival (DFS) of \> 25% can be achieved among adult patients with high risk acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) in complete remission (CR) who undergo nonmyeloablative allografting.

II. To determine if a one-year DFS of \>= 40% can be achieved among pediatric patients with high risk ALL in CR who undergo nonmyeloablative allografting.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if a day +200 transplant-related mortality (TRM) of \< 25% can be achieved among patients with high risk ALL in CR who undergo nonmyeloablative allografting.

II. To evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) in the treatment of minimal residue disease (MRD) after nonmyeloablative allografting for patients with high risk ALL in CR.

OUTLINE:

NONMYELOALATIVE CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -4 to -2 and undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on day 0.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) on day 0. Patients with minimal residual disease may receive donor lymphocyte infusion IV.

IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) every 12 hours on days -3 to 100 with taper to day 177 and mycophenolate mofetil PO very 8 hours on days 0 to 40 with taper to day 96.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 28, 56, 84, 120, 180, and 360; at 18 months; and annually for up to 5 years.