Pelvic Floor Dysfunction in Cancer Survivors.
Introduction: Pelvic floor dysfunctions (PFD) represent a major public health problem manifested through lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), anorectal and sexual dysfunction. PFD is a common problem in cancer survivors with a negative impact on quality of life (QoL). However, the magnitude of its prevalence in women with no history of cancer is unknown. Aims: To verify the prevalence of PFD among cancer survivors. Secondly, to evaluate sexual function, QoL and functional performance of women cancer survivors and the influence of PAD on QoL, ADL and emotional health. Methods: Two group is being conducted. Study Grourp (SG) are women diagnosed with any neoplasia in the period between 2013 and 2017 living in the municipality of Campo Belo / MG. Control Group (CG) are women in routine clinical follow-up at the units of the Family Health Program of that city, with no history of cancer. All volunteers will be interviewed by telephone through the application of a structured questionnaire that assesses socioeconomic indicators, gynecological-obstetric history and life habits, as well as specific questionnaires for the evaluation of PFD, functional performance and QoL.
Cancer|Pelvic Floor Dysfunction
OTHER: Application of questionnaires
Initial screening, Initial screening of the number of women with cancer in the period between 2013 and 2017, Three months|Application of questionnaries, Application of questionnaries by telephone, Three months
Data collect: The lists of women residing in Campo Belo / MG, with and without a history of cancer, were used by the Municipal Health Department (MDH). Data on cancer treatment may also be used, if they are in the field of MDH. The information used in this study originated in a questionnaire developed for the study that included socioeconomic indicators, gynecological-obstetric history and life habits (smoking, alcohol consumption and sedentary lifestyle). All interviews were conducted by telephone. Other questionnaires were also used, all translated and validated for Brazilian Portuguese.

SG and CG groups were matched for age and parity. Age information was collected continuously and grouped into class intervals from the age of 20, resulting in strata for analysis with cohort points at 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 and 80 years. Parity was divided into five categories according to the parity: nulliparous, 1 delivery, 2 delivery, 3 delivery, 4 or more deliveries.

Variables

Primary variable:

(A) Prevalence of PFD: The Pelvic Floor Disability Index (PFDI-20) was used to evaluate the prevalence and symptomatology of pelvic organ prolapse (POP), anorectal symptoms and urinary incontinence (UI) (Barber et al., 2005; Arouca et al., 2016).

Secondary variables:

(A) Sexual function: The Sexual Questionnaire for Urinary Incontinence and Pelvic Organ Prolapse (PISQ-12) evaluated the sexual function and prevalence of sexual dysfunction in the sample (Rogers et al. , 2003; Santana et al., 2012).

(B) Quality of life: The World Health Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire - Brief (WHOQOL-BREF) (Fleck et al., 2000) was used for the evaluation of QoL.

(C) Functional performance: In order to evaluate the functional performance of the sample (real level of human function, self-care capacity and level of ambulation), the Functionality Assessment Flowchart (FAF) developed by Paiva et al 2015.

(D) Influence of PFD on QoL and AVD: The Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ-7) was used to assess the impact of PFD on QoL, ADL and emotional health (Barber et al., 2005; Arouca et al., 2016).