Preoperative Image-based Education Effect on Postoperative Satisfaction of Patients Undergoing First-time Dermatologic Surgery
This research study aims to understand whether visual and written education on wound appearance can improve patients' experience and understanding of what their wound will look like following dermatologic surgery.
Skin Cancer|Skin Wound
OTHER: Preoperative image-based education
Patient satisfaction with wound appearance immediately after surgery in control vs. intervention groups as assessed by the Modified Skin Cancer Index questionnaire, Whether the wound appearance is as expected, worse than expected, or better than expected immediately after surgery in control vs. intervention groups. We will administer the Modified Skin Cancer Index questionnaire to determine patient satisfaction with their wound appearance and compare satisfaction between control and intervention groups., At time of surgery
Patient factors associated with satisfaction with wound appearance as assessed by Modified Skin Cancer Index questionnaire, We will collect information from the patient chart (including demographic factors, medical comorbidities, wound characteristics) to correlate these factors with patient satisfaction with their wound appearance, Up to 4 weeks after surgery
Undergoing surgery is a stressful process for many patients. By its nature, dermatologic surgery carries additional stressors given that it is performed on the skin, a very cosmetically sensitive area. In our dermatologic surgery practice, we have found that patients are often surprised by the length of their surgical wound immediately post-surgery; many have expressed confusion about the length of the wound relative to the much smaller targeted lesion.

Our research study will utilize image-based education prior to patients' first dermatologic surgery to determine whether this intervention helps patients feel more satisfied with their wound appearance immediately post-surgery. Our primary hypothesis is that patients who are undergoing dermatologic surgery for the first time will benefit from image-based education about the surgical wound closure process. We hypothesize that a greater proportion of such patients would feel more satisfied and less distressed with the cosmetic outcomes immediately after their surgery relative to patients who did not receive image-based education.

If this hypothesis is found to be true, we will conclude that there is a need for better patient education prior to their dermatologic surgery procedure. We hope that this study will create a framework for sharing educational resources with patients so that they may set expectations as to surgical outcomes. These findings may also be relevant to other surgical procedures where patient satisfaction would be improved by the implementation of pre-operative education.