A Phase 2 Trial of High-Dose Ascorbate in Glioblastoma Multiforme
This clinical trial evaluates adding high-dose ascorbate (vitamin C) to standard of care treatment of glioblastoma multiforme (a type of brain tumor) in adults. All subjects will receive high-dose ascorbate in addition to the standard treatment.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: Temozolomide|RADIATION: radiation therapy|DRUG: Ascorbic Acid
Overall Survival (OS), From radiation day 1 until date of death from any cause., monthly up to 5 years post treatment
Progression Free Survival (PFS), From radiation day 1 to documented disease progression in MRI imaging as described by the RANO criteria, monthly up to 5 years post treatment|Adverse Event Frequency, Categorize and quantify using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 4 from radiation day 1 through 7 months post-radiation., monthly through 7 months post-radiation
Health-related Quality of Life (HRQOL), Measure health-related outcomes using the validated EORTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer) questionnaires QLQ-C30 and BN-20., monthly for 3 months, then every 3 months up to 5 years post treatment
Standard treatment for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) involves maximum safe surgical resection followed by radiation combined with temozolomide (a chemotherapy pill you take by mouth). After radiation, patients receive additional cycles of temozolomide (adjuvant chemotherapy).

Participants will:

* receive high doses of intravenous (IV) ascorbate three times a week during the combined radiation and chemotherapy phase
* receive high doses of intravenous (IV) ascorbate twice a week during adjuvant chemotherapy (after radiation)
* complete health-related quality of life questionnaires pre-radiation, 4 weeks into radiation, 4 weeks after radiation, and then every 3 months. In addition, patients will complete neurocognitive testing pre-radiation, 4 weeks into radiation, 4 weeks after radiation, and approximately 9 months after initiating radiation therapy.

The adjuvant chemotherapy portion of this study lasts for 6 months. After that is completed, participants will go back to standard therapy for their cancer. Participants will continue to have life-long follow-up for this study.