A Study of Anti-CTLA-4 Antibody in Patients With Advanced Synovial Sarcoma
The purpose of this study is to determine whether immune therapy with anti-CTLA-4 antibody is effective in people with advanced synovial sarcoma.
Synovial Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: ipilimumab
Number of Subjects With Best Tumor Response as Measured by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)., Computed tomography (CT) scans were performed at screening, and week 10. Response was assessed using RECIST version 1.0 (Therasse P et al. J Natl Cancer Inst 92:205-216). Per RECIST, target lesions are categorized as follows: complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions (no evaluable disease); partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; progressive disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; stable disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., up to 10 weeks
Number of Subjects With NY-ESO-1 Specific Immunity as Measured by Antibody Response to NY-ESO-1 or LAGE-1, Blood samples were taken at baseline and weeks 4, 7, 10 and 13. Humoral immunity was assessed by measurement of antibodies to NY-ESO-1 or LAGE by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Positive results are reported as antibodies to NY-ESO-1- and/or LAGE-1-specific Total IgG (reciprocal titer)., up to 13 weeks|Number of Subjects Reporting Adverse Events (AEs), All adverse events (AEs) which occurred after signed informed consent were documented in the source records and on the respective AE Case Report Form (CRF). Toxicity was graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Scale (Version 3.0)., up to 13 weeks
Approximately 750-900 people in the United States each year develop synovial sarcoma, a rare form of cancer of connective tissue. This tumor frequently metastasizes to other parts of the body such as the lungs. Chemotherapy can sometimes decrease the size of the recurrent tumors, but these results are usually only temporary, and the tumors grow again.

We are trying to exploit some of the proteins made by synovial sarcoma (cancer-germ cell or cancer-testis antigens) as targets for the immune system. Specifically, we are investigating if immune-based therapy with anti-CTLA-4 antibody once every 3 weeks for three treatments will activate the immune system enough to attack recurrent synovial sarcoma. In this study the tumor itself serves as the "vaccine" or source of protein, as we try to activate tumor-fighting T cells with the anti-CTLA-4.

Anti-CTLA-4 takes the brakes off the immune system to allow otherwise hidden immune responses to become more active. In so doing, there could be other side effects, such as immune system attacks against the normal organs of the body. We will follow both the anti-tumor immune responses with frequent blood tests and follow and treat side effects people develop on this study to determine if anti-CTLA-4 is worth pursuing in a larger number of patients with synovial sarcoma or other sarcomas.