Preventive Treatment of OxaLiplatin Induced peripherAl neuRopathy in Adjuvant Colorectal Cancer
This study is to evaluate PledOx for prevention of chronic chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy induced by oxaliplatin in patients with Stage III or high-risk Stage II colorectal cancer (CRC).
Colorectal Cancer|Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy
DRUG: Calmangafodipir (5 µmol/kg)|OTHER: Placebo
Moderate or Severe Chronic Chemotherapy Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN), Percentage of patients (with moderate or severe chronic CIPN) scoring 3 or 4 in at least 1 of the first 4 items of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity-13-item subscale (FACT/GOG-NTX-13; i.e., FACT/GOG-NTX-4) 9 months after the first dose of IMP (i.e. PledOx or placebo administered on Day 1, Cycle 1 of mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy). The FACT/GOG-13 questionnaire includes 13 items that measure the severity and impact of symptoms of neurotoxicity over the past 7 days. Patients rate each item as 0 ("not at all"), 1 (" a little bit"), 2 ("somewhat"), 3 ("quite a bit") or 4 ("very much"). These 13 items are summed to create a total score, ranging from 0 to 52, with a higher score representing a worse outcome. The FACT/GOG-NTX-4 is a 4 item subscale targeting numbness, tingling or discomfort in hands and/or feet., 9 months
Mild, Moderate or Severe Chronic Chemotherapy Induced Peripheral Neuropathy, Percentage of patients (with mild, moderate or severe chronic CIPN) scoring 2, 3 or 4 in at least 1 of the first 4 items of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity-13-item subscale (FACT/GOG-NTX-13; i.e., FACT/GOG-NTX-4) 9 months after the first dose of IMP (i.e. PledOx or placebo administered on Day 1, Cycle 1 of mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy). The FACT/GOG-13 questionnaire includes 13 items that measure the severity and impact of symptoms of neurotoxicity over the past 7 days. Patients rate each item as 0 ("not at all"), 1 (" a little bit"), 2 ("somewhat"), 3 ("quite a bit") or 4 ("very much"). These 13 items are summed to create a total score, ranging from 0 to 52, with a higher score representing a worse outcome. The FACT/GOG-NTX-4 is a 4 item subscale targeting numbness, tingling or discomfort in hands and/or feet., 9 months|Sensitivity to Touching Cold Items, Mean change from baseline in sensitivity to touching cold items on Day 2, Cycle 4 (cycle is 14 days) of mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy, as assessed by the Cold Sensitivity questionnaire. Cold sensitivity was rated 0 (not at all) to 10 (as bad as you can imagine)., Baseline and 8 weeks|Cumulative Dose of Oxaliplatin During Chemotherapy, Mean cumulative dose of oxaliplatin administered per patient during mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy, 9 months after the first dose of Investigational Medicinal Product, 9 months|Vibration Sensitivity on the Lateral Malleolus, Mean change from baseline in vibration sense, on the lateral malleolus (left and right), using a graduated tuning fork, at 9 months after the first dose of Investigational Medicinal Product. When the tuning fork was struck against the ball of the thumb, the base of the tuning fork was placed over the appropriate bony surface (i.e. lateral malleolus left and right) and the patient was asked to indicate the moment when the vibration was no longer detected. The intensity at which the patient no longer detected the vibration is reported on a scale of 0 (minimum score, representing the maximum vibration amplitude) to 8 (maximum score, representing the minimum vibration amplitude), Baseline and 9 months|Worst Pain in Hands or Feet, Mean change from baseline in worst pain in hands or feet in the past week, using a numerical rating scale (Numeric Rating Scale; Scale range of 0-10;0 = no pain, 10= pain as bad as you can imagine), at 9 months after the first dose of Investigational Medicinal Product, Baseline and 9 months|Functional Impairment (in the Non-dominant Hand), Mean change from baseline in the time to complete the grooved Pegboard with the non-dominant hand, at 9 months after the first dose of Investigational Medicinal Product, Baseline and 9 months|Patients With Disease Free Survival, Patients with disease free survival., Analysis was planned at 24 months but performed based on available data at cut-off 31 August 2020 as the study was terminated early by the Sponsor
This is a Phase 3, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with PledOx for prevention of chronic CIPN induced by oxaliplatin in patients with Stage III or high-risk Stage II colorectal cancer (CRC).

Patients with CRC, who are indicated for adjuvant modified FOLFOX6 (mFOLFOX6) chemotherapy for up to 6 months, will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

* Arm A: PledOx (5 µmol/kg) + mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy
* Arm B: Placebo + mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy

Before March 2nd., 2020, the investigational medicinal product (IMP; i.e. PledOx or placebo) was administered by an intravenous (i.v.) infusion on the first day of each chemotherapy cycle. IMP was not to be administered if mFOLFOX6 was not given to the patient.

If a patient later discontinues oxaliplatin, treatment with 5-FU/folinate and IMP may be continued.

As of March 2nd., all patients have to stop IMP but may continue mFOLFOX6.