NovoTTF-100A With Bevacizumab and Carmustine in Treating Patients With Glioblastoma Multiforme in First Relapse
This phase II trial studies the safety of NovoTTF-100A in combination with bevacizumab and carmustine and to see how well they work in treating patients with glioblastoma multiforme that has returned for the first time. NovoTTF-100A, a type of electric field therapy, delivers low intensity, alternating "wave-like" electric fields that may interfere with multiplication of the glioblastoma multiforme cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carmustine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving NovoTTF-100A together with bevacizumab and carmustine may be an effective treatment for glioblastoma multiforme.
Adult Brain Glioblastoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Electric Field Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Carmustine|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Incidence of adverse events, assessed by National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria 4.0 toxicity criteria, Toxicity summaries will be provided for all subjects who have received any part of the study treatment. Statistical analysis will include estimates of proportions with each class of toxicity with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 12 months|Progression Free Survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Time from first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 6 months|Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Time from first day of treatment to time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 6 months|Quality of life as measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 and BN-20 brain cancer module, Up to 6 months|Change in tumor volume using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Mean change in linear dimension will be evaluated for shrinkage using a paired t-test. If the assumption of normality is violated, a signed rank test will be used. The Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria will be part of the MRI evaluation., Baseline to day 168|Change in linear dimension using MRI, Mean change in linear dimension will be evaluated for shrinkage using a paired t-test. If the assumption of normality is violated, a signed rank test will be used. The RANO criteria will be part of the MRI evaluation., Baseline to day 168
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish the safety of NovoTTF-100A in combination with bevacizumab and BCNU (carmustine) in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients who have relapsed after chemoradiation therapy (first relapse).

II. Determine the 6 month overall survival (OS). III. Determine the 6 month progression free survival (PFS). IV. Evaluate the effect of this therapy regimen on quality-of-life.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes every 2 weeks beginning on day -7 for up to 13 doses and carmustine IV over 4 hours every 8 weeks beginning on day 1 for up to 3 doses. Patients also undergo NovoTTF-100A according to standard procedures starting one week before the first dose of carmustine.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 months.