Zanzalintinib (XL-092) Plus Durvalumab and Tremelimumab in Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma (ZENOBIA)
This study will investigate if modulating the tumor microenvironment with biologic agents like XL-092 will have synergistic eﬀect when combined with checkpoint based immunotherapeutic treatment of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Zanzalintinib|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab
Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of XL-092 with Durvalumab plus Tremelimumab, Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of XL-092 with Durvalumab plus Tremelimumab will be determined per a Dose Limiting Toxicity period of 84 days during the Safety Lead-in period using CTCAE v5.0 criteria., Up to 12 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) (im RECIST), Proportion of patients with Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), per immune modiﬁed RECIST v1.1. Per imRECIST: CR: -100% Change in Sum of Diameters from Baseline (non-target lesion). PR: ≤ -30% change in sum of diameters from baseline., Up to 24 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), per RECIST v1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 24 months|Rate of Disease Conversion, Proportion of patients able to undergo liver resection or transplantation after completion of treatment., Up to 12 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Proportion of patients with Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD), per immune modiﬁed RECIST v1.1. Per imRECIST: CR: -100% Change in Sum of Diameters from Baseline (non-target lesion). PR: ≤ -30% change in sum of diameters from baseline. SD: \>-30% to \< +20% change in sum of diameters from baseline., Up to 24 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Time after start of treatment (months) when 50% of patients are free of disease progression (Median PFS). Per RECISIT v1.1, Progressive Disease: ≥20%increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 40 months|6-month Progression-free Survival (PFS), Proportion of patients alive at 6 months after start of treatment who did not experience disease progression. Per RECISIT v1.1, Progressive Disease: ≥20%increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., At 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time after start of treatment (months) when 50% of patients are alive (Median OS)., Up to 40 months|6-month Overall Survival (OS), Proportion of patients alive at 6 months after start of treatment., At 6 months|12-month Overall Survival (OS), Proportion of patients alive at 12 months after start of treatment., At 12 months|24-month Overall Survival (OS), Proportion of patients alive at 24 months after start of treatment., At 24 months|36-month Overall Survival (OS), Proportion of patients alive at 36 months after start of treatment., At 36 months
Zanzalintinib (XL-092) is a next generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) with the target inhibition proﬁle identical to cabozantinib but with a superior pharmacokinetic proﬁle. As cabozantinib targets multiple tyrosine kinases, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR), MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (MET), and AXL receptor tyrosine kinase (AXL), and has been reported to show immunomodulatory properties that may counteract tumor-induced immunosuppression, XL-092 is expected to have similar immune modulatory activity, providing a rationale for combining it with PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors. This study asserts the belief that modulating the tumor microenvironment with biologic agents like XL-092 will have synergistic eﬀect when combined with checkpoint based immunotherapeutics like durvalumab and tremelimumab in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). There will be a Safety lead-in to deﬁne the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) that will enroll 9-12 patients.