Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients with Localized Prostate Cancer That Have Undergone Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well stereotactic body radiation therapy works in treating patients with prostate cancer that has not spread to other parts of the body and have undergone surgery. Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a specialized radiation therapy that sends x-rays directly to the tumor using smaller doses over several days and may cause less damage to normal tissue.
PSA Level Greater Than 0.03|PSA Progression|Stage I Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC (American Joint Committee on Cancer ) V7|Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC V7|Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC V7
DRUG: Antiandrogen Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Biochemical recurrence-free survival (BCRFS), Defined as serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) rising from the post-treatment nadir to a level of 0.4 ng/mL or more with a confirmatory second test, initiation of salvage androgen deprivation therapy, or continued rise in PSA after stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). The Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimate of the BCRFS will be estimated and presented graphically. One sample log-rank test will be used to test difference in BCRFS between intervention and historical control. The median BCRFS time will be calculated with 95% confidence interval. Summaries of the number and percentage of patients experiencing a biochemical recurrence will be provided., Up to 5 years|Physician-scored toxicity, Represented by the rates of acute (early, within 90 days of SBRT) and late (90 or more days after SBRT) genitourinary and gastrointestinal toxicity based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03. Adverse Events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) will be listed individually by patient., Up to 5 years|Patient-reported toxicity outcomes EPIC-26, Patient-reported toxicity outcomes represented by changes in the urinary incontinence, urinary obstruction, bowel, sexual function, and hormone/vitality domains on the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index-26 (EPIC-26) quality of life instrument (scored from 0-100 points for each domain, higher scores reflect worse symptom/bother severity.), Up to 5 years|Patient-reported toxicity outcomes IPSS, Patient-reported toxicity outcomes represented by changes in International Prostate Symptom Scores (IPSS) (scored from 0-35 points, higher scores reflect worse symptom/bother severity.)., Up to 5 years
Proportion of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) fractions for which on-line adaptive radiotherapy was utilized in the subset of patient treated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided radiotherapy, Point estimate and the corresponding 95% confidence interval will be calculated for the proportion of SBRT fractions for which on-line adaptive radiotherapy is required due to changes in organ-at-risk anatomy, in the subset of patients treated with MRI-guided radiotherapy., Up to 5 years
Physician-scored Toxicity profiles patients treated utilizing a linear accelerator, Comparative analysis will be performed to assess physician-scored toxicity profiles for treated utilizing a linear accelerator. Unpaired t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used for quantitative toxicity metrics., Up to 5 years|Patient-reported toxicity outcomes; patients treated utilizing a linear accelerator, Comparative analysis will be performed to assess patient-reported toxicity profiles for treated utilizing a linear accelerator. Unpaired t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used for quantitative toxicity metrics., Up to 5 years|Physician-scored toxicity profiles patients treated utilizing the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided device, Comparative analysis will be performed to assess toxicity profiles with patients treated utilizing a linear accelerator. Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used for qualitative toxicity measurements, while unpaired t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used for quantitative toxicity metrics., Up to 5 years|Patient-reported toxicity profiles patients treated utilizing the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided device, Comparative analysis will be performed to assess patient-reported toxicity profiles for treated utilizing an MRI-guided radiotherapy device. Unpaired t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used for quantitative toxicity metrics., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of postoperative stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) at a dose of 34 grays (Gy) in five fractions, as compared with historical control efficacy rates in patients who received conventionally fractionated postoperative radiotherapy.

II. To determine the toxicity of postoperative SBRT at a dose of 34 Gy in five fractions, both via physician-scored and patient-reported metrics.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of SBRT fractions for which on-line adaptive radiotherapy is required due to changes in organ-at-risk anatomy, in the subset of patients treated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided radiotherapy.

II. To gather biomarkers that may elucidate predictors of increased efficacy or increased toxicity.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare toxicity profiles (both physician-scored and patient-reported) between patients treated utilizing a linear accelerator versus a tri-60Co teletherapy platform.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo SBRT every other day (QOD) for 14 days. Patients may also receive androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) comprised of a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist or a gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist, and an oral anti-androgen for 6 months at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, and then annually thereafter.