Bevacizumab With or Without Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
This randomized phase II trial studies how well bevacizumab with or without radiation therapy works in treating patients with recurrent glioblastoma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. It is not yet know whether bevacizumab is more effective with or without radiation therapy in treating patients with recurrent glioblastoma
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Overall Survival, Survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times will be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Eighteen-month rates are provided. Analysis was planned to occur when 135 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 52.8 months.
Percentage of Participants With Complete or Partial Best Response, Best observed objective response determined by serial measures of the product of the two largest perpendicular cross-sectional diameters using MacDonald Criteria:

* Complete Response (CR): complete disappearance of measurable enhancing lesion sustained ≥ 4 weeks; and no new lesions; and no corticosteroids.
* Partial Response (PR): ≥ 50% decrease from baseline in sum of products of the measurable enhancing lesion sustained ≥ 4 weeks; and no new lesions; and stable/reduced corticosteroid dose.
* Progression (P): ≥ 25% increase in sum of products of enhancing lesions (patient has not had steroid dose decreased since the last evaluation period); or any new lesions. A concomitant decrease in steroid dose rules out progression designation during initial 12 weeks after radiotherapy.
* Stable Disease (SD): all of following: does not qualify for CR, PR, or P; receiving stable/decreasing doses of steroids.

Estimated using an exact binomial distribution., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 52.8 months.|Percentage of Participants Progression-free at 6 Months, Best observed objective response determined by serial measures of the product of the two largest perpendicular cross-sectional diameters using MacDonald Criteria:

Progression (P): ≥ 25% increase in sum of products of enhancing lesions (patient has not had steroid dose decreased since the last evaluation period); or any new lesions. A concomitant decrease in steroid dose rules out progression designation during initial 12 weeks after radiotherapy. Progression-free at 6 months means patient alive without progression at 6 months., From randomization to six months|Progression-free Survival, Progression using using MacDonald Criteria is defined as ≥ 25% increase from baseline in sum of products of the two largest perpendicular cross-sectional diameters of enhancing lesions (patient has not had steroid dose decreased since the last evaluation period); or any new lesions. A concomitant decrease in steroid dose rules out progression designation during initial 12 weeks after radiotherapy. Progression-free survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first progression, death, or last known follow-up (censored). Progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times will be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Eighteen-month rates are provided. Analysis was planned to occur when 135 deaths were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 52.8 months.|Percentage of Participants With Grade 3+ Central Nervous System (CNS) Toxicity Within 90 Days of Start of Radiation Therapy Reported as Possibly/Probably/Definitely Related to Protocol Treatment, Adverse events were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE v3.0 assigns Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild, Grade 2 Moderate, Grade 3 Severe, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling, Grade 5 Death related to AE., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 52.8 months.|Number of Participants With Grade 3+ CNS Toxicity More Than 90 Days of Start of Radiation Therapy Reported as Possibly/Probably/Definitely Related to Protocol Treatment, Adverse events were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE v3.0 assigns Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild, Grade 2 Moderate, Grade 3 Severe, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling, Grade 5 Death related to AE. Estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval. The difference between the two groups will be tested using a chi square test., From 91 days after the start of radiation therapy to end of follow-up. Maximum follow-up at the time of analysis is 58.2 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish an improvement in overall survival in recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) patients receiving bevacizumab and re-irradiation compared with patients receiving bevacizumab alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate and compare the rate of objective response in patients with measurable disease.

II. To estimate and compare the 6-month progression-free survival rate. III. To estimate and compare progression-free survival. IV. To estimate and compare the rate of treatment adverse events. V. To estimate and compare the rate of grade 3+ acute or delayed central nervous system (CNS) toxicity.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

In both arms, courses repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year and then annually thereafter.