Low-Level Laser in Head and Neck Chronic Lymphedema
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of low-level laser treatment (LLLT) on the severity of lymphedema, symptom burden, functional status, and quality of life in HNC survivors.
Head and Neck Cancer|Lymphedema|Fibrosis
DEVICE: Low-level laser
Total Severity of External Lymphedema and Fibrosis (LEF), Head and Neck Lymphedema and Fibrosis Assessment Criteria

Change in total severity of external LEF from baseline to 8-week post-intervention visits. A larger change in this score means more reduction in the severity of external LEF.

External LEF is measured by HN-LEF Assessment Criteria. The total external LEF severity score is calculated by summing the severity score of each site (total 9 sites, severity score ranging from 0-27). For each site, the severity of LEF includes no LEF (=0), mild (=1), moderate (=2), and severe (=3)., Baseline, 8-week post-intervention visit
Symptom Burden Score: Soft Tissues and Neurologic Toxicity Subscale, Head and Neck Lymphedema and Fibrosis Symptom Inventory

Change in symptom burden score from baseline to 8-week post-intervention. A larger change in this score means decreased symptom burden.

Symptom burden is assessed by Head and Neck Lymphedema and Fibrosis Symptom Inventory (HN-LEF SI). Higher scores (score ranging from 0-5) indicate increased symptom burden. There are 7 subscales and only one subscale (Soft Tissues and Neurologic Toxicity) score is reported here., Baseline, 8-week post-intervention visit|Neck Range of Motion Degree: Right Lateral Rotation, Change in neck range of motion degree from baseline to 8-week post-intervention. A larger change in this degree means better outcome with increased neck range of motion.

Cervical Range of Motion Device, a valid and reliable tool, was used to measure the amount of neck movement (degrees) for the following neck movements: forward flexion, extension, right and left lateral flexion, and right and left rotation. Only right lateral rotation is reported here., Baseline, 8-week post-intervention visit|Quality of Life Score: Feeding Tube, EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 was used to assess HNC-related quality of life.

Change in EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 score from baseline to 8-week post-intervention. A larger reduction in this score means decreased symptom burden and better quality of life.

The HNC-specific EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 module is a supplement, containing seven multi-item scales (pain, swallowing, senses problems, speech problems, trouble with social eating and social contact, and less sexuality) and eleven single-item scales (teeth, opening mouth, dry mouth, sticky saliva, coughing, felt ill, pain killers, nutritional supplements, feeding tube, weight loss, weight gain). The QLQ-H\&N35 scale employs a 4-point response format (''not at all" to ''very much"). Scale scores are transformed to a scale from 0 to 100 according to the EORTC scoring algorithm. For the symptoms scales, a higher score indicates a higher level of symptom burden. Only feeding tube scale is reported here., Baseline, 8-week post-intervention visit
Primary aim: To determine the impact of LLLT, as compared to wait-list control, on changes in severity of lymphedema.

Secondary aim: To determine the impact of LLLT, as compared to a wait-list control, on lymphedema-related symptom burden (e.g., tightness), functional impairments (e.g., range of motion in jaw and neck), and quality of life.