Dose Escalation and Expansion Study of GSK3359609 in Participants With Selected Advanced Solid Tumors (INDUCE-1)
GSK3359609 is an anti-Inducible T cell Co-Stimulator (ICOS) receptor agonist antibody intended for the treatment of cancers of different histology. This is a first-time-in-human (FTIH), open-label, multicenter study designed to investigate the safety, pharmacology, and preliminary antitumor activity in participants with selected, advanced or recurrent solid tumors with the aim to establish recommended dose(s) of GSK3359609 for further exploration as monotherapy and in combination with pembrolizumab or chemotherapy regimens. The study is comprised of two primary parts, each composed of two phases: Part 1: GSK3359609 monotherapy with Part 1A as dose escalation phase and Part 1B as cohort expansion phase; Part 2: GSK3359609 combination therapy with Part 2A pembrolizumab or GSK3174998 or chemotherapy or pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy or dostarlimab plus cobolimab or Bintrafusp alfa combination dose escalation phase and Part 2B expansion phase with pembrolizumab. The primary objective of the study is to determine the safety, tolerability, maximum tolerated dose or the maximum administered dose of GSK3359609 alone or in combination.
Neoplasms
DRUG: feladilimab (GSK3359609)|DRUG: GSK3174998|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Paclitaxel plus Carboplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine plus Carboplatin|DRUG: Fluorouracil (5-FU) plus carboplatin or cisplatin|DRUG: Dostarlimab|DRUG: Cobolimab|DRUG: Bintrafusp alfa
Part 1A: Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event(s) (AEs) and Serious Adverse Event(s) (SAEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, other situations which involve medical or scientific judgment or is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. SAEs are subset of AEs. A summary of number of participants with any AEs and SAEs is presented. AEs were coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Affairs (MedDRA dictionary)., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), DLT is an AE that is considered by the investigator to be clinically relevant and attributed to the study therapy during the 28-day DLT period and meets at least one of the DLT criteria: Febrile neutropenia; Grade 4 neutropenia of \>7 days in duration or requiring Granulocyte Colony-stimulating Factor (G-CSF), anemia, thrombocytopenia, non-hematologic toxicity; Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, pneumonitis, toxicity that does not resolve to Grade 1 or baseline within 3 days; Grade 2 ocular toxicity; Toxicity that results in permanent discontinuation of feladilimab during the first four weeks of treatment; any other event which in the judgment of the investigator and GSK Medical Monitor is considered to be a DLT., Up to 28 days|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Worst Case Chemistry Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 0.1 to 0.3 micromoles (umol)/liter (L) (direct bilirubin); 6 to 8.3 grams/L (protein); 100 to 250 international units (IU)/L (Lactate Dehydrogenase(LDH)); 2.3 - 4.1 picomoles/L (Free Triiodothyronine(T3)); 4.6 to 11.2 picomoles/L (Free Thyroxine(T4)); 0 and 0.04 microgram (ug)/L (Troponin I); 0 - 0.01 ug/L (Troponin T); 0.45 to 4.5 milliunits (Mu)/L (Thyrotropin(TSH)); and 6 to 24 millimoles/L (Urea). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of hematology parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Worst Case Hematology Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 0.01 to 0.3\*10\^9 cells/L (basophils), 0 to 500 cells /L (eosinophils), 41 to 50 percentage of red blood cells (RBC) in blood (hematocrit), 1,000 - 4,800 lymphocytes per microliter (µL) of blood (lymphocytes), 80-100 femtoliters (fl) (erythrocytes, mean corpuscular volume), 2 to 8 percentage of WBC (monocytes), 40 to 60 cells/mcL (neutrophils) and Women: 4.2 to 5.4 million RBC/ microliter (mcL) of blood and Men: 4.7 to 6.1 million RBC/ mcL (erythrocytes count). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Worst Case Urinalysis Results Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Urine samples were collected to assess urine glucose, ketones and occult blood using dipstick method. The dipstick test gave results in a semi-quantitative manner, and results for urinalysis parameters were recorded as negative, trace, 1+, 2+, 3+ indicating proportional concentrations in the urine sample. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date. Result for urinalysis parameters were recorded as no change/decreased and any increase., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Dose Modifications of Feladilimab, Number of participants with dose modifications (including dose delays, dose escalations and infusion interruptions) were reported for Feladilimab., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event(s) (AEs) and Serious Adverse Event(s) (SAEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, Is life-threatening, Requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, Results in persistent disability/incapacity or Is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, Other situations which involve medical or scientific judgment or is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. SAEs are subset of AEs. A summary of number of participants with any AEs and SAEs is presented. AEs were coded using the MedDRA dictionary., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), DLT is an AE that is considered by the investigator to be clinically relevant and attributed to the study therapy during the 28-day DLT period and meets at least one of the DLT criteria: Febrile neutropenia; Grade 4 neutropenia of \>7 days in duration or requiring Granulocyte Colony-stimulating Factor (G-CSF), anemia, thrombocytopenia, non-hematologic toxicity; Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, pneumonitis, toxicity that does not resolve to Grade 1 or baseline within 3 days; Grade 2 ocular toxicity; Toxicity that results in permanent discontinuation of feladilimab monotherapy or in combination during the first four weeks of treatment; any other event which in the judgment of the investigator and GSK Medical Monitor is considered to be a DLT., Up to 28 days|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Worst Case Chemistry Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 6 to 8.3 grams/L (protein); 100 to 250 international units (IU)/L (Lactate Dehydrogenase(LDH)); 2.3 - 4.1 picomoles/L (Free Triiodothyronine(T3)); 4.6 to 11.2 picomoles/L (Free Thyroxine(T4)); 0 and 0.04 microgram (ug)/L (Troponin I); 0 - 0.01 ug/L (Troponin T); 0.45 to 4.5 milliunits (Mu)/L (Thyrotropin(TSH)); and 6 to 24 millimoles/L (Urea). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of hematology parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Worst Case Hematology Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 0.01 to 0.3\*10\^9 cells/L (basophils), 0 to 500 cells /L (eosinophils), 41 to 50 percentage of RBC in blood (hematocrit), 2 to 8 percentage of WBC (monocytes), 40 to 60 cells/mcL (neutrophils) and Women: 4.2 to 5.4 million RBC/mcL of blood and Men: 4.7 to 6.1 million RBC/ mcL (erythrocytes count). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Worst Case Urinalysis Results Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Urine samples were collected to assess urine glucose, ketones and occult blood using dipstick method. The dipstick test gave results in a semi-quantitative manner, and results for urinalysis parameters were recorded as negative, trace, 1+, 2+, 3+ indicating proportional concentrations in the urine sample. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date. Result for urinalysis parameters were recorded as no change/decreased and any increase., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Dose Modifications of Feladilimab, Number of participants with dose modifications (including dose delays, dose escalations, and infusion interruptions) were reported for Feladilimab, Up to approximately 367 weeks
Part 1B: Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event(s) (AEs) and Serious Adverse Event(s) (SAEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, Is life-threatening, Requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, Results in persistent disability/incapacity or Is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, Other situations which involve medical or scientific judgment or is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. SAEs are subset of AEs. A summary of number of participants with any AEs and SAEs is presented. AEs were coded using the MedDRA dictionary., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Number of Participants With Worst Case Chemistry Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 6 to 8.3 grams/L (protein); 100 to 250 international units (IU)/L (Lactate Dehydrogenase(LDH)); 2.3 - 4.1 picomoles/L (Free Triiodothyronine(T3)); 4.6 to 11.2 picomoles/L (Free Thyroxine(T4)); 0 and 0.04 microgram (ug)/L (Troponin I); 0 - 0.01 ug/L (Troponin T); 0.45 to 4.5 milliunits (Mu)/L (Thyrotropin(TSH)); and 6 to 24 millimoles/L (Urea). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%, Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of hematology parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Number of Participants With Worst Case Hematology Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 0.01 to 0.3\*10\^9 cells/L (basophils), 0 to 500 cells /L (eosinophils), 41 to 50 percentage of RBC in blood (hematocrit), 2 to 8 percentage of WBC (monocytes), and Women: 4.2 to 5.4 million RBC/ mcL of blood and Men: 4.7 to 6.1 million RBC/ mcL (erythrocyte count). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Number of Participants With Worst Case Urinalysis Results Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Urine samples were collected to assess urine glucose, ketones and occult blood using dipstick method. The dipstick test gave results in a semi-quantitative manner, and results for urinalysis parameters were recorded as negative, trace, 1+, 2+, 3+ indicating proportional concentrations in the urine sample. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date. Result for urinalysis parameters were recorded as no change/decreased and any increase., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Number of Participants With Dose Modifications of Feladilimab, Number of participants with dose modifications (including dose delays, dose escalation and infusion interruptions) were reported for Feladilimab., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event(s) (AEs) and Serious Adverse Event(s) (SAEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, Results in persistent disability/incapacity or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, other situations which involve medical or scientific judgment or is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. SAEs are subset of AEs. A summary of number of participants with any AEs and SAEs is presented. AEs were coded using the MedDRA dictionary., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Worst Case Chemistry Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 0.1 to 0.3 micromoles (umol)/liter (L) (direct bilirubin); 6 to 8.3 grams/L (protein); 100 to 250 international units (IU)/L (Lactate Dehydrogenase(LDH)); 2.3 - 4.1 picomoles/L (Free Triiodothyronine(T3)); 4.6 to 11.2 picomoles/L (Free Thyroxine(T4)); 0 and 0.04 microgram (ug)/L (Troponin I); 0 - 0.01 ug/L (Troponin T); 0.45 to 4.5 milliunits (Mu)/L (Thyrotropin(TSH)); 24-204 ug/L (creatine kinase); and 6 to 24 millimoles/L (Urea). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Worst-case Grade Change From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of hematology parameters. Laboratory parameters were graded according to CTCAE v4.03. Grade (G) 0: None; G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant; G4: life-threatening consequences. Higher grade indicates greater severity and increase in grade was defined relative to Baseline grade. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as latest pre-dose assessment with a non-missing value, including those from unscheduled visits. Only grade change data is presented for Baseline (B) and Worst-Case Post-Baseline (WCPB) as G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and missing (M) here as "Parameter name, B GX, WCPB GX" where X=grade digit., Baseline (Day 1) and up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Worst Case Hematology Results Relative to Normal Range Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Normal ranges were 0.01 to 0.3\*10\^9 cells/L (basophils), 0 to 500 cells/L(eosinophils), 41 to 50 percentage of RBC in blood (hematocrit), 1,000 - 4,800 lymphocytes per microliter (µL) of blood (lymphocytes), 80-100 fl (erythrocytes, mean corpuscular volume), 2 to 8 percentage of WBC (monocytes), 40 to 60 cells/mcL (neutrophils) and Women: 4.2 to 5.4 million RBC/ mcL of blood and Men: 4.7 to 6.1 million RBC/ mcL (erythrocytes count). Participants were counted in worst case category that their value changes to low, normal or no change \[NC\] or high), unless there is NC in their category. Participants whose laboratory value category was unchanged (e.g. High to High) or whose value became normal, were recorded in "To Normal or No Change" category. Participants were counted twice if participant had values that changed To Low and To High, so percentages may not add to 100%., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Worst Case Urinalysis Results Post-Baseline Relative to Baseline, Urine samples were collected to assess urine glucose, ketones and occult blood using dipstick method. The dipstick test gave results in a semi-quantitative manner, and results for urinalysis parameters were recorded as negative, trace, 1+, 2+, 3+ indicating proportional concentrations in the urine sample. Baseline (Day 1) was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date. Result for urinalysis parameters were recorded as no change/decreased and any increase., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Dose Modifications of Feladilimab, Number of participants with dose modifications (including dose delays, dose escalations, and infusion interruptions) were reported for Feladilimab., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with immune-related confirmed complete response (irCR) or ir confirmed partial response (irPR) per Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (irRECIST). irCR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeters (mm). irPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as percentage of participants with best overall response of irCR or irPR at any time + ir stable disease (irSD) meeting the minimum time criteria from the start of treatment until ir disease progression (irPD) or death due to any cause or the start of new anticancer therapy/crossover. irCR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. irPR defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. irSD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. IrPD defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per irRECIST. A one-week visit window was considered in the duration of irSD, i.e. a minimum of 8 weeks (irSD\>=9 weeks) and 17 weeks (irSD\>=18 weeks) were considered., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the interval between the date of first assigned study therapy/randomization and date of death due to any cause., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the interval between the date of first dose of study treatment (or date of randomization for randomized cohorts) and the date of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Disease progression was defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1, Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Time to Overall Response (TTR), TTR was defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment/randomization to the date of first documented confirmed (=4 weeks) CR or PR. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the interval of time in months from the date of the first documented evidence of a response (confirmed CR or PR) to the date of first documented evidence of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment per RECIST v1.1, or date of last adequate assessment of response or the date of death due to any cause (whichever occurs earlier). CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. Disease progression was defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with irCR or irPR per irRECIST. irCR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). irPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as percentage of participants with best overall response of irCR or irPR at any time + irSD meeting the minimum time criteria from the start of treatment until irPD or death due to any cause or the start of new anticancer therapy/crossover. irCR defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. irPR defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. irSD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. IrPD defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per irRECIST. A one-week visit window was considered in the duration of irSD, i.e. a minimum of 8 weeks (irSD\>=9 weeks) and 17 weeks (irSD\>=18 weeks) were considered., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the interval between the date of first assigned study therapy/randomization and date of death due to any cause., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the interval between the date of first dose of study treatment (or date of randomization for randomized cohorts) and the date of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Disease Progression was defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Time to Overall Response (TTR), TTR was defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment/randomization to the date of first documented confirmed (=4 weeks) CR or PR. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the interval of time in months from the date of the first documented evidence of a response (confirmed CR or PR) to the date of first documented evidence of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment per RECIST v1.1, or date of last adequate assessment of response or the date of death due to any cause (whichever occurs earlier). CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. Disease progression is defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed irCR or confirmed irPR per irRECIST. irCR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. irPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as percentage of participants with best overall response of irCR or irPR at any time + irSD meeting the minimum time criteria from the start of treatment until irPD or death due to any cause or the start of new anticancer therapy/crossover. irCR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. irPR defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. irSD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. IrPD defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per irRECIST. A one-week visit window was considered in the duration of irSD, i.e. a minimum of 8 weeks (irSD\>=9 weeks) and 17 weeks (irSD\>=18 weeks) were considered., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the interval between the date of first assigned study therapy/randomization and date of death due to any cause., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the interval between the date of first dose of study treatment (or date of randomization for randomized cohorts) and the date of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Disease progression was defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Time to Overall Response (TTR), TTR was defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment/randomization to the date of first documented confirmed (=4 weeks) CR or PR. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the interval of time in months from the date of the first documented evidence of a response (confirmed CR or PR) to the date of first documented evidence of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment per RECIST v1.1, or date of last adequate assessment of response or the date of death due to any cause (whichever occurs earlier). CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. Disease progression is defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed irCR or confirmed irPR per irRECIST. irCR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. irPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of irCR or irPR at any time plus irSD meeting the minimum time criteria from the start of treatment until irPD or death due to any cause or the start of new anticancer therapy/crossover. irCR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. irPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. irSD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. irPD is defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per irRECIST. A one-week visit window was considered in the duration of irSD, i.e. a minimum of 8 weeks (irSD\>=9 weeks) and 17 weeks (irSD\>=18 weeks) were considered., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the interval between the date of first assigned study therapy/randomization and date of death due to any cause., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the interval between the date of first dose of study treatment (or date of randomization for randomized cohorts) and the date of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Disease progression was defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Time to Overall Response (TTR), TTR was defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment/randomization to the date of first documented confirmed (=4 weeks) CR or PR. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the interval of time in months from the date of the first documented evidence of a response (confirmed CR or PR) to the date of first documented evidence of disease progression according to radiological response from investigator assessment per RECIST v1.1, or date of last adequate assessment of response or the date of death due to any cause (whichever occurs earlier). CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. Disease progression is defined as the date of radiological disease progression based on imaging data per RECIST v1.1, Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) and Minimum Observed Plasma Concentration (Ctau) of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; end of infusion (EOI); 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours POST EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours POST EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours POST EOI in week 6, 9, 12 15; Pre-dose in week 21 and 33|Part 1A: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to 504 Hours After Dosing [AUC (0-504h)] of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; end of infusion (EOI); 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 15; Pre-dose in week 21 and 33|Part 2A: Ctau of Pembrolizumab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose and 24 hours post-EOI on day 1; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose in week 9, 15, 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 2A: AUC (0-504h) of Pembrolizumab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose and 24 hours post-EOI on day 1; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose in week 9, 15, 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 2A: Cmax and Ctau of GSK3174998, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose and 24 hours post-EOI on day 1; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose in week 9, 15, 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 2A: AUC (0-504 h) of GSK3174998, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose and 24 hours post-EOI on day 1; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose in week 9, 15, 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 1B: Cmax and Ctau of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; end of infusion (EOI); 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 15; Pre-dose in week 21, 33 and 45|Part 1B: AUC (0-504 h) of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; end of infusion (EOI); 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 15; Pre-dose in week 21, 33 and 45|Part 2B: Cmax and Ctau of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; EOI; 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5, 4 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 and15; Pre-dose in week 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 2B: AUC (0-504 h) of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; EOI; 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5, 4 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 and15; Pre-dose in week 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 2B: AUC (0-1008 h) of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; EOI; 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5, 4 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 and15; Pre-dose in week 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 2B: Cmax and Ctau of Pembrolizumab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; EOI; 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5, 4 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 and15; Pre-dose in week 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 2B: AUC (0-504h) of Pembrolizumab, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis. PK analysis was calculated based on standard non-compartmental method., Pre-dose; EOI; 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48-72, 96-120 hours post-EOI; week 1; week 2; Pre-dose and 0.5 hours post-EOI in week 3; week 4; week 5; Pre-dose and 0.5, 4 hours post-EOI in week 6, 9, 12 and15; Pre-dose in week 18, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69, 81 and 93|Part 1A: Number of Participants With Positive Results in Anti-drug Antibody (ADA) Test by Feladilimab Dose Level, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA Test by Feladilimab in Combination With GSK3174998 Dose Level, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA Test by Feladilimab Dose Level in Combination With Pembrolizumab, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA in Pembrolizumab, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA in GSK3174998, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA Test by Feladilimab Combination With Chemotherapies Dose Level, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA Test by Feladilimab Dose Level, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA Test by Feladilimab Dose Level, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Number of Participants With Positive Results in ADA in Pembrolizumab, Serum samples collected and tested for the presence of ADA with a screening assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1A: Receptor Occupancy of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected to assess the cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4+) and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8+) receptor occupancy by Feladilimab as a pharmacodynamic analysis. It was assessed using validated flow cytometry assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2A: Receptor Occupancy of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected to assess the cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4+) and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8+) receptor occupancy by Feladilimab as a pharmacodynamic analysis. It was assessed using validated flow cytometry assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 1B: Receptor Occupancy of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected to assess the cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4+) and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8+) receptor occupancy by Feladilimab as a pharmacodynamic analysis. It was assessed using validated flow cytometry assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks|Part 2B: Receptor Occupancy of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected to assess the cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4+) and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8+) receptor occupancy by Feladilimab as a pharmacodynamic analysis. It was assessed using validated flow cytometry assay., Up to approximately 367 weeks
GSK3359609 is an anti-Inducible T cell Co-Stimulator (ICOS) receptor agonist antibody intended for the treatment of cancers of different histology. This is a first-time-in-human (FTIH), open-label, multicenter study designed to investigate the safety, pharmacology, and preliminary antitumor activity in participants with selected, advanced or recurrent solid tumors with the aim to establish recommended dose(s) of GSK3359609 for further exploration as monotherapy and in combination with pembrolizumab or chemotherapy regimens. The study is comprised of two primary parts, each composed of two phases: Part 1: GSK3359609 monotherapy with Part 1A as dose escalation phase and Part 1B as cohort expansion phase; Part 2: GSK3359609 combination therapy with Part 2A pembrolizumab or GSK3174998 or chemotherapy or pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy or dostarlimab plus cobolimab or Bintrafusp alfa combination dose escalation phase and Part 2B expansion phase with pembrolizumab. The primary objective of the study is to determine the safety, tolerability, maximum tolerated dose or the maximum administered dose of GSK3359609 alone or in combination.