Study of Erdafitinib Intravesical Delivery System for Localized Bladder Cancer
The purpose of the study in Part 1 (dose escalation) and in Part 2 (dose expansion) is to determine the recommended Phase 2 dose(s) (RP2D\[s\]) and evaluate preliminary clinical efficacy. Part 3 (dose expansion) will confirm safety and preliminary clinical activity at the RP2D. Part 4 (RP2D expansion) will assess the overall complete response (CR) in participants with intermediate-risk-non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (IR-NMIBC; means the cancer cells are only in the bladder's inner lining).
Urinary Bladder Neoplasms|Receptors, Fibroblast Growth Factor
DRUG: Erdafitinib Intravesical Delivery System
Parts 1 to 3: Number of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical event that occurs in a participant administered an investigational product, and it does not necessarily indicate only events with clear causal relationship with the relevant investigational product., Up to 5 years 11 months|Parts 1 to 3: Number of Participants with AEs by Severity, Severity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0. Severity scale ranges from Grade 1 (Mild) to Grade 5 (Death). Grade 1= Mild, Grade 2= Moderate, Grade 3= Severe, Grade 4= Life-threatening and Grade 5= Death related to adverse event., Up to 5 years 11 months|Part 1: Number of Participants with Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Number of participants with DLT will be assessed. The DLTs are specific adverse events and are defined as any of the following: high grade non-hematologic toxicity, or hematologic toxicity., Up to 28 days|Part 4: Overall Complete Response (CR) in Participants with Intermediate Risk-Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (IR-NMIBC), Overall CR is defined as the negative cystoscopy or positive cystoscopy with centrally reviewed biopsy negative for malignancy., Up to 5 years 11 months
Parts 1 to 3: Plasma Concentration of Erdafitinib, Plasma concentration of Erdafitinib will be reported., Cohorts 1, 3 and 5: up to 6 months; Cohort 2 and 4: up to 8 weeks|Parts 1 to 3: Urine Concentration of Erdafitinib, Urine concentration of Erdafitinib will be reported., Cohorts 1, 3 and 5: up to 6 months; Cohort 2 and 4: up to 8 weeks|Parts 1 to 3: Cohorts 1 and 2: Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS), RFS is defined as the time from start of treatment to the first detection of any new high-grade bladder cancer or upper tract urothelial carcinoma or positive urine cytology., Up to 5 years 11 months|Parts 1 to 3: Cohort 3 and 5: Complete Response (CR) Rate, CR is defined as the absence of urothelial carcinoma by cystoscopy, confirmed pathologically at first assessment, and negative urine cytology., At 3 months|Parts 1 to 3: Cohort 3 and 5: Duration of CR, Duration of CR is defined as the time from first documentation of CR until the date of documented recurrence or progression, or death, whichever comes first., Up to 5 years 11 months|Parts 1 to 3: Cohort 4: Pathological Complete Response (pCR) Rate, pCR rate is defined as percentage of participants with no pathologic evidence of intravesical disease (pT0) and no pathologic evidence of nodal involvement (pN0)., Up to 8 weeks|Parts 1 to 3: Cohort 4: No Pathologic Evidence of Intravesical Disease (pT0), pT0 rate is defined as percentage of participants with no Pathologic Evidence of Intravesical Disease., Up to 8 weeks|Parts 1 to 3: Cohort 4: Rate of downstaging to Less than (<) pT2, Rate of downstaging to \<pT2 is defined as percentage of participants with pT stage \<2., Up to 8 weeks|Part 4: Duration of CR (DoCR) in Participants with IR-NMIBC, Duration of CR is defined as the time from first documentation of CR until the date of documented recurrence or progression, or death, whichever comes first., Up to 5 years 11 months|Part 4: Complete Response (CR) in Participants with IR-NMIBC, CR is defined as the negative cystoscopy or positive cystoscopy with centrally reviewed biopsy negative for malignancy at the first disease evaluation., At Month 3|Part 4: Transurethral Resection of the Bladder Tumor (TURBT)-Free Survival in Participants With IR-NMIBC, Participants with TURBT-free survival will be reported., Up to 5 years 11 months|Part 4: Number of Participants with Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event (TEAEs) by Severity, TEAEs are AEs with onset during the intervention phase or that are a consequence of a pre-existing condition that has worsened since baseline. Severity was assessed using National cancer Institute common terminology criteria for adverse events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0. Severity grades ranges from Grade 1 (Mild) to Grade 5 (Death). Grade 1= Mild, Grade 2= Moderate, Grade 3= Severe, Grade 4= Life-threatening and Grade 5= Death related to adverse event., Up to 5 years 11 months|Part 4: Change From Baseline in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30, is a self-administered, 30-item questionnaire measuring the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of participants with cancer. EORTC QLQ-C30 includes 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, a global health status / quality of life scale, and 6 single items. Responses to items 1-28 are rated on a 4-point Likert response scale ranging from 1 "Not at all" to 4 "Very much." Two global health status items are rated on a 7-point numeric rating scale from 1 "Very Poor" to 7 "Excellent." Higher scores indicate greater functioning, better global health status, and more severe symptoms., Up to 5 years 11 months|Part 4: Change from Baseline in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (EORTC-QLQ-NMIBC 24) Score, EORTC QLQ-NMIBC24 is a 24-item questionnaire for evaluating the HRQoL of participants with non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer. The questionnaire is designed to supplement the QLQ C30 and incorporates 6 multi-item scales and 5 single items. Ratings for each item range from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Higher scores indicated greater severity., Up to 5 years 11 months|Part 4: Percentage of Participants With Significant Change From Baseline in EORTC-QLQ-C30 Scores, The EORTC QLQ-C30, is a self-administered, 30-item questionnaire measuring the HRQoL of participants with cancer. EORTC QLQ-C30 includes 5 functional scales, 3 symptom scales, a global health status/quality of life scale, and 6 single items. Responses to items 1-28 are rated on a 4-point Likert response scale ranging from 1 "Not at all" to 4 "Very much." Two global health status items are rated on a 7-point numeric rating scale from 1 "Very Poor" to 7 "Excellent." Higher scores indicate greater functioning, better global health status, and more severe symptoms., Up to 5 years 11 months|Part 4: Percentage of Participants With Significant Change From Baseline in EORTC-QLQ-NMIBC24 Scores, EORTC QLQ-NMIBC24 is a 24-item questionnaire for evaluating the HRQoL of participants with non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer. The questionnaire is designed to supplement the QLQ C30 and incorporates 6 multi-item scales and 5 single items. Ratings for each item range from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Higher scores indicated greater severity., Up to 5 years 11 months
Bladder cancer is one of the most common malignancy worldwide, and non-muscle invasive (NMIBC) requires intensive regimens of frequent monitoring and local resection (transurethral resection of bladder \[TURBT\]). This study enrolls participants with non-muscle invasive or muscle invasive bladder cancer with activating fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) mutations or fusions. Erdafitinib is a pan-FGFR inhibitor with demonstrated clinical activity when administered orally in patients with solid tumors, including bladder cancer, with FGFR genetic alterations. The Erdafitinib intravesical delivery system is designed to provide release of Erdafitinib in the bladder to treat localized bladder cancer, while reducing systemic toxicities. The study consists of a screening phase, a treatment phase, and a follow-up phase. Total duration of the study is 5 years 11 months.