Spinal Needles in Ultrasound-guided Fine Needle Aspirations From Thyroid Nodules
This is a multicentre, two-arm, randomised and controlled trial. Adults with thyroid nodules suspected of malignancy are to be included consecutively. A total of 350 patients are randomly assigned 1:1 to have FNA with a spinal (25G) or a conventional (25G) needle. The primary outcome is the rate of diagnostic cytological samples according to the Bethesda system. Secondary outcomes are diagnostic accuracy, patient's experienced pain and complication rates.
Thyroid Nodule
DEVICE: Spinal needle (25G)|DEVICE: Conventional fine needle (25G)
Diagnostic rate, The percentage of samples evaluated as "diagnostic" by the pathologist., 1 year
Complication rate, Complications, such as infections, bleedings or hematomas requiring treatment or admission, recurrent nerve injury and Horner's syndrome, will be recorded during the procedure. All patients are instructed to contact the department responsible for their management if they suspect complications. These will then be documented in the patient's medical record. At the end of the study period, the patient's medical records will be reviewed for admissions or contacts concerning complications., Till 1 month after last inclusion. Corresponding to about 1 year|Pain assessment, Pain is assessed using the VAS (Visual Analog Scale) immediate after the procedure.

The score is ranging from 0 to 10 with higher numbers indicating a more painful procedure., About 2 years|Diagnostic accuracy, Cytology from FNAB is compared with histology in the subgroup of patients who undergo surgery during the course of the study, About 2 years
This is a multicentre, two-arm, randomised and controlled trial. Adults with thyroid nodules suspected of malignancy are to be included consecutively. A total of 350 patients are randomly assigned 1:1 to have FNA with a spinal (25G) or a conventional (25G) needle. The primary outcome is the rate of diagnostic cytological samples according to the Bethesda system. Secondary outcomes are diagnostic accuracy, patient's experienced pain and complication rates.