Cabozantinib for Metastatic Triple Negative BrCa
In this research study, we are looking at the anti-tumor effects of Cabozantinib (XL184) in metastatic breast cancer. Data suggest that MET expression and activation are important for initiation and progression of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). We evaluated the efficacy of cabozantinib (XL184), a novel inhibitor of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases, including MET and VEGFR2, in patients with metastatic TNBC.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST1.1 criteria. For target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions. Confirmatory scans were required 3 weeks following initial documentation., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline, week 6 and every 9 weeks on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration was a median of 3 cycles range (1-17).
Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods was defined as the time from registration to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Based on RECIST1.1, radiographic PD is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum since beginning therapy, the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Patients who were event-free were censored at the date of their last disease evaluation., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline, week 6 and every 9 weeks on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration was a median of 3 cycles range (1-17).
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

\* To evaluate the activity of cabozantinib, as defined by objective response rate in patients with triple-negative metastatic breast cancer

Secondary

* To evaluate progression free survival
* To evaluate c-Met and phospho c-Met expression in archival tumor tissue
* To evaluate the incidence of c-Met amplified circulating tumor cells at baseline
* To evaluate potential plasma biomarkers of cabozantinib

DESIGN:

This study uses a two-stage design enrolling 35 patients to evaluate efficacy of cabozantinib based on overall response defined as complete or partial response per RECIST1.1 criteria. The null and alternative overall response rates were 5% and 20%. If one or more patients enrolled in the stage one cohort (n=13 patients) achieve PR or better then accrual proceeds to stage two (n=22 patients).