Novel Social Media Intervention For Older Br CA Patients
The number of patients 60 and older with breast cancer is increasing as our population ages. Despite the fact that the majority of breast cancers occur in patients 60 and over, these patients are consistently under-represented in clinical trials. Because patients 60 and older are an under-studied group, investigators do not have detailed information on the side effects and experiences for these patients receiving chemotherapy. Understanding the side effects patients receiving chemotherapy experience is an important part of this study.

In addition, past research has shown that having poor social support can affect quality of life, mood, and outcomes for people with cancer. However, few studies in the past have focused on improving the quality of life and support systems that patients have while they receive treatment.

This research study is evaluating how engaging in an online support community may improve the experience of older patients receiving chemotherapy.
Breast Cancer Stage I|Breast Cancer Stage II|Breast Cancer Stage III
OTHER: PatientsLikeMe (PLM)
Feasibility/ Rate of Participant Login - PLM, We will describe the degree of patient use of the PLM platforms and the associations of short and longer term PLM use with patient characteristics, 4-6 months
Rate of Usability of PLM, Usability (how useful they found PLM, what parts of the site they used, etc.) will be assessed using a patient experience survey at the end of the study, 6 Months|Rate of Overall Satisfaction with PLM, Satisfaction with the PLM experience wil be assessed using a 'patient experience' survey at the end of the study, 6 Months|Rate of Desirability with PLM, Desirability (how much they enjoyed using PLM, etc) wil be assessed using a patient experience survey at the end of the study, 6 Months
This clinical trial will evaluate how an on-line health information sharing community of patients called PatientsLikeMe, www.patientslikeme.com, \[or "PLM"\] may help patients feel better supported during treatment. This study will also evaluate how much PLM can help collect information on side effects from chemotherapy and endocrine treatments, and radiation therapy.