Message: Study of Patients' Perception of Physician's Compassion
The goal of this study is to learn what types of conversations patients prefer to have with their doctor about treatment options and how patients view their doctor's compassion.
Advanced Cancer
OTHER: Video|BEHAVIORAL: Survey
Participant's Rating of Physician's Compassion, Physician compassion tested using compassion data from the first video viewed by each patient as assessed by a Physician Compassion Assessment survey. Patient's rating of physician's compassion by using a 5-item tool consisting of five 0-10 numerical rating scales assessing five dimensions: warm-cold, pleasant-unpleasant, compassionate-distant, sensitive insensitive, caring-uncaring. The sum of the five scales will give a final score representing physician's compassion with a 0 to 50 scale., Approximately 38 minutes for video viewing and surveys.
If participant agree to take part in the study, basic information will be collected (such as date of birth, date of diagnosis, sex, and religion). Participant will also complete questionnaires about any symptoms they may be having, how hopeful they are, how they are accepting the disease, their trust in the medical profession, and how they like information to be delivered to them.

After completing the questionnaires, they will be randomly assigned (as the roll of dice) to one of 4 groups.

Regardless of which group they are in, they will watch 2 short videos that show actors portraying a doctor and patient having a conversation about treatment options in a clinical setting. Both videos will discuss the same material, but the order of the videos and the actors in the videos will be different for each group. Both videos are about 4 minutes long.

After watching each video, the participant will complete 3 questionnaires about the doctor in the video. It should take about 38 minutes to watch both videos and to complete all of the questionnaires.

After they have watched both videos, they will be asked to choose which doctor they preferred and to briefly explain the reasons why they chose that doctor.

Length of Study:

Participant will be off study after they have completed the last questionnaire.