Efficacy and Safety of MTBF Conditioning Regimen for Salvageable Allo-HSCT in the Treatment of R/R AML
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of MTBF conditioning regimen of salvageable allo-HSCT in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia. The secondary purpose of the study was to observe the safety of MTBF regimen in these patients.
Relapse Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Conditioning|Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
DRUG: MTBF regimen
Recurrence rate, Disease activity in patients after transplantation, 2 years post transplantation
Incidence and Severity of non-hematological adverse events (NCI CTCAE v5.0), The incidence and severity of non-hematological adverse events were evaluated using NCI CTCAE v5.0 criteria., from the beginning of the conditioning regimen to 2 years post transplantation|Neutrophil recovery time, Peripheral blood neutrophil count (ANC) ≥0.5×10\^9/L for three consecutive days without blood transfusion support, 1 month post transplantation|Platelet recovery time, Peripheral blood platelet (PLT) ≥20×10\^9/L for three consecutive days without blood transfusion support., 1 month post transplantation|OS, Overall survival, From date of diagnosis until the end of follow-up or the date of death from any couse. Time rage: 6 months post transplantation, 12 months post transplantation.|PFS, Progression-free survival, From date of diagnosis until the end of follow-up or disease progression. Time rage: 6 months post transplantation, 12 months post transplantation.
aGVHD, The incidence of acute graft versus host disease, At day 100 post transplantation
High-intensity conditioning regimen prior to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) can maximize the clearance of leukemia cells, but is often associated with increased pretreatment-related toxicity and transplant-related mortality. In order to enhance its anti-tumor effect without increasing or even decreasing its tissue toxicity, and then prolong the overall survival of AML patients, we optimized the conditioning regimen before allo-HSCT transplantation: (1) The classical Thiotepa/Busulfan/Fludarabine (TBF) regimen will be adopted to reduce the conditioning associated toxicity, ensure graft implantation to the maximum extent and reduce the recurrence rate; ② At the same time, mitoxantrone hydrochloride liposome will be added to avoid the disadvantages of weak immunosuppressive effect and weak anti-leukemia effect, and MTBF pretreatment scheme will be finally explored. It has been applied in the pre-treatment of salvage allo-HSCT in 3 patients with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia with good safety. Up to the present follow-up time of 4 months, all 3 patients have disease free survival. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of this protocol, we intend to include more patients undergoing salvage allo-HSCT for relapsed or refractory (R/R) AML.