To Assess the Safety, Tolerability and Efficacy of Itacitinib Immediate Release Tablets in Participants With Primary or Secondary Myelofibrosis Who Have Received Prior Ruxolitinib and/or Fedratinib Monotherapy (LIMBER-213)
This is a 2-part study. In Part 1, participants will be dosed at 2 different dose levels in order to select the RP2D for Part 2 of the study.
Myelofibrosis|Polycythemia Vera|Thrombocythemia
DRUG: itacitinib
Part 1: Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not it was considered drug-related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable or unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. A TEAE was defined as an AE that was reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of study treatment., up to 724 days|Part 1: Number of Participants With Any Grade 3 or Higher TEAE, A TEAE was defined as an AE that was reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of study treatment. The severity of AEs was assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 Grades 1 through 5. The investigator made an assessment of intensity for each AE and SAE reported during the study and assigned it to 1 of the following categories: Grade 1: mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; treatment not indicated. Grade 2: moderate; minimal, local, or noninvasive treatment indicated; limiting age-appropriate activities of daily living. Grade 3: severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4: life-threatening consequences; urgent treatment indicated. Grade 5: fatal., up to 724 days|Part 2: Splenic Response Rate (SRR) at Week 24, SRR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a reduction in spleen volume (by imaging) of at least 35% when compared with Baseline., Baseline; Week 24
Part 2: Number of Participants With Any TEAE, An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not it was considered drug-related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable or unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. A TEAE was defined as an AE that was reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of study treatment., up to at least 24 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With Any Grade 3 or Higher TEAE, A TEAE was defined as an AE that was reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of study treatment. The severity of AEs was assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 Grades 1 through 5. The investigator made an assessment of intensity for each AE and SAE reported during the study and assigned it to 1 of the following categories: Grade 1: mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; treatment not indicated. Grade 2: moderate; minimal, local, or noninvasive treatment indicated; limiting age-appropriate activities of daily living. Grade 3: severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4: life-threatening consequences; urgent treatment indicated. Grade 5: fatal., up to at least 24 weeks|Part 2: Total Symptom Score (TSS) Response Rate at Week 24, TSS response was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved at least 50% reduction in TSS over the 28 days immediately before the end of Week 24 compared with the 7 days immediately before the initiation of itacitinib immediate release (aseline).B, Baseline; Week 24|Part 2: Mean Change (From Day 1 Versus Week 12 and Week 24) in the 5 Multi-item Functional Scale Scores and the Multi-item Global Health Status Scale Score (EORTC QLQ-C30), The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) was to be used to assess the improvement in quality of life., Baseline; Weeks 12 and 24|Part 2: Percentage of Participants Categorized as Improved on the Week 24 Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC), The PGIC consists of a single question pertaining to a participant's overall status since the start of the study. The questionnaire gives participants 7 options to describe their overall status including: very much improved, much improved, minimally improved, no change, minimally worse, much worse, and very much worse., Baseline; Week 24
This is a 2-part study. In Part 1, participants will be dosed at 2 different dose levels in order to select the RP2D for Part 2 of the study.