Study to Compare the Combination of Ribociclib Plus Goserelin Acetate With Hormonal Therapy Versus Combination Chemotherapy in Premenopausal or Perimenopausal Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
To compare the combination of Ribociclib plus goserelin acetate with hormonal therapy versus combination chemotherapy in premenopausal or perimenopausal patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer
Breast Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Docetaxel / Capecitabine|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Capecitabine / Vinorelbine|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Paclitaxel / Gemcitabine|DRUG: Ribociclib|DRUG: Letrozole OR Anastrozole|DRUG: Goserelin
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression as per local review and according to RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause. PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment if no PFS event was observed at the time of last patient, last visit (LPLV)., Up to approximately 34 months
Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure was defined as the time from the date of randomization/start of treatment to the earliest of date of progression, date of death due to any cause, change to other anti-cancer therapy, or date of discontinuation due to reasons other than 'Protocol violation' or 'Administrative problems'. Patients who did not achieve a confirmed PR or CR were censored at: the maximum follow-up time (i.e., LPLV - first patient first visit \[FPFV\] used for the analysis) for patients who had a PFS event (i.e., either progressed or died due to any cause); the last adequate tumor assessment date for all other patients., Up to approximately 34 months|3-month Treatment Failure Rate, Treatment failure rate was defined as the percentage of patients who discontinued the study treatment due to progressive disease, death due to any cause, change to other anti-cancer therapy, or discontinuation due to reasons other than protocol violation or administrative problems., Up to approximately 3 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of patients with a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR, response without image confirmation), as per local review and according to RECIST 1.1., Up to approximately 34 months|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate was defined as the percentage of patients with a BOR of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD, response without image confirmation) lasting 24 weeks or longer, as defined by RECIST 1.1., Up to approximately 34 months|Time to Response, Time to response was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first documented response of either CR or PR, which must be subsequently confirmed, as defined by RECIST 1.1. Patients who did not achieve a confirmed PR or CR were censored at: the maximum follow-up time (i.e., LPLV - FPFV used for the analysis) for patients who had a PFS event (i.e., either progressed or died due to any cause); the last adequate tumor assessment date for all other patients., Up to approximately 34 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. If a patient was not known to have died at the time of LPLV, then OS was censored at the last contact date., Up to approximately 46 months|Change From Baseline in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (QOL) Scale Score by Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast (FACT-B) Questionnaire, FACT-B is a self-reported instrument that measures multidimensional quality of life (QOL) in patients with breast cancer. The FACT-B consists of 37 questions that address physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being, with specific questions relevant to women with breast cancer. Each item has a score range of 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much), with a total score ranging from 0-148. The higher the score, the better the QOL reported by the participant. A positive change from baseline indicates improvement in QoL., Up to approximately 46 months|Number of Patients With Adverse Events, Categorized by Severity, Adverse events were assessed and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 or higher. If CTCAE grading did not exist for an adverse event, the severity of mild, moderate, severe, and life-threatening, corresponding to Grades 1 - 4, were used. A patient with multiple severity grades for an AE was only counted under the maximum grade. Data for Grades 3 and 4 are reported., Up to approximately 46 months|Number of Patients With Laboratory Abnormalities, Grading of laboratory values was assigned programmatically as per NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version available at the time of analysis. The calculation of CTCAE grades was based on the observed laboratory values only, clinical assessments were not be taken into account. CTCAE Grade 0 was assigned for all non-missing values not graded as 1 or higher. Grade 5 was not used. For laboratory tests where grades were not defined by CTCAE available at the time of analysis, results were categorized as low/normal/high based on laboratory normal ranges., Up to approximately 46 months|Post-Hoc: All Collected Deaths, On-treatment deaths due to any cause were collected from first dose of study medication to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment. Post-treatment survival follow-up deaths were collected from day 31 after last dose of study medication to end of study., On-treatment deaths: Up to approximately 46 months. Post-treatment survival follow-up deaths: Up to approximately 2 additional months.
Patients were randomly assigned to one of the below treatment arms in 1:1 ratio:

* Ribociclib arm: non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor (NSAI) + goserelin + Ribociclib
* Combination chemotherapy arm: Either of docetaxel + capecitabine, paclitaxel + gemcitabine, or capecitabine + vinorelbine based chemotherapy treatment Randomization was stratified by (1) the presence of liver metastases (present or absent) (2) disease-free interval (DFI) \< 2 years (yes or no, de novo stage 4 was defined as DFI \> 2 years).

The study consisted of a 28-day Screening phase, treatment phase (including end of treatment (EOT) visit and safety follow-up), and survival follow-up. Patients received study treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death, or discontinuation from the study treatment for any other reason.

Patients were followed for survival regardless of treatment discontinuation for any reason (except if consent was withdrawn, patient was lost to follow-up, or until death) and regardless of achieving the primary endpoint, until death, withdrawal of consent, or loss to follow-up.