Pretreatment With Valproate Prior to Immunotherapy Targeting Cluster of Differentiation Antigen 20 in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
This trial includes patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the most common kind of malignant lymphoma. Monoclonal antibodies directed against cluster of differentiation antigen 20 have improved treatment results in different forms of lymphomas; however in chronic lymphocytic leukemia treatment with monoclonal antibodies is less effective, and it has been suggested that this is depending on a lower expression of the cluster of differentiation antigen 20 protein on the chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells.

Valproate, an anticonvulsant drug, has been shown to increase the cluster of differentiation antigen 20 expression, and the rationale in this study is that an increasement of cluster of differentiation antigen 20 would make treatment with monoclonal antibodies in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia more effective.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Valproate
Levels of CD20 protein and messengerRNA in response to treatment with valproate in patients with chronic lymphatic leukemia., Blood samples to determine the level of CD20 and messengerRNA are taken day 1 and 4 at each cycle; 3 cycles are given with a cycle length of 21 days. Valproate concentration are taken day 1, 2, 3 and 4 at each cycle.
Translational blood samples., Blood tests for translational studies of the epigenetic and transcriptional regulation of the CD20 promotor are taken prestudy, day 1, 2, 3 and 4 at each cycle and 3 months post treatment.
Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability., During treatment period (6 weeks) and 4 weeks post treatment, in total 10 weeks.
This trial includes patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the most common kind of malignant lymphoma. Monoclonal antibodies directed against cluster of differentiation antigen 20 have improved treatment results in different forms of lymphomas; however in chronic lymphocytic leukemia treatment with monoclonal antibodies is less effective, and it has been suggested that this is depending on a lower expression of the cluster of differentiation antigen 20 protein on the chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells.

Valproate, an anticonvulsant drug, has been shown to increase the cluster of differentiation antigen 20 expression, and the rationale in this study is that an increasement of cluster of differentiation antigen 20 would make treatment with monoclonal antibodies in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia more effective.