Calcineurin Inhibitor-Free GVHD Prevention Regimen After Related Haplo PBSCT
The purpose of this study is to find out if a combination of drugs (these are called: cyclophosphamide, sirolimus, and mycophenolate mofetil) will protect participants better against graft vs. host disease (GVHD) after receiving a hematopoietic cell transplant from a related partially matched (haploidentical) donor. As part of the treatment for their blood cancer, participants need a hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) to improve their chances of cure. In any HCT, after the stem cell infusion is given, a combination of drugs is needed to prevent GVHD and facilitate acceptance of the graft.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Acute Leukemia in Remission|Chronic Myeloid Leukemia|Primary Myelofibrosis|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|RADIATION: Total body irradiation (TBI)|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT)|DRUG: Sirolimus (SIR)|DRUG: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)|DRUG: Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)
Incidence of Grade II-IV Acute Graft vs. Host Disease (GVHD), Cumulative incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD by day 100 after HCT. Acute GVHD organ staging and assessment of overall grade will use standard consensus criteria. The cumulative incidence of acute and chronic GVHD will be estimated, considering malignancy relapse and non-relapse death as competing risk events., 100 days post hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT)
Incidence of Chronic GVHD, Cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD by 1 year. Chronic GVHD diagnosis follow National Institutes of Health (NIH) Consensus guidelines., 1 year post HCT|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as time from transplant to death or last follow-up, and is reported as percentage of surviving participants., Up to 1 year post HCT|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival defined by the time interval from transplant to relapse/recurrence, to death or to last follow-up. Reported as percentage of participants who are disease free one year post HCT., Up to 1 year post HCT
The purpose of this study is to find out if a combination of drugs (these are called: cyclophosphamide, sirolimus, and mycophenolate mofetil) will protect participants better against graft vs. host disease (GVHD) after receiving a hematopoietic cell transplant from a related partially matched (haploidentical) donor. As part of the treatment for their blood cancer, participants need a hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) to improve their chances of cure. In any HCT, after the stem cell infusion is given, a combination of drugs is needed to prevent GVHD and facilitate acceptance of the graft.