Poly-ICLC in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Progressive Anaplastic Glioma
RATIONALE: Biological therapies such as poly-ICLC use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop tumor cells from growing.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how poly-ICLC works in treating patients with recurrent, progressive, or relapsed anaplastic glioma.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: poly ICLC
Proportion of Participants With Objective Response Rate (ORR), Measurable: Bidimensionally measurable lesions w/ clearly defined margins by MRI Evaluable: Unidimensionally measurable lesions, masses w/margins not clearly defined.

Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all measurable/evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of non-evaluable disease. Patients on minimal/no steroids.

Partial Response (PR): \>/= to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable disease. Responders must be on same/decreasing doses of dexamethasone.

Stable/No Response: Does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression.

Progression: 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over BL if no decrease), OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer).

ORR = CR + PR, 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Progression Free Survival, Participants evaluated from date of study entry to the 6 month scan for progression, 6 months
Number if Participants With Grade 3 and 4 Toxicities Associated With Poly-ICLC in Recurrent Gliomas, Toxicities defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0, 2 years|Overall Survival, based on date of study entry, 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the objective response rate in patients with recurrent or progressive anaplastic glioma treated with poly ICLC.
* Determine the efficacy of this drug, in terms of 6-month progression-free survival, in these patients.
* Determine the safety profile of this drug in these patients.
* Determine the survival of patients treated with this drug.
* Determine the tumor response rate in patients treated with this drug.
* Determine the biological effects of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive poly ICLC intramuscularly 3 times a week for 4 weeks. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 22-46 patients will be accrued for this study.