Study of Senaparib in Combination With Temozolomide in ARID1A Mutation Associated Ovarian Cancer
This is a phase 2 study to test the effectiveness (anti-tumor activity) of the combination of the study drugs, Senaparib and Temozolomide, in patients with clear cell or endometrioid ovarian cancers that have ARID1A pathologic variants.
Ovary Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
DRUG: Senaparib|DRUG: Temozolomide
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Clinical activity (response frequency) of Senaparib and Temozolomide. The primary endpoint of clinical activity is the objective response rate (ORR) defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR). Tumor response is defined by RECIST v 1.1. If a patient fails to respond (or has stable disease), the patient will be defined as a non-responder in the analysis. ORR will be estimated using binomial distribution together with 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence interval., 3 years
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Examine the nature and degree of toxicity in patients treated with this regimen.

Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of all relevant parameters including adverse events (AEs), serious AEs (SAEs). Frequency and severity (grades based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 of AEs will be summarized by system organ class, preferred term, and relation to study drug., 3 years|Frequency of Grade 3 and 4 Adverse Events, Number of Grade 3 and 4 treatment-related adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 criteria will be summarized., 3 years
This is a single-arm phase 2, two-stage, non-randomized multicenter Phase 2 study designed to evaluate the clinical activity (response frequency) of senaparib and temozolomide (TMZ) in patients with recurrent or persistent clear cell or endometrioid ovarian cancer.

Up to 18 adult female subjects will be enrolled and receive senaparib 80mg orally daily Days 1-28 and TMZ 20mg daily Days 1-21 of a 28 day cycle. Tumor assessments will be performed every 8 weeks for first 3 cycles then every 12 weeks thereafter until progressive disease is confirmed. Treatment will continue until either unacceptable toxicity, progression of disease, or withdrawal of consent.