A Study to Determine Whether Chemotherapy and Atezolizumab is Better Than Chemotherapy, Bevacizumab and Atezolizumab in Patients With Advanced Liver Cancer
This phase II trial compares the effect of adding bevacizumab and atezolizumab to gemcitabine and cisplatin (chemotherapy) versus chemotherapy and atezolizumab in treating patients with liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) or that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bevacizumab is in a class of medications called antiangiogenic agents. It works by stopping the formation of blood vessels that bring oxygen and nutrients to tumor. This may slow the growth and spread of tumor. Chemotherapy drugs, such as gemcitabine and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving bevacizumab and atezolizumab with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells in patients liver cancer than chemotherapy and atezolizumab.
Combined Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Cholangiocarcinoma|Stage III Liver Cancer|Stage IV Liver Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Conventional Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride
Progression free survival (PFS), Defined as time to progressive disease or death due to any cause as determined by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1. The null hypothesis of equality of PFS will be tested using a one-sided alternative favoring the quadruplet arm. The primary comparison will be via a one-sided log rank test., From start of treatment until progression, assessed up to 3 years
Objective response rate, Defined as a complete or partial response as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. Will be tested using a Fisher's exact test at a one-sided significance level of 0.10., Up to 3 years|Overall response rate, Will be tested using a Fisher's exact test at a one-sided significance level of 0.10., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether a quadruplet combined chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and anti-VEGF therapy improves progression-free survival (PFS), defined as time to progressive disease or death due to any cause as determined by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1, compared to chemotherapy plus immunotherapy in patients with advanced combined hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma (cHCC-CC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether a quadruplet combined chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and anti-VEGF therapy improves objective response (OR), defined as a complete or partial response as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1, compared to chemotherapy plus immunotherapy in patients with advanced cHCC-CC.

II. To evaluate whether a quadruplet combined chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and anti-VEGF therapy improves overall response (OS), and disease control rate as determined by the investigator using RECIST v1.1, compared to chemotherapy plus immunotherapy in patients with advanced cHCC-CC.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1, bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1, gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, and cisplatin IV on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial. Patients undergo blood specimen collection on study.

ARM B: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1, and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes and cisplatin IV on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT or magnetic resonance imaging MRI throughout the trial. Patients undergo blood specimen collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.