Low, Intermediate, or High Dose Suramin in Treating Patients With Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer
Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of low, intermediate, and high dose suramin in treating men with stage IV prostate cancer that is refractory to hormone therapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known which regimen of suramin is more effective for prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: suramin|DRUG: suramin|DRUG: Suramin
Response, PSA levels, Week 12 and then monthly|Response, Radiographic evaluation, Week 12 and every 12 weeks thereafter
Toxicity, pre-study, day 1, then every 2 weeks during treatment and every 8 weeks during follow up|Survival, post treatment until patient expires|Quality of Life, pre-study, 2 weeks post treatment, and every 12 weeks in follow up
OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the response in patients with advanced hormone-refractory adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with low- vs intermediate- vs high-dose suramin.

II. Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients. III. Compare the overall and failure-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

IV. Compare the duration of complete and partial responses in patients treated with these regimens.

V. Determine the population pharmacokinetics of these regimens and correlate these parameters with the toxicity of these regimens and response rate in these patients.

VI. Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens. VII. Determine the relationship of absolute and relative decrease in PSA and rate of PSA decrease with the likelihood and duration of response in patients treated with these regimens.

VIII. Determine whether a change in fibroblast growth factor levels in patients treated with suramin can be associated with the pharmacokinetics of suramin or the likelihood of clinical response in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease site (bone only vs soft tissue), CALGB/Zubrod performance status (0 or 1 vs 2), number of prior hormonal therapies (1 or 2 vs 3), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive low-dose suramin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 29, 30, 36, 37, 57, 58, 64, and 65 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Arm II: Patients receive intermediate-dose suramin as in arm I.

Arm III: Patients receive high-dose suramin as in arm I. Patients with new progression after partial or complete response may receive additional courses, at the discretion of the study chairperson, beginning at least 12 weeks after completion of the first course and continuing in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed.

Patients are followed every 4 weeks until disease progression and then periodically for new primary cancer(s) and survival.