Enzalutamide in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This pilot clinical trial studies enzalutamide in treating patients with mantle cell lymphoma that has returned after a period of improvement (relapsed) or has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Androgens can cause the growth of cancer cells. Antihormone therapy, such as enzalutamide, may lessen the amount of androgen made by the body.
Ann Arbor Stage I Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Enzalutamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) Including Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) as Measured by Standard Criteria, An ORR of 20% (4 or more responses among 20 patients) will be taken as a benchmark for success for the primary endpoint of this pilot study. Evaluation of response is per standard NCI Response Criteria Cheson 2014 and assessed by PET-CT; CR = complete metabolic response, PR = decrease by more the 50% in the sum of the product of the perpendicular diameters., Up to 5 years
Time to Treatment Failure, From the first treatment administration to the first time to treatment failure, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves and corresponding quartiles (including the median)., From first study drug administration to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Up to 5 years|Number of Participants With One or More Adverse Events, Measured by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Up to 30 days after study treatment completion, an average of 18 weeks.|Disease Control Rate (CR + PR + Stable Disease [SD] > 3 Months), The count of participants who achieved a CR, PR, or SD for greater than 3 months., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Perform a preliminary assessment of the efficacy of single-agent enzalutamide, based on overall response rate, in subjects with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) or previously untreated MCL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the duration of disease control (progression free survival) in patients with MCL treated with enzalutamide.

II. To evaluate the safety profile of enzalutamide in MCL.

III. To gain preliminary data on clinical activity and toxicity of this regimen in male versus (vs.) female patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD). Courses 1-3 repeat every 4 weeks (28 days) and subsequent courses repeat every 12 weeks (84 days) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.