Cabazitaxel Plus Prednisone With Octreotide For Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC) Previously Treated With Docetaxel
This phase II trial studies how well octreotide works in reducing diarrhea in patients receiving cabazitaxel and prednisone for hormone-resistant prostate cancer (HRPC) previously treated with docetaxel. Octreotide may prevent diarrhea by blocking the secretion of several hormones in patients receiving chemotherapy for prostate cancer
Diarrhea|Hormone-resistant Prostate Cancer|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage I Prostate Cancer|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: cabazitaxel|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: octreotide pamoate|OTHER: questionnaire administration|DRUG: octreotide acetate
Development of Grade 2 plus diarrhea, Defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0 criteria as an increase in frequency of 4 or greater stools per day over baseline, incontinence, diarrhea warranting hospitalization or diarrhea limiting self-care activities of daily living (ADL). Baseline frequency will be defined in the pre-treatment assessment from cycle 1 as the maximum number of stools in one 24 hour period during the past 2 weeks. Any incidence of grade 2 or greater diarrhea during treatment or for up to 21 days after the last administration of cabazitaxel will be included in this endpoint., Baseline through 21 days after the last administration of cabazitaxel
Progression-Free Survival, At 1 month after completion of treatment, every 3 months until disease progression, and then every 6 months thereafter|Overall Survival, At 1 month after completion of treatment, every 3 months until disease progression, and then every 6 months thereafter|RECIST response for patients with measurable disease, Baseline, after every 4 courses, at the end of treatment, and then every 6 months|Prostate-Specific Antigen response, Baseline, day 1 of each course, at the end of treatment, and then every 6 months|Pain palliation in patients with a baseline pain score greater or equal to 2, Baseline, day 1 of each 3 week course, at the end of treatment, and then every 6 months for up to 52 weeks|Toxicity (adverse events considered to be at least possibly drug-related), Baseline, day 1 of each course, and at the end of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of octreotide in reducing the incidence of grade 2 or greater diarrhea in men receiving cabazitaxel plus prednisone for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) after docetaxel therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival (OS).

II. Progression-free survival (PFS) (defined as the time between treatment start and the first date of progression as measured by objective tumor progression using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), pain progression or death).

III. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate.

IV. Objective response rate.

V. Pain response.

VI. Toxicity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabazitaxel as intravenous (IV) infusion over 1 hour on day 1, prednisone by mouth (PO) every day (QD), and octreotide pamoate given as intramuscular (IM) injection on day 1. Patients also receive octreotide acetate as a subcutaneous (SC) injection three times a day (TID) on days 1-14 of course 1 only. Treatment with cabazitaxel repeats every 21 days and treatment with prednisone and octreotide pamoate repeats every 4 weeks for up to 10 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months until disease progression, and then every 6 months thereafter.