Dendritic Cell Vaccination During Lymphoid Reconstruction
This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter, dose-escalation study of fludarabine. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

The purpose of this study is to find out what side effects are caused in this study and whether Fludarabine with the dendritic cell vaccine (DC vaccine) can increase the ability of the immune system to recognize melanoma.
Intraocular Melanoma|Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous Dendritic Cells (DC)|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Autologous Lymphocyte Infusion (ALI)
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as the time from first day of treatment to time of death due to any cause. If a patient is still alive, survival time is censored at the time of last follow-up., 3 years, 6 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival is defined as the time from first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not progressed or died, progression-free survival is censored at the time of last follow-up. Evaluation of target lesions: Progressive Disease (PD)- At least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as references the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 3 years, 6 months|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to Progression is defined as the time from first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to disease. If failure has not occurred, failure time is censored at the time of last follow-up. Evaluation of target lesions: Progressive Disease (PD)- At least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as references the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 3 years, 6 months
This is a dose ranging study of intranodal administration of autologous dendritic cells (DC) pulsed with tumor antigen class I peptides derived from MART-1 (26-35) (27L), gp100 (209-217 (210M), gp100 280-288 (288V), NY-ESO-1 157-165 (165V) and tyrosinase 207-215 as well as class II MART-1 (51-73), NY-ESO-1 (119-143), MAGE-3 (243-258) and tyrosinase (450-462) peptides preceded by Autologous Lymphocyte Infusion (ALI) and one of two doses of Fludarabine. The nine or ten amino acid peptides representing HLA-A2 restricted T cell epitopes of MART-1, gp100, NY-ESO-1 and tyrosinase will be pulsed onto autologous dendritic cells produced by incubation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained by apheresis with interleukin-4 (IL-4) and GM-CSF and pulsed with four helper peptides then matured with a cytokine cocktail including TNF-a, IL-6, IL-1b and PGE2. Melanoma antigen peptide-pulsed dendritic cells will be administered at a total dose of 10 million cells each for four intranodal injections to patients with chemotherapy-naïve metastatic melanoma.

DC matured with a cytokine cocktail and pulsed with class I and II peptides will be injected intranodally, weekly for two doses, then every two weeks for two doses, for a total of four injections to each cohort.