Observation Study: Superselective Drug-Eluting Chemoembolization in Unresectable Intermediate and Advanced HCC Patients
The purpose of this multicenter registry is to gather the safety, efficacy and survival data in intermediate and advanced HCC patients treated drug-eluting microsphere in Taiwan in order to provide clinical evidence in HCC management to physicians in the region, and to support the application of deTACE in treating advanced HCC patients.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Overall survival, To define all participants from the day of the first HepaSphere Treatment until end of study or death is reported, whichever comes first., 1 year
Tumor Response, Tumor response will be assessed using modified Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (mRECIST) criteria to evaluate tumor necrosis under CT/ MRI and will be presented as %., 1 year|Adverse Event (AE), Adverse event will be accessed according to CTCAE 4.0 after treatments until end of study or death., 1 year
Exploratory Objectives, Time-To-Progression (TTP), To define all participants from the day of the first HepaSphere Treatment until tumor progression or death is first reported, whichever comes first., 1 year|Exploratory Objectives, Downstaging, Tumor staging will be accessed according to BCLC staging system and Milan criteria, and will be reviewed at follow-up until end of study or death., 1 year
The purpose of this multicenter registry is to gather the safety, efficacy and survival data in intermediate and advanced HCC patients treated drug-eluting microsphere in Taiwan in order to provide clinical evidence on deTACE in HCC management to physicians in the region, and to support the application of in treating advanced HCC patients.

1. Primary Objective:

   To collect 1-year overall survival of chemoembolization with drug-eluting microsphere in intermediate and advanced HCC patients in Taiwan.
2. Secondary Objectives:

   1. To evaluate the overall tumor response of chemoembolization with drug-eluting microsphere in intermediate and advanced HCC patients. The tumor response is according to Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST) criteria.
   2. To evaluate the local tumor response (in the tumor(s) treated with drug-eluting microsphere) by chemoembolization with drug-eluting microsphere in intermediate and advanced HCC patients.
   3. To evaluate the safety profile of chemoembolization with drug-eluting microsphere in intermediate and advanced HCC patients.
3. Exploratory Objectives:

   1. To evaluate the downstaging and downsizing potential of chemoembolization with drug-eluting microsphere in intermediate and advanced HCC patients to within Milan Criteria and to within Resection margin.
   2. To collect time-to-progression (TTP) and progress-free-survival (PFS) data of chemoembolization with drug-eluting microsphere in intermediate and advanced HCC patients.