Buparlisib and Ofatumumab or Ibrutinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of buparlisib when given together with ofatumumab or ibrutinib in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia that has returned after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Buparlisib and ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ofatumumab, may block cancer growth in different ways by targeting certain cells. Giving buparlisib or ibrutinib and ofatumumab together may work better in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Buparlisib|DRUG: Ibrutinib|BIOLOGICAL: Ofatumumab
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of buparlisib when combined with ibrutinib in relapsed/refractory CLL for ibrutinib naive patients defined as the dose level at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity, Adverse events and toxicities will be summarized using NCI CTCAE version 4 and based on severity and perceived attribution to study treatment., 28 days|MTD of buparlisib when combined with ofatumumab in relapsed/refractory CLL for ibrutinib pre-treated patients defined as the dose level at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity, Adverse events and toxicities will be summarized using NCI CTCAE version 4 and based on severity and perceived attribution to study treatment., 28 days
Complete response rate, Reported descriptively in tabular form., Up to 5 years|Incidence of non-dose limiting toxicities and adverse events, Summarized by the NCI CTCAE version 4.03 criteria and tabulated across all patients who received any treatment with a focus on severe (grade 3+) adverse events and toxicities (those deemed at least possibly related to study treatment)., Up to 5 years|Nodal response rate, Reported descriptively in tabular form., Up to 5 years|Overall response rate, Reported descriptively in tabular form., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of combined ofatumumab and buparlisib in patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) who have been exposed to ibrutinib (i.e., ibrutinib pre-treated).

II. To evaluate the safety and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of combined ibrutinib and buparlisib in patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) who have NOT been exposed to ibrutinib (i.e., ibrutinib naïve)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine specific toxicities associated with combined buparlisib and ofatumumab.

II. Evaluate for efficacy of buparlisib in combination with ofatumumab in ibrutinib pre-treated patients with CLL/SLL.

III. To determine specific toxicities associated with combined buparlisib and ibrutinib.

IV. To evaluate for efficacy of buparlisib in combination with ibrutinib in ibrutinib naive patients with CLL/SLL.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of buparlisib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment cohorts.

COHORT A (ibrutinib pre-treated): Patients receive buparlisib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and ofatumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 during of courses 1-2; and day 1 of courses 4-7. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT B (ibrutinib naive): Patients receive buparlisib as in Cohort A and ibrutinib PO on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.