A Pilot Study of Oncaspar® + Dexamethasone in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory T-Cell Lymphoma
This is an open-label, single-arm pilot study of Oncaspar® with dexamethasone for patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL), excluding extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma (ENKTL). Patients will receive up to 8 courses of treatment.
T-Cell Lymphoma|Relapsed T-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: PEG-L-asparaginase|DRUG: Dexamethasone acetate
Overall response rate (complete + partial response) in evaluable patients., 24 weeks
Duration of response for patients with PR or CR, 24 weeks|Grade 2 and above attributable toxicity of treatment., 24 weeks|Progression-free survival., This will be assessed in both evaluable patients and in responders., 1 year|Complete remission (CR) rate., This will be assessed both in the intent-to-treat and in the evaluable populations., 24 weeks|Partial remission (PR) rate., This will be assessed both in the intent-to-treat and in the evaluable populations., 24 weeks|The stable disease (SD) rates in this population and in the intent-to-treat population, 24 weeks|Progressive disease (PD) rate., This will be assessed both in the intent-to-treat and in the evaluable populations., 24 weeks|Stable disease (SD) rate., This will be assessed both in the intent-to-treat and in the evaluable populations., 24 weeks|Overall survival, This will be assessed in both evaluable patients and in responders., 1 year
This is an open-label, investigator-initiated, single-arm pilot study. Patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) will receive Oncaspar® every 3 weeks up to a maximum of 8 courses or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. They will also receive dexamethasone 40mg daily for 4 days with every cycle. They will be restaged after 2 courses (6 weeks) and after 8 courses (24 weeks).

Both Oncaspar and dexamethasone have been used together to treat ALL and ENKTL, which is another subtype of T cell lymphoma. The combination may provide a collaborative attack against the cancer cell; moreover, the dexamethasone could also prevent some of the side effects of Oncaspar; especially allergic reactions. This study will test these two drugs together to determine if they are an effective treatment for T-Cell Lymphoma. Each drug is commercially available to the drug market.