TSR-022 (anti-TIM-3 Antibody) and TSR-042 (anti-PD-1 Antibody) in Patients with Liver Cancer
TSR-022 (cobolimab, TIM-3 binding antibody) and TSR-042 (dostarlimab, PD-1 binding antibody) may stop the growth of tumor cells by allowing the immune system to attack the cancer. This phase II trial is studying how well TSR-022 (cobolimab, TIM-3 binding antibody) and TSR-042 (dostarlimab, PD-1 binding antibody) work in combination in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic liver cancer.
Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer
DRUG: TSR-022 and TSR-042
Objective Response Rate, Determined by RECIST v1.1 criteria, From date of treatment until the date of best documented response, assessed up to 36 months
Objective Response Rate (irRC), Objective response as determined by the immune related Response Criteria, From date of treatment until the date of best documented response, assessed up to 36 months|Duration of Response, Time from tumor response to progression, From date of treatment until the date of progression, assessed up to 36 months|Time to progression, Time from treatment to progression of cancer, From date of treatment until the date of progression, assessed up to 36 months|Progression free survival, Time from treatment to progression of cancer or death, From date of treatment until the date of progression or death, assessed up to 36 months|Overall survival, Time from treatment to death, From date of treatment until the date of death, assessed up to 36 months|AFP response, Percentage of AFP decrease from baseline to nadir, From treatment start to documentation of AFP progression, assessed up to 36 months.|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Tabulation of adverse events, CTCAE v4.0, From treatment until cessation of study treatment and resolution of adverse events, assessed up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the objective response rate (ORR) as determined by RECIST v1.1 of advanced hepatocellular cancer (HCC) patients treated with TSR-022 (cobolimab, TIM-3 binding antibody) and TSR-042 (dostarlimab, PD-1 binding antibody).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the ORR as determined by the immune related Response Criteria (irRC), duration of response (DOR), time to progression (TTP), progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) response of study participants.

II. To evaluate the safety profile of treated patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive TSR-022 (cobolimab, TIM-3 binding antibody) and TSR-042 (dostarlimab, PD-1 binding antibody) on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 9 weeks.