Comparing Different Sizes of Small-bore Chest Drains in Malignant Pleural Effusion
Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) is a very common medical condition, especially among patients with disseminated cancers. Chest drain insertion aims to drain the pleural fluid collection and relieve dyspnea. Small bore chest tubes are recommended as the first line therapy for draining pleural effusions. However, there is no clinical data available to inform on the size of drains for better drainage. This is a randomized study comparing the two common bores of small bore chest drains in Hong Kong, and assess for its clinical efficacy and complication risks.
Pleural Effusion, Malignant|Lung Cancer Stage IV|Chest Tubes
DEVICE: Seldinger chest drain insertion
Number of patients with drainage success by day 5 of chest drain, Drain success is defined by achieving nearly complete drainage through chest-x ray or ultrasound, Day 5 of chest drain insertion
Pain assessed by visual analogue scale ( score from 1 to 10 )when drain is in-situ, To record pain through visual analogue scale, which in higher score signifies worse pain, Day 5 of chest drain insertion|Change in dyspnea assessed by visual analogue scale for dyspnea ( score from 1 to 10 ), To record change in dyspnea through the dyspnea visual analogue scale, which a higher score signifies worse dyspnea, Day 5 of chest drain insertion|Rate of complications during and after insertion, To record and analyse complications during and after insertion, Day 5 of chest drain insertion
Introduction: Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) is the commonest complication of lung cancer, and its associated symptoms are frequent causes of hospitalizations and morbidities in patients with disseminated cancers. Chest tube drainage is often performed for symptomatic relief. Recent clinical trials had shown that large-bore chest drains (\>14 French) caused significantly more pain than smaller drain during the insertion procedure and when the drain was in situ, which prompts the shift of preference towards smaller chest drains in guideline and clinical practice. Chest drains as small-bore as 7-8 French have been used in many local centers for drainage of MPE, though little attention has been made to the possible higher occurrence of drain blockage, kinking or dislodgement before optimal effusion drainage is achieved, which may lead to a second procedure for drain replacement. Currently, there is no data informing the efficacy and complications of ultra-small chest drains in clinical use. Therefore, it is imperative to call for further research on the optimal size of the chest drain which can achieve satisfactory drainage and at the same time, of minimal complications.

Study design: Single-center, parallel group, single blinded, randomized controlled study Study site: Department of Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital Target study participants: Subjects with symptomatic MPE requiring chest drainage

Method and analysis: This randomized controlled study to compare the efficacy of ultra-small bore chest drains (8 Fr) with standard small bore chest drain (14 French) as the reference. Primary outcome is drain success defined by nearly complete drainage of MPE on chest radiograph on day 5 of the drain. Other secondary outcomes include pain according to the visual analogue scale, dyspnea relief and complications during the procedure and post - chest drain insertion.