A Study Of Treatment Patterns And Clinical Outcomes In Patients Diagnosed With Acute Myeloid Leukemia Who Received Mylotarg in the Real-World
The aim of this observational study is to describe treatment patterns and effectiveness outcomes in a sample of oncology patients treated for AML with Mylotarg through up to two additional relapsed/refractory (R/R)-based lines of therapy (through third-line therapy). The study will use United States oncology electronic medical record (EMR) data. All study data are secondary data and will have been collected retrospectively from existing clinical data originally collected as part of routine care.
Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute
DRUG: Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin
Real-World Event-Free Survival (rwEFS), rwEFS defined as time from treatment initiation date (for first line of Mylotarg-containing therapy) to date of treatment failure (TF), relapse from complete response (CR) or better, death from any cause, whichever came first. TF defined as failure to achieve CR or better following up to 3 cycles of Mylotarg. Time origin for rwEFS was start of Mylotarg in first line of therapy in which it was used. Terminal event for analysis of rwEFS was earlier of treatment failure, relapse from CR or better, death. CR is defined as having less than (\<) 5% blasts in the bone marrow and 0% blasts in the peripheral blood. Real-world setting signifies participants treated in clinical practice and in a non-trial setting., From treatment initiation date to date of TF, relapse from CR or better, death from any cause, whichever came first (maximum duration of 3 years)|Real-World Relapse Free Survival (rwRFS), rwRFS was defined as the time from the treatment initiation date (during the first line of Mylotarg-containing therapy) to the date of a relapse event, or death from any cause, whichever came first. The time origin for rwRFS was the start of Mylotarg in the first line of therapy in which it was used. Real-world setting signifies participants treated in clinical practice and in a non-trial setting., From the treatment initiation date (during the first line of Mylotarg-containing therapy) to the date of a relapse event, or death from any cause, whichever came first (maximum duration of 3 years)|Real-World Overall Survival (rwOS), rwOS was defined as the time from the start of the first Mylotarg use till the date of death. Participants who were not indicated to be deceased in clinical records or Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) records were censored for rwOS analysis as of the later of 1) the latest date known alive within the clinical record, 2) 4 months prior to the date of most recent SSDI update. Real-world setting signifies participants treated in clinical practice and in a non-trial setting., From the start of the first Mylotarg use till death (maximum duration of 3 years)|Number of Participants With First Positive Response, First positive response was assessed by physician as first response from any of the following: CR, partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD). CR is defined as having \< 5% blasts in the bone marrow and 0% blasts in the peripheral blood. PR is defined as having 5 to 25% bone marrow blasts with \> 50% reduction in blasts and peripheral blood count recovery. SD is defined as having no change in bone marrow blasts. PD is defined as having relapse following response. Participant for whom record did not indicate one of these classification classed as not evaluable (NE)., From the first qualifying Mylotarg-containing line of therapy to the end of the third line of therapy or the end of record, whichever occurs first (maximum duration of 3 years)
Duration of Therapy, Duration of therapy was time from the initiation of Mylotarg to the last date of Mylotarg therapy, regardless of line of therapy (duration could continue into subsequent lines of therapy), study end date, or death, whichever came first., From the initiation of Mylotarg to the last date of Mylotarg therapy (maximum duration of 3 years)
The aim of this observational study is to describe treatment patterns and effectiveness outcomes in a sample of oncology patients treated for AML with Mylotarg through up to two additional relapsed/refractory (R/R)-based lines of therapy (through third-line therapy). The study will use United States oncology electronic medical record (EMR) data. All study data are secondary data and will have been collected retrospectively from existing clinical data originally collected as part of routine care.