A Trial Comparing Cardiovascular Safety of Degarelix Versus Leuprolide in Patients With Advanced Prostate Cancer and Cardiovascular Disease
The purpose of this trial is to test if a marketed drug for advanced prostate cancer (FIRMAGON) can reduce the risk of cardiovascular complications as compared to another marketed drug for advanced prostate cancer (LUPRON DEPOT) in subjects with prostate cancer and cardiovascular disease.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Degarelix|DRUG: Leuprolide
Time From Randomization to the First Confirmed (Adjudicated) Occurrence of the Composite Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event (MACE) Endpoint; Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Composite MACE endpoint was defined as: death due to any cause, non-fatal myocardial infarction or non-fatal stroke.

Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict first confirmed (adjudicated) occurrence of composite MACE over time. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported.

Subjects were censored at the time a subject discontinued the trial, was lost to follow-up, discontinued treatment with IMP, initiated treatment with prohibited medication (including hormonal combination therapy), or at Day 336, whichever occurred first., Randomization to Day 336 (end-of-trial)
Time From Randomization to the First Confirmed (Adjudicated) Occurrence of Cardiovascular (CV)-Related Death, Non-fatal Myocardial Infarction or Non-fatal Stroke; Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict confirmed (adjudicated) occurrence of CV-related death, non-fatal myocardial infarction or non-fatal stroke. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported.

Subjects were censored at the time a subject discontinued the trial, was lost to follow-up, discontinued treatment with IMP, initiated treatment with prohibited medication (including hormonal combination therapy), or at Day 336, whichever occurred first., Randomization to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Time From Randomization to Confirmed (Adjudicated) CV-related Death; Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict confirmed (adjudicated) CV-related death. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported.

Subjects were censored at the time a subject discontinued the trial, was lost to follow-up, discontinued treatment with IMP, initiated treatment with prohibited medication (including hormonal combination therapy), or at Day 336, whichever occurred first., Randomization to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Time From Randomization to the First Confirmed (Adjudicated) Myocardial Infarction; Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict first confirmed (adjudicated) myocardial infarction. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported.

Subjects were censored at the time a subject discontinued the trial, was lost to follow-up, discontinued treatment with IMP, initiated treatment with prohibited medication (including hormonal combination therapy), or at Day 336, whichever occurred first., Randomization to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Time From Randomization to the First Confirmed (Adjudicated) Stroke; Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict first confirmed (adjudicated) stroke. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported.

Subjects were censored at the time a subject discontinued the trial, was lost to follow-up, discontinued treatment with IMP, initiated treatment with prohibited medication (including hormonal combination therapy), or at Day 336, whichever occurred first., Randomization to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Time From Randomization to the First Confirmed (Adjudicated) Unstable Angina Requiring Hospitalization; Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict first confirmed (adjudicated) unstable angina requiring hospitalization. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported.

Subjects were censored at the time a subject discontinued the trial, was lost to follow-up, discontinued treatment with IMP, initiated treatment with prohibited medication (including hormonal combination therapy), or at Day 336, whichever occurred first., Randomization to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Time From Randomization to Death Due to Any Cause; Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict death due to any cause. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported.

Subjects were censored at the time a subject discontinued the trial, was lost to follow-up, discontinued treatment with IMP, initiated treatment with prohibited medication (including hormonal combination therapy), or at Day 336, whichever occurred first., Randomization to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Testosterone Levels at Days 28, 168 and 336 in the Degarelix and Leuprolide Treatment Groups, Median levels and interquartile ranges for serum testosterone at Days 28, 168, and 336 are presented., Days 28, 168 and 336 (end-of-trial)|Time From Randomization to Failure in Progression-free Survival (PFS); Percentage of Observed Subjects With Outcome Measure Events During the Trial, Time to failure in PFS was defined as the time, measured in days, from randomization to the first occurrence of either death, radiographic disease progression, introduction of additional prostate cancer therapies for progression, or PSA failure.

Subjects who discontinued treatment with IMP or withdrew from the trial were censored at the time of discontinuation/withdrawal.

Kaplan Meier plots of the cumulative incidence rate by treatment groups were used to depict failure in PFS. Percentage of observed subjects with outcome measure events during the trial are reported., From randomization to end-of-trial for each subject (subjects not censored at Day 336)|Changes From Baseline in International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) Total and Quality of Life (QoL) Scores, Lower urinary tract symptoms were measured with the IPSS Version 1 (IPSS-1). The IPSS is a subject-administered questionnaire containing seven items to evaluate symptoms of urinary obstruction (incomplete emptying, frequency, intermittency, urgency, weak stream, straining, nocturia) over the preceding week. Each urinary symptom question was assigned points from 0 to 5 indicating increasing severity of the particular symptom. The total IPSS-1 score was then calculated as summation over the responses for all 7 questions. The total IPSS-1 score was transformed to a scale from 0 (lowest score) to 100 (highest score). Higher scores reflect higher severity of symptoms. The IPSS-1 included an additional single question to assess a subject's QoL in relation to his urinary symptoms; response to this question was analyzed separately and was not included in the total IPSS score. The score was similarly scaled from 0 to 100.

Change from baseline in IPSS Total and QoL scores are presented., Baseline to Days 168 and 336 (end-of-trial)|Total Number of CV-related Hospitalization Events Over the Duration of the Trial, The total number of CV-related hospitalizations over the duration of the trial was defined as the number of hospitalizations due to CV-related adverse events, observed from the first exposure to IMP up until Day 336 for each subject., First dose of IMP to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Total Number of Coronary Artery By-pass Grafting (CABG) or Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) Procedures Over the Duration of the Trial, The total number of CABG or PCI procedures observed for each subject over the duration of the trial, First dose of IMP to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Total Number of CV-related Emergency Room (ER) Visit Events Over the Duration of the Trial, CV-related ER visit events (that did not lead to hospitalization) was observed from the first exposure to IMP up until Day 336 for each subject., First dose of IMP to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Change in Utility, Based on EuroQol Group 5 Dimensions 5 Levels Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), The EQ-5D-5L essentially consists of 2 systems - the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ visual analogue scale (EQ VAS). The EQ-5D-5L descriptive system comprises the following 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. The EQ VAS is an overall estimation of the present health status. The results from the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire were converted into quality adjusted life year (QALY) units.

The QALY is estimated by combining the value of life (utility value) and length of life. Quality adjusted life years are based on a principle assuming that a year of life lived in perfect health is worth 1 QALY and that a year of life lived in a state of less than perfect health is worth less than 1., Baseline to Day 336 (end-of-trial)|Changes From Baseline in Duke Activity Status Index (DASI) Global Score, The DASI is a self-administered instrument developed to measure functional capacity in subjects with cardiovascular disease (CVD). It contains 12 items referring to the present time, assessing the ability to perform physical tasks in five domains: personal care (1 item), ambulation (4 items), household tasks (4 items), sexual function (1 item) and recreation (2 items). Each question was answered by one of four options: 'yes with no difficulty' / 'yes, but with some difficulty' / 'no, I can't do this' / 'don't do this for other reasons'. A global score was calculated with a higher score indicating a higher functional capacity. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 58.2 points.

Change from baseline in DASI Global score is presented., Baseline to Days 168 and 336 (end-of-trial)|Changes From Baseline in Cardiac Anxiety Questionnaire (CAQ) Global Score and Score Per Domain, The CAQ is a self-administered questionnaire developed to measure heart-focused anxiety in persons with or without heart disease. It contains 18 items referring to the present time assessing cardiac anxiety in three domains: fear (8 items, each item could be scored between 0 "never" to 4 "always", maximum total score 32), avoidance (5 items, each item could be scored between 0 "never" to 4 "always", maximum total score 20) and attention (5 items, each item could be scored between 0 "never" to 4 "always", maximum total score 20). A higher score indicated greater cardiac anxiety and the total score range was between 0 and 72.

Change from baseline in CAQ Global score and score per domain are presented., Baseline to Days 168 and 336 (end-of-trial)|Number of Subjects With Adverse Events (AEs), Adverse events were recorded from signed informed consent until end-of-trial. Adverse events with onset after start of IMP treatment, and within 3 months after (1 month=28 days) last dosing of IMP, were considered 'treatment-emergent' and are presented for the safety analysis set., Start of IMP treatment until 3 months after last dosing of IMP|Intensity of AEs, The intensity of AE was graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) (version 4.02) 5-point scale.

AE were categorized as grade 1 Mild (minor; no specific medical intervention; asymptomatic laboratory findings only; marginal clinical relevance), Grade 2 Moderate (minimal intervention: local intervention; non-invasive intervention), Grade 3 Severe (significant symptoms, requiring hospitalization or invasive intervention; transfusion; elective interventional radiological procedure; therapeutic endoscopy or operation), Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling (complicated by acute, life-threatening metabolic or CV complications such as circulatory failure, hemorrhage, sepsis. Life-threatening physiologic consequences; need for intensive care or emergent invasive procedure; emergent interventional radiological procedure, therapeutic endoscopy or operation) and Grade 5 Death. Events with grades 3, 4 and 5 were categorized as severe., Start of IMP treatment until 3 months after last dosing of IMP|Changes in Vital Signs, Number of subjects shifting from normal value(s) in vital signs (pulse and blood pressure) at baseline to clinically significant abnormal value(s) at end-of-trial are presented.

Note: Only subjects with appropriate baseline and post-baseline data are included in the evaluation., Baseline to Day 336 (end-of-trial)
The purpose of this trial is to test if a marketed drug for advanced prostate cancer (FIRMAGON) can reduce the risk of cardiovascular complications as compared to another marketed drug for advanced prostate cancer (LUPRON DEPOT) in subjects with prostate cancer and cardiovascular disease.