Anlotinib to Malignant Brainstem Glioma
This study is a single-arm, open-label, phase II study of anlotinib combined with radiation in the treatment of patients with malignant brainstem glioma. Twenty five patients will be enrolled in the study who is diagonsis with malignant brainstem glioma. The primary objective includes disease control rate (DCR), the role of antinib combined with radiotherapy in improving quality of life and 6-month progression-free survival rate. The secondary objective include overall survival (OS), toxicity profile. Exploratory objectives include the use of plasma specimens and cerebrospinal fluid (if possible) to detect biomarkers predicting the efficacy of anlotinib.
Malignant Brain Stem Tumor|Glioma
DRUG: Anlotinib
disease control rate, based on RECIST1.1, through study completion, an average of 1 year|6-month progression-free survival rate, proportion of patients with progression-free survival longer than 6 months., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 6 months|6-month quality of life deterioration-free survival, quality of life, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 6 months
overall survival, overall survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 6 months
This study is a single-arm, open-label, phase II study of anlotinib combined with radiation in the treatment of patients with malignant brainstem glioma. Twenty five patients will be enrolled in the study who is diagonsis with malignant brainstem glioma. The primary objective includes disease control rate (DCR), the role of antinib combined with radiotherapy in improving quality of life and 6-month progression-free survival rate. The secondary objective include overall survival (OS), toxicity profile. Exploratory objectives include the use of plasma specimens and cerebrospinal fluid (if possible) to detect biomarkers predicting the efficacy of anlotinib.