Local Consolidative Therapy and Brigatinib in Treating Patients With Stage IV or Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This early phase I trial studies the side effects and how well local consolidative therapy (LCT) and brigatinib works in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that is stage IV or has come back (recurrent). Giving LCT, such as surgery and/or radiation, after initial treatment may kill any remaining tumor cells. Brigatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving LCT and brigatinib may work better in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Advanced Lung Carcinoma|ALK Gene Rearrangement|Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Brigatinib|PROCEDURE: Local Consolidation Therapy
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity data will be summarized using frequency tables. Associations between the types and severity of toxicity and treatment will be evaluated as well., Up to 2 years
Progression-free survival (PFS), The median PFS will be calculated and presented with 2-sided 80% confidence interval (CI). Kaplan-Meier survival probabilities will be plotted over time., From the date of brigatinib treatment initiation until disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), The median OS will be calculated and presented with 2-sided 80% CI. Kaplan-Meier survival probabilities will be plotted over time., From the date of brigatinib treatment initiation until date of death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Time to progression of non-local consolidative therapy (LCT) lesion, The median time to progression of non-LCT lesion will be calculated and presented with 2-sided 80% CI. Kaplan-Meier survival probabilities will be plotted over time., From the date of brigatinib treatment initiation until progression of a baseline lesion not treated with radiation or surgery, assessed up to 2 years
Time to appearance of new metastatic lesion(s) (TANM), Descriptive statistics (e.g. median, standard deviations, range) will be used to quantify TANM., From the date of brigatinib treatment initiation until development of a new lesion, assessed up to 2 years|Potential prognostic and predictive biomarkers, Multi-covariate and multivariate analysis tools such as the logistic regression, generalized linear model, classification and regression tree, canonical correlation, correspondence analysis, etc., will be applied to study the association among various immunological markers, genomic markers, treatments, and the toxicity and efficacy outcomes., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety, tolerability, and feasibility of brigatinib with local consolidative therapy (LCT) in tyrosine kinase inhibitor-naive ALK-rearranged advanced (non-small cell lung cancer) NSCLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) in advanced ALK+ NSCLC patients treated with local consolidative therapy (LCT) after achieving stable disease or partial response with first-line brigatinib treatment.

II. To determine overall survival (OS).

III. To assess time to progression (TTP) of non-LCT lesions.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess time to appearance of new metastatic lesion(s).

II. To determine the utility of pre-treatment, pre-LCT, and post-LCT circulating free tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) as a potential prognostic and predictive biomarkers.

II. To evaluate potential impact of LCT on mechanisms of ALK resistance with molecular analysis of post-progression biopsies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive brigatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo LCT for up to 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 7 days after completion of LCT, patients receive brigatinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 3 months for up to 2 years.