CBD for Breast Cancer Primary Tumors
This is a randomized placebo controlled double blind window of opportunity trial. A maximum of 120 patients will be enrolled. Up to 60 patients with invasive breast cancer will be enrolled into cohort 1, and up to 60 patients with DCIS will be enrolled into cohort 2. Patients in each cohort will be randomized 1:1 to either CBD or placebo control using permuted block randomization with random block sizes of 2 or 4. The time window between CBD or placebo initiation and surgery will be between 5 days and 56 days.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: CBD Oral|OTHER: Control
CBD and cell proliferation, To determine whether oral administration of cannabidiol (CBD) causes biological changes related to cell proliferation (using Ki67 expression as a marker) in primary tumors of breast cancer patients., 2 months|CBD and apoptosis, To determine whether oral administration of cannabidiol (CBD) causes biological changes related to apoptosis (using Ki67 expression as a marker) in primary tumors of breast cancer patients., 2 months
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE 5.0, To determine adverse event relationship to oral CBD extract in patients with breast cancer., 2 months|GAD-7 anxiety level scoring at Pre and post CBD administration, To determine whether CBD administered in the period waiting for surgery reduces self-reported anxiety from baseline to time of surgery as measured by the GAD-7 patient reported outcomes scale., 2 months
This is a randomized placebo controlled double blind window of opportunity trial. A maximum of 120 patients will be enrolled. Up to 60 patients with invasive breast cancer will be enrolled into cohort 1, and up to 60 patients with DCIS will be enrolled into cohort 2. Patients in each cohort will be randomized 1:1 to either CBD or placebo control using permuted block randomization with random block sizes of 2 or 4. The time window between CBD or placebo initiation and surgery will be between 5 days and 56 days.