Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
This pilot early phase I trial studies the side effects of vaccine therapy in treating patients with glioblastoma that has come back. Vaccines made from a person's white blood cells mixed with tumor proteins from another person's glioblastoma tumors may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Giving vaccine therapy may work better in treating patients with glioblastoma.
Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Recurrent Glioblastoma|Recurrent Gliosarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Malignant Glioma Tumor Lysate-Pulsed Autologous Dendritic Cell Vaccine
Incidence of significant toxicity, defined as a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) that is possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment as assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Incidence of significant toxicity will be estimated by the number of patients with significant toxicity divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 5 years
Clinical benefit rate, The clinical benefit rate will be estimated by the number of patients with an overall survival for at least 6 months after enrollment or an objective status of CR or PR at any time divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true clinical benefit rate will be calculated., Up to 5 years|Duration of response, Duration of response will be summarized descriptively., Date at which the patient?s objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented, assessed up to 5 years|Feasibility, The feasibility of the regimen will be estimated by the number of patients who received at least one dose of dendritic cell (DC) injection divided by the total number of patients who received leukapheresis in that arm., Up to 5 years|Overall response rate, The overall response rate will be estimated by the number of patients with an objective status of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Time from study registration to progression and death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Time from study registration to progression and death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to response, Time to response will be summarized descriptively., Date of initiation of vaccination treatment to the date at which the patient?s objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR, assessed up to 5 years
Change in immunologic correlates, Change in immunologic correlates before and after vaccination treatment will be evaluated and summarized both quantitatively and graphically. Will use Spearman rank correlation coefficient to assess the correlations between baseline levels as well as between changes before and after treatment in these immunologic markers. In addition, these immunologic markers will be correlated with cancer and treatment-related outcomes (e.g. response, toxicities). Relationships will also be explored graphically using scatter plots., Baseline up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and feasibility of malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine (autologous dendritic cell \[DC\] / allogeneic glioblastoma multiforme \[GBM\] culture lysate vaccination) in glioblastoma patients at first or second recurrence.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To document survival and progression-free survival in glioblastoma patients at first or second recurrence receiving autologous DC / allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination and compared to historical data.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the ability of autologous DC / GBM culture lysate vaccination to generate multiple tumor-associated antigen (TAA)-specific immune responses in GBM patients at first or second recurrence.

II. Assess the relationship between ability tumor induced TAA-specific immune responses and evidence of immunosuppression (peripheral blood immunophenotyping by flow cytometry) following autologous DC / allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination in GBM patients at first or second recurrence.

III. Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (survival, progression-free survival, tumor response) and tumor-associated antigen immune response following autologous DC / allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination

IV. Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (survival, progression-free survival, tumor response) and evidence of immunosuppression at baseline and over time with autologous DC / allogeneic GBM culture lysate vaccination.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine intradermally (ID) on days 1, 3, and 5 of courses 2 and 3, and on day 1 of subsequent courses. Treatment with malignant glioma tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine repeats every 21 days for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years.