Study of Mapatumumab in Combination With Sorafenib in Subjects With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Mapatumumab is a fully human, agonist monoclonal antibody that activates the cell death pathway in tumor cells by specifically binding to TRAIL-R1 with high affinity. Sorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor, is the standard of care for treatment of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The mechanisms of sorafenib and mapatumumab action suggest that these agents could interact synergistically. This is a Phase 2, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mapatumumab in combination with sorafenib in subjects with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DRUG: Mapatumumab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Sorafenib
Time to Progression-Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) Assessment, Time to progression is defined as the time from randomization to radiologic disease progression based on blinded independent review (BICR) of imaging scans using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors assessment (mRECIST) for hepatocellular carcinoma. The primary analysis was performed using Kaplan Meier methods. The median time to progression is reported with one-sided 90% confidence interval. Analysis was performed on the modified Intent to Treat (mITT) Population which comprised of all randomized participants who received at least part of 1 dose of study agent (mapatumumab/placebo and/or sorafenib) with participants analyzed according to the groups to which they were randomized. NA indicates upper limit was not measurable as one-sided confidence interval is presented., Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months
Time to Progression-Investigator Assessment, Time to progression is defined as the time from randomization to radiologic disease progression. The primary analysis was performed using Kaplan Meier methods based on application of mRECIST for hepatocellular carcinoma to investigator assessments. The median time to progression is reported with one-sided 90% confidence interval. NA indicates upper limit was not measurable as one-sided confidence interval is presented., Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months|Median Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause. The analysis was performed using Kaplan Meier methods. The median overall survival is reported with one-sided 90% confidence interval. NA indicates upper limit was not measurable as one-sided confidence interval is presented., Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months|Progression Free Survival-BICR Assessment, Progression free survival is defined as time from randomization to radiologic disease progression or death from any cause. The analysis was performed using Kaplan Meier methods using BICR assessment of imaging scans. The median progression free survival is reported with one-sided 90% confidence interval. NA indicates upper limit was not measurable as one-sided confidence interval is presented., Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months|Progression Free Survival-Investigator Assessment, Progression free survival is defined as time from randomization to radiologic disease progression or death from any cause. The analysis was performed using Kaplan Meier methods based on application of mRECIST for hepatocellular carcinoma to investigator assessments. The median progression free survival is reported with one-sided 90% confidence interval. NA indicates upper limit was not measurable as one-sided confidence interval is presented., Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response-BICR Assessment, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with complete response+partial response according to mRECIST criteria for hepatocellular carcinoma using BICR assessment of imaging scans. The percentage of participants with objective response is reported along with 95% confidence interval., Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response-Investigator Assessment, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with complete response+partial response according to mRECIST criteria for hepatocellular carcinoma to investigator assessments. The percentage of participants with objective response is reported along with 95% confidence interval., Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control-BICR Assessment, Disease control rate is the percentage of participants with complete response+partial response+stable disease according to mRECIST criteria for hepatocellular carcinoma. The end point was based on BICR assessment of imaging scans. The percentage of participants with disease control is presented along with 95% confidence interval., Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control-Investigator Assessment, Disease control rate is the percentage of participants with complete response+partial response+stable disease according to mRECIST criteria for hepatocellular carcinoma to investigator assessments. The percentage of participants with disease control is presented along with 95% confidence interval., Randomization to maximum of 52.9 months|Time to Response-BICR Assessment, Time to response is defined as time from randomization to first partial response or complete response in responders only. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of intratumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of viable (enhancement in the arterial phase) target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the diameters of target lesions, Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months|Duration of Response-BICR Assessment, Duration of response is defined as time from first PR or CR to radiologic disease progression; in responders only. CR: Disappearance of intratumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of viable (enhancement in the arterial phase) target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum of the diameters of target lesions. Progressive disease (PD): An increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of viable (enhancing) target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of viable (enhancing) target lesions recorded since treatment started., Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Non-serious Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE is any unfavorable or unintended sign, symptom, or disease that is temporally associated with the use of a study agent but is not necessarily caused by the study agent. An SAE is an adverse event resulting in any of the following outcomes: death, life-threatening, inpatient hospitalization, prolongation of an existing hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect or other medically important events that may jeopardize the participant or may require intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes mentioned before. A treatment-emergent AE is an AE that emerged during treatment, having been absent pre-treatment, or worsened relative to the pre-treatment state. As-Treated Population comprised of participants who received at least part of 1 dose of study agent analyzed according to the treatment that they actually received., Start of study treatment to maximum of 52.9 months|Number of Participants With Severe AEs, An AE is any unfavorable or unintended sign, symptom, or disease that is temporally associated with the use of a study agent but is not necessarily caused by the study agent. Severity of AEs were graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE), Version 4.0. Grade 1 represents mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 represents moderate; minimal, local or non-invasive intervention indicated. Grade 3 represents severe or medically significant but not immediately life -threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling. Grade 4 represents life -threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 represents death related to AE. Severe AE is defined as AEs classified by investigator as severe (causing inability to carry out usual activities), life threatening or fatal using NCI-CTCAE Version 4.0 grading., Start of study treatment to maximum of 52.9 months|Number of Participants With Worst Toxicity Grade-chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for the evaluation of following chemistry parameters: alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), amylase, bilirubin, gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), calcium, potassium, magnesium, albumin, sodium and creatinine. Laboratory toxicities were graded based on the NCI-CTCAE version 4.0. Grade 1 represents mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 represents moderate; minimal, local or non-invasive intervention indicated. Grade 3 represents severe or medically significant but not immediately life -threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling. Grade 4 represents life -threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Number of participants with worst toxicity grades for any abnormalities observed in any chemistry parameters during the study is presented., Enrolment to maximum of 52.9 months|Number of Participants With Worst Toxicity Grade-hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for assessment of the following hematology parameters: activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), hemoglobin, international normalized ratio (INR), lymphocytes, neutrophils, platelets and white blood cells (WBC). Laboratory toxicities were graded based on the NCI-CTCAE version 4.0. Grade 1 represents mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 represents moderate; minimal, local or non-invasive intervention indicated. Grade 3 represents severe or medically significant but not immediately life -threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling. Grade 4 represents life -threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Number of participants with worst toxicity grades for any abnormalities observed in any hematology parameters during the study is presented., Enrolment to maximum of 52.9 months|Number of Participants With Anti-mapatumumab Antibodies, Blood samples were collected for the assessment of serum antibodies. The presence of anti-mapatumumab antibodies was assessed using a validated electrochemiluminescent immunoassay. The assay incorporated a tiered testing approach which used screening and confirmation steps. The anti-drug antibody (ADA) confirmed positive participants were separated into transient or persistent antibody positives. Persistent positive refers to positive immunogenic response at 2 or more assessments or at the final assessment. Transient positive refers to positive immunogenic response at only 1 assessment and negative at the final assessment., Randomization to maximum of 24.1 months|Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) and Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP), SBP and DBP were obtained on Day 1 of each cycle. Baseline is the last assessment prior to first dose. Change from Baseline is the value at indicated time point minus the value at Baseline. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as only one participant was analyzed at the specified time point., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 2 to 75 (each cycle of 21 days)|Change From Baseline in Heart Rate, Heart rate was obtained on Day 1 of each cycle. Baseline is the last assessment prior to first dose. Change from Baseline is the value at indicated time point minus the value at Baseline. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as only one participant was analyzed at the specified time point., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 2 to 75 (each cycle of 21 days)|Change From Baseline in Temperature, Temperature was obtained on Day 1 of each cycle. Baseline is the last assessment prior to first dose. Change from Baseline is the value at indicated time point minus the value at Baseline. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as only one participant was analyzed at the specified time point., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 2 to 75 (each cycle of 21 days)|Change From Baseline in Respiratory Rate, Respiratory rate was obtained on Day 1 of each cycle. Baseline is the last assessment prior to first dose.Change from Baseline is the value at indicated time point minus the value at Baseline. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as only one participant was analyzed at the specified time point., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 2 to 75 (each cycle of 21 days)|Change From Baseline in Weight, Weight was obtained on Day 1 of each cycle. Baseline is the last assessment prior to first dose. Change from Baseline is the value at indicated time point minus the value at Baseline. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as only one participant was analyzed at the specified time point., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycles 2 to 75 (each cycle of 21 days)|Serum Concentration of Mapatumumab, Blood samples were collected for determination of serum mapatumumab concentration at the indicated time points. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as only one participant was analyzed at the specified time points., Day1 pre-dose(Cycle 1,2,4,5,6,8,9,10,12,14,16,17,18,20,22,24,26,28,30,32,34);end of infusion (Cycle 1);Day8 pre-dose(Cycle 1);Day15 pre-dose (Cycle 1,2);Day21(Cycle 2,4,6,8,9,12,14,16,18,20,22,24,26,28,30,32,34);Cycle 99(end of treatment) (21-day cycles)
Mapatumumab is a fully human, agonist monoclonal antibody that activates the cell death pathway in tumor cells by specifically binding to TRAIL-R1 with high affinity. Sorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor, is the standard of care for treatment of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The mechanisms of sorafenib and mapatumumab action suggest that these agents could interact synergistically. This is a Phase 2, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mapatumumab in combination with sorafenib in subjects with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.