Palbociclib Plus Letrozole For Postmenopausal Women With HR(+) HER2(-) Advanced Breast Cancer For Whom Letrozole Is Deemed Appropriate
The purpose of this study is to provide access to palbociclib in Mexico and in selected Latin American countries before it becomes commercially available to patients with HR positive/HER2-negative ABC who are appropriate candidates for letrozole therapy.
Advanced Breast Cancer Female
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Letrozole
Number of Participants With All-causality Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a product; the event did not need to have a causal relationship with the treatment. All AEs reported after initiation of study drug treatment were considered as TEAE. AE severity was graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for AEs (CTCAE) version 4.03. Grade 1 AEs are mild AEs; Grade 2 AEs are moderate AEs; Grade 3 AEs are severe AEs, Grade 4 AEs are life-threatening consequences and Grade 5 AEs are deaths related to AEs. Each AE was counted once for the participant in the most severe severity., 3 years|Number of Participants With Palbociclib-related TEAEs, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a product; the event did not need to have a causal relationship with the treatment. All AEs reported after initiation of study drug treatment were considered as TEAE. AE severity was graded according to CTCAE version 4.03. Grade 1 AEs are mild AEs; Grade 2 AEs are moderate AEs; Grade 3 AEs are severe AEs, Grade 4 AEs are life-threatening consequences and Grade 5 AEs are deaths related to AEs. Palbociclib-related TEAEs were determined by the investigator., 3 years|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An SAE was any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; was life threatening; required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; resulted in congenital anomaly/birth defect. AEs included both SAEs and AEs. Palbociclib-related SAEs were determined by the investigator., 3 years
Number of Participants With Death, Death from any cause while on treatment and within 28 days of palbociclib discontinuation was only counted below., 3 years|The Objective Response Rate (ORR), The tumor response was based on the response reported by investigator per local practice. No response confirmation was applied. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with complete response or partial response relative to all as-treated population., 3 years
The purpose of this study is to provide access to palbociclib in Mexico and in selected Latin American countries before it becomes commercially available to patients with HR positive/HER2-negative ABC who are appropriate candidates for letrozole therapy.