Addressing Disparities in Colorectal Cancer Screening in Black and Underserved Phoenix Communities
This clinical trial studies disparities involving colorectal cancer prevention and screening in Black and underserved communities in the Phoenix metropolitan area. The Black community is disproportionately impacted by colorectal cancer, with the highest rate of any racial/ethnic group in the United States. There are complex reasons behind these disparities, largely related to socioeconomic factors and healthcare access. Providing access to free, home-based fecal immunochemical testing (FIT), colorectal screening education, and appropriate follow-up to predominantly Black community-based organizations and underserved communities may help to close this gap.
Colorectal Carcinoma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Fecal Immunochemical Test|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Colorectal cancer disparities seen in people of color and minority populations, Evaluate patient navigation to address colorectal cancer disparities seen in people of color, minority populations, and establish an ongoing colorectal cancer screening outreach program., Up to study completion, up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate patient navigation to address colorectal cancer disparities seen in people of color, minority populations, and establish an ongoing colorectal cancer screening outreach program for this community in Phoenix.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive free FIT tests in conjunction with education on colorectal cancer screening. Participants undergo self-collect FIT and mail the sample to Mayo Clinic Lab for processing. Participants also complete a questionnaire about colorectal cancer screening and healthcare. Participants receive FIT test results through Mayo Clinic nursing support and participants with a positive test are followed up by a patient navigator to discuss next steps and consultation with a gastroenterologist to review their results.

After completion of screening, participants with a positive FIT test are followed up at 2 and 4 weeks after initial outreach to assure participants have received adequate follow up.