Study of Craniospinal Irradiation With Linac Based Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy (VMAT) for Patients With Leptomeningeal Metastasis
The purpose of this study is to confirm the safety and efficacy of linac based Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy (VMAT) for craniospinal irradiation (CSI) in solid tumor cancer patients with leptomeningeal metastasis. The primary aim is to determine if linac based VMAT CSI for leptomeningeal metastasis improves central nervous system (CNS) progression free survival (PFS) compared to the historical standard control CNS PFS in patients treated with Involved Field Radiation Therapy (IFRT).
Leptomeningeal Metastasis
RADIATION: Varian Eclipse
Time to central nervous system (CNS) progression free survival, Time to CNS progression free survival will be estimated using Kaplan Meier methods for censored data that includes CNS progressions. CNS disease progression will be defined as new or worsening neurologic deficit unrelated to therapeutic intervention via neurological assessment using Neurologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (NANO) scale, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cytology being newly positive for malignancy after initially being negative, MRI brain with and without contrast or MRI total spine with and without contrast shows progression per the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Brain Tumor Group and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) scorecard., From baseline up to 1 year from end of treatment
Overall survival, Overall survival will be estimated using Kaplan Meier methods for censored data that includes deaths as events., From baseline up to 1 year from end of treatment|Time to CNS progression, Time to CNS progression will be analyzed using competing risk methods, considering death and progression from other causes as competing risks., From baseline up to 1 year from end of treatment|Rate of cessation of systemic therapy, 1 year post-treatment|Number of treatment-related adverse events, End of study (up to 2 years)|M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory - Brain Tumor (MDASI-BT) score, The MDASI-BT includes 22 items assessing severity of brain tumor symptoms and 6 items assessing interference. Symptom severity and interference are assessed on a scale from 0-10 scale. A score of 0 indicates "not present" or "did not interfere," while a score of 10 represents "as bad as you can imagine" or "interfered completely". Scores range from 0-280. Higher scores indicate the brain tumor significantly impairs daily functioning., End of study (up to 2 years)|M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory - Spine Tumor (MDASI-SP) score, The MDASI-SP includes 18 items assessing severity spinal tumor symptoms and 6 items assessing interference. Symptom severity and interference are assessed on a scale from 0-10 scale. A score of 0 indicates "not present" or "did not interfere," while a score of 10 represents "as bad as you can imagine" or "interfered completely". Scores range from 0-240. Higher scores indicate the brain tumor significantly impairs daily functioning., End of study (up to 2 years)|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Brain (FACT-Br) score, The FACT-Brain (FACT-Br) is one such instrument that assesses brain-tumor related QOL issues. The questionnaire consists of the FACT-G plus a brain-tumor specific scale. A total of 50 items are included that cover the following domains of QOL: physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and disease specific concerns. Patients are asked to indicate the presence/severity of certain issues/symptoms on a scale of 0 - 4 (a 5-point Likert Scale). Higher scores indicate decreased health-related quality of life., End of study (up to 2 years)
The purpose of this study is to confirm the safety and efficacy of linac based Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy (VMAT) for craniospinal irradiation (CSI) in solid tumor cancer patients with leptomeningeal metastasis. The primary aim is to determine if linac based VMAT CSI for leptomeningeal metastasis improves central nervous system (CNS) progression free survival (PFS) compared to the historical standard control CNS PFS in patients treated with Involved Field Radiation Therapy (IFRT).