Tepotinib in Solid Tumors Harboring MET Alterations
The aim of this study is to understand efficacy of tepotinib in patients with solid cancers harbouring c-MET amplification or exon 14 mutation who progressed after standard treatment for metastatic disease.
Solid Tumor|MET Exon 14 Skipping Mutation|MET Amplification
DRUG: Tepotinib
Objective response rates (RECIST1.1), Objective response will be determined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as assessed by investigator.

Objective response is defined as either a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) from first administration of trial treatment to first observation of progressive disease (PD). CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30 percent (%) reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Baseline up to 20 months
Progression free survival, Progression free survival as assessed by investigators is defined as the time (in months) from the first administration of trial treatment to the date of the first documentation of PD (based on independent review) or death due to any cause within 84 days of the last tumor assessment, whichever occurs first, Baseline until PD or death within 84 days of last tumor assessment; assessed up to 20 months|Disease control rate, Objective disease control is defined as either a confirmed CR or PR, or stable disease (SD) lasting at least 12 weeks (84 days) as assessed by investigator. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions., Baseline up to 20 months|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time (in months) from first trial treatment administration to the date of death., Baseline until death, assessed up to 20 months|Toxicity and drug compliance, This outcome measure will be presented as the percentage of subjects with any adverse event (AE). Percentages are calculated using total number of subjects per treatment cohort as the denominator., From the first dose of study drug administration until 33 days after the last dose of study drug administration, assessed up to 20 Months
This study is a basket trial with two strata(NSCLC and other cancer). If MET exon 14 skipping mutation or MET amplification(copy number gain ≥6.0 ) is detected by NGS method, then confirmation of genetic findings by Molecular Steering Committee will be followed. Patient can participate in this trial after confirmation of genetic analysis and reviewing other inclusion/exclusion criteria.