Effectiveness of Musical Training in Children Surviving Brain Tumours
This study aims to examine the effects of musical training on improving the neurocognitive function and psychological well-being of children surviving brain tumours. Half of the participants will receive weekly 45-minute lessons on musical training for one year (52 weeks) while the other half are the placebo controls.
Brain Neoplasms|Child
BEHAVIORAL: musical training|BEHAVIORAL: tutoring classes
Change in neurocognitive function from baseline at 12 month follow-up between intervention and control group, Subjects' IQ scores will be obtained at 12 months after starting the intervention using the Hong Kong Wechsler Intelligence Scales for Children (HK-WISC) for subjects younger than 16 years of age and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - Revised (WAIS-R) for those aged 16 years and older.

In addition, the neuropsychological profile of each subject will also be examined at 12 months after starting the intervention. A comprehensive neuropsychological assessment is usually conducted on a one on-one basis with standardised procedures., 12 month follow-up
neurocognitive function at baseline between intervention and control group, Subjects' IQ scores will be obtained at baseline using the Hong Kong Wechsler Intelligence Scales for Children (HK-WISC) for subjects younger than 16 years of age and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - Revised (WAIS-R) for those aged 16 years and older.

In addition, the neuropsychological profile of each subject will also be examined at baseline. A comprehensive neuropsychological assessment is usually conducted on a one on-one basis with standardised procedures., baseline|self-esteem at baseline between intervention and control group, The subjects' self-esteem will be assessed at baseline, using the Chinese version of the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES).

The RSES is designed to measure the global self-esteem of children and adolescents. The scale comprises 10 items, rated using a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 4 (strongly agree), with total possible scores ranging from 10 to 40. Higher scores indicate higher levels of self-esteem. Participants will be asked to respond to the Chinese version of the RSES at baseline., baseline|Change in self-esteem from baseline at 6 month follow-up between intervention and control group, The subjects' self-esteem will be assessed at 6 months after starting the intervention, using the Chinese version of the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES).

The RSES is designed to measure the global self-esteem of children and adolescents. The scale comprises 10 items, rated using a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 4 (strongly agree), with total possible scores ranging from 10 to 40. Higher scores indicate higher levels of self-esteem.Participants will be asked to respond to the Chinese version of the RSES at 6 months after starting the intervention., 6 month follow-up|Change in self-esteem from baseline at 12 month follow-up between intervention and control group, The subjects' self-esteem will be assessed at 12 months after starting the intervention, using the Chinese version of the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES).

The RSES is designed to measure the global self-esteem of children and adolescents. The scale comprises 10 items, rated using a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 4 (strongly agree), with total possible scores ranging from 10 to 40. Higher scores indicate higher levels of self-esteem.Participants will be asked to respond to the Chinese version of the RSES at 12 months after starting the intervention., 12 month follow-up|quality of life at baseline between intervention and control group, The subjects' quality of life will be assessed at baseline, using the Chinese version of the Paediatric Quality of Life Inventory 4.0 Generic Core Scale (PedsQL 4.0). The PedsQL is designed to measure children's healthrelated quality of life. It comprises 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorised into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The total possible range of scores is from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better quality of life.Participants will be asked to respond to the Chinese version of the PedsQL 4.0 at baseline., baseline|Change in quality of life from baseline at 6 month follow-up between intervention and control group, The subjects' quality of life will be assessed at 6 months after starting the intervention, using the Chinese version of the Paediatric Quality of Life Inventory 4.0 Generic Core Scale (PedsQL 4.0). The PedsQL is designed to measure children's healthrelated quality of life. It comprises 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorised into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The total possible range of scores is from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. Participants will be asked to respond to the Chinese version of the PedsQL 4.0 at 6 months after starting the intervention., 6 month follow-up|Change in quality of life from baseline at 12 month follow-up between intervention and control group, The subjects' quality of life will be assessed at 12 months after starting the intervention, using the Chinese version of the Paediatric Quality of Life Inventory 4.0 Generic Core Scale (PedsQL 4.0). The PedsQL is designed to measure children's healthrelated quality of life. It comprises 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorised into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The total possible range of scores is from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. Participants will be asked to respond to the Chinese version of the PedsQL 4.0 at 12 months after starting the intervention., 12 month follow-up
Children surviving brain tumours have the highest risk of suffering neurocognitive late effects, such as impairment of intellectual development and deficits in attention and concentration, working memory, processing speed and executive function. Such effects severely affect their levels of academic achievement, psychosocial function and quality of life. Musical training is considered to have potential for treating neurocognitive impairment,mostly because the extensive brain networks engaged in musical training can induce substantial neuroplasticity changes in cortical and subcortical regions of motor, auditory and speech processing networks. A review of musical training for neuro-rehabilitation revealed that it can enhance motor recovery and neuroplasticity after stroke and improve motor deficits observed in Parkinson's disease. A growing body of evidence points to the beneficial effects of musical training on the cognitive development of children. The results of a longitudinal study on the effects of musical training on children's brain and cognitive development demonstrated that such training results in long-term enhancement of visualspatial, verbal and mathematical performance. Moreover, engaging in musical practice in childhood predicts academic performance and IQ at the university level. Thus, there appears to be some support for the effects of music lessons on intellectual development.

Nevertheless, although musical training is popular and is considered to be a beneficial intervention in the treatment of neurocognitive impairment, longitudinal studies that examine the efficacy of music-making in clinical settings are limited. Importantly, there is to date no study that examines the effects of musical training on induction of neuroplasticity in childhood cancer survivors with neurocognitive impairment. There is an imperative need for rigorous empirical scrutiny of the ability of musical training, in particular, to achieve neuroplasticity and thus promote the cognitive function and psychological well-being of children surviving brain tumours.