Randomized Efficacy Study of TPI 287 to Treat Primary Refractory or Early Relapsed Neuroblastoma
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate a new investigational drug (TPI 287) for early relapsed neuroblastoma. An investigational drug is one that has not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. This investigational drug is called TPI 287. This study will look at the tumor's response to the study drug, TPI 287, in combination with Irinotecan and Temozolomide versus the combination of Irinotecan and Temozolomide alone. This study will also evaluate the safety and tolerability of the study drug, TPI 287.
Neuroblastoma
DRUG: TPI 287|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Irinotecan
Number of Participants With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, To determine the safety and tolerability of TPI 287 in combination with Irinotecan and Temozolomide (TPI+I+TMZ) in pediatric and young adult patients with primary refractory or recurrent Neuroblastoma.

Phase I patients were all enrolled to receive TPI 287. Phase 2 is where randomization began. Patients were different patients than the Phase 1 patients. Below all patients that received TPI 287 are included in the TPI 287 group. This includes Phase I patients and the Phase 2 patients randomized to TPI 287., 6 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Participants Using RECIST Criteria, Phase I portion of trial- All patients enrolled to recieve TPI+I+TMZ. These patients will be added to the Phase II patients that were randomized to Arm B- Arm with TPI 287 (recieved same tx as Phase I participatns).

Phase II portion of trial- TPatients enrolled to this portion (different patients than enrolled to Phase 1) were randomized to Arm A: I+TMZ OR Arm B: TPI+I+TMZ Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 3 years
Pharmacokinetics (PK) of TPI 287 in the Phase I Population of This Trial., To evaluate the drug levels and pharmacokinetics (PK) of TPI 287 from blood samples at multiple time points within the first 24 hours on study., 1 year|Measure Quality of Life of Children Receiving TPI287 Using PedsQL Questionnaires, Evaluate the impact on QOL of children receiving TPI+I+TMZ, 3 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS) of Participants Using Days Until Progression, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 3 years|Median Overall Survival (OS) of Participants, To determine OS and clinical benefit (CR/PR/SD) in this population, 3 years
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate a new investigational drug (TPI 287) for early relapsed neuroblastoma. An investigational drug is one that has not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. This investigational drug is called TPI 287. This study will look at the tumor's response to the study drug, TPI 287, in combination with Irinotecan and Temozolomide versus the combination of Irinotecan and Temozolomide alone. This study will also evaluate the safety and tolerability of the study drug, TPI 287.