Systemic Therapy in Combination with Stereotactic Radiotherapy in Patients with Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Up to 10 Metastatic Sites
A small number of colorectal cancer patients with limited oligometastases may be candidates for local treatment of metastases (e.g., resection, ablation). However, it is unclear if patients with more extensive metastatic disease benefit from local therapies to control visible metastasis.

The purpose of this study is to assess the impact of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in combination with systemic therapy compared to systemic therapy alone on safety and efficacy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) and ≤10 metastases.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer|Oligometastatic Disease
RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT)|DRUG: Maintenance therapy (CAP-B or 5-FU/LV plus bevacizumab.)
Progression-free survival, Defined as time from randomization to progression of disease or death, whichever occurs first. Progression of disease is based on tumor response as observed on radiographic imaging according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria., Through study completion, an average of 24 months
Accrual rate as assessed by the number of patients included in the study compared to the expected accrual rate., We expect to include 93 patients in 24 months. The expected accrual rate in this study is, therefore, around 4 patients per month. Information for the accrual rate is used from the total accrual rate, the accrual rate in each study center and screening failures., Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Treatment success rate, Dose intensity of SBRT based on the number of patients that receive more than 90% of the planned dose on all lesions in 95% of the planned target volume (PTV)., Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, This will be based on the number of patients with SBRT related toxicity, defined as newly developed grade 2 toxicity of specific interest and grade 3-4 toxicity since randomization according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0), Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Overall survival, Defined as time from randomization to death of any cause., Up to 72 months|Comparing changes on health-related quality of life based on summary score of Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core30 (QLQ-C30) from baseline and 3-monthly timepoints., EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score is better level of functioning., Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Comparing changes on health-related quality of life based on summary score of Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core29 (QLQ-C29) from baseline and 3-monthly timepoints., EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 29-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. All questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score is better level of functioning., Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Comparing changes from health-related quality of life based on summary score of Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20) from baseline and 3-monthly timepoints., MFI is a validated 20-item, self-reported instrument designed to measure fatigue in the following dimensions: general fatigue, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, reduced motivation, and reduced activity. The respondent is asked to mark an 'X' in 1 of 5 boxes arranged linearly where 1 is 'Yes, that is true' and 5 is 'No, that is not true.' Each subscale consists of 4 items, 2 indicative for fatigue and 2 contraindicative. For the indicative questions, a high score indicates a high fatigue level and low scores indicate a low fatigue levels. Conversely, for the contraindicative questions a high score indicates a low fatigue level and a low score indicates a high fatigue level. Overall, respondents are rated on a scale of 0 (no fatigue) to 7 (high fatigue)., Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Pattern of reccurence according to RECIST 1.1: New metastatic lesions, progression of existing lesions or a combination., New metastatic lesions, progression of existing lesions or a combination of both new metastatic lesions and progression of existing lesions based on radiographic imaging according to RECIST 1.1, Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Time to treatment failure, Defined as the time of randomization to failure of treatment. If radiologically visible metastatic lesions before systemic therapy are no longer visible at randomization (vanishing lesions) and recurrence of vanishing lesions occurs in patients in the experimental arm without progression of other lesions, this is not yet determined as failure of treatment; additional local therapy is highly encouraged on these lesions (to the discretion of the local investigator). When progression of existing lesions or new lesions occur, it will be determined as failure of treatment., Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Tumor response, Based on radiographic imaging according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria., Through study completion, an average of 24 months|Depth of response, Based on radiographic imaging, Through study completion, an average of 24 months
The addition of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to metastases in a limited unresectable metastatic setting might improve progression-free survival (PFS). The success of the addition of local treatments in mCRC patients depends largely on: control of microscopic disease, diagnostic accuracy of macroscopic disease and effective treatment of all detected metastases with limited additional toxicity to surrounding tissues. Until shortly, the use of SBRT was possible to a limited number of locations due to target movement or toxicity to surrounding radiosensitive structures. With the introduction of MRI-guided radiotherapy these limitations have been largely reduced due to the possibility to make a daily new treatment plan based on MRI-visualized anatomy. This allows the use of smaller margins for uncertainty with less healthy tissues in the radiation field. Thereby, a broader application of SBRT to add local control to metastases became possible.

This study is an open-label, multicenter, randomized phase II screening trial assessing the impact of SBRT in combination with systemic therapy compared to systemic therapy alone on safety and efficacy in patients with mCRC and ≤10 metastases with no option of local treatment with curative intent and with stable disease or partial response after treatment of CAPOX-B, FOLFOX-B or FOLFOXIRI-B.