Electroacupuncture for Postoperative Ileus After Laparoscopic Rectal Cancer Surgery
Postoperative ileus remains a significant medical problem after colorectal surgery that adversely influences patients' recovery. The investigators previous study demonstrated that electroacupuncture (EA) at Zusanli, Sanyinjiao, Hegu, and Zhigou reduces the duration of postoperative ileus and hospital stay after laparoscopic resection of colonic and upper rectal cancer. Patients with mid/low rectal cancer undergoing laparoscopic total mesorectal excision (TME) or abdominoperineal resection (APR) were excluded. However, these complex cases are more likely to develop prolonged ileus and morbidity after surgery, and it is uncertain whether EA will be beneficial to them. The investigators therefore propose to conduct a prospective cohort study to evaluate the efficacy of EA in preventing prolonged ileus after laparoscopic surgery for mid/low rectal cancer. Fifty consecutive patients with mid/low rectal cancer undergoing laparoscopic TME or APR without the need of conversion will be recruited. All patients will undergo 1 session (20 minutes) of EA daily from postoperative day 1 till day 4. These patients will be compared with a matched historical control group (1:2) who underwent laparoscopic TME or APR without EA. The primary outcome is the incidence of prolonged ileus, which is defined as the inability to tolerate fluid diet by 4 days after surgery, associated with the need for nasogastric decompression and/or parenteral nutrition support. Secondary outcomes include time to defecation and duration of hospital stay. Results of this study will help clarify the efficacy of EA in preventing prolonged ileus after laparoscopic rectal surgery, and may provide the basis for planning a larger randomized controlled trial.
Postoperative Ileus
PROCEDURE: Electroacupuncture
Incidence of prolonged ileus, Defined as the inability to tolerate fluid diet by 4 days after surgery, associated with the need for nasogastric decompression and/or parenteral nutrition support., Up to 1 month
Time of first passing flatus reported by the patients, Up to 1 month|Time to first defecation, Up to 1 month|Time that the patients tolerated solid diet, Up to 1 month|Duration of hospital stay, Up to 1 month|Pain scores on visual analog scale, From 0 which implies no pain at all, to 10 which implies the worst pain imaginable, Up to 3 days|Postoperative analgesic requirement, Up to 1 month|Overall complication rate, Up to 1 month|30-day mortality rate, Up to 1 month
Postoperative ileus remains a significant medical problem after colorectal surgery that adversely influences patients' recovery. The investigators previous study demonstrated that electroacupuncture (EA) at Zusanli, Sanyinjiao, Hegu, and Zhigou reduces the duration of postoperative ileus and hospital stay after laparoscopic resection of colonic and upper rectal cancer. Patients with mid/low rectal cancer undergoing laparoscopic total mesorectal excision (TME) or abdominoperineal resection (APR) were excluded. However, these complex cases are more likely to develop prolonged ileus and morbidity after surgery, and it is uncertain whether EA will be beneficial to them. The investigators therefore propose to conduct a prospective cohort study to evaluate the efficacy of EA in preventing prolonged ileus after laparoscopic surgery for mid/low rectal cancer. Fifty consecutive patients with mid/low rectal cancer undergoing laparoscopic TME or APR without the need of conversion will be recruited. All patients will undergo 1 session (20 minutes) of EA daily from postoperative day 1 till day 4. These patients will be compared with a matched historical control group (1:2) who underwent laparoscopic TME or APR without EA. The primary outcome is the incidence of prolonged ileus, which is defined as the inability to tolerate fluid diet by 4 days after surgery, associated with the need for nasogastric decompression and/or parenteral nutrition support. Secondary outcomes include time to defecation and duration of hospital stay. Results of this study will help clarify the efficacy of EA in preventing prolonged ileus after laparoscopic rectal surgery, and may provide the basis for planning a larger randomized controlled trial.