Platform Trial of Novel Regimens Versus Standard of Care (SoC) in Participants With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) - Sub-study 1
This study is a sub-study of the master protocol 205801 (NCT03739710). This sub study has assessed the clinical activity of novel regimen (Feladilimab plus Docetaxel) with SOC (Docetaxel) in participants with NSCLC.
Neoplasms
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Feladilimab
Overall Survival, Overall survival was calculated as time from randomization to death. Confidence Intervals estimated using the Brookmeyer Crowley method., Up to 2 years
Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Overall Survival at 12 and 18 Months, Overall survival was defined as the time between date of randomization and death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier estimates of the percentage of participants who died at each time point was calculated. Confidence Intervals estimated using the Brookmeyer Crowley method., Month 12 and 18|Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progressive Disease (PD) or Not Evaluable, CR, PR, SD and PD will be evaluated as per RECIST version 1.1 criteria. Complete Response (CR) was defined as disappearance of all target and non target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter (mm) in the short axis. Partial Response (PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters (e.g. percent change from baseline). Stable Disease (SD) was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. Progressive Disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started (e.g. percent change from nadir, where nadir is defined as the smallest sum of diameters recorded since treatment start). In addition, the sum must have an absolute increase from nadir of 5mm., Up to 2 years|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression as per RECIST v1.1. or death whichever occurs earlier. Progressive Disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started (e.g. percent change from nadir, where nadir is defined as the smallest sum of diameters recorded since treatment start). In addition, the sum must have an absolute increase from nadir of 5mm. Confidence Intervals estimated using the Brookmeyer Crowley method., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate, ORR was calculated as the percentage of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) relative to the total number of participants in the analysis population per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1. Complete Response (CR) was defined as disappearance of all target and non target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter (mm) in the short axis. Partial Response (PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to 2 years|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Duration of Response (DOR) in Participants With Objective Response, DOR is defined as the time for first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, per RECIST 1.1 criteria. Complete Response (CR) was defined as disappearance of all target and non target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter (mm) in the short axis. Partial Response (PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. Confidence Intervals estimated using the Brookmeyer Crowley method., Up to 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR + PR at any time, plus SD =\>12 weeks as per RECIST v1.1. Complete Response (CR) was defined as disappearance of all target and non target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter (mm) in the short axis. Partial Response (PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters (e.g. percent change from baseline). Stable Disease (SD) was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With iRECIST Complete Response (iCR), Partial Response (iPR), Unconfirmed Progressive Disease (iUPD), Confirmed Progressive Disease (iCPD), Stable Disease (iSD) or Not Evaluable, Modified RECIST 1.1 for immune-based therapeutics (iRECIST) is based on RECIST v 1.1 but adapted to account for the unique tumor response seen with immunotherapeutic drugs. iRECIST was used to assess tumor response and progression and make treatment decisions. iCR: disappearance of all target lesions; iPR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters (e.g. percent change from baseline). iCPD: either 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions; iSD: stable disease in the absence of CR or PD and iUPD: unconfirmed progressive disease when PD is unconfirmed and NE: not evaluable., Up to 2 years|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of iRECIST Progression-free Survival (iPFS), iPFS is defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death, whichever occurs earlier, per iRECIST criteria. Progressive Disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started (e.g. percent change from nadir, where nadir is defined as the smallest sum of diameters recorded since treatment start). In addition, the sum must have an absolute increase from nadir of 5mm. Confidence Intervals estimated using the Brookmeyer Crowley method., Up to 2 years|iRECIST Objective Response Rate (iORR), iORR is defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed iCR or iPR at any time per iRECIST criteria. iCR was defined as disappearance of all target and non target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter (mm) in the short axis. iPR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters., Up to 2 years|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of iRECIST Duration of Response (iDOR) in Participants With Objective Response, iDOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, per iRECIST criteria. iCR was defined as disappearance of all target and non target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter (mm) in the short axis. iPR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters. Confidence Intervals estimated using the Brookmeyer Crowley method., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With AEs, Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI), SAEs and AE/SAEs Leading to Dose Modifications/Delays/Withdrawals, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, any other situation such as important medical events according to medical or scientific judgement. AESI are considered to be Infusion Related Reactions (IRRs) and those of potential immunologic etiology., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Maximum Grade Increase in Clinical Chemistry Parameters at Worst Case Post-Baseline, Blood samples were collected for assessment of the clinical chemistry parameters. Laboratory grades were evaluated using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0). Grade 1 = Mild AE; Grade 2 = Moderate AE; Grade 3 = Severe AE; Grade 4 = Life-threatening or disabling AE. Number of participants with clinical chemistry results by maximum grade increase (Increase to Grade 3 or Increase to Grade 4) are presented., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Maximum Grade Increase in Hematology Parameters at Worst Case Post-Baseline, Blood samples were collected for assessment of the hematology parameters. Laboratory grades were evaluated using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0). Grade 1 = Mild AE; Grade 2 = Moderate AE; Grade 3 = Severe AE; Grade 4 = Life-threatening or disabling AE. Number of participants with Hematology results by maximum grade increase (Increase to Grade 3 or Increase to Grade 4) are presented., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Maximum Grade Increase in Vital Signs (Systolic Blood Pressure and Diastolic Blood Pressure) Parameters at Worst Case Post-Baseline, Blood Pressure was measured after 5 minutes of rest and was taken in the same position throughout the study. Laboratory grades were evaluated using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0). Grade 1 = Mild AE; Grade 2 = Moderate AE; Grade 3 = Severe AE. Number of participants with vital signs results by maximum grade increase (Increase to Grade 2 or Increase to Grade 3) are presented., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Vital Signs (Temperature) Parameter Results at Worst Case Post-Baseline, Body temperature was measured after 5 minutes of rest. Results are presented in the following categories: Decrease to \<=35 Degrees Celsius, Change to Normal or No Change and Increase to \>=38 Degrees Celsius., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Vital Signs (Pulse Rate) Parameter Results at Worst Case Post-Baseline, Pulse Rate was measured after 5 minutes of rest. Results are presented in the following categories: Decrease to \<50 beats per minute, Change to Normal or No Change and Increase to \>120 beats per minute., Up to 2 years|Minimum Observed Concentration (CmIn) of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for assessment of the pharmacokinetic parameters., Week 1|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) of Feladilimab, Blood samples were collected for assessment of the pharmacokinetic parameters., Week 1, Week 13 and Week 25|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) of Docetaxel, Blood samples were collected for assessment of the pharmacokinetic parameters., Week 1, Week 4, Week 7, Week 10, Week 13, Week 16, Week 19 and Week 22|Number of Participants With Positive Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) Against Docetaxel, Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Positive ADA Against Feladilimab, Week 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, 37, 49, 61 and 73
This study is a sub-study of the master protocol 205801 (NCT03739710). This sub study has assessed the clinical activity of novel regimen (Feladilimab plus Docetaxel) with SOC (Docetaxel) in participants with NSCLC.