Cyclophosphamide, Fludarabine, and High-Dose Interleukin-2 in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Interleukin-2 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill tumor cells and may help a person's immune system recover from the side effects of chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving cyclophosphamide and fludarabine together with high-dose interleukin-2 works in treating patients with metastatic melanoma.
Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate
Number of partiCIPANTS WITH OBJECTIVE RESPONSE AS MEASURED BY RECIST, Objective response as measured by radiological and physical examination using RECIST criteria., Response at 12 weeks
Number of Participants With Lymphocyte Recovery as Measured by Blood Count, Lymphocyte recovery to a greater than 1000 cells/mcL was determined by differential peripheral blood cell counts on sequential days as noted in time frame., on days 1-15, weekly for 2 weeks, and then every 2-3 months|Time to Progression as Measured by RECIST, Clinical outcome used the National Cancer Institute's Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)1.0., From date of randomization until the first date of documented progression or date of death from any cause, which ever came first, assessed up till 100 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the objective response rate in lymphodepleted patients with metastatic melanoma treated with cyclophosphamide, fludarabine, and high-dose interleukin-2.
* Determine the feasibility of this regimen in these patients.

Secondary

* Determine the quality and quantity of lymphocyte recovery in these patients during and after treatment with this regimen.
* Determine time to disease progression and survival in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive lymphodepleting therapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2 and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days 3-7. Patients then receive high-dose interleukin-2 IV every 8 hours (14 doses) on days 8-12 and 22-26. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 8 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18-33 patients will be accrued for this study.