Brentuximab Vedotin and Imatinib in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory ALK+ ALCL
This is an open label pilot study of combining BV in a licensed indication with imatinib in patients with ALCL. It is intended as a "window of opportunity" trial in which the study drugs will be given as an initial substitute for conventional chemotherapy with the intention to achieve a remission enabling the patients to proceed to autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation, if eligible.
ALK+ Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Brentuximab vedotin|DRUG: Imatinib
Safety of brentuximab vedotin and imatinib regime as measured by type, frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs) and their relationship to study treatment, up to 6 years
Efficacy of brentuximab vedotin and imatinib regime as measured by proportion of patients responding to treatment, up to 6 years|Ability to receive further Treatment as measured by number of patients being able to receive transplantation, up to 6 years|Progression-free survival as measured by proportion of patients displaying progressive disease, up to 6 years|Overall survival as measured by documentation of deaths, up to 6 years
Patients will be included in this trial if they have relapsed or refractory ALK+ ALCL after at least one line of conventional chemotherapy or if they are ineligible for conventional chemotherapy.

Imatinib will be given continuously starting from day 1 of the first cycle at an oral dose of 100mg daily. The dose will be increased to 200mg daily starting from day 1 of the second cycle if no DLT occurs during the first cycle. BV will be given 3 weekly starting on day 1 at a dose of 1.8 mg/kg body weight. In the absence of a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) i.e. haematological toxicity ≥ grade 2, non- haematological toxicity ≥ grade 3, after 3 weeks of therapy, and in the presence of a clinical response (CR or PR) after cycle 1, the BV dose will continue every 3 weeks for 48 weeks. Dose modifications and stopping rules will be introduced as described in chapter 6. In case of progression at any time during the study the patient will go off trial and receive salvage treatment.