Antigen-specific T Cells Against Lung Cancer
The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of cancer antigen-specific T cells targeting lung cancer. The cancer targeting antigens are identified through immunostaining of patient's cancer specimens. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the persistence and function of the ex vivo manipulated antigen-specific T cells in the body.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Lung cancer-specific T cells
Safety of engineered T cells in patients using CTCAE version 4.0 standard to evaluate the level of adverse events, Physiological parameter (measuring cytokine response), 3 months
Persistence and proliferation of engineered antigen-specific T cells in patients, The expansion and functional persistence of ex vivo engineered T cells in the peripheral blood of patients will be examined on Day 7, 14, 21, 28, 60 and 90 after infusion., 3 months|Anti-tumor effects, Objective response, such as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) will be assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year
Lung cancer is a malignancy characterized by uncontrolled cell growth in tissues of the lung. There are two main types of lung cancer, small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) and non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). In 2012, lung cancer occurred in 1.8 million people and resulted in 1.6 million deaths worldwide. Common treatments include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy, but in relapsed cancer patients, such treatments often have limited successes.

In this study, the participant's peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be collected for antigen-specific T cell preparation, and/or modified using an advanced lentiviral vector system. Then the antigen-specific T cells, called engineered immune effectors (EIEs) or chimeric antigen receptor modified-T cells (CAR T), which can recognize specific molecules that are expressed by the lung cancer cells, are given back to the participant by intravenous infusion.

The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of T cell immunotherapy targeting single or multiple cancer antigens. The lung cancer antigens include known tumor antigens such as MAGE-A1, MAGE-A4, MucI, GD2, and mesothelin, as well as novel cancer antigens. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the persistence and function of the specific CAR T cells in the body.