Evaluation of National Cancer Institute (NCI) Smoking Intervention Resources
This is an evaluative study of three National Cancer Institute (NCI) smoking cessation resources: specifically, the smokefree.gov and women smokefree.gov websites, and the CIS counseling phone calls. The following are the identified critical questions: (1). How effective is each of the tobacco interventions (websites \[smokefree.gov \& women smokefree.gov\], NCI's Cessation Quitline counseling services operated by the Cancer Information Service (CIS) (2). How do they compare with alternative intervention strategies? (3). Which types of interventions appear to work best together (due to additive or interactive effects)? (4). How do these interventions work? (5). How much are these interventions used, and what are their relative use rates? (6). Are there important differences in effectiveness or use rates as a function of gender, SES, or other important person factors? We believe that the research study will address all of these questions, as well as some less central ones.
Smoking Cessation|Smoking|Nicotine Dependence
OTHER: CIS - telephone cessation quitline counseling|OTHER: Lozenge - nicotine mini-lozenges|OTHER: Emails - Brief smoking prevention messages|OTHER: Full website - standard smokefree.gov website content|OTHER: Lite website - lite version of smokefree.gov|OTHER: Full mailed booklet - NCI's detailed 36-page quit guide|OTHER: brief mailed booklet - smaller version of NCI's booklet
7-Day Point-Prevalence Abstinence From Smoking, Abstinence will be defined as 7-day point prevalence., Measured after the 3 month follow up assessment
Smoking Outcomes, Inclusive of smoking rate amongst those smoking, smoking cessation milestones: initial cessation, lapse latency, lapse-relapse latency; and setting a quit date., Measured at the1 week, 2 week, 3 week, 1 month, 3 month and 7 month follow up assessments.|Resource Use/Engagement, We will measure participants' use the experimental resources compared to the non-experimental resources. Particularly with the study websites, we will be tracking how often and how long participants use the regular smokefree.gov website versus the placebo website as well as what parts of the websites they are using for 6 months., Assessed at the 7 month follow up assessment. Furthermore, Website use will be collected as pages viewed, time viewed, use occasions, and composite measures. Counseling use will be measured by number of counseling calls.|Effectiveness of the Experimental Resources., We will measure how these experimental resources (as well as combinations of resources) aid in quit attempts and abstinence outcomes., Data collected at all assessments (Measured at the1 week, 2 week, 3 week, 1 month, 3 month and 7 month follow ups), during web use measurements (6 months), and counseling calls measurements (4 weeks). Analyzed after the study.|Withdrawal Symptoms, We will measure the manifestation and severity of withdrawal symptoms of participants in each treatment group., Measured at the1 week, 2 week, 3 week, 1 month, 3 month and 7 month follow up assessments.|Perceived Support, We will measure perceived support from both treatment and non-treatment resources., Measured at the1 month, 3 month and 7 month follow up assessments.|Treatment Satisfaction, We will measure how satisfied participants were with the resources they were given as well as what might have made their quit attempts easier or more successful., Measured at the 1 month, 3 month and 7 month follow up assessments|Increased Quit Attempts, Quit attempts will be defined in two ways: self-report of a serious attempt to quit, and occurrence of at least a 24 hr period of abstinence that was for the purpose of cessation., Measured at the 1 month, 3 month and 7 month follow up assessments.
This an evaluative study of three National Cancer Institute (NCI) smoking cessation resources: specifically, the smokefree.gov and women smokefree.gov websites, and the CIS counseling phone calls. The following are the identified critical questions: (1). How effective is each of the tobacco interventions (websites \[smokefree.gov \& women smokefree.gov\], NCI's Cessation Quitline counseling services operated by the Cancer Information Service (CIS) (2). How do they compare with alternative intervention strategies? (3). Which types of interventions appear to work best together (due to additive or interactive effects)? (4). How do these interventions work? (5). How much are these interventions used, and what are their relative use rates? (6). Are there important differences in effectiveness or use rates as a function of gender, SES, or other important person factors? We believe that the research study will address all of these questions, as well as some less central ones.

The primary goal of this research is to obtain experimental data on the effectiveness of the major eHealth and communication smoking cessation interventions (smokefree.gov, women smokefree.gov, and NCI's Quitline counseling services). The primary bases for comparison would be quit attempts and cessation success, and each intervention would be compared with a control condition not receiving the intervention. In addition to the targeted interventions, participants may also be assigned to several different comparison interventions: i.e., email prompts, mailings/brochures, and OTC nicotine medication. The resulting data would allow us to determine effect sizes for each type of intervention relative to a control condition, which would allow us to determine the relative effectiveness of each intervention: i.e., how well the interventions stack-up against one another in terms of effect sizes.

Secondary goals of this research are to:

1. . Determine how much the participants use the interventions;
2. . Determine the mechanisms of benefit (perform meditational analyses);
3. . Compare benefits for important smoker populations;
4. . Determine whether any of the interventions produce subtractive or synergistic effects; and
5. . Obtain basic health economic estimates such as cost/quitter.

The project will also include a substudy directed toward pregnant women and women who are interested in participating but are unwilling to agree to utilize approved contraceptive methods for the duration of the study. This substudy will utilize all of the treatment conditions except the medication condition, since medication is not recommended for women who are pregnant in the US. Department of Health and Human Services treatment guideline for tobacco dependence