Assessment of Muscle Strength and Volume Changes in Patients With Breast Cancer- Related Lymphedema
This study aims to find whether complete decongestive therapy used in breast cancer-related lymphedema has an effect on muscle strength in the affected arm, while assessing the efficacy of the therapy itself. 74 patients with breast cancer related lymphedema were included in this study. Patients were taken their demographic and clinical history and were evaluated with measurements of extremity volumes and hand grip strengths using a hand dynamometer before and after the complete decongestive therapy. Data were then assessed using relevant statistical methods.
Lymphedema Arm|Lymphedema; Surgical
OTHER: Complete Decongestion Therapy
Hand grip strength, Hand grip strength: Hand grip strength was measured using JAMAR® hand dynamometer. It has been used to assess hand grip strength in many studies over half a century. Patients were asked to sit down with shoulder adducted, elbow flexed (90°) and forearm in the neutral position. Mean of the 3 measurements taken with 1 minute apart from each other was recorded. Patients' measurements were taken for both affected and unaffected arm, and recorded as kgf., 3 weeks|Extremity volume, Volume measurements were taken using ulnar styloid process as a index point, and circumferential measurements were taken with 5 cm spaces from distal to the proximal. Using a computer programme (Limb Volumes Professional version 5.0), the total volume of the arm was calculated and recorded before and after the treatment for both arms.

All patients' measurements were taken by the same researcher., 3 weeks
This study aims to find whether complete decongestive therapy used in breast cancer-related lymphedema has an effect on muscle strength in the affected arm, while assessing the efficacy of the therapy itself. 74 patients with breast cancer related lymphedema were included in this study. Patients were taken their demographic and clinical history and were evaluated with measurements of extremity volumes and hand grip strengths using a hand dynamometer before and after the complete decongestive therapy. Data were then assessed using relevant statistical methods.