Prehabilitation & Rehabilitation in Oncogeriatrics: Adaptation to Deconditioning Risk and Accompaniment of Patients' With Cancer
With the conjunction of increased life expectancy and the increasing incidence of cancer with aging, older patient represent an increasing proportion of cancer patients. Increasing age is also associated with increased risk of co-morbidities as well as a decline of functional reserve of multiple organ systems, eventually leading in the context of the disease-and/or the treatment-related stress to functional deconditioning or organ failure.

Surgery or complex medico-surgical procedures - that associate chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and surgery, can be considered as one proof-of principle of such risks, since major cancer surgery the older population is at higher risk of morbi-mortality and unplanned hospitalization for geriatric events In order to reduce complications after surgery, prehabilitation has often been considered, and 71% of the surgeons would accept a 4 weeks delay before surgery to improve patients' outcomes if shown to be beneficial. However, the actual level of evidence depends on the interventions: high for pre-operative nutrition, but low for physical exercise, due to heterogeneous programs with often bad adherence. In addition, geriatric validated interventions, in order to prevent iatrogenic event, may be added in a multi-interventional model of intervention.
Old Injury
BEHAVIORAL: standardized geriatric intervention
Implementation of at least one item of PROADAPT standardized geriatric intervention of the program PROADAPT pilot study, Preoperative physical activity including strength and endurance exercise assessed by physical exercises accomplished under the supervision of a physiotherapist. Number of patients with at least 1 intervention achieved in the domain., 12 months|Implementation of at least one item of PROADAPT standardized geriatric intervention of the program PROADAPT pilot study, Nutrition guidelines before and after physical activity assessed by questionnaires. Number of patients with at least 1 intervention achieved in the domain., 12 months|Implementation of at least one item of PROADAPT standardized geriatric intervention of the program PROADAPT pilot study, Patient education and coaching assessed by questionnaires and visits. Number of patients with at least 1 intervention achieved in the domain, 12 months|Implementation of at least one item of PROADAPT standardized geriatric intervention of the program PROADAPT pilot study, Achievement of standardized intervention procedures, according to the checklist established in consensus with surgeons. Number of patients with at least 1 intervention achieved in the domain, 12 months|Implementation of at least one item of PROADAPT standardized geriatric intervention of the program PROADAPT pilot study, Rehabilitation assessed by questionnaires. Number of patients with at least 1 intervention achieved in the domain, 12 months|Implementation of at least one item of PROADAPT standardized geriatric intervention of the program PROADAPT pilot study, Accomplishment of pharmaceutical medication conciliation and treatment optimization. Number of patients with at least 1 intervention achieved in the domain, 12 months|Implementation of at least one item of PROADAPT standardized geriatric intervention of the program PROADAPT pilot study, Bridging interventions for hospital-to-home transition. Number of patients with at least 1 intervention achieved in the domain, 12 months
Post operative morbidity, Post operative morbidity according Clavien-Dindo classification, 30 and 90 days|Post-operative morbidity, Post-operative morbidity according to NCI CTC v4.4, 90 days|Therapeutic strategy, Treatment plan completion rate: Number of patients for whom the treatment plan was completed., 12 months|Progression-free Survival, 12 months|Post-treatment complication, Post-treatment complication grade≥3 according the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 4 (NCI-CTC-v4), 12 months
PROADAPT pilot study is a standardized geriatric intervention constructed on a multi-professional and multi-disciplinary basis after a systematic analysis of published data.

This intervention was designed to be implemented pragmatically in the centers according local habits in several distinct hospital contexts in different tumor contexts.

It consists in:

1. before surgery: a prehabilitation of the patients including a nutritional, physical and educational preparation;
2. during the hospitalization for surgery: an optimisation of their treatments through a pharmaceutical conciliation, educational interventions, standardization of surgical procedures and enhanced rehabilitation after surgery;
3. bridging and post-discharge interventions for hospital-to-home transition.