Prognostic and Predictive Factors for Small Breast Tumors
Because of mammography screening increasingly more women are diagnosed with centimeter or subcentimeter node-negative breast cancer (i.e., T1abN0); these tumors account for approximately 19% of all newly diagnosed breast cancers in Sweden. Although the long term relapse-free survival rates among patients with such tumors is as high as ≥90%, some reports suggest that certain patient subgroups may have rates \<75%. Firmly established prognostic and predictive factors for patients with T1abN0 tumors are, however, lacking. This is a nationwide, register-based cohort study investigating prognostic and predictive factors in women with centimeter or subcentimeter breast cancer. The study hypotheses are: 1) Established prognostic and/or predictive factors in overall breast cancer are prognostic and/or predictive factors also in centimeter or subcentimeter node-negative breast cancer; 2) The established relative reduction in risk of recurrence and death of adjuvant treatment for overall breast cancer are similar in centimeter or subcentimeter node-negative breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Endocrine therapy|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Herceptin|DRUG: Chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Type of breast cancer surgery|OTHER: Age at diagnosis|OTHER: Screen detected tumor|OTHER: Menopausal status at diagnosis|OTHER: Tumor size|OTHER: Estrogen receptor (ER) status|OTHER: Tumor grade|OTHER: HER2-status|OTHER: Intrinsic subgroups of breast cancer|OTHER: Nodal status
Breast cancer specific death, January 1, 1977 to December 31, 2014
Death from any cause, January 1, 1977 to July 30, 2016|Metachronous breast cancer, Ipsilateral or contralateral breast cancer, January 1, 1977 to July 30, 2016
Because of mammography screening increasingly more women are diagnosed with centimeter or subcentimeter node-negative breast cancer (i.e., T1abN0); these tumors account for approximately 19% of all newly diagnosed breast cancers in Sweden. Although the long term relapse-free survival rates among patients with such tumors is as high as ≥90%, some reports suggest that certain patient subgroups may have rates \<75%. Firmly established prognostic and predictive factors for patients with T1abN0 tumors are, however, lacking. This is a nationwide, register-based cohort study investigating prognostic and predictive factors in women with centimeter or subcentimeter breast cancer. The study hypotheses are: 1) Established prognostic and/or predictive factors in overall breast cancer are prognostic and/or predictive factors also in centimeter or subcentimeter node-negative breast cancer; 2) The established relative reduction in risk of recurrence and death of adjuvant treatment for overall breast cancer are similar in centimeter or subcentimeter node-negative breast cancer.