A Study of Xeloda (Capecitabine) in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This 2 arm study will assess the efficacy and safety of intermittent oral Xeloda, or iv fluorouracil/leucovorin, in combination with intravenous Eloxatin (oxaliplatin) in patients previously treated for metastatic colorectal cancer. Patients will be randomized to receive either 1)XELOX (Xeloda 1000mg/m2 po bid on days 1-15 + oxaliplatin) in 3 week cycles or 2) FOLFOX-4 (oxaliplatin + leucovorin + 5-FU in 2 week cycles. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: 5 FU|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: capecitabine [Xeloda]
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the day of documented disease progression or death from any cause. It was based on tumor assessments made according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0, wherein progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of the target lesions (TLs), taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Participants with neither disease progression nor death were censored at the last date of the last tumor assessment confirming that they had not progressed. Participants with no tumor assessments after baseline but who were still alive at the time of the clinical cut-off were censored at date of randomization, Up to 3 years
Progression Free Survival Based on Independent Review Committee Assessment, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the day of documented disease progression or death from any cause. It was based on tumor assessments made according to the RECIST version 1.0, wherein PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of the TLs, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Participants with neither disease progression nor death were censored at the last date of the last tumor assessment confirming that they had not progressed. Participants with no tumor assessments after baseline but who were still alive at the time of the clinical cut-off were censored at date of randomization. This PFS evaluation was based on Independent Review Committee Assessment., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival Based on Treatment Analysis- Intent To Treat Population, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from date of randomization to day of documented disease progression or death from any cause. It was based on tumor assessments made according to the RECIST version 1.0, wherein PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of the TLs, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Participants with neither disease progression nor death were censored at the last date of the last tumor assessment confirming that they had not progressed. Participants with no tumor assessments after baseline but who were still alive at the time of the clinical cut-off were censored at date of randomization. PFS was analyzed using an on-treatment approach included only disease progression and death that occurred no later than 28 days after the last confirmed intake of study medication in the primary study treatment phase., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival Based on Treatment Analysis- Per Population, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the day of documented disease progression or death from any cause. It was based on tumor assessments made according to the RECIST version 1.0, wherein PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of the TLs, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Participants with neither disease progression nor death were censored at the last date of the last tumor assessment confirming that they had not progressed. Participants with no tumor assessments after baseline but who were still alive at the time of the clinical cut-off were censored at date of randomization, Up to 3 years|Best Overall Response, Investigators' Assessments, Best overall response is best response recorded from start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence where responses include complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD). CR was defined as disappearance of all TLs, non-TLs along with normalization of tumor marker level. PR is at least 30% decrease in sum of the LD of TLs, taking as reference baseline sum LD. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking reference of smallest sum LD since treatment started. It was dependent on achievement of measurement and confirmation criteria. BOR .i.e. CR or PR was confirmed by repeat assessments performed within 4 weeks. For SD, follow-up assessments had to meet the SD criteria at least once after study entry within 6 to 8 weeks., Up to 3 years|Best Overall Response, Independent Review Committee Assessment, Best overall response is best response recorded from start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence where responses include CR, PR, or SD. CR was defined as disappearance of all TLs, non-TLs along with normalization of tumor marker level. PR is at least 30% decrease in sum of the LD of TLs, taking as reference baseline sum LD. SD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking reference of smallest sum LD since treatment started. It was dependent on achievement of measurement and confirmation criteria. BOR .i.e. CR or PR was confirmed by repeat assessments performed within 4 weeks, for SD, follow-up assessments had to meet the SD criteria at least once after study entry within 6 to 8 weeks. This PFS evaluation was based on Independent Review Committee Assessment., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival was measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death. Participant who were not reported to have died at the time of the analysis were censored using the date they were last known to be alive., Up to 3 years|Time To Response, Time to response (TOR) (best response of CR or PR) was measured as the time from randomization to the first date on which the measurement criteria for CR or PR (whichever status was recorded first) were met. CR for TLs was defined as disappearance of all TLs and for non-TLs as disappearance of all non-TLs and normalization of tumor marker level. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 3 years|Duration Of Response, Duration of response (DOR) is defined as the time when CR or PR was first met up to first date that PD or death is documented. CR is defined as disappearance of all TLs and non TLs, PR is defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of the TLs, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions for the TLs or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs., Up to 3 years|Time To Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first occurrence of adverse event (AE), insufficient therapeutic response, death, failure to return, or refusing treatment/being uncooperative/withdrawing consent., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Marked Post-baseline Laboratory Abnormalities by Trial Treatment, Laboratory abnormalities were defined as those values that were outside the Roche defined reference range and showed a clinically relevant change from baseline. All laboratory parameters were categorized according to the National Cancer Center Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTCAE) grading system. Incidence of Grade 1 to 4 laboratory abnormalities are presented in the table below., Up to 3 years
This 2 arm study will assess the efficacy and safety of intermittent oral Xeloda, or iv fluorouracil/leucovorin, in combination with intravenous Eloxatin (oxaliplatin) in patients previously treated for metastatic colorectal cancer. Patients will be randomized to receive either 1)XELOX (Xeloda 1000mg/m2 po bid on days 1-15 + oxaliplatin) in 3 week cycles or 2) FOLFOX-4 (oxaliplatin + leucovorin + 5-FU in 2 week cycles. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.