Treosulfan-Based Versus Clofarabine-Based Conditioning Before Donor Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant for the Treatment of Myelodysplastic Syndromes or Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trials studies the effect of treosulfan-based versus clofarabine-based conditioning regimens before donor hematopoietic stem cell transplant in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid leukemia. Chemotherapy drugs, such as treosulfan, fludarabine, and clofarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy and total-body irradiation before a donor hematopoietic stem cell transplant helps kill cancer cells in the body and helps make room in the patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into a patient, they may help the patient's bone marrow make more healthy cells and platelets and may help destroy any remaining cancer cells. This study may help doctors determine whether treosulfan-based or clofarabine-based conditioning regimen works better before donor hematopoietic stem cell transplant in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Clofarabine|DRUG: Fludarabine|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|DRUG: Treosulfan|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|PROCEDURE: Lumbar Puncture|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Relapse-free survival, At 6 months after transplant
Overall survival, At 1 year after transplant|Rate of non-relapse mortality, At 1 year after transplant|Relapse rate, At 1 year after transplant|Incidence of acute graft versus host disease, At 1 year after transplant|Duration of hospitalization, Up to day 100 post hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive treosulfan intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days -6 to -4 and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2. Patients also undergo total-body irradiation (TBI) followed by HCT on day 0. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) and lumbar puncture pre-transplant and undergo bone marrow aspiration, bone marrow biopsy, and collection of blood samples at pre-transplant and post-transplant.

ARM B: Patients receive clofarabine IV over 2 hours on days -6 to -2. Patients also undergo TBI followed by HCT on day 0. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA and lumbar puncture pre-transplant and undergo bone marrow aspiration, bone marrow biopsy, and collection of blood samples at pre-transplant and post-transplant.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at days 28, 56, 84 and 180, years 1 and 1.5 and then annually for 5 years.