Assessment of Diagnostic Yield Using a Robotic Navigational Bronchoscopy System With CBCT
The aim of this research study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the ION endoluminal system at reaching and obtaining biopsies from lung nodules when used in combination with 3-dimensional imaging such as CT scans. The learning curve of the procedure will be assessed and data on safety will also be collected.
Lung Cancer
DEVICE: Biopsy with the Robotic- Ion Endoluminal System with Adjunct Real-time Imaging
Diagnostic yield of sample(s) obtained (post learning curve), Diagnostic yield is the number of nodules in which the procedure was diagnostic (either malignant or non-malignant), relative to the total number of attempted navigation procedures, Up to 13 months post procedure]
Sensitivity for malignancy of sample(s) obtained, Sensitivity for malignancy of samples is assessed as the number of subjects with a malignant condition determined through the study procedure (true positives) relative to the number of subjects with an underlying malignant disease state (true positives + false negatives).

The subjects underlying disease state will be determined by follow-up diagnostic interventions or treatment decisions/interventions, and/or radiographic follow-up., Up to 13 months post procedure|Rate of achieving biopsy tool position within the targeted nodule(s) as confirmed by CBCT 3D imaging or the combination of multi-angle augmented fluoroscopy with diagnostic rapid onsite pathology (in the absence of a confirmatory spin)., The rate of Tool in Nodule is how often the biopsy tool to sample the tissue is positioned directly within the nodule before the sample is taken.

If biopsy forceps are used, it is how often the instrument is surrounding the nodule before the sample is taken., At time of the biopsy procedure (Day 0)
Rate of procedure-related Adverse Events through 7 days post-procedure, The study's safety endpoint is the rate of procedure-related Adverse Events through 7 days post-procedure, 7 days|Procedure-related characteristics, Procedure time (from catheter inserted into the patient's airways to catheter removed from the patient's airways) will be reported, At time of the biopsy procedure (Day 0)|rEBUS visualization characteristics, The frequency of use of a concentric rEBUS visualization view during the biopsy will be summarized., At time of the biopsy procedure (Day 0)|Biopsy workflow, The sequence of biopsy tools used will be summarized., At time of the biopsy procedure (Day 0)
This is a prospective, interventional, single-centre, dual-arm study which will be conducted in the Netherlands and will involve up to 131 patients undergoing a pulmonary nodule biopsy using the Ion Endoluminal System in conjunction with 3D imaging. Outcomes in these patients will be compared to 91 propensity score matched Cone Beam CT- Navigational Bronchoscopy (CBCT-NB) controls obtained from the site's existing CBCT-NB database.

The objectives of the study are focused on evaluating the procedure learning curve and characteristics of the pulmonary nodule biopsy procedure, including diagnostic yield, rate of tool in nodule, sensitivity for malignancy and safety.

A learning curve analysis will be retrospectively performed to determine when both operators have reached competency with the Ion Endoluminal System. Criteria for passing the learning curve for measuring proficiency in the CUSUM will be diagnostic yield. Additional parameters like tool in lesion and procedure durations will also be monitored.

All subjects will be followed up at 1 week after the procedure. If an adverse event was observed, a 30-day post-procedure visit will also take place. If the biopsy did not provide a diagnosis or did not show cancer and was still under observation, then they will have further follow up at 6 months. Similarly, if the status is unchanged (non-malignant diagnosis) and the nodule is still under observation, a 13 months visit should be completed.