Benefit of Allogeneic Haematopoietic Stem Cells in Cutaneous T-cell Lymphomas Epidermotropic With Advanced Stage and Poor Prognosis
Epidermotropic T-cell lymphomas (ETCL), i.e. mycosis fungoides (MF) and its leukemic variant, Sézary syndrome, are the most frequent subtypes of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. MF typically runs an indolent course in its early stages. By contrast, advanced-stage ETCLs share a very bad prognosis: Patients usually show early relapses after chemotherapy, prolonged complete remissions exceptionally occur and quality of life is severely affected. Several publications have reported durable responses following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in advanced-stage ETCLs. This study aims to investigate the role of allogeneic HSCT in treating advanced-stage ETCLs. An observational, prospective, multicenter, controlled study will compare the outcomes of patients who receive reduced-intensity conditioned allogeneic HSCT from a sibling or 10/10 HLA-matched unrelated donor to those of patients who receive standard of care in patients with advanced-stage ETCL with poor prognostic features, will be performed. Patients are included at the time of donor search irrespective of the results, and compared on a donor versus no donor basis. It is an observational study since no intervention is made except the comparison of outcomes of groups that receive usual care (HSCT if donor available, or not).
Epidermotropic T-cell Lymphomas
PROCEDURE: HSCT|OTHER: Standard Care
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), 3 year
overall survival (OS), 3 year|Neutrophils Engraftment, Neutrophils \> 1,000 Giga/L, 180 days|Acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), 180 days|Cumulative incidence of relapse, 3 years|Treatment-related mortality (TRM), 12 months|Quality of life (QoL), 3 years
Epidermotropic T-cell lymphomas (ETCL), i.e. mycosis fungoides (MF) and its leukemic variant, Sézary syndrome, are the most frequent subtypes of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. MF typically runs an indolent course in its early stages. By contrast, advanced-stage ETCLs share a very bad prognosis: Patients usually show early relapses after chemotherapy, prolonged complete remissions exceptionally occur and quality of life is severely affected. Several publications have reported durable responses following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in advanced-stage ETCLs. This study aims to investigate the role of allogeneic HSCT in treating advanced-stage ETCLs. An observational, prospective, multicenter, controlled study will compare the outcomes of patients who receive reduced-intensity conditioned allogeneic HSCT from a sibling or 10/10 HLA-matched unrelated donor to those of patients who receive standard of care in patients with advanced-stage ETCL with poor prognostic features, will be performed. Patients are included at the time of donor search irrespective of the results, and compared on a donor versus no donor basis. It is an observational study since no intervention is made except the comparison of outcomes of groups that receive usual care (HSCT if donor available, or not).