Dabrafenib Plus Trametinib vs Vemurafenib Alone in Unresectable or Metastatic BRAF V600E/K Cutaneous Melanoma
This was a two-arm, open-label, randomized, Phase III study comparing dabrafenib (GSK2118436) and trametinib (GSK1120212) combination therapy with vemurafenib.
Melanoma
DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Vemurafenib|DRUG: Trametinib
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the interval of time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. For patients who did not die, OS was censored at the date of last contact., From the date of randomization until date of death due to any cause (up to approximately 6 years)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), as Assessed by the Investigator, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the interval of time between the date of randomization and the first documented occurrence of disease progression or death due to any cause. PFS for investigator-assessed response was summarized per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Version 1.1, which is a set of published rules defining when cancer patients improve (respond), stay the same (stabilize), or worsen (progress) during treatment. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm) or the appearance of at least 1 new lesion, or the worsening of non-target lesions significant enough to require study treatment discontinuation., From randomization until the earliest date of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause (up to approximately 6 years)|Overall Response Rate (ORR) During Randomized Phase, as Assessed by the Investigator, Overall response was defined as the percentage of confirmed responders (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\] per RECIST, Version 1.1) as summarized by Investigator assessment. CR was defined as the disappearance of all evidence of target lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% reduction from Baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of all target lesions. Data were reported as those participants with measureable disease at Baseline., From randomization until the first documented complete response or partial response (up to approximately 6 years)|Duration of Response (DOR), as Assessed by the Investigator, Duration of Response (DOR) was defined as the time from the first documented evidence of a CR (disappearance of all evidence of target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% reduction from Baseline in the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions) until disease progression or death due to any cause. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm or the appearance of at least1 new lesion, or the worsening of non-target lesions significant enough to require study treatment discontinuation. Data were summarized per RECIST, Version 1.1., From the time of the first documented response (CR or PR) until disease progression (up to approximately 6 years)
Screening/Subject eligibility: Subjects with histologically confirmed cutaneous melanoma that was either unresectable or metastatic (Stages IIIC or IV), were screened for eligibility. Eligible subjects were BRAF V600E or V600K mutation positive. Subjects who had prior systemic anti-cancer treatment in the advanced or metastatic setting were not eligible although prior systemic treatment in the adjuvant setting was allowed.

Randomization: A total of 704 subjects were randomized in a ratio of 1:1 to receive combination therapy (352 subjects) or vemurafenib treatment (352 subjects). Subjects were stratified by LDH level (\> the ULN versus =\< ULN) and BRAF mutation (V600E versus V600K).

Study treatment: Dabrafenib and trametinib were administered orally at their recommended doses of 150 mg b.i.d. and 2.0 mg once daily, respectively. Subjects randomized in the combination therapy arm received both the agents. Subjects randomized in the vemurafenib arm received vemurafenib at the recommended dose of 960 mg orally b.i.d. Subjects in both the arms continued treatment until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. The protocol was amended on 07-Aug-2014 which allowed subjects who were still receiving vemurafenib to cross over to the dabrafenib and trametinib combination arm, including those subjects who were still receiving vemurafenib monotherapy treatment after disease progression. A washout period of a minimum of 7 days was considered prior to initiating dabrafenib in combination with trametinib. Subjects who experienced disease progression on the vemurafenib monotherapy arm, discontinued vemurafenib monotherapy, and subsequently received another anticancer therapy were ineligible for cross over to the dabrafenib and trametinib combination arm.

Follow-up/Study closure: After study treatment discontinuation, subjects were followed for survival and disease progression as applicable. This study completed once all the subjects had at least the 5-years of follow-up.