Characterization and Treatment of Chemotherapy Neuropathy
Numbness, tingling, and pain in the hands and feet following the administration of chemotherapy (also called chemotherapy-induced neuropathy (CIN)) is a common problem in oncology patients. However, more information is needed on why patients develop neuropathy and how it impacts their mood, ability to function, and their quality of life. In addition, effective treatments for this problem are not available at the present time. This study will be conducted in two parts. In Part 1, patients who have finished chemotherapy and did or did not develop CIN will be evaluated to determine why some patients do and other patients do not develop CIN. In addition, the impact of CIN on patients' mood, function, and quality of life will be evaluated by comparing patients' reports on these important outcome measures. In addition, genetic markers that contribute to or protect against the development of CIN will be evaluated. Part 2 of this study will test the effects of a new treatment called photon stimulation (also called infrared light therapy) compared to placebo treatment to improve sensations in the feet of oncology patients with CIN. Patients who receive the photon stimulation will have greater improvement in sensation in their feet compared with those who do not receive photon stimulation.
Chemotherapy-induced Neuropathy
PROCEDURE: Photon stimulation|PROCEDURE: Placebo treatment
Changes over time in light touch sensation, Light touch sensation will be measured using Semmes Weinstein monofilaments., Treatment days 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8
Safety measures, Skin will be assessed for redness and swelling., Before and after each treatment on days 1 through 8|Changes over time in pain qualities, Pain qualities will be assessed using the Pain Qualities Assessment Scale, Treatment days 2, 4, 6, 8|Changes over time in average pain intensity, Average pain will be assessed using a 0 to 10 numeric rating scale., Treatment days 1 through 8|Changes over time in worst pain intensity, Worst pain will be assessed using a 0 to 10 numeric rating scale., Treatment days 1 through 8
This protocol is designed in two parts. Part 1 will use an "extreme phenotype" approach to evaluate the phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of chemotherapy induced neuropathy(CIN)in a sample of oncology patients who have completed their chemotherapy and did(n=400)and did not (n=200) develop CIN. Patients with and without CIN will be matched, in a 2 to 1 ratio, on their cancer diagnosis and CTX agents administered (i.e., only a platinum compound, only a taxane, or both). Patients will be recruited in cohorts of 30 to 40 to insure that the matching criteria are met and the 2:1 ratio is achieved.

In a single study visit, to take place at the outpatient CTSI CRC (CCRC) at Mt. Zion,participants will be enrolled, complete a battery of sensorimotor tests and questionnaires, and provide a single blood specimen for genomic analysis.

Part 2 will be a pilot study of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial (RDBPCT) of photon stimulation in a sample of patients (n=142) with CIN who participated in Part 1. Participants will be randomized to receive the active treatment or the placebo in a series of 8 treatments, lasting 7 minutes each, across a 14-day period. Participants will be assessed at baseline and after the 2nd, 4th, 6th, and 8th treatments with sensory, motor, balance, pain intensity and pain quality measures, mood, and quality of life measures. Blood specimens will be drawn on treatment days 1, 4, 5, and 8 for gene expression.

10.1 \* Study design: 10.2 Check