Elderly With Locally Advanced Lung Cancer: Deciding Through Geriatric Assessment on the Optimal Treatment Strategy
There is no detailed information available on benefits and harms of intensified treatment with concurrent RCHT among a subpopulation of elderly patients. Reliable tools are needed to distinguish the subgroup of fit patients from frail patients.
NSCLC
Correlation GA with QAS (quality adjusted survival), To corellate results of the geriatric assessment with quality-adjusted survival (QAS) after radical intent therapy in patients with stage III NSCLC ≥75 years, 5 years
Geriatric assessment, To perform a geriatric assessment in stage III NSCLC patients to distinguish patients fit enough to undergo intensified treatment and to develop a reliable and clinically applicable geriatric screening instrument to guide treatment decisions in stage III NSCLC, Baseline|Medical comparison between treatments, To compare different treatment strategies for fit elderly patients with respect to overall and quality adjusted survival, 5 years|Cost-effectiveness, To compare cost-effectiveness of sequential and concurrent RCHT for fit elderly patients with stage III NSCLC, End of study|Development and validation of geriatric screening instrument, To develop and validate a clinically applicable geriatric screening instrument that enables appropriate treatment stratification in the elderly NSCLC patient, 5 years|Flow chart, To develop a flow chart for cost-effective clinical decision-making, in clinical practice, 5 years|Predictive value, To determine the predictive value of saliva biomarkers on QAS in elderly patients with stage III NSCLC, 5 years
Lung cancer is a problem of the elderly: 30% of the lung cancer patients are aged ≥ 75 years. Due to underrepresentation of elderly patients in clinical trials there is a lack of evidence to select the optimal treatment strategy for these patients. Concurrent radiochemotherapy (RCHT) has been recognised as the standard treatment of stage III NSCLC patients with a good performance status. Evidence for this treatment was gained in clinical trials that mostly excluded elderly patients. Furthermore, the survival gain obtained with combined RCHT, comes with a significant increase in toxicity. Therefore, information on benefits and harms of intensified treatment with concurrent RCHT among a subpopulation of medically fit elderly patients is still lacking. Moreover, reliable tools are needed to distinguish the subgroup of fit patients from frail patients, i.e. those expected to experience important toxicity.