Testing the Addition of Nivolumab to Chemotherapy in Treatment of Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well paclitaxel with and without nivolumab works in treating patients with soft tissue sarcoma that have not received taxane drugs, and how well nivolumab and cabozantinib work in treating taxane pretreated patients with soft tissue sarcoma. Nivolumab works through the body's immune system to help the immune system act against tumor cells. Chemotherapy drugs, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. This trial is being done to see if the combination of nivolumab and paclitaxel or cabozantinib can shrink soft tissue sarcoma and possibly prevent it from coming back.
Skin Angiosarcoma|Skin Radiation-Related Angiosarcoma|Visceral Angiosarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: FDG-Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression free survival (PFS) in taxane naive patients with angiosarcoma, Will compare the PFS in taxane naive angiosarcoma patients receiving either (1) paclitaxel + nivolumab compared to (2) paclitaxel alone., From registration (randomization) to either progression or death (without progression), assessed up to 3 years|Overall response rate (ORR) in angiosarcoma patients who have had prior taxane, Will compare the overall response rate (ORR) of nivolumab + cabozantinib in patients with angiosarcoma who have had prior taxanes to historical control of VEGF inhibitors alone., Up to 3 years
ORR in the nivolumab + paclitaxel, Will be estimated by dividing the number of evaluable patients that achieve a confirmed response by the total number of evaluable patients in the nivolumab + paclitaxel combination arm. Additionally a 95% confidence interval will be constructed utilizing properties of the binomial distribution., Up to 3 years|Overall survival in each of the 2 combination arms, Will be evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier method in order to determine the median survival rate. This median survival rate will be calculated for each of the 2 combination arms (i.e. nivolumab + paclitaxel and nivolumab + cabozantinib)., From study enrollment until death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|PFS rate, At 6 months|Incidence of adverse events, Maximum grade adverse events will be summarized by treatment arm in a tabular setting. This will be done both with and without regard to the assigned attribution of each adverse event., Up to 3 years|Patient-reported outcomes (PRO), Will be assessed via PRO-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). In order to evaluate this endpoint we will calculate the proportion of patients that report a grade 3+ event along with a 95% confidence interval based on the properties of the binomial distribution. Any other analyses with these data will be done in an exploratory and hypothesis generating manner., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) for paclitaxel with and without nivolumab in subjects with taxane naive angiosarcoma.

II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of nivolumab in combination with cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) in patients with taxane pre-treated angiosarcoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the ORR of paclitaxel in combination with nivolumab. II. To determine clinical activity of the addition of nivolumab to paclitaxel or cabozantinib in subjects with angiosarcoma by determination of overall survival (OS) for each combination.

III. To determine clinical activity of the addition of nivolumab to cabozantinib in subjects with taxane pre-treated angiosarcoma by determination of progression free survival (PFS) at 6 months by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 criteria.

IV. To assess toxicity of the concurrent nivolumab-paclitaxel and nivolumab-cabozantinib combinations in subjects with angiosarcoma based on National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.5.0.

V. To measure symptomatic adverse events (AE) for patients via Patient Reported Outcome (PRO)-CTCAE, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy General (FACT-G) questionnaire, and Linear Analogue Self-Assessment (LASA).

OUTLINE: Patients who have not previously received a taxane are randomized to Arm I or Arm II. Patients who have previously received a taxane are assigned to Arm III.

ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for up to 2 years (24 months) for patients who achieve complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) on immunotherapy/nivolumab, or in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression may crossover to Arm III.

ARM III (EFFECTIVE OF 10/28/2021, NEW PATIENT ACCRUAL PERMANENTLY CLOSED): Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib orally (PO) daily. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for up to 2 years (24 months) for patients who achieve CR, PR or SD on immunotherapy/nivolumab, or in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo collection of blood at baseline and on study, computed tomography (CT) scan, spiral CT, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or FDG-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scan throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years.