Obinutuzumab With High-dose Ibrutinib for the Treatment of Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia With Progressive Disease on Single Agent Ibrutinib.
The purpose of the study is to investigate whether the combination of obinutuzumab and ibrutinib (administered up to 840 mg per day) might be useful for the treatment of CLL or SLL that is not responding or no longer responding to treatment with ibrutinib alone. The study will evaluate whether this regimen can reduce the amount of cancerous cells in the body. Subjects will be treated with ibrutinib at a dose of up to 840 mg a day by mouth, as well as obinutuzumab infusions. Although both of these agents are approved by the FDA for the treatment of CLL or SLL, the combination and the dosing schedule of ibrutinib are considered experimental.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: ibrutinib|DRUG: obinutuzumab
Maximum tolerated dose, 2 months
Treatment-emergent adverse events, 2 years|overall response rate, 2 months|progression free survival, 2 months|stable disease rate, 2 months
This is phase 1 study for patients with CLL or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) experiencing disease progression on single ibrutinib. This study will evaluate the optimal ibrutinib dose (including doses higher than 420 mg) when combined with obinutuzumab.

During the screening period, patients will continue on ibrutinib at their previous tolerated dose, unless required to stop (e.g.: by a preceding clinical trial).

On cycle 1, day 1, the dose of ibrutinib will be assigned based on the dose cohort. Patients in cohort 1 will receive ibrutinib 420 mg PO daily. Patients in cohort 2 will receive ibrutinib 560 mg PO daily. Cohort 3 will be 700 mg PO daily. Cohort 4 will be 840 mg PO daily.

On cycle 1, day 1, patients will also initiate treatment with obinutuzumab (100 mg on day 1, 900mg on day 2, 1000mg day 8, 15, 28 then q 28 days for a total of 8 doses).

The primary safety endpoint is determination of DLTs during the first 28 days. The primary efficacy endpoint of overall response rate will be assessed 2 months after the final dose of obinutuzumab.