A Study Evaluating Efficacy of ABT-888 in Combination With Temozolomide in Metastatic Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of ABT-888 in combination with temozolomide versus temozolomide alone in subjects with metastatic melanoma.
Melanoma|Metastatic Melanoma|Skin Cancer
DRUG: temozolomide|DRUG: ABT-888|OTHER: Placebo
Progression-Free Survival (PFS): Time to Event, PFS: the number of days from the date that the participant was randomized to the date the participant experienced a confirmed event of disease progression (radiological, as determined by the central imaging center; or clinical, as determined by the investigator), or to the date of death (all causes of mortality) if disease progression was not reached. All events were included whether the participant was still taking or had discontinued study drug. Events of death were included for participants who had not experienced a confirmed event of disease progression, provided the death occurred within 8 weeks of the last available disease progression assessment. The distribution of PFS, as determined by the central imaging center (radiological)/ investigator (clinical), was estimated for each treatment group using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Point estimates and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) for the quartiles for the PFS distribution are provided., Every Cycle (28 Days) until disease progression was observed or another reason for discontinuation of assessments was identified by the investigator. The maximum observed followup duration at the progression-free survival analysis time was 9.7 months.
Overall Survival (OS): Time to Event, OS was defined as the number of days from the date the participant was randomized to the date of death. All deaths were included, whether the participant was still taking or had discontinued study drug. If a participant had not died and was lost to follow-up, then data were censored at the last study visit or contact date, or date the participant was last known to be alive, whichever was later; if the participant was not lost to follow-up, then data were censored at the last study visit or contact date, whichever was later. The distribution of OS was estimated for each treatment group using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Point estimates and 95% CIs for the quartiles for the OS distribution are provided. Per protocol, because neither the ABT-888 20 mg BID + TMZ nor ABT-888 40 mg BID + TMZ groups were statistically significantly better than the Placebo + TMZ group for the primary endpoint of PFS, confirmatory statistical testing was not continued for any secondary endpoints., Per protocol, survival follow-up information was to be obtained every 3 months for up to 18 months after the final visit for the subject. The maximum observed follow-up at the overall survival analysis time was 21.0 months.|12-Month Overall Survival (OS) Rate, The 12-month overall survival rate was defined as the percentage of participants surviving at 12 months. The distribution of 12-month OS rate was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Point estimates and 95% CIs for the quartiles for the PFS distribution are provided. Per protocol, because neither the ABT-888 20 mg BID + TMZ nor ABT-888 40 mg BID + TMZ treatment groups were statistically significantly better than the Placebo + TMZ treatment group for the primary endpoint of PFS, confirmatory statistical testing was not continued for any secondary endpoints, regardless of the observed P values., Per protocol, survival was to be assessed every 4 weeks or as needed after participant is registered as off-study for up to 18 months. The maximum observed follow-up at the overall survival analysis time was 21.0 months.|6-month Progression-Free Survival Rate, The 6-month progression-free survival rate was defined as the percentage of participants without disease progression at 6 months.The distribution of 6-month progression-free survival rate, as determined by the central imaging center (radiological)/ investigator (clinical), was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Point estimates and 95% CIs for the quartiles for the PFS distribution are provided. Per protocol, because neither the ABT-888 20 mg BID + TMZ nor ABT-888 40 mg BID + TMZ treatment groups were statistically significantly better than the Placebo + TMZ treatment group for the primary endpoint of PFS, confirmatory statistical testing was not continued for any secondary endpoints, regardless of the observed P values., Every Cycle (28 Days) until disease progression was observed or another reason for discontinuation of assessments was identified by the investigator. The maximum observed followup duration at the progression-free survival analysis time was 9.7 months.|Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR or PR per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by computed tomography (CT) scan: complete response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; partial response (PR), ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. Per protocol, because neither the ABT-888 20 mg BID + TMZ nor ABT-888 40 mg BID + TMZ treatment groups were statistically significantly better than the Placebo + TMZ treatment group for the primary endpoint of PFS, confirmatory statistical testing was not continued for any secondary endpoints, regardless of the observed P values., Every 2 cycles (8 weeks) until disease progression was observed or another reason for discontinuation of assessments was identified by the investigator. The maximum observed followup duration at the progression-free survival analysis time was 9.7 months.|Time to Disease Progression, The distribution of time to disease progression, as determined by the central imaging center (radiological)/ investigator (clinical), was estimated for each treatment group using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Point estimates and 95% CIs for the quartiles for the PFS distribution are provided. Per protocol, because neither the ABT-888 20 mg BID + TMZ nor ABT-888 40 mg BID + TMZ treatment groups were statistically significantly better than the Placebo + TMZ treatment group for the primary endpoint of PFS, confirmatory statistical testing was not continued for any secondary endpoints, regardless of the observed P values., Every Cycle (28 Days), until disease progression was observed or another reason for discontinuation of assessments was identified by the investigator. The maximum observed followup duration at the progression-free survival analysis time was 9.7 months.|Disease Control Rate, The disease control rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had at least stable disease (complete response, partial response, or stable disease) through the end of Week 8. Per protocol, because neither the ABT-888 20 mg BID + TMZ nor ABT-888 40 mg BID + TMZ treatment groups were statistically significantly better than the Placebo + TMZ treatment group for the primary endpoint of PFS, confirmatory statistical testing was not continued for any secondary endpoints, regardless of the observed P values., Week 8|Time to Neurological/Brain Metastases Progression, Time to neurological/brain metastases progression, defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date the participant experienced an event of neurological/brain metastases progression, was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Point estimates and 95% CIs for the quartiles for the distribution are provided. All events of progression were included, regardless of whether the event occurred while the participant was still taking study drug. If a participant did not experience an event, data were censored at the date of the last available brain CT scan. For participants with no postbaseline brain CT scans, data were censored at randomization. Per protocol, because neither the ABT-888 20 mg BID + TMZ nor ABT-888 40 mg BID + TMZ groups were statistically significantly better than the Placebo + TMZ group for the primary endpoint of PFS, confirmatory statistical testing was not continued for any secondary endpoints, regardless of the observed P values., Every 2 cycles (8 weeks) until disease progression was observed or another reason for discontinuation of assessments was identified by the investigator. The maximum observed followup duration at the progression-free survival analysis time was 9.7 months.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of ABT-888 in combination with temozolomide versus temozolomide alone in subjects with metastatic melanoma.