Panitumumab-IRDye800 in Diagnosing Participants With Malignant Glioma Undergoing Surgery
The phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of panitumumab-IRDye800 in diagnosing participants with malignant glioma who undergo surgery. Panitumumab-IRDye800 can attach to tumor cells and make them more visible using a special camera during surgery, which may help surgeons better distinguish tumor cells from normal brain tissue and identify small tumors that cannot be seen using current imaging methods.
Malignant Brain Neoplasm|Malignant Glioma
PROCEDURE: Near-Infrared Fluorescence Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab|DRUG: Panitumumab-IRDye800|DEVICE: POINPOINT-IR9000
Number of grade 2 or higher adverse events which have been determined to be clinically significant and definitely, probably, or possibly related to the study treatment, graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) v. 4.0, Descriptive statistical analysis of subject disposition, baseline characteristics, exposure to study drug, and adverse events will be performed. Descriptive statistics for continuous data will include mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, maximum, and inter-quartile values. Frequencies and percentages will be used to summarize categorical data., Up to 30 days
Tumor to background ratio (TBR), TBR is defined as the fluorescence intensity of tumor tissue compared to that or normal surrounding tissue as determined by ex vivo pathological imaging. Will be analyzed with the individual specimen as the unit of analysis using the Wilcoxon signed rank test., 30 days from study treatment|Panitumumab Loading Dose, The fluorescence intensity of tissue obtained from patients undergoing surgery will be evaluated as an indicator of whether or not the loading dose of panitumumab is necessary to achieve an effective tumor-to-background ratio (TBR). The Fluorescence intensity of tissue will be assessed on the specimens collected on the day of surgery (Day 1-5 Post infusion), in group a vs group b, for Cohorts 1 and 2, in order to determine the tumor-to-background ratio (TBR). The outcome will be expressed as TBR by group and cohort. TBR will be reported as means +/- STD., 30 days|Optimal Timing of Surgical Procedure, The fluorescence intensity of tissue collected at surgery will be measured 1 to 5 days after infusion, and the outcome will be assessed as highest daily mean tumor-to-background ratio (TBR), with standard deviation. The tissue analysis to obtain the outcome data will occur within 1 year from surgery., 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine/verify the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of panitumumab conjugated to the optical dye IRDye800CW (panitumumab-IRDye800), as an imaging agent in patients undergoing surgery for malignant glioma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of panitumumab IRDye800 in identifying malignant glioma compared to surrounding normal central nervous system tissue.

II. Determine whether a loading dose of panitumumab is necessary to achieve an effective tumor-to-background ratio.

III. Determine the optimal timing of the surgical procedure to maximize the tumor-to-background ratio.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of panitumumab-IRDye800 followed by a phase II study.