Use of a Screening Tool to Describe HIV-Related Cancer Burden and Patient Characteristics in the AMC
This study is being done to understand how many people with HIV (PWH) present for cancer care across the AIDS Malignancy Consortium in the United States and if there are reasons that some PWH choose to participate, or not in cancer clinical trials. Optional quality of life surveys will be used to learn more about how HIV and cancer and HIV and cancer treatment affect people.
HIV-Associated Malignant Neoplasm|HIV Infections|Cancer|AIDS Related Lymphoma|AIDS-related Kaposi Sarcoma|AIDS-Related Malignancy|Anal Cancer|HPV-Related Malignancy
OTHER: Non-Interventional|OTHER: Non-Interventional Follow-up
Number of cancers in people with HIV (PWH) who present for care at domestic AMC sites, For each cancer group listed below, the number of new and existing cases per month will be estimated. The distribution of cancer types will be computed as percentages and compared to the cancer type distribution in the HIV/AIDS Cancer Match (HACM) Study:

1. Solid organ tumors associated with human papillomavirus (HPV) infection
2. Solid organ tumors unrelated to HPV
3. Kaposi sarcoma
4. Hematologic malignancies, Enrollment
Proportion of participants eligible for AMC trials who are successfully enrolled, This will be calculated by the number of participants enrolled who meet site-based AMC trial eligibility compared to the number of eligible participants at each site who meet site-based AMC trial eligibility., Baseline and 12 weeks
Describe the sociodemographic, HIV-related, and cancer diagnostic and treatment characteristics of cancer patients with HIV receiving care at domestic AMC sites., The distribution of participant characteristics will be summarized. Continuous variables \[e.g. age, height, weight\] will be summarized as mean (std) if they are normally distributed, otherwise they will be summarized as median (IQR). Categorical variables \[e.g. tobacco use, ART medications, comorbidities\] will be summarized as frequency (%)., Baseline and 12 weeks|Describe the health-related QOL of cancer patients with HIV at domestic AMC sites using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire [EORTC QLQ-C30], EORTC QLQ-C30 subscale and overall scores will be used to describe participant symptom and health-related quality of life burden. Baseline EORTC QLQ-C30 scores will be compared according to successful enrollment versus not. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item core cancer specific questionnaire measuring QOL in cancer patients. It incorporates five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting), a global health status / QoL scale, and single items assessing additional symptoms and perceived financial impact of the disease. Most questions use a 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions use a 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score=higher response level., Baseline|Describe the supportive care needs of cancer patients with HIV at domestic AMC sites using Supportive Care Needs Survey Short Form 34 [SCNS-SF34], Supportive Care Needs Survey Short Form 34 \[SCNS-SF34\] scores will be used to categorize participants based on the degree to which their needs are met. Baseline SCNS-SF34 scores will be compared according to successful enrollment versus not. The SCNS-SF34 is a 34-item questionnaire measuring the supportive care need and level of need for people diagnosed with cancer in the last month. It incorporates the underlying domains: physical and daily living, psychological, sexuality and health system, information and patient support. All the questions use 5-point scale (1 'Not applicable' to 5 'High need); with a higher score indicating a higher level of need., Baseline|Change of Quality of Life at 12 Weeks From Baseline for cancer patients with HIV initiating therapy or currently under treatment using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire [EORTC QLQ-C30], EORTC QLQ-C30 will be summarized, both overall and at the \~12-week follow-up, according to participant characteristics and cancer groups. Overall change in QOL will be compared with paired tests and change according to groups will be compared using t-tests, ANOVA, or nonparametric tests. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item core cancer specific questionnaire measuring QOL in cancer patients. It incorporates five functional scales (physical, role,cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting), a global health status / QoL scale, and a number of single items assessing additional symptoms and perceived financial impact of the disease. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score=higher response level., Baseline and 12 weeks|Change of needs from baseline for cancer patients with HIV initiating therapy or currently under treatment using Supportive Care Needs Short Survey Form 34 [SCNS-SF34], Supportive Care Needs Short Survey Form 34 \[SCNS-SF34\] scores will be summarized, both overall and at the \~12-week follow-up, according to participant characteristics and cancer groups. Overall change in scores will be compared with paired tests and change according to groups will be compared using t-tests, ANOVA, or nonparametric tests. The SCNS-SF34 is a 34-item questionnaire measuring the supportive care need and level of need for people diagnosed with cancer in the last month. It incorporates the underlying domains: physical and daily living, psychological, sexuality and health system, information and patient support. All the questions use 5-point scale (1 'Not applicable' to 5 'High need). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale;, with a higher score indicating a higher level of need., Baseline and 12 weeks|3. State of planned cancer therapy for cancer patients with HIV initiating therapy or currently under treatment, The frequency of planned cancer treatment regimens (at baseline) successfully initiated will be summarized., 12 weeks
This study is being done to understand how many people with HIV (PWH) present for cancer care across the AIDS Malignancy Consortium in the United States and if there are reasons that some PWH choose to participate, or not in cancer clinical trials. Optional quality of life surveys will be used to learn more about how HIV and cancer and HIV and cancer treatment affect people.