Supportive Care Questionnaires in Gathering Data on Unmet Needs and Health-Related Quality of Life in Latina Breast Cancer Survivors After Surgery, Chemotherapy, or Radiation Therapy
This phase I/II research trial studies supportive care questionnaires in gathering data on unmet needs and health-related quality of life in Latina breast cancer survivors after surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. Questionnaires that address unmet supportive care needs and health-related quality of life of breast cancer survivors may help doctors learn about barriers to cancer care that are linked to language, acculturation, knowledge about diagnosis and care, and financial concerns. Learning about unmet needs of breast cancer patients may help increase quality of life and decrease healthcare utilization and costs.
Breast Carcinoma|Cancer Survivor
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Lifestyle-related supportive care needs and preferences in breast cancer patients at LAC+USC, as measured by the Lifestyle Needs Survey and interview, For descriptive purposes, means, standard deviations, frequencies, and percentages will be calculated for each survey measure as well as for demographic variables. The remaining statistical analysis will consist of a comparison of HRQOL and all SNCS-34 domains. Correlation coefficients between SF-36 total score and total score of each SNCS domain will be calculated. All analyses will be conducted using a two-tailed test at the 0.05 significance level., Up to 1 year|Supportive care needs and preferences of breast cancer survivors at LAC+USC, as measured by the SCNS-34, Lifestyle Needs Survey, and interview, For descriptive purposes, means, standard deviations, frequencies, and percentages will be calculated for each survey measure as well as for demographic variables. The remaining statistical analysis will consist of a comparison of HRQOL and all SNCS-34 domains. Correlation coefficients between SF-36 total score and total score of each SNCS domain will be calculated. All analyses will be conducted using a two-tailed test at the 0.05 significance level., Up to 1 year
Communication and healthcare delivery style needs and preferences of individuals with breast cancer being treated at LAC+USC, as measured by the Lifestyle Needs Survey, For descriptive purposes, means, standard deviations, frequencies, and percentages will be calculated for each survey measure as well as for demographic variables. The remaining statistical analysis will consist of a comparison of HRQOL and all SNCS-34 domains. Correlation coefficients between SF-36 total score and total score of each SNCS domain will be calculated. All analyses will be conducted using a two-tailed test at the 0.05 significance level., Up to 1 year|Lifestyle-related challenges of individuals with breast cancer being treated at LAC+USC, as measured by the Lifestyle Needs Survey and interview, For descriptive purposes, means, standard deviations, frequencies, and percentages will be calculated for each survey measure as well as for demographic variables. The remaining statistical analysis will consist of a comparison of HRQOL and all SNCS-34 domains. Correlation coefficients between SF-36 total score and total score of each SNCS domain will be calculated. All analyses will be conducted using a two-tailed test at the 0.05 significance level., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the supportive care needs and preferences of breast cancer survivors at Los Angeles County + University of Southern California (USC) Medical Center (LAC+USC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the lifestyle-related challenges of individuals with breast cancer being treated at LAC+USC.

II. To determine the communication and healthcare delivery style needs and preferences of individuals with breast cancer being treated at LAC+USC.

OUTLINE:

Participants complete the demographic questionnaire, Supportive Care Needs Survey (SCNS)-34, 36-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), and the Lifestyle Needs Survey. Within 1 year of completing questionnaires, some participants may complete a one-hour in-person one-on-one interview comprising questions about the challenges and experiences of cancer survivorship, their health and well-being, and supportive care needs.