Seclidemstat and Azacitidine for the Treatment of Myelodysplastic Syndrome or Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
This phase I/II trial identifies the best dose of seclidemstat when given together with azacitidine in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Seclidemstat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Azacitidine may help block the formation of growths that may become cancer. Giving seclidemstat and azacytidine may kill more cancer cells.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia-0|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia-1|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia-2|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Seclidemstat
Overall response rate, Will be defined as complete response, partial response, marrow complete response, or hematological improvement. Will be estimated for all patients along with the 95% confidence interval., Up to the end of four cycles of treatment (1 cycle = 28 days)|Incidence of adverse events, The severity of the toxicities will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The number and percent of subjects with treatment-emergent adverse events will be summarized according to intensity and drug relationship, and categorized by System Organ Class and preferred term by dose level/part. All reported adverse events that occur after signing informed consent will be included in the analysis of all reported adverse events. Exposure to study drug and reasons for discontinuation of study drug will be tabulated., Up to 1 year
Overall survival, Will be listed and summarized by the Kaplan-Meier estimator, if needed., Time from treatment start till death or last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Duration of response, Will be listed and summarized by the Kaplan-Meier estimator, if needed., Time from the first documented onset of partial response or complete response to the date of progressive disease/relapse, assessed up to 1 year|Leukemia free survival, Will be listed and summarized by the Kaplan-Meier estimator, if needed., Time from treatment start to transformation to acute myeloid leukemia or death, whichever comes first, assessed up to 1 year|Relapse-free survival, Will be listed and summarized by the Kaplan-Meier estimator, if needed., Time from start of response to the date of event defined as the first documented progressive disease/relapse or death, whichever comes first, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of seclidemstat in combination with azacitidine.

II. To assess overall response rate (ORR) to seclidemstat in combination with azacitidine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess overall survival (OS), duration of response (DOR), relapse-free survival (RFS), and leukemia-free survival (LFS) and safety profile.

II. Correlative studies including correlation of response with disease subtypes, genomic profile and in vitro studies.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of seclidemstat followed by a phase II dose-expansion study.

Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) over 10-40 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7. Patients also receive seclidemstat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on day 1 of cycle 1 and PO twice daily (BID) on days 2-28 of cycle 1 and on days 1-28 of all subsequent cycles. There are 6 possbile dose levels for seclidemstat: 300 mg, 450 mg, 600 mg, 900 mg, 1200 mg and 1500 mg. Successive cohorts of eligible patients will be treated with azacitidine until the phase 2 recommended dose or maximum tolerated dose is determined. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, and then every 6 months thereafter