Study Comparing Veliparib Plus Carboplatin and Paclitaxel Versus Investigator's Choice of Standard Chemotherapy in Adults Receiving First Cytotoxic Chemotherapy for Metastatic or Advanced Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) and Who Are Current or Former Smokers
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of veliparib plus carboplatin and paclitaxel versus the Investigator's choice of standard chemotherapy in adults with metastatic or advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Veliparib|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Overall Survival (OS) in the Lung Subtype Panel Positive Subgroup, Overall survival is defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date of the participant's death. Overall survival was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Participants still alive at the data cut-off date were censored at the date they were last known to be alive., From randomization up to the data cut-off date of 15 July 2019; median follow-up time was 44.5 and 45.3 months in LSP+ participants for the investigator's choice chemotherapy and veliparib + C/P arms, respectively.
Progression Free Survival (PFS) in the Lung Subtype Panel Positive Subgroup, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression (PD) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 or death (all causes of mortality), whichever occurred first.

PD: At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest size recorded since the treatment started (Baseline or after) with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, the appearance of one or more new lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.

PFS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Participants who did not have an event of disease progression or had not died on or before the cutoff date were censored at the date of their last disease progression assessment on or before the cut-off date. Any PD and death occurring \> 26 weeks and \> 12 weeks after the previous assessment, respectively, were excluded and patients were censored at last assessment before PD or death., From randomization up to the data cut-off date of 15 July 2019; the median follow-up time was 44.5 and 45.3 months in LSP+ participants for the investigator's choice chemotherapy and veliparib + C/P arms, respectively.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) in the Lung Subtype Panel Positive Subgroup, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria. Response must have been confirmed at a consecutive assessment 28 days or more after the assessment at which response was first observed.

CR: The disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters, persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits, or any new lesions., Assessed on Day 1 of Cycles 3 and 5 then every 9 weeks for 1 year or until maintenance therapy was discontinued, then every 12 weeks until radiographic progression or death; median time on follow-up was 5.2 and 6.3 months in each group, respectively.|Overall Survival in All Participants, Overall survival is defined as the time from the date that the participant was randomized to the date of the participant's death. OS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Participants still alive at the data cut-off date were censored at the date they were last known to be alive., From randomization up to the data cut-off date of 15 July 2019; the median OS follow-up time was 45.4 and 44.6 months in all participants for the investigator's choice chemotherapy and veliparib + C/P arms, respectively.|Progression Free Survival (PFS) in All Participants, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression (PD) per RECIST version 1.1 or death (all causes of mortality), whichever occurred first.

PD: At least a 20% increase in the size of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest size recorded since the treatment started (Baseline or after) with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, the appearance of one or more new lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.

PFS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Participants who did not have an event of disease progression or had not died on or before the cut-off date were censored at the date of their last disease progression assessment on or before the cut-off date. Any PD and death occurring \> 26 weeks and \> 12 weeks after the previous assessment, respectively, were excluded and patients were censored at last assessment before PD or death., From randomization up to the data cut-off date of 15 July 2019; the median follow-up time was 45.4 and 44.6 months in all participants for the investigator's choice chemotherapy and veliparib + C/P arms, respectively.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) in All Participants, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST version 1.1 criteria. Response must have been confirmed at a consecutive assessment 28 days or more after the assessment at which response was first observed.

CR: The disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters, persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits, or any new lesions., Assessed on Day 1 of Cycles 3 and 5 then every 9 weeks for 1 year or until maintenance therapy was discontinued, then every 12 weeks until radiographic progression or death; median time on follow-up was 6.7 and 5.9 months in each group, respectively.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of veliparib plus carboplatin and paclitaxel versus the Investigator's choice of standard chemotherapy in adults with metastatic or advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.