Study of Intravenous RXDX-107 in Patients With Solid Tumors
This is an open-label, Phase I/Ib, dose escalation study of intravenous RXDX-107 administered to subjects with advanced solid tumors. The study is designed to explore the safety, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and preliminary clinical activity of RXDX-107 and to define a recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D)
Solid Tumor
DRUG: RXDX-107
Phase 1: Safety profile of RXDX-107 as characterized by Adverse Events, ECG and laboratory abnormalities, AEs, ECG and Labs assessed according to NCI CTCAE V4.0, Approx. 1 year|Phase 1: Maximum observed plasma drug concentration (Cmax), Plasma concentrations obtained following the dose on Day 1 (and from the dose on Day 2 in patients receiving the Day 1 and Day 2 schedule), Approx. 1 year|Phase 1: Time to Cmax, by inspection (tmax), Plasma concentrations obtained following the dose on Day 1 (and from the dose on Day 2 in patients receiving the Day 1 and Day 2 schedule), Approx. 1 year|Phase 1: Area under the drug concentration by time curve (AUC), From time 0 to the time of the last detectable plasma concentration (AUC0-t), Approx. 1 year|Phase 1: Apparent plasma terminal elimination rate constant (λz) and associated terminal half life (t½), Plasma concentrations obtained following the dose on Day 1 (and from the dose on Day 2 in patients receiving the Day 1 and Day 2 schedule), Approx. 1 year|Phase 1: Plasma clearance (CL), Plasma concentrations obtained following the dose on Day 1 (and from the dose on Day 2 in patients receiving the Day 1 and Day 2 schedule), Approx. 1 year|Phase 1: Volume of distribution (Vz), Plasma concentrations obtained following the dose on Day 1 (and from the dose on Day 2 in patients receiving the Day 1 and Day 2 schedule), Approx. 1 year|Phase 1: Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), Approx. 6 months|Phase 1b: Confirm RP2D, Number of participants with Treatment-related AEs, Labs changes from baseline, and QTc interval changes from baseline assessed according to NCI CTCAE V4.0, concomitant medication usage, including all supportive care provided, and preliminary anti-tumor activity per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by Investigator, Approx. 1 year
Antitumor activity of RXDX-107 as measured by Objective Response Rate (ORR), Per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by Investigator, Approx. 1 year
This is an open-label, Phase I/Ib, dose escalation study of intravenous RXDX-107 administered to subjects with advanced solid tumors. The study is designed to explore the safety, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and preliminary clinical activity of RXDX-107 and to define a recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D)