Empagliflozin vs Metformin on Metabolic Dysfunction in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome With or Without Comorbidity or Multimorbidity
this is open labelled randomize control trial among women with PCOS. PCOS, an endocrine condition, affects 5%-15% of premenopausal women. PCOS is characterized by atypical menstruation, ovulation difficulties, hyperandrogenemia, insulin resistance, and other metabolic abnormalities. Metformin is now an option for PCOS. The clinical reactions to metformin are limited and varied. Novel SGLT2 inhibitors treat type 2 diabetes with weight loss, insulin resistance reduction, and cardiovascular benefits. There is little evidence on SGLT2 inhibitor effectiveness in PCOS patients.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Weight Gain|HbA1c
DRUG: Empagliflozin 10 MG|DRUG: MetFORMIN 500 Mg Oral Tablet
Irregular menstruations assessment, Assessment of Irregular menstruation measured by menstruations lasts 2 to 7 days after three months of treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily., Six months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily
Body weight, assessment of change in Body weight in Kg after three months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily, Six months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily|Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP), assessment of change in SBP in mm/Hg after three months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily, Six months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily|Lipid profile measured through biochemical test, assessment of change in Blood Pressure in mg/dL after three months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily, Six months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily|Hb1c test, assessment of change in Hb1c level in percentage after three months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily, Six months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily|fasting blood-glucose measured through biochemical test, assessment of fasting blood-glucose in mmol/L after three months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily, Six months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily|Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP), assessment of change in DBP in mm/Hg after three months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily, Six months treatment with either empagliflozin 10mg or metformin 1000mg daily
this is open labelled randomize control trial among women with PCOS. PCOS, an endocrine condition, affects 5%-15% of premenopausal women. PCOS is characterized by atypical menstruation, ovulation difficulties, hyperandrogenemia, insulin resistance, and other metabolic abnormalities. Metformin is now an option for PCOS. The clinical reactions to metformin are limited and varied. Novel SGLT2 inhibitors treat type 2 diabetes with weight loss, insulin resistance reduction, and cardiovascular benefits. There is little evidence on SGLT2 inhibitor effectiveness in PCOS patients.