Epstein Barr Virus Infection in Patients With Radiologically Isolated Syndrome
The clinical course of RRMS patients is variable. Among RIS-Consortium international cohorts, one third of RIS patients progressed to MS at 5 years and 52.2% at 10 years. Biomarkers predictive of MS conversion are key elements to organize personalized medical care, for both follow-up and treatment strategies. EBV seems to be an interesting candidate regarding its involvement MS pathophysiology. It can be easily assess in blood sample in contrast to others prognostic biomarkers validated in RIS : oligoclonal bands and NfL levels in cerebrospinal fluid and serum. In RIS, treatment targeting EBV could significantly modify the course of the disease. The investigators aim to make the fisrt description of the EBV epidemiology (immunoglobulin (Ig)M and IgG anti-viral capsid antigen (VCA), IgG anti Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen (EBNA)) among RIS patients and to investigate a correlation between the different antibodies' titers (IgM VCA, IgG VCA, IgG EBNA) and the course of the disease (clinical conversion or evidence of disease activity (EDA)).
Multiple Sclerosis|Radiologically Isolated Syndrome|Epstein-Barr Virus
OTHER: NO INTERVENTION
Comparaison of IgG EBNA status at RIS diagnostic in patients who remain RIS and those who develop MS according to their conversion delay, IgG EBNA (negative/positive), Retrospectively at baseline (RIS diagnosis)
Comparaison of IgM VCA EBNA status at RIS diagnostic in patients who remain RIS and those who develop MS according to their conversion delay, quantity of IgM VCA EBNA (U/ml), Retrospectively at baseline (RIS diagnosis) and through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Comparaison of IgG VCA EBNA status at RIS diagnostic in patients who remain RIS and those who develop MS according to their conversion delay, quantity of IgM VCA EBNA (U/ml), Retrospectively at baseline (RIS diagnosis) and through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Prevalence of EBV seropositivity in RIS patients according to their MRI activity, EBV seropositivity (negative/positive) according clinical event and Dissemination in time and in space, Retrospectively at baseline (RIS diagnosis) and through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Prevalence of EBV seropositivity in RIS patients according to their clinical and/or MRI activity (EDA), EBV seropositivity (negative/positive) according clinical event and Dissemination in time and in space, Retrospectively at baseline (RIS diagnosis) and through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Assessment correlation between antibodies titers and clinical conversion, quantity of IgG VCA EBNA (U/ml) and IgM VCA EBNA (U/ml) according Dissemination in time and in space, Retrospectively at baseline (RIS diagnosis) and through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Assessment correlation between antibodies titers and clinical and/or MRI activity (EDA), quantity of IgG VCA EBNA (U/ml) and quantity of IgM VCA EBNA (U/ml) according clinical event and Dissemination in time and in space, Retrospectively at baseline (RIS diagnosis) and through study completion, an average of 5 years.
The clinical course of RRMS patients is variable. Among RIS-Consortium international cohorts, one third of RIS patients progressed to MS at 5 years and 52.2% at 10 years. Biomarkers predictive of MS conversion are key elements to organize personalized medical care, for both follow-up and treatment strategies. EBV seems to be an interesting candidate regarding its involvement MS pathophysiology. It can be easily assess in blood sample in contrast to others prognostic biomarkers validated in RIS : oligoclonal bands and NfL levels in cerebrospinal fluid and serum. In RIS, treatment targeting EBV could significantly modify the course of the disease. The investigators aim to make the fisrt description of the EBV epidemiology (immunoglobulin (Ig)M and IgG anti-viral capsid antigen (VCA), IgG anti Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen (EBNA)) among RIS patients and to investigate a correlation between the different antibodies' titers (IgM VCA, IgG VCA, IgG EBNA) and the course of the disease (clinical conversion or evidence of disease activity (EDA)).