Maintenance Belantamab Mafodotin (Blenrep®) After B-cell Maturation Antigen-Directed Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cell Therapy in Patients With Relapsed and/or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This is a multicenter phase II, open-label study evaluating the efficacy and safety of belantamab mafodotin maintenance in participants with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) who have received commercially available anti-BCMA CAR-T-cell therapy. Subjects will be enrolled 60-130 days after chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy (CAR-T) and receive belantamab mafodotin as maintenance therapy. Each maintenance cycle will have a duration of 56 days (+/- three days) and belantamab mafodotin will be administered at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg IV on day 1 of each cycle.
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Relapse Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Belantamab mafodotin
The Number of Patients With 12-month Progression-free Survival., The primary endpoint of the study is the 12-month progression-free survival (PFS) with time counted from the CAR-T infusion conditional on being alive and progression-free at day +90 post CAR-T. An event will be defined as documented progression or death for any cause, subjects without an event will be censored at the last date known to be alive without progression., 12 months
INTERVENTION DESCRIPTION:

Subjects will receive belantamab mafodotin as maintenance therapy. Belantamab mafodotin will be administered IV over approximately 30 minutes at the recommended dose of 2.5 mg/kg IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of every eight-week (+/- three days) cycle for a maximum of 12 cycles. Maintenance therapy with belantamab mafodotin will continue until progressive disease (PD), death, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or end of study (maximum of 12 cycles), whichever occurs first. Dose interruptions or reductions may be required to address potential drug-associated toxicities. The dose to be administered will be based on actual body weight calculated at baseline. However, if the change in body weight is greater than 10%, the dose will be recalculated based on the actual body weight at the time of dosing. The dose may be reduced to address toxicity.