Active Surveillance for Low-risk Prostate Cancer - Evaluation of the Efficacy of Minimally Invasive Active Surveillance
The STHLM3-AS study will evaluate the specificity of a new proposed protocol for active surveillance using the Stockholm3 test in combination with MRI targeted biopsies for prostate cancer detection in men with diagnosed low-risk prostate cancer undergoing active surveillance in comparison to conventional follow up using PSA and systematic biopsies.
Prostate Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: MRI+targeted biopsies+Stockholm3-test|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PSA + systematic biopsies
Specificity of minimally invasive active surveillance, Number of biopsies using the Stockholm3 test in combination with MRI/targeted biopsies vs. number of systematic biopsies at equal sensitivity for detecting Gleason Score ≥ 7 disease, Up to five years
Predictive value of Stockholm3 test velocity, Stockholm3 test velocity, Up to five years|Clinically significant cut off for Stockholm3 test as a monitoring test, Stockholm3 test cutoff (0-100% risk), Up to five years
The study design is a cross-sectional study, using a paired design, evaluating our proposed protocol (Stockholm3+MRI+targeted biopsies) versus the standard protocol (PSA+systematic biopsies).

Men from the STHLM3 study, diagnosed with low risk prostate cancer and currently on AS will be invited to the study. Eligible individuals have to be alive without any severe comorbidity and without a history of initiating treatment; surgery, radiation, hormone therapy or chemotherapy. To avoid the need for additional biopsies, invitation will be synchronized with timing for planned follow-up within the AS program for each individual.

At baseline blood will be drawn for PSA and Stockholm3 analyses. The patient will be asked to fill out a study specific questionnaire with questions on anxiety and quality of life. Additionally, a bi-parametric MRI evaluated in line with PI-RADS v2 guidelines will be performed. For men with PIRADS ≥ 3 targeted and systematic biopsies will be performed. For men with PIRADS\<3 only systematic biopsies will be performed.

Main outcome measurement will be number of detected significant cancers by each method. Further outcome measurements are the number of performed prostate biopsies with each method and level of anxiety and quality of life.