Phase 2 Study of VELCADE (Bortezomib) in Patients With Relapsed Follicular Lymphoma
This is a phase 2, two-arm, non-randomized, open-label, multicenter study evaluating the safety and efficacy of 2 VELCADE-containing regimens. Patients will be treated with either a combination of VELCADE, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone (VELCADE-R-CAP) or a combination of VELCADE, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (VELCADE-R-CP) based on investigator preference. Following completion of the treatment period, patients will receive maintenance therapy with rituximab up to a maximum of 2 years.
Relapsed Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: rituximab|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin|DRUG: VELCADE|DRUG: prednisone
Number of Patients With Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all evidence of disease assessed by computed tomography (CT) and PET (position-emission tomography) according to the revised International Working Group (IWG) Criteria., 30 weeks
Number of Participants With Overall Response (OR), OR = Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR)according to the revised International Working Group (IWG) Criteria.

CR is the disappearance of all evidence of disease assessed by CT and PET. PR is the regression of measurable disease and no new sites assessed by CT and PET., 30 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 1 Year, PFS was defined as the time from the first dose to the date of progressive disease (PD)/relapse or death, whichever comes first. For a participant who had not progressed/relapsed or died, PFS was censored at the last response assessment that was stable disease (failure to attain complete response/partial response or PD or better)., Assessed at at the end of Cycle 2, at end of treatment visit, and every 12± 1 weeks for the first year (4 visits) until PD|Duration of Response, Time (in months) from the first documentation of a response (CR or partial response \[PR\]) to the date of first documentation of progressive disease or relapse from complete response.

CR is defined as disappearance of all evidence of disease assessed by CT or PET; PR is defined as regression of measurable disease and no new sites assessed by CT or PET according to the revised International Working Group (IWG) Criteria., 2 years|Number of Patients Who Experienced at Least One Serious Adverse Event, From completion of informed consent through 30 days after the last dose of study drug
This is a phase 2, two-arm, non-randomized, open-label, multicenter study evaluating the safety and efficacy of 2 VELCADE-containing regimens. Patients will be treated with either a combination of VELCADE, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone (VELCADE-R-CAP) or a combination of VELCADE, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (VELCADE-R-CP) based on investigator preference. Following completion of the treatment period, patients will receive maintenance therapy with rituximab up to a maximum of 2 years.