Targeted Telerehabilitation Following Curative Intent Therapy of Lung Cancer
Lung cancer is the second-most commonly diagnosed cancer among U.S. Veterans. Substantial advances have been made in early detection through screening and treatment. The longevity of Veterans following lung cancer diagnosis and treatment has increased. Following treatment however, many Veterans experience increased symptom burden, particularly in shortness of breath, fatigue, and fear/anxiety about lung cancer, and impairments in physical and psychosocial functioning. Rehabilitation services are needed to address these survivorship challenges. This study will evaluate multi-targeted telerehabilitation with Veterans following lung cancer treatment, with goals to reduce symptom burden, improve physical and psychosocial function, and enhance health-related quality of life. This research will also develop the career of a physician researcher to acquire expertise in rehabilitation for many Veteran survivors of lung and other cancers.
Lung Cancer|Cancer Survivors
BEHAVIORAL: Targeted-telerehabilitation|BEHAVIORAL: Waitlist
Health-related quality of life (HRQL), Global health-related quality of life (EORTC QLQ C30 global/QoL subscale), Difference in changes in HRQL between baseline and end-of-intervention (8 weeks)
Dysnea and physical activity (participant-chosen), University of California Shortness of Breath Questionnaire (UCSD SOBQ) and Fitbit stepcount, Differences in changes in UCSD SOBQ and average steps/day between baseline and end-of-intervention (8 weeks)|Cancer-related function (participant chosen), PROMIS-SF Cancer Function 3D Profile (fatigue, role, and social function), Difference in changes in PROMIS-SF Cancer Function 3D Profile between baseline and end-of-intervention (8 weeks)|Fear of Cancer Recurrence and Cancer-related Anxiety (participant chosen), Fear of Cancer Recurrence (FCR) and PROMIS-SF Anxiety 8a, Difference in changes in FCR and PROMIS-SF Anxiety 8a between baseline and end-of-intervention (8 weeks)
Lung cancer is the second-most commonly diagnosed cancer among U.S. Veterans - over 8,200 incident cases are diagnosed each year. Approximately 50% of lung cancers are diagnosed at stage I-III and therefore eligible for curative intent therapy. Survival rates among Veterans with early stage lung cancer have increased along with advances in surgical and radiation techniques. Following curative intent therapy, many Veterans experience physical function loss and increased symptom burden, particularly in dyspnea, fatigue, and fear/anxiety. Approaches are needed to improve their physical and psychosocial function and health-related quality of life (HRQL). We hypothesize that multi-targeted telerehabilitation could mitigate these HRQL impairments. Therefore, we will conduct a pilot randomized trial to examine the (a) feasibility, (b) acceptability, (c) safety, and (d) explore the effects of multi-targeted telerehabilitation with these patients. Participants (N=30-40) will be randomized (3:1) to receive 8 weeks of participant-chosen targeted telerehabilitation (experimental arm) or waitlist condition (control arm). Feasibility will be assessed by enrollment, adherence, retention and exploratory effects by linear mixed effects models comparing changes in patient-centered outcomes from baseline to end-of-intervention between groups: dyspnea, daily step count, fatigue, role/social function, fear/anxiety, and HRQL. This project will provide pilot data and training for an early career physician investigator to establish independence, with a goal of a large-scale, preference-informed randomized trial of targeted and patient-centered telerehabilitation, to improve the physical and psychosocial function, independence, and HRQL of Veteran lung cancer survivors following curative intent therapy.