An Observational Study to Assess Safety and Outcome of the Various Medication Usage Patterns in Clinical Routine Practice in Patients Receiving Lenalidomide.
The study is designed as a prospective, non-interventional, observational single arm study. Hundred-fifty patients over 18 with stable disease or at least partial response while on treatment with lenalidomide will be recruited from approximately 20 haematology/oncology sites in the Netherlands. Recruitment will continue until 150 patients have started the study. When this target is reached, all patients on lenalidomide will continue to be followed until the last patient has been followed for 36 months.
Multiple Myeloma
Adverse Event (AE), Adverse events will be classified using the MedDRA classification system. The severity of the toxicities will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE VERSION 4.03 whenever possible, Up to approximatly 4 years
Quality of Life, Quality of life will be measured by using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire(EORTC QL Q-C30) and EORTC QLQ-MY20, Up to approximatly 24 months|Lenalidomide usage patterns, Registration in case report form (CRF) and evaluation of usage patterns in daily clinical practice, Up to approximatly 4 years|Lenalodomide dose modifications, Registration in case report form (CRF) and evaluation of dose modifications in daily clinical practice, Up to approximatly 4 years|Reasons for discontinuation of lenalidomide, Registration in case report form (CRF) and evaluation of reasons of discontinuation in daily clinical practice, Up to approximatly 4 years|Clinical outcome, Clinical outcome will be measured using routine assessment criteria (i.e. IMWG), Up to approximately 4 years
The study is designed as a prospective, non-interventional, observational single arm study. Hundred-fifty patients over 18 with stable disease or at least partial response while on treatment with lenalidomide will be recruited from approximately 20 haematology/oncology sites in the Netherlands. Recruitment will continue until 150 patients have started the study. When this target is reached, all patients on lenalidomide will continue to be followed until the last patient has been followed for 36 months.