Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) vs Trans-Arterial Chemoembolization (TACE) as Bridge to Transplant
This study will compare stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) as a bridging strategy for patients with HCC undergoing liver transplantation. We propose that SBRT will be associated with longer time intervals between initial treatment and the need for retreatment, compared to TACE, as a "bridge" to liver transplantation in subjects with HCC.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|HCC
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)|PROCEDURE: Trans-Arterial Chemoembolization (TACE)|DRUG: Doxorubin
To Compare the Duration of Disease Control in Treated Lesions When Utilizing SBRT Versus TACE as a Bridging Strategy for Patients With HCC Eligible for Liver Transplantation, To compare whether or not there was disease present in treated lesions in both the SBRT and TACE arms in patients eligible for liver transplant at 1 year post treatment., 1 year post treatment
To Compare Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, To compare treatment related adverse events between both arms, SBRT and TACE., At each treatment, 2 weeks post treatment, 2 months post treatment, 5 months post treatment, every 3 months until 24 months post treatment|Number of Further Interventions, To compare the number of further interventions between the SBRT and TACE arms., 2 weeks post treatment, 2 months post treatment, 5 months post treatment, every 3 months until 24 months post treatment|Rate of Pathological Response of Treated Lesion(s), Complete pathologic response of lesions will be analyzed on the explant liver specimen after liver transplant. The pathology note will be consulted., Review of pathology report after liver transplant|Rate of Radiological Response of Treated Lesion(s), Response of treated lesions will be analyzed at protocol specified time frames. The response rate between both treatment arms will be compared., Baseline, 2 months post-treatment, 5 months post-treatment, every 3 months thereafter until 2 years post treatment|To Assess Quality of Life by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Hepatobiliary (FACT-Hep) Questionnaire, A 45-item self-report instrument to measure health-related quality of life (HRQL) in patients with hepatobiliary cancers and is one of the most widely-used instruments in this clinical area. The FACT-Hep consists of the 27-item FACT-G, assesses HRQL, and the 18-item Hepatobiliary Subscale (HS), assesses disease-specific issues such as pain, appetite, and cramping. The FACT-G evaluates physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, and functional well-being. Sections have a 7-day reference period and are scored from 0-4 ("not at all" to "very much"), with higher scores indicating better HRQL. Score ranges are 0-28 for physical well-being, 0-28 for social/family well-being, 0-24 for emotional well-being, 0-28 for functional well-being, and 0-72 for the HS. All subscale scores from the FACT-G and HS can be summed together to create a total FACT-Hep score, with a possible range of 0-180. The FACT-Hep takes approximately 10 minutes to complete., Baseline, during treatment, 2 months post-treatment, 5 months post-treatment, every 3 months until 24 months post treatment|To Assess Over Survival, Overall survival will be compared in both arms at protocol specified time frames., Baseline, during treatment, 2 months post-treatment, 5 months post-treatment, every 3 months until 24 months post treatment|To Assess 90 Day Post-transplant Morbidity, Compare the morbidity at 90 days post transplant between both arms., Disease status to be captured 90 days post-transplantation (+/- 2 weeks)|To Assess 90 Day Post-transplant Mortality, Will assess the mortality of post-transplant patients between the two arms., Survival status to be captured 90 days post-transplantation (+/- 2 weeks)
For patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who are waiting for a liver transplant, local treatment of their disease has become the standard of care in an effort to decrease dropout rates and as a means of reducing tumor recurrence after transplantation. For patients undergoing local regional therapy as a bridge to transplantation, trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the most commonly utilized treatment. However, the best modality for patients undergoing treatment as a bridge to transplantation is unclear. A newer strategy for the treatment of HCC is stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). This study will compare SBRT to TACE as a bridging strategy for patients with HCC undergoing liver transplantation.