Sorafenib and Temsirolimus in Treating Patients With Metastatic, Recurrent, or Unresectable Melanoma
This phase II portion of the trial is studying the side effects and best dose of temsirolimus when given together with sorafenib and to see how well they work in treating patients with metastatic, recurrent, or unresectable melanoma. Sorafenib and temsirolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Sorafenib may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving sorafenib together with temsirolimus may kill more tumor cells.
Melanoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage III Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|DRUG: temsirolimus
Objective response rate (complete response and partial response) CCI-779 in combination with BAY43-9006, Up to 5 years
Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier life table methods and Cox proportional hazards regression modeling will be utilized to analyze progression-free survival and overall survival., The duration of time from start of treatment to date of first evidence of progression or the date of last follow-up for patients who do not progress, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier life table methods and Cox proportional hazards regression modeling will be utilized to analyze progression-free survival and overall survival., 5 years|Noncompartmental pharmacokinetic parameters of BAY43-9006 and CCI-779 estimated using a validated commercial software, Maximum concentration (Cmax) and time to Cmax (tmax) will be the observed values. Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to last observable time (AUClast)., Week 1 and 3
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

* To evaluate the clinical activity, in terms of overall response rate (complete and partial response), of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)
* To evaluate the in vivo biological activity of this regimen in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

II. To determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

III. To Determine the population pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

IV. To correlate tumor and blood biomarkers with clinical outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: Upon completion of the multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study followed to be followed by this phase II, open-label study.

Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oral sorafenib once or twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment course repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-6 months.