Testing the Effectiveness of an Anti-cancer Drug, Triapine, When Used With Targeted Radiation-based Treatment (Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate), Compared to Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate Alone for Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumors
This phase II trial compares the effect of adding triapine to lutetium Lu 177 dotatate versus lutetium Lu 177 dotatate alone (standard therapy) in shrinking tumors or slowing tumor growth in patients with neuroendocrine tumors that have spread from where they first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Triapine may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis and cell growth. Lutetium Lu 177 dotatate is a radioactive drug. It binds to a protein called somatostatin receptor, which is found on some neuroendocrine tumor cells. Lutetium Lu 177 dotatate builds up in these cells and gives off radiation that may kill them. It is a type of radioconjugate and a type of somatostatin analog. Giving triapine in combination with lutetium Lu 177 dotatate may be more effective at shrinking tumors or slowing tumor growth in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors than the standard therapy of lutetium Lu 177 dotatate alone.
Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumor
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Triapine
Overall response rate, Estimated along with exact 95% binomial confidence intervals in each arm and compared between arms using the z-test statistic., Up to 5 years
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression will be measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria. Log-rank test will be used to compare PFS between treatment and control. Median survival time and the corresponding confidence intervals will be calculated by the Kaplan-Meier Method., Time from the date of randomization to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Plasma hPG80, Analysis of variance will be used to analyze plasma hPG80 concentration. Baseline plasma hPG80 will be used as covariate. F-test and t-test will be conducted to test the differences in hPG80 change between treatment arms and responses., Up to 5 years|Plasma deoxyribonucleosides, Will evaluate plasma deoxyribonucleosides as a biomarker of triapine resistance. Pre and post triapine administration changes in deoxyribonucleosides will be analyzed by pair-wise t-test, stratified by study arm. Secondary and exploratory analysis on repeatedly measured deoxyribonucleosides will entail a linear mixed model for comparison between treatment groups., Pre- to post-triapine administration|Circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA), ctDNA will be analyzed by summary descriptive statistics as well as visualization graphics such as heat maps. Data processing and downstream data analysis pipelines for the genomic data will be performed including differential analysis for comparison of genomic data between arms using the limma package in R/Bioconductor with adjustment for false discovery rate., Up to 5 years|Triapine plasma pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum concentration, Will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated. PK parameters will be reported descriptively for exploratory comparison with historical data. Smoking status will be a particular covariate to be evaluated as a determinant of PK. Exploratory correlative studies with pharmacodynamics (biological endpoints, toxicity and efficacy) will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Advanced population PK methods may be employed at a later stage to assess the link between drug exposure and biological effects and efficacy., Up to 5 years|Triapine plasma PK: Area under the concentration-time curve, Will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated. PK parameters will be reported descriptively for exploratory comparison with historical data. Smoking status will be a particular covariate to be evaluated as a determinant of PK. Exploratory correlative studies with pharmacodynamics (biological endpoints, toxicity and efficacy) will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Advanced population PK methods may be employed at a later stage to assess the link between drug exposure and biological effects and efficacy., Up to 5 years|Triapine plasma PK: Half-life, Will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated. PK parameters will be reported descriptively for exploratory comparison with historical data. Smoking status will be a particular covariate to be evaluated as a determinant of PK. Exploratory correlative studies with pharmacodynamics (biological endpoints, toxicity and efficacy) will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Advanced population PK methods may be employed at a later stage to assess the link between drug exposure and biological effects and efficacy., Up to 5 years|Triapine plasma PK: Apparent clearance, Will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated. PK parameters will be reported descriptively for exploratory comparison with historical data. Smoking status will be a particular covariate to be evaluated as a determinant of PK. Exploratory correlative studies with pharmacodynamics (biological endpoints, toxicity and efficacy) will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Advanced population PK methods may be employed at a later stage to assess the link between drug exposure and biological effects and efficacy., Up to 5 years|Triapine plasma PK: Apparent volume of distribution, Will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated. PK parameters will be reported descriptively for exploratory comparison with historical data. Smoking status will be a particular covariate to be evaluated as a determinant of PK. Exploratory correlative studies with pharmacodynamics (biological endpoints, toxicity and efficacy) will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Advanced population PK methods may be employed at a later stage to assess the link between drug exposure and biological effects and efficacy., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 of combination triapine + lutetium Lu 177 dotatate (treatment arm 1) versus standard of care lutetium Lu 177 dotatate alone (treatment arm 2).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) between the two treatment arms (combination arm 1 versus standard of care arm 2).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate plasma hPG80 as a biomarker of treatment response. II. Evaluate plasma deoxyribonucleosides as a biomarker of triapine resistance. III. Collect plasma for circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) assessment.

IV. Evaluate triapine plasma pharmacokinetics (PK) in the combination arm (treatment arm 1 only).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive triapine orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 of each cycle and lutetium Lu 177 dotatate intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 8 weeks for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

ARM 2: Patients receive lutetium Lu 177 dotatate IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 8 weeks for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT and/or MRI and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 8 and 12 months, then every 6 months for 2 years.