A Study of Injection HB0025 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a multicenter, open-label, dose escalation and expansion study. During the study, subjects will be evaluated for safety, toxicity, tolerability, PK/PD, immunogenicity, biomarkers, and antitumor activity of HB0025. The phase I study will enroll up to 154 subjects with advanced solid tumors who have progressed on or after standard of care therapy and for whom there is no further treatment available that in the judgement of the patient's physician would be beneficial. One cycle is defined as 28 days.
Tumor, Subjects
DRUG: HB0025
Safety assessment in dose-escalation phase, Safety profile including adverse events, changes in safety assessment parameters (e.g. incidence of AEs, vital signs, ECGs, clinical laboratory results and DLTs);, 240 Days|Safety assessment in dose-escalation phase, MTD or OBD and/or RP2D., 240 Days|Efficacy assessment in dose-expansion phase, ORR as measured by RECIST v1.1., Up to 24 Moths
PK parameters in dose-escalation phase, Area Under concentration-time Curve (AUC), Maximum serum concentration (Cmax), Clearance (CL), Volume of distribution (Vd), Mean Residence Time (MRT), half-life (t1/2), time of maximum concentration (Tmax), and average plasma concentration (Cavg)., 240 Days|ORR assessment in dose-escalation phase, Overall response rate (ORR) as measured by RECIST v1.1., Up to 24 Months|DCR assessment in dose-escalation phase, Disease control rate (DCR) as measured by RECIST v1.1., Up to 24 Months|DOR assessment in dose-escalation phase, Duration of response (DOR) as measured by RECIST v1.1., Up to 24 Months|PFS assessment in dose-escalation phase, Progression-free survival (PFS) as measured by RECIST v1.1., Up to 24 Months|ADA assessment in dose-escalation phase, Anti-drug antibody (ADA) and neutralizing antibodies (Nab)., Up to 24 Months|DOR assessment in dose-expansion phase, Duration of response (DOR) as evaluated by investigators according to RECIST v1.1, Up to 24 Months|PFS assessment in dose-expansion phase, Progression-free survival (PFS) as evaluated by investigators according to RECIST v1.1, Up to 24 Months|OS rate(12M) assessment in dose-expansion phase, The 12-month OS rate (OS12m) as evaluated by investigators according to RECIST v1.1, 12 Months|OS assessment in dose-expansion phase, Overall survival (OS) as evaluated by investigators according to RECIST v1.1, Up to 24 Months|ADA assessment in dose-expansion phase, Anti-drug antibody (ADA) and neutralizing antibodies (Nab)., 240 Days|PK parameters in dose-expansion phase, Area Under concentration-time Curve (AUC), Maximum serum concentration (Cmax), Clearance (CL), Volume of distribution (Vd), Mean Residence Time (MRT), half-life (t1/2)、time to maximum concentration (Tmax)、and average plasma concentration (Cavg)., 240 Days
Dose escalation phase Approximately 19 to 74 subjects will receive escalating doses on HB0025 monotherapy. The escalating dose phase is composed of an accelerated titration design and a conventional 3+3 design.

During the dose escalation, when a given dose level completes the DLT observation period, an evaluation of PK, PD, biomarkers, tolerability and efficacy will be performed and if this dose level is considered as a possible candidate dose level for OBD. Determination of MTD or OBD will be expanded to a total of 6 subjects (if not already done due to observation of a DLT). After the MTD or OBD is determined, the dose group will continue to recruit subjects until the total number of subjects reaches 10 to confirm that the MTD or OBD is RP2D.

Dose escalation phase Approximately 80 subjects will be enrolled into expansion doses on HB0025. During the dose escalation process, dose expansion studies will be conducted based on the preliminary determination of RP2D and the expanded tumor types.