Telephone-based Physical Activity Coaching or Self Monitored Physical Activity to Improve Physical Function in Older Adults Who Are Undergoing Surgery for Lung Cancer and Their Caregivers
This clinical trial compares telephone-based physical activity coaching to self monitored physical activity for improving physical function in older adults who are undergoing surgery for lung cancer and their caregivers. Lung cancer surgery in older adults is associated with functional declines and unique challenges. Performing physical activity around the time of surgery has been shown to improve functional outcomes in patients and exercise programs delivered via telehealth may improve access and convenience for patients and minimize participant burden. Telephone-based physical activity coaching may improve physical functioning for older adults with lung cancer who are undergoing surgery.
Lung Carcinoma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Physical Performance Testing|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Objective patient functional capacity, Measured by the 6 minute walk test (6MWT). Analysis will be a study group comparison via linear regression model., At 30 days post discharge
Functional capacity, Measured by 6MWT. Will be assessed via repeated measures linear regression model with adjustment for baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and time point., At 60 and 180 days post discharge|Lower extremity function, Measured by the short physical performance battery. Will be assessed via repeated measures linear regression model with adjustment for baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and time point., At 30, 60 and 180 days post discharge|Patient and caregiver reported self efficacy, Measured by patient reported outcomes measurement information system (PROMIS) self efficacy. Will be assessed via repeated measures linear regression model with adjustment for baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and time point., At 30, 60, and 180 days post discharge|Patient and caregiver reported physical function, Measured by PROMIS physical function. Will be assessed via repeated measures linear regression model with adjustment for baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and time point., At 30, 60 and 180 days post discharge|Patient reported quality of life, Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy -Lung for patients. Will be assessed via repeated measures linear regression model with adjustment for baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and time point., At 30, 60 and 180 days post discharge|Caregiver reported quality of life, Measured by City of Hope-Quality of Life-Family Caregiver for caregivers. Will be assessed via repeated measures linear regression model with adjustment for baseline value of the outcome, stratification factors, and time point., At 30, 60 and 180 days post discharge|Patient time at home and away from the hospital, Will be compared by study arm by linear regression models., Up to 60 days post discharge|Hospital readmissions, Will be compared by study arm via logistic regression., Up to 60 days post discharge|Postoperative complications, Will be compared by study arm via logistic regression., Up to 60 days post discharge
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare changes from baseline in objective patient functional capacity as measured by 6 minute walk test (6MWT) at day 30 post-discharge between the two comparators.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the following outcomes between the two comparators:

Ia. 6MWT at 60 and 180 days post discharge; Ib. Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) at 30, 60, and 180 days post-discharge; Ic. The following scores at 30, 60, and 180 days post-discharge: a) patient and family caregiver (FCG) reported self-efficacy; b) patient and FCG reported physical function; c) and patient and FCG quality of life (QOL); Id. Patient time at home and away from the hospital through 60 days post-discharge; Ie. Hospital readmissions rate and postoperative complications through 60 days post-discharge.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore associations between comparators, outcomes, and the following:

Ia. Perioperative, image-based sarcopenia using standard-of care preoperative chest computed tomography (CT) scans; Ib. Pedometer documented daily steps; Ic. Participant demographic and clinical characteristics.

OUTLINE: Patients and their FCG are randomized together to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients attend telephone-based coaching sessions over 20-50 minutes once 7-14 days before standard of care surgery, and then at days 7, 14, 21, and 51 post-discharge, for a total of 5 sessions. Patients also receive a personalized physical activity program and set fitness goals. FCGs also receive coaching and serve as a walking buddy for their patient. Patients and FCGs also wear an activity monitor throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive written educational materials on physical activity and cancer survivorship. Patients and FCGs also wear an activity monitor throughout the trial.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at days 60 and 180 post-discharge.