Intralesional Bleomycin Versus Cryotherapy for Treatment of Cutaneous Warts
The purpose of the study was to determine the efficacy of intralesional bleomycin in comparison to cryotherapy on participants having cutaneous warts.
Cutaneous Warts
DRUG: Bleomycin Injection|PROCEDURE: Cryotherapy
change in morphology of cutaneous warts., There is complete remission of cutaneous warts, assessed clinically, 6 weeks
This study was conducted in the Department of Dermatology of Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Karachi from January to June 2021 after receiving approval from the institutional ethical and research committee of hospital.

Sample size was calculated through NCSS software. Total of one fifty four non-admitted patients were assigned two study groups with equal sample size of 77 randomly through lottery method. Those patients aged between 18 to 60 years of either gender with cutaneous warts for \> 1 week to 48 weeks were included after written informed consent. Patients treated previously for warts by any methodology, with history of vascular disease, immunocompromised, hypertension, cardiovascular disorder, pregnancy, lactation and hypersensitivity to lidocaine were excluded.

All demography, clinical history was recorded by a principal investigator on a predesigned Performa , informed written consent was taken before enrolment.

Group A received intralesional bleomycin 0.1% therapy until the lesion blanched. It was prepared manually by diluting 15 mg powder in 5 ml distilled water and then each ml was further diluted by adding 2ml of 2% lignocaine, double the amount taken from the vial, so that concentration became 1mg/1ml (0.1%). Group B patients were treated with liquid nitrogen with the help of a cotton swab wrapped on a wooden stick and was applied firmly with 01 mm extra healthy skin margin until the lesion blanched.

Follow-up was carried out at 02, 04 and 06 weeks. Both the groups were assessed and compared for efficacy after 6 weeks of therapy. SPSS 23 was used for analyzing data.