Akt Inhibitor MK-2206 and Anastrozole With or Without Goserelin Acetate in Treating Patients With Stage II-III Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well Akt inhibitor MK-2206 (MK-2206) and anastrozole with or without goserelin acetate works in treating patients with stage II-III breast cancer. MK-2206 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using anastrozole and goserelin acetate may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. Giving MK-2206, anastrozole, and goserelin acetate together may kill more tumor cells.
Estrogen Receptor Positive|HER2/Neu Negative|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
DRUG: Akt Inhibitor MK2206|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Goserelin Acetate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Neoadjuvant Therapy|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Pathological Complete Response Rate, Any woman whose Ki67 value ≤10% on cycle 1 day 17 of combination treatment who does not receive alternative treatment prior to surgery and has no histologic evidence of invasive tumor cells in the surgical breast specimen and the axillary lymph nodes is considered to have a pathological complete response (pCR). A ninety percent confidence interval for the true pathologic complete response rate will be calculated using the Duffy-Santer approach., At time of surgery (up to 3 weeks after 4, 28-day cycles)
Clinical Response Rate, The Clinical response rate is estimated by the number of patients whose disease meets the WHO criteria of complete or partial response based on physical examination divided by the total number of eligible patients. Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all known disease based on measurements taken at the completion of neo-adjuvant therapy. Partial Response (PR) is defined as a 50% or greater decrease in the product of the bi-dimensional measurements of the lesion (total tumor size) between the pre-treatment measurements and the measurements taken at the completion of neo-adjuvant therapy. A ninety percent confidence interval for the true clinical response rate will be calculated using the Duffy-Santer approach., Baseline to end of Cycle 4 (28 day cycles)|Incidence of Adverse Events, Based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. For this endpoint, we are reporting the number of patients that reported a grade 3 or higher graded adverse event during neoadjuvent treatment. A complete list of all reported adverse events is in the Adverse Events section of the report., Baseline to end of Cycle 4 (28 day cycles)|Radiological Response Rate, The Clinical response rate is estimated by the number of patients whose disease meets the WHO criteria of complete or partial response based on radiographic evaluation (mammogram or ultrasound) divided by the total number of eligible patients. Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all known disease based on measurements taken at the completion of neo-adjuvant therapy. Partial Response (PR) is defined as a 50% or greater decrease in the product of the bi-dimensional measurements of the lesion (total tumor size) between the pre-treatment measurements and the measurements taken at the completion of neo-adjuvant therapy. A ninety percent confidence interval for the true clinical response rate will be calculated using the Duffy-Santer approach., Baseline and completion of cycle 4 (28 day cycles)
Change in Ki67 Levels, From 2 weeks of combination therapy with Akt inhibitor MK2206 and anastrozole (day 17 of course 1) to after 4 weeks of treatment with anastrozole alone|Percent Change in the Apoptotic Index, From 2 weeks of combination therapy with Akt inhibitor MK2206 and anastrozole (day 17 of course 1) to after 4 weeks of treatment with anastrozole alone|Proportion of Patients Whose Ki67 Values is at Most 10%, A 95% binomial confidence intervals will be constructed for the true proportion of patients whose pre Akt inhibitor MK2206 ki67 value is at most 10% as well as for the true proportion of patients with a C1D17 Ki67 value that is at most 10% among those patients whose pre Akt inhibitor MK2206 Ki67 was more than 10%., From 2 weeks of combination therapy with Akt inhibitor MK2206 and anastrozole (day 17 of course 1) to after 4 weeks of treatment with anastrozole alone|Serum Estradiol Levels, At baseline, following 4 weeks of anastrozole alone, day 1 of course 3, and at pre-surgery|The Pharmacodynamic Effect of Akt Inhibitor MK2206 in Combination With Anastrozole on the PI3K Pathway Activities, Assessed by Phosphoroproteomics and Immunohistochemistry Analysis on Serial Tumor Biopsies, Up to 3 weeks following the last dose of Akt inhibitor MK-2206
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate of neoadjuvant MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK-2206) in combination with anastrozole (goserelin \[goserelin acetate\] is added if premenopausal) in women with clinical stage II or III phosphatidlinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA) mutated estrogen receptor (ER)+/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)- breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of neoadjuvant MK-2206 in combination with anastrozole (goserelin is added if premenopausal) in women with clinical stage II or III PIK3CA mutated ER+/HER2- breast cancer.

II. To estimate the rate of clinical response and radiologic response using the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. For pre and post-menopausal women separately, to examine serum estradiol levels prior to pre-registration, prior to registration, after 2 cycles of anastrozole plus MK-2206 (cycle 3 day 1) and pre surgery.

II. To examine the percent change in the apoptotic index after 2 weeks of combination therapy with MK-2206 and anastrozole (cycle 1 day 17) relative to apoptotic index after 4 weeks of treatment with anastrozole alone (pre MK-2206).

III. To examine the change in Ki67 levels after 2 weeks of combination therapy with MK-2206 and anastrozole (cycle 1 day 17) relative to that after 4 weeks of treatment with anastrozole alone (pre MK-2206).

IV. To estimate the proportion of patients whose Ki67 values is at most 10% after 2 weeks of combination therapy with MK-2206 and anastrozole (cycle 1 day 17) among those whose Ki67 was more than 10% or more after 4 weeks of treatment with anastrozole alone (pre MK-2206).

V. To examine the pharmacodynamic effect of MK-2206 in combination with anastrozole (or anastrozole in combination with goserelin) on PI3K pathway signaling using serially collected tumor specimens.

VI. To explore molecular mechanisms which could affect tumor response to combination MK-2206 and anastrozole (or anastrozole in combination with goserelin) in PIK3CA mutant ER+ breast cancer.

VII. To examine the PIK3CA mutation status in circulating plasma deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) prior to and following therapy on serially collected peripheral blood (pre anastrozole, pre MK-2206, cycle 1 day 17, and at the time of surgery) and to correlate with tumor tissue PIK3CA status.

VIII. To examine PIK3CA mutation status of the residual cancer collected at the time of surgery post 4 cycles of neoadjuvant MK-2206 and anastrozole.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK-2206 orally (PO) on days 2, 9, 16, and 23; anastrozole PO daily on days 1-28; and goserelin acetate subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 (premenopausal patients only). Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Standard of care surgery (breast and axillary lymph node surgery) is performed 1-3 weeks following the last dose of Akt inhibitor MK-2206.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30-60 days.