Cetuximab Before Surgery in Treating Patients With Aggressive Locally Advanced Skin Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects and how well cetuximab before surgery works in treating patients with skin cancer that forms, grows, and spreads quickly and has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, may block tumor growth in different ways be targeting certain cells. Giving cetuximab before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Recurrent Skin Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin
BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response Rate of Cetuximab by RECIST Criteria, A one-sided Binomial exact test will be used., Up to 2 years
Progression-free Survival, The estimation of progression-free survival will be performed by the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Descriptive statistics for all outcome measures will be provided. To evaluate the association between variables, either chi-square test (categorical vs. categorical) or two sample t-test (categorical vs. continuous) or correlation (continuous vs. continuous) will be used depending upon the types of variables in comparison., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, The estimation of overall survival will be performed by the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Descriptive statistics for all outcome measures will be provided. To evaluate the association between variables, either chi-square test (categorical vs. categorical) or two sample t-test (categorical vs. continuous) or correlation (continuous vs. continuous) will be used depending upon the types of variables in comparison., Up to 2 years|Downstream Activation of Signaling Pathways Without a Known Driver, Including the EGFRpathway, Measure the downstream activation of signaling pathways without a known driver, including the EGFRpathway, Up to 2 years|Potential Markers of Response and/or Resistance to Cetuximab Therapy, Analyze the relationship of known DNA mutations in tumor per the FoundationOneTM genomic profile, and correlate to clinical endpoints such as clinical benefit and conversion to resectability to discover potential markers of response and/or resistance to cetuximab therapy., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the response rate of cetuximab by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of skin (SCCS).

II. To assess whether neoadjuvant cetuximab given in this patient population is both safe and feasible.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure the progression free and overall survival of patients with advanced SCCS who receive neoadjuvant cetuximab.

II. To determine the conversion to resectability of patients treated with neoadjuvant cetuximab and capture changes in reconstructive options rendered possible by neoadjuvant treatment.

III. Analyze the relationship of known deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutations in tumor per the FoundationOneTM genomic profile, and correlate to clinical endpoints such as clinical benefit and conversion to resectability to discover potential markers of response and/or resistance.

IV. Measure the downstream activation of signaling pathways without a known driver, including the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway.

V. Determine if tumor shrinkage with cetuximab is associated with increased apoptosis as evidenced by activated caspase-3, in pre- and post- treatment tumor tissues.

VI. Determine whether cetuximab results in increased antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity (ADCC) in post-, compared with pre-treatment tumor tissues.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes once weekly for 8 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.