Effects of Succinylcholine on Nonintubated Thoracoscopic Surgery
A safe and effective surgical environment is important for nonintubated thoracoscopic surgery. The investigators hypothesize that mini-dose succinylcholine can induce ultra-short period of apnea, by which the ventilatory responses to open pneumothorax were abolished and may facilitate rapid and satisfying collapse of the operated lung during nonintubated thoracoscopic surgery.
Tumor of Lung Parenchyma|Complication of Ventilation Therapy|Atelectasis
DRUG: Succinylcholine|DRUG: Placebo
Quality of lung collapse, Quality of lung collapse will be quantified by the surgeon as score 1-3., 20 minutes
Arterial blood gas analysis, Arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) and oxgen (PaO2) levels after succinylcholine and placebo during one-lung ventilation, 20 minutes
Background: Nonintubated thoracoscopic surgery is the frontier of modern minimal invasive thoracic surgery. A safe and effective surgical environment is established via an iatrogenic open pneumothorax producing the operated lung fully collapsed. However, the initial respiratory response to open pneumothorax is both tachypnea and carbon dioxide rebreathing, which would jeopardize the quality of collapse of the operated lung and delay the performance of intrathoracic vagal block. Intravenous opioid is effective to attenuate ventilatory responses but herein with risk of persistent respiratory depression.

Methods: The investigators hypothesize that mini-dose succinylcholine 0.15 mg/kg can induce ultra-short period of apnea, by which the ventilatory responses to open pneumothorax were abolished and may facilitate rapid and satisfying collapse of the operated lung during nonintubated thoracoscopic surgery. In a prospective, randomized, double-blind study design, 30 patients will be allocated to receive either succinylcholine (n=15) or placebo (n=15) in the beginning of open pneumothorax. The effectiveness of succinylcholine will be measured by the surgeon's evaluation of the quality of lung collapse, while the safety will be evaluated by determination of arterial blood gases within 20 minutes of one-lung spontaneous breathing.

Expected results: Mini-dose succinylcholine can facilitate early lung collapse without jeopardizing the ventilatory function during nonintubated thoracoscopic surgery with one-lung spontaneous breathing, which may make nonintubated thoracoscopic surgery easier and safer.