Gadofosveset Trisodium (Ablavar, Gdfos) in Distinguishing Hemangiomas and Metastases: A Prospective Trial
The purpose of this study is to determine if Gadofosveset Trisodium (Gdfos, Ablavar) is a useful magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) contrast agent in accurately diagnosing liver metastases compared to the standard agent gadobutrol (EcGd, Gadovist).
Cancer|Metastases|Liver Neoplasms
OTHER: Liver MRI with Gdfos|OTHER: Liver MRI with EcGd
Reader diagnostic accuracy using Gdfos vs. EcGd compared to gold standard, Three blinded radiologists of different training levels will read the MRI liver studies done using Gdfos and EcGd and the results of this will be compared to a gold standard (either pathology from surgery or biopsy or long-term follow-up). The diagnostic accuracy of Gdfos vs. EcGd will be compared using area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves (with correction for correlation and clustering)., Participants will receive both Gdfos and EcGd study within 4 weeks of each other. Radiologist reading for the study will be done up to 52 weeks after first MRI has been performed.
Inter-reader variability for EcGd-enhanced vs. Gdfos-enhanced imaging, Three blinded radiologists of different training levels will read the MRI liver studies done using Gdfos and EcGd and the results of this will be compared to a gold standard (either pathology from surgery or biopsy or long-term follow-up). The difference in accuracy will be compared between readers using kappa statistics., Participants will receive both Gdfos and EcGd study within 4 weeks of each other. Radiologist reading for the study will be done up to 52 weeks after first MRI has been performed.|Reader diagnostic accuracy of EcGd-enhanced imaging vs. Gdfos-enhanced imaging compared to gold standard (subgroup analysis for small lesions less than or equal to 1cm), Subgroup analysis for small lesions. The same analysis will be done with only a subgroup of small lesions., Participants will receive both Gdfos and EcGd study within 4 weeks of each other. Radiologist reading for the study will be done up to 52 weeks after first MRI has been performed.
The proposed study will be a single centre, prospective trial comparing the sensitivity and specificity of using Gadofosveset Trisodium (Gdfos, Ablavar) as the MRI contrast agent as compared to gadobutrol (EcGd, Gadovist).

The study population will include cancer patient's referred for an MRI study of the liver to rule out metastases. Those who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will their routine (clinical) MRI of the liver with EcGd. They will also receive an additional MRI with Gdfos within 4 weeks of the original study.

The patient data will be anonymized and the imaging will be read by radiologists and radiology residents and comparison will be made between the diagnostic accuracy of the EcGd-enhanced study and the Gdfos-enhanced study.