Customized Circulating Tumor DNA Testing for Cervical Cancer Recurrence Surveillance and Treatment Decisions
Immunotherapy is the main option for advanced, recurrent and metastatic cervical cancer. However, due to the complex interaction between the immune system and tumors, there is still a lack of effective markers for immunotherapy. Scientists are actively searching for and developing new immunotherapy markers. For cervical cancer diagnosis, it has been shown that ctDNA mutations can reflect HPV integration sites. In terms of cervical cancer prognosis monitoring, cohort studies focused on the application of HPV ctDNA in the field of cervical cancer prognosis monitoring. The aim of this study is to design a customized ctDNA probe for cancer patients through a priori tumor detection method, and to guide recurrence monitoring plan and implement individualized adjuvant therapy according to the results, and to explore personalized biomarkers to guide cervical cancer immunotherapy. To explore the possibility of customized ctDNA detection as a diagnostic marker for cervical cancer. To explore the predictive and prognostic value of customized ctDNA dynamic monitoring. A multi-arm cohort clinical study is planned. To comprehensively study the treatment strategy of advanced and recurrent cervical cancer and explore the related biomarkers through the customized dynamic monitoring of ctDNA in patients with advanced and recurrent cervical cancer. A total of 60 patients with cervical cancer were enrolled.
Immunotherapy|Cervical Cancer|CtDNA|Biomarker
Somatic mutation detection by WES, from Des 2024 to Oct 2026
Immunotherapy is the main option for advanced, recurrent and metastatic cervical cancer. However, due to the complex interaction between the immune system and tumors, there is still a lack of effective markers for immunotherapy. Scientists are actively searching for and developing new immunotherapy markers. For cervical cancer diagnosis, it has been shown that ctDNA mutations can reflect HPV integration sites. In terms of cervical cancer prognosis monitoring, cohort studies focused on the application of HPV ctDNA in the field of cervical cancer prognosis monitoring. The aim of this study is to design a customized ctDNA probe for cancer patients through a priori tumor detection method, and to guide recurrence monitoring plan and implement individualized adjuvant therapy according to the results, and to explore personalized biomarkers to guide cervical cancer immunotherapy. To explore the possibility of customized ctDNA detection as a diagnostic marker for cervical cancer. To explore the predictive and prognostic value of customized ctDNA dynamic monitoring. A multi-arm cohort clinical study is planned. To comprehensively study the treatment strategy of advanced and recurrent cervical cancer and explore the related biomarkers through the customized dynamic monitoring of ctDNA in patients with advanced and recurrent cervical cancer. A total of 60 patients with cervical cancer were enrolled.