A Phase II Study of the FIL on Elderly Frail Patients With DLBCL
A phase II study to evaluate the combination of Lenalidomide and Rituximab as front line therapy for the treatment of elderly frail patients evaluated in CGA with Diffuse Large B-cells non-Hodgkin Lymphoma.
Diffuse Large B-cells Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Rituximab-Dexamethasone-Lenalidomide
ORR, Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients with complete and partial response respectively according to Cheson 2014 (Appendix K).

The ORR rate will be evaluated both on assessed patients and on all treated patients, considering patients without a response assessment (due to any reason) as non-responders.

Response of R2 will be calculated for the EP according to Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) with CT scan; Cheson 2014; patients will be categorized into Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progressive Disease (PD), Non Responders (NR)., 48 months|Safety: clinical relevant toxicity, Clinical relevant toxicity, defined as the proportion of patients experiencing a grade 3 or greater non haematological toxicity., 48 months
CR, 1) Complete response rate (CR) according to Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) with CT scan; Cheson 2014., 48 months|OS, 2) Overall Survival (OS) will be defined as the time between the date of enrolment and the date of death from any cause. Patients who have not died at the time of the final analysis and patients who are lost to follow up will be censored at the date of the last contact., 54 months|PFS, 3) Progression Free Survival (PFS) will be defined as the time between the date of enrolment and the date of disease progression, relapse or death from any cause. Responding patients, patients who are lost to follow up, who withdrawal the consent or drop-out due to adverse event will be censored at their last assessment date. Patients died due to tumor will be considered in progression. Patients died for any other cause will be censored to the death date.

Time to event data (PFS, OS) will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The curves will be plotted and the 95% confidence interval for median time will be calculated., 54 months|EFS, 4) Event-Free Survival (EFS), (time to treatment failure) is measured from the time from study entry to any treatment failure including disease progression, or discontinuation of treatment for any reason (eg, disease progression, toxicity, patient preference, initiation of new treatment without documented progression, or death). Responding patients, patients who are lost to follow up, who withdrawal the consent or drop-out due to adverse event will be censored at their last assessment date. Patients died due to tumor will be considered in progression. Patients died for any other cause will be censored to the death date., 54 months|Quality of life, 5) Patients will assess their health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using two validated questionnaires: the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for Lymphoma (FACT-Lym) and the Quality of life (EORTC-QLQ-C30). Items for inclusion in the lymphoma subscale were selected on the basis of symptom relevance, disease specificity, and clinical relevance., 54 months
This is a prospective, multicenter, single arm, phase II trial in elderly patients (≥ 70 years) affected by DLBCL defined as frail according to CGA and previously untreated.

The primary endpoint is to evaluate the efficacy of the R2 (Revlimid+Rituximab) combination in first line DLBCL patients not candidate for the standard R-CHOP (or R-CHOP like) treatments due to the frail status.