Study of RAD001 in Soft Tissue Extremity and/or Retroperitoneal Sarcomas
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if the study drug RAD001 can stop or slow the growth of resectable soft tissue sarcoma. The patient's physical state, their symptoms, changes in the size of the tumor, and laboratory findings obtained while on-study will help the research team decide if RAD001 is safe and effective in patients with this condition. The study drug, RAD001, is made by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation.
Sarcoma
DRUG: RAD001
Pharmacodynamics (PD) Markers, PD markers of RAD001 on downstream signaling pathways in patients with sarcomas: p70S6K, S6-RP, P-AKT, cleaved PARP and PCNA by Western blot, quantitative multiplex assays and immunohistochemical studies measured pre and post the 2 week treatment of RAD001. Patients were to be separated into two groups, responders and non responders based on PD results and downstream up regulation of the referenced pathways. Mean fractional inhibition of each PD marker for the responding and non-responding groups were to be calculated. Our planned analysis was for 40 participants., Pre and post the 2 week treatment
PD Markers (p70S6K, S6-RP, P-AKT, Cleaved PARP and PCNA), Quantitative in vivo and ex vivo assessments of PD markers (p70S6K, S6-RP, P-AKT, cleaved PARP and PCNA) were to be normalized within the same sample. The extent of inhibition is defined as the fractional inhibition in each patient calculated as \[(PreRx normalized PD marker - PostRx normalized PD marker) / PreRx normalized PD marker\] x 100. Same definition would apply to each of these markers. Our planned analysis was for 40 participants., Post the 2 week treatment|Number of Participants With Pathological Response, We planned to determine pathological response in terms of tumor necrosis and apoptosis assessed on the resected specimens after 2 weeks of RAD001 therapy. Percent necrosis was to be reported based on the routine H and E staining. In addition to cleaved PARP analysis, TUNEL assays were to be performed judging the amount of apoptosis in the specimens after treatment. Our planned analysis was for 40 participants., Post the 2 week treatment|Number of Participants With Memory CD8 T Cell Enhanced Production, Memory CD8 T cell enhanced production as determined by fluorescence activated cell sorter (FACS) analysis on blood and tumor core biopsy specimens taken before and after therapy with RAD001. Our planned analysis was for 40 participants., Pre and Post the 2 week treatment
A single-arm, open label, proof of principle phase II study exploring the efficacy of RAD001 in resectable soft tissue sarcomas either in the extremities, trunk or retroperitoneum. Patients with resectable sarcomas as detailed below were to have a core biopsy for molecular markers prior to therapy with RAD001 10mg PO daily x 2 weeks. Within 7-14 days of the end of therapy with RAD001, the patients were to be brought to surgery for definitive resection or, should they be candidates for neoadjuvant radiation, would have 6 16 gauge core biopsies taken percutaneously or using image guidance. Pharmacodynamic markers as detailed in the objectives were to be assessed in the laboratory.

Patients were to be numbered sequentially from 1 to 40, or more if there were patients that dropped out due to drug toxicity, with the goal of achieving 40 patients in accrual for evaluation of the pre- and post-treatment tumor samples for Pharmacodynamic assays.