Cetuximab in Combination With Paclitaxel Plus Cisplatin Versus Paclitaxel Plus Cisplatin Alone for the First-line Treatment of Metastatic Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This is an open-label, randomized, controlled trial. At the end of a 28-day screening period, all eligible subjects will be randomly assigned into treatment Arm A or B in a 1:1 ratio. Subjects in Arm A will receive a maximum of 6 cycles of chemotherapy (cisplatin plus paclitaxel) and cetuximab weekly in the absence of progressive disease (PD), as assessed by the Investigator, and unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles of treatment, subjects who derive clinical benefit will continue treatment with cetuximab as monotherapy until either PD or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects in Arm B will receive the same chemotherapy regimen as Arm A alone for a maximum of 6 cycles in the absence of PD and unacceptable toxicity.
Esophageal Cancer, Squamous Cell|Cetuximab Effect|Chemotherapy Effect
DRUG: cetuximab|DRUG: cisplatin plus paclitaxel
Progression free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
Overall Survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|overall response rate, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Disease control rate, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
This is an open-label, randomized, controlled trial. At the end of a 28-day screening period, all eligible subjects will be randomly assigned into treatment Arm A or B in a 1:1 ratio. Subjects in Arm A will receive a maximum of 6 cycles of chemotherapy (cisplatin plus paclitaxel) and cetuximab weekly in the absence of progressive disease (PD), as assessed by the Investigator, and unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles of treatment, subjects who derive clinical benefit will continue treatment with cetuximab as monotherapy until either PD or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects in Arm B will receive the same chemotherapy regimen as Arm A alone for a maximum of 6 cycles in the absence of PD and unacceptable toxicity.