Cold Snare Versus Cold Forceps Polypectomy for Small Lesions
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare the efficacy and the safety of a new device for cold forceps polypectomy (CFP)- a special jumbo forceps- to cold snare polypectomy (CSP) for small colorectal lesions, without adding peri- or post-procedural risks to the patient.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does the cold forceps guarantee a complete endoscopic resection rate?
* How many adverse events could the jumbo forceps reduce in comparison to CSP?
* Does the lesion retrieval rate increase?
* Does the polypectomy duration decrease? Participants will be randomized to one or to the other group when a polypoid or non-polypoid lesion is identified. If multiple polyps are found in the same patient, they will be removed using the same polypectomy technique.

If polypectomy cannot be performed using the indicated technique, a crossover will be done according to the best practice of care principles.
Colorectal Adenoma|Colorectal Lesions
DEVICE: Sampling from the resection margins
Incomplete resection rate, Compare the rate of incomplete endoscopic resection (IER) of CFP and CSP, defined as the presence of residual adenomatous tissue in the biopsy samples of the margins or after the visual assessment of the resection base., Immediately after the procedure and immediately after the histological evaluation of the biopsy samples
Adverse events, Intraprocedural bleeding (i.e., post-polypectomy "spurting" or "oozing" bleeding lasting more than one minute of observation, requiring hemostatic interventions) and delayed bleeding (within 30 days of the procedure, requiring a second endoscopic treatment and/or hospitalization); perforation (intraprocedural or delayed), defined as grade III (damage to the muscular layer with recognition of the "target sign") or grade IV/V (full-thickness perforation of the bowel wall with or without contamination, respectively) according to the Sydney Classification.

All patients will be contacted, 30 days post-polypectomy, by blinded medical staff assessing for possible complications (rectal bleeding, abdominal pain, hospitalization due to perforation/bleeding, etc.), Up to 30 days after the procedure|Lesion retrieval rate, Lesion retrieval rate, in relation to the resection site, During the polypectomy|Polypectomy duration, Polypectomy duration evaluated in seconds: the time will be calculated from the exit of the device from endoscopic channel to the lesion retrieval. Cold forceps polypectomy is assumed to have a shorter procedural time, reducing the overall colonoscopy duration, improving patient compliance, and reducing the sedation required, with fewer risks related to sedation, During the polypectomy
The study is a Multicenter, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Study. It is designed as a non-inferiority trial to assess whether the efficacy in polypectomy of the new jumbo cold forceps is non-inferior to that of the cold snare.

The investigators hypothesize a less number of adverse events with CFP, an increased lesion retrieval rate and a less duration of the polypectomy procedure.

All patients will be contacted, 30 days post-polypectomy, by blinded medical staff assessing for possible complications.

All consecutive patients with polyp lesions can be enrolled, the participation is voluntary and randomization will be performed using the "minimization technique".