Induction Paclitaxel Followed by Concurrent Paclitaxel and Radiation Therapy for Cutaneous Angiosarcoma
Angiosarcoma is a rare and aggressive form of soft tissue sarcoma. Prior work demonstrates very poor outcomes, with most patients developing metastatic disease and less than 50% surviving greater than 5 years. In other soft tissue sarcomas, the use of radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy have improved progression-free survival in patients undergoing limited, organ-sparing surgeries. Taxane chemotherapy has shown efficacy in patients with metastatic angiosarcoma, but this has not been tested in patients with localized disease. This study examines the efficacy of induction paclitaxel followed by concurrent chemoradiation therapy with paclitaxel prior to curative surgical resection.
Cutaneous Angiosarcoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel|RADIATION: Radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: Research blood draw
Progression-free survival (PFS) rate, * PFS is defined as the duration of time from pathologic diagnosis to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first.
* Progression is defined as the appearance of new angiosarcoma lesions as determined by clinical exam, radiography, and/or pathologic confirmation., At year 2 follow-up (estimated to be 2 years and 12 weeks)
Overall survival (OS) rate, -Patients that have died from any cause will be censored from the OS rate calculation, At year 2 follow-up (estimated to be 2 years and 12 weeks)|Pathologic complete response rate (pCR), -Defined as the lack of viable cells observed in resected tumor tissue following neoadjuvant therapy and will be determined by an experienced sarcoma pathologist, At the time of surgery (approximately 19 weeks)|Rate of acute treatment-related grade 3 or higher toxicity defined by CTCAE version 5.0, From start of radiation through 90 days after start of radiation|Rate of late treatment-related grade 3 or higher toxicity defined by CTCAE version 5.0, From 91 days through year 2 follow-up
Angiosarcoma is a rare and aggressive form of soft tissue sarcoma. Prior work demonstrates very poor outcomes, with most patients developing metastatic disease and less than 50% surviving greater than 5 years. In other soft tissue sarcomas, the use of radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy have improved progression-free survival in patients undergoing limited, organ-sparing surgeries. Taxane chemotherapy has shown efficacy in patients with metastatic angiosarcoma, but this has not been tested in patients with localized disease. This study examines the efficacy of induction paclitaxel followed by concurrent chemoradiation therapy with paclitaxel prior to curative surgical resection.