dENdritic Cell Therapy Combined With SURgEry in Mesothelioma
The ENSURE trial is an open label, single center, phase 1, feasibility study. Sixteen adult patients diagnosed with resectable epithelioid malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) will be enrolled following first-line chemotherapy. Before standard-of-care chemotherapy, a leukapheresis will be performed and monocytes will be used for differentiation to dendritic cells (DCs) using specific cytokines. Allogeneic tumor lysate (Pheralys) loaded autologous DCs (MesoPher) will be re-injected 3 weeks after completing chemotherapy, 2 times every other week. Four weeks after the first injection with dendritic cell therapy (DCT), patients will undergo extrapleural pleurectomy/decortication (eP/D) surgery and receive three bi-weekly injections with DCT (starting 4 weeks after surgery). In total, five DC vaccinations will be administered. A tumor biopsy will be collected before starting neo-adjuvant DCT.
Mesotheliomas Pleural
BIOLOGICAL: Mesopher
Number of participant who are alive and have completed (neo)adjuvant DCT (5 administrations) and surgery at week 15 (+4 weeks) without extended treatment-related delay, persisting grade 3-4 treatment side-effects or evidence of progression [Feasibility], To determine the feasibility of DCT with Mesopher performed before and after eP/D in patients with resectable epithelioid MPM who received first line chemotherapy. Feasibility is measured by the number of patient who are alive and have completed neo-adjuvant plus adjuvant DCT (5 administrations in total or less in case of production shortage) and surgery at week 15 (+4 weeks) without extended treatment-related delay, persisting grade 3- 4 treatment side-effects or evidence of progression/relapse. Patients who markedly progressed after chemotherapy will be discontinued from the trial and will be considered as failures for assessment of the primary end-point., 2 years
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 [Safety and Tolerability], To assess the safety of DCT with Mesopher performed before and after eP/D in patients with resectable epithelioid MPM., 2 years|Median progression free and median overall survival since start of treatment [Efficacy], To evaluate the efficacy of combining DCT and eP/D after chemotherapy in patients with resectable epithelioid MPM. Efficacy is measured by median progression free and median overall survival since start of treatment., 2 years
Number of participants with increased immune cell infiltration in tumor tissue induced by (neo)adjuvant DCT [Anti-tumor immune response], To determine the anti-tumor immune response induced by (neo)adjuvant DCT. In order to analyze if DC-therapy induced a (tumor-specific) immune response, the following analyses will be performed:

1. Evaluate immune cell infiltration in tumor tissue prior and post DCT.
2. Characterize T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire analysis of tumor-infiltrating T cells.
3. Characterize tumor-specific and lysate specific IFNy production by IFNy ELISPOT assay.
4. Characterize the phenotype of immune cell populations in the tumor and peripheral blood prior and post DCT., 2 years
The ENSURE trial is an open label, single center, phase 1, feasibility study. Sixteen adult patients diagnosed with resectable epithelioid malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) will be enrolled following first-line chemotherapy. Before standard-of-care chemotherapy, a leukapheresis will be performed and monocytes will be used for differentiation to dendritic cells (DCs) using specific cytokines. Allogeneic tumor lysate (Pheralys) loaded autologous DCs (MesoPher) will be re-injected 3 weeks after completing chemotherapy, 2 times every other week. Four weeks after the first injection with dendritic cell therapy (DCT), patients will undergo extrapleural pleurectomy/decortication (eP/D) surgery and receive three bi-weekly injections with DCT (starting 4 weeks after surgery). In total, five DC vaccinations will be administered. A tumor biopsy will be collected before starting neo-adjuvant DCT.