A Phase III PI-88 in the Adjuvant Treatment of Subjects With Hepatitis Virus Related HCC After Surgical Resection
The purpose of this study is to determine if PI-88 is effective and safe in patients who have had surgery to remove primary liver cancer.
Cancer|Liver Cancer|Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: PI-88|OTHER: Placebo
Disease-Free Survival (DFS), To evaluate the efficacy of daily administration of PI-88 versus placebo for the adjuvant treatment of study subjects as measured by DFS during study period.

As the median DFS could not be estimated, the overall 25 th percentile DFS was reported., End of study
Time to Recurrence (TTR), As no subjects died without a preceding tumor recurrence , no median time to TTR could be estimated in the present study. And therefore the overall 25th percentile DFS was reported.

The results of time to recurrence (TTR) were the same as that of DFS, as no subjects died without a preceding tumor recurrence., Time to recurrence (TTR) was defined as the time from randomization to the first time that tumor recurrence was observed or suspected during the study period (3 years).|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time, in weeks, from randomization to death from any cause during the study period., Overall survival was defined as the time, in weeks, from randomization to death from any cause during the study period (3 years).|Tumor Recurrence Rate (TR Rate), TR rate was to calculate number of subjects with recurrence among the analyzed population., The cumulative tumor recurrence rate at weeks 5, 53, 101 and 149 was reported here.
Primary liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma or HCC) is the fifth most common cancer worldwide. Surgery to remove the tumour remains the principal form of treatment for liver cancer, however recurrence of the disease after surgery is common and survival after recurrence is poor. At the moment there is no recommended standard treatment for HCC immediately after the tumour has been removed surgically. PI-88 is a new experimental drug which blocks the growth of new blood vessels in tumours to stop the tumour growing (starves it of food) and also stops tumour cells spreading. Previous experience with PI-88 has shown it has been well tolerated and has shown some benefit in delaying the time it takes for the hepatocellular carcinoma to reappear after surgery. The purpose of this study is to determine if PI-88 is effective and safe in patients who have had surgery to remove primary liver cancer.