Platinum-Based Chemotherapy Plus Ramucirumab in Patients With Advanced NSCLC Who Have Progressed on First Line Anti-PD-1 Immunotherapy
This is a non-randomized, phase-II study of platinum doublet chemotherapy plus ramucirumab in patients with advanced NSCLC who have progressed on first line anti-PD-1 Immunotherapy. Up to 25 evaluable participants will be enrolled over a period of 2 years. Seven patients will be recruited at the first stage .Eligible patients would include those treated with a PD-1 inhibitor as primary therapy and exhibit evidence of disease progression, but maintain a good performance status.

The investigators hypothesize that immune therapy acts as chemo-sensitizer and patients treated with standard platinum-based combination chemotherapy with the addition of the anti-angiogenic agent Ramucirumab, after immunotherapy will have higher response rates
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Ramucirumab
Number of Participants With Objective Response Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by Central Imaging, Objective response (OR) is the occurrence of CR or PR as the best overall response. OR will be based on responses confirmed using the subsequent 6-weekly scan. OR is based on the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., ≥18 weeks, up to maximum of 12 months|Number of Participants With Treatment Related Dose Delay or Treatment Discontinuation, Adverse events will be recorded in relation to each cycle of treatment and graded according to CTCAE criteria. The toxicity co-primary outcome measure for the trial is defined as the occurrence of a treatment-related dose delay or treatment discontinuation due to toxicity, Through study completion, up to a maximum of 12 months. Serious AEs: Up to 90 days after last dose of study treatment, Other AEs: Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
OBJECTIVES:

Primary Objective

1. To assess the objective response rate to a three-drug regimen (a platinum doublet plus an anti-angiogenic agent) in patients with non-small cell lung cancer who fail to respond, or progress after an initial response, to primary therapy with an immune checkpoint inhibitor.
2. To assess the toxicity profile of the three-drug regimen in this population compared to historical treatment-naïve population (as published in literature)

Exploratory Objective

1. To investigate the role of peripheral blood CD 8+ T cells, absolute eosinophil count (AEC) and circulating tumor cells (CTC) as biomarkers of response to salvage chemotherapy after primary immunotherapy
2. To investigate the role of plasma carbonic anhydrase IX level as predictive biomarker of response to ramucirumab.