Pancreatic Fistula After Minimally Invasive Enucleation
Patients suffering from postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) after minimally invasive enucleation (MIEN) show a characteristic pattern of longer duration and milder symptoms, which is different from pancreatic fistula after standard pancreatectomy. This study aimed to analyze the factors influencing clinically-relevant POPF (CR-POPF) after MIEN, investigate and develop a personalized predictive model for accurate prediction of CR-POPF.
Pancreatic Tumor, Benign|Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor|Solid Pseudopapillary Tumor of the Pancreas
Incidence of Clinically Relevant Postoperative Pancreatic Fistula, Clinically Relevant Pancreatic Fistula including Grade B fistulas, which require treatment beyond simple drainage, as well as Grade C fistulas., Within 90 days after surgery.
Perioperative complication rate according to the Clavien-Dindo classification, Adverse events occurring during or after surgery reported according to the Clavien-Dindo classification., Within 90 days after surgery.
Minimally invasive enucleation (MIEN) has been widely used in managing benign and low-grade malignant pancreatic tumors, showing better protection of pancreatic function and better long-term outcomes compared to standard pancreatectomy.

However, the incidence of postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) after MIEN is higher compared to standard resection, mainly since a large part of the pancreatic wound is exposed, and the main pancreatic duct may be exposed or injured, etc. POPF is the most important postoperative complication, and it has become a major constraint to the conduct of pancreatic MIEN.

Although risk factors and predictive models for POPF in standard pancreatic surgery have been reported in the past, no predictive models have been reported specifically for MEN. With the increasing adoption of MIEN, there is an urgent need for a predictive model to guide the treatment and prognosis of POPF. Therefore, this study aims to conduct a cohort study, with data prospectively collected and retrospectively analyzed. The result of this study will provide a valuable reference for the development and application of MIEN.