Tobacco Treatment Comparison for Cancer Care
This pilot comparative effectiveness trial will compare two active smoking cessation treatments in terms of effectiveness, equity across patient subpopulations, and efficiency among adult patients diagnosed with cancer within the past 3 years. An enhanced treatment comprising 12 weeks of varenicline treatment and 7 smoking cessation coaching calls with a cancer focus will be compared against an active comparator modeled after standard quitline treatments (2 weeks of nicotine patch therapy with 3 phone coaching calls). Approximately 50 participants will be recruited to generate estimates of the effects, acceptability, costs, and equity of enhanced treatment (vs. standard treatment), with the primary outcome being abstinence from smoking 26 weeks after trying to quit.
Smoking Cessation|Cancer
DRUG: Transdermal Nicotine Patch|BEHAVIORAL: Standard Telephone Counseling|DRUG: Varenicline|BEHAVIORAL: Cancer-Targeted Telephone Counseling|OTHER: Mailed Information about Standard Care Resources
Biochemically verified 7-day point-prevalence abstinence 26 weeks after a target quit date., This measure is confirmed by expired carbon monoxide and/or a cotinine urine or saliva sample test., up to 30 weeks post target quit date
Self-reported 7-day point-prevalence abstinence 12 weeks after a target quit date., This measure is a self-report response at the 12 week telephone follow-up to the question "Have you smoked, even a puff, in the last 7 days?"., up to 13 weeks post target quit date
Primary Aim

1. To generate estimates of the size of the comparative effects of enhanced, cancer-specific smoking cessation treatment versus a generic standard care package similar to quitline care in terms of biochemically confirmed 7-day point prevalence abstinence (no smoking in the past 7 days) 26 weeks after a target quit date.

Exploratory Aims

1. To estimate differences in CET arms in exploratory outcomes including patient acceptability, completion, adherence, costs, and cost-effectiveness.
2. To estimate the extent to which treatment effects on abstinence and exploratory outcomes differ across patient subpopulations based on demographics (age, race, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic disadvantage); nicotine dependence; and cancer site, stage, and treatment phase.