Atezolizumab, Obinutuzumab, and Venetoclax in Treating Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, or Relapsed or Refractory Richter Syndrome
This phase II trial studies how well atezolizumab, obinutuzumab, and venetoclax work in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma or Richter syndrome that has come back (recurrent) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab and obinutuzumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as venetoclax, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving atezolizumab, obinutuzumab, and venetoclax may work better in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small lymphocytic lymphoma, or Richter syndrome.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Richter Syndrome|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Atezolizumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|DRUG: Venetoclax
Minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rate (Cohort I), The Bayesian approach of Thall, Simon, Estey will be implemented for the toxicity and futility monitoring. Toxicity is defined as any grade 3 or higher non-hematological toxicity which is at least possibly related to the treatment. The MRD negative rate will be estimated along with the 95% credible interval for cohorts 1 and 2., At end of cycle 9
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Safety data will be summarized by category, severity and frequency. The proportion of patients with AEs will be estimated, along with the Bayesian 95% credible interval., Up to 1 year|Best overall response, Will be estimated along with the 95% credible interval., Up to 14 cycles (cohort 1) or 26 cycles (cohort 2)|Complete response rate, Summary statistics will be provided for continuous variables. Frequency tables will be used to summarize categorical variables., Up to 1 year|Duration of response, Summary statistics will be provided for continuous variables. Frequency tables will be used to summarize categorical variables., Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used., Up to 1 year|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used., Up to 1 year
Change in immunological and molecular features, Will determine if the change in immunological and molecular features will correlate with patient outcomes and will be assessed through fitting linear or non-linear mixed effect models., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of atezolizumab in combination with obinutuzumab and venetoclax in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)/Richter transformation (RT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of atezolizumab combined with obinutuzumab and venetoclax in patients with CLL/SLL/RT.

II. To determine overall response rate (ORR), complete response rate (CR), duration of response (DOR), and minimal residual disease (MRD) negative remission rate.

III. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS). IV. To determine the overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine immunological and molecular features, at baseline and/or that change with treatment, that correlate with outcomes in patients treated with atezolizumab combined with obinutuzumab and venetoclax.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) over 4-6 hours on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of cycle 1 and on day 1 of cycles 2-9 and atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 3-4 of cycle 1 and on days 1-2 of cycles 2-9. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 3, patients also receive venetoclax orally (PO) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 14 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously IV over 4-6 hours on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of cycle 1 and on day 1 of cycles 2-9 and atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 3-4 of cycle 1 and on days 1-2 of cycles 2-9. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 2, patients receive venetoclax PO on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 25 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.