Adaptive SBRT Plus Chemoimmunotherapy for ES-SCLC
This is trial studying the safety of adaptive stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) combined with durvalumab immunotherapy, platinum chemotherapy, and etoposide chemotherapy in platinum refractory extensive stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC).
Extensive-stage Small-cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab 50 MG/1 ML Intravenous Solution|DRUG: Etoposide Injection|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DEVICE: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy
Incidence of treatment-related adverse events (AEs), Number of patients that experience Adverse Events (AEs) assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0. Adverse Events will be described by Type, Category, including only most severe Grade experienced by a single patient., Up to 2.5 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with objective response (Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR)) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Complete Response (CR) is defined as: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR) is defined as: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 2.5 years
This is a phase Ib, open-label, single-arm study in newly diagnosed patients with extensive stage SCLC, to test the safety of the adaptive addition of SBRT to combination therapy with durvalumab, platinum, and etoposide. Approximately 50 patients with ES-SCLC will be enrolled in this study in order to identify 20 patients with platinum refractory disease who do not show evidence of early response to chemoimmunotherapy. Eligible patients will complete 2 cycles of study treatment with durvalumab, platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin per investigator choice), and etoposide. Patients will then undergo standard of care restaging imaging. Those patients who have a partial or complete response will continue with combination systemic therapy, without additional intervention.

In patients with less than a partial response (stable disease or progressive disease), SBRT will be given prior to cycle 3 of systemic therapy. The radiotherapy will be given in 5 fractions of 6 Gy to the primary tumor site. See study schema. Patients who undergo SBRT will resume systemic therapy within 2 weeks of completing SBRT and the interval between cycle 2 and cycle 3 should not exceed 6 weeks. Subsequent restaging imaging will continue as per standard of care. All patients will continue maintenance therapy with durvalumab until confirmed progressive disease.