Cisplatin-Pemetrexed Compared With Carboplatin-Paclitaxel-Bevacizumab in KRAS Mutated Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether carboplatin-paclitaxel-bevacizumab results in a prolonged progression free survival compared to cisplatin-pemetrexed as first line treatment in patients with KRAS mutated non-small cell lung cancer.
Carcinoma, Non-Small Cell Lung
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: cisplatin
progression free survival, Every 6 weeks, from date of randomization until the date of progression of disease or of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months
disease control rate, Every 6 weeks, from date of randomization until the date of progression of disease or of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months.|overall survival, Stratification for KRAS mutation (G12V versus G12C versus other), date of randomization to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months.|outcome between G12V versus G12C versus other subtypes of KRAS mutations (mutational analysis on plasma and blood platelets)., The two most common KRAS types are G12C in about 40% of cases, G12V in 18% and G12D in 15% of cases. Subgroup analyses are planned to explore treatment effect in these different KRAS mutations groups. At baseline the metastatic patterns of these subgroups will be described. KRAS mutations in NSCLC occur mainly in codon 12 and 13.

Stratification for KRAS mutation (G12V versus G12C versus other) at randomization., date of randomization to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months.|response by Crabb criteria (if applicable), Every 6 weeks, from date of randomization until the date of progression of disease or of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months
KRAS mutations occur in 30% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer, especially adenocarcinoma. For long time KRAS mutation has been related with poor prognosis and poor response to chemotherapy. Recent data however show that this is both not true. It seems that response, progression free survival and overall survival is similar in KRAS mutated. Until now no specific targeted therapy is available for KRAS mutated NSCLC patients. Optimization of treatment in advanced NSCLC patients with a KRAS mutation could also be achieved by selecting the best available chemotherapy treatment.

Two standard chemotherapy schemes are frequently used and FDA and EMA approved as first line treatment for patients with adenocarcinoma: cisplatin-pemetrexed and carboplatin-paclitaxel-bevacizumab.

The aim of this randomized phase III study is to compare two standard treatment regimens in patients with KRAS mutated, advanced stage NSCLC and the hypothesis is that bevacizumab with chemotherapy improves outcomes compared to chemotherapy alone as first line treatment. Furthermore the outcome for the different KRAS mutations will be studied.

Treatment with one of the two following chemotherapy combinations according to the label: carboplatin-paclitaxel-bevacizumab or cisplatin-pemetrexed q3wks for up to six cycles. Continuation maintenance with bevacizumab and pemetrexed is allowed until progression. Blood and archival tissue will be optionally collected for translational research. This may help to identify subgroups of patients who are likely better treated with a specific treatment regimen.