Morphological and Metabolic Changes of Dorsal Root Ganglion and Sympathetic Ganglion in Patients With Postherpetic Neuralgia on MRI
Object: Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) is pain that persists for 1-3 months after herpes zoster onset. It is the most common complication of herpes zoster and occurs in 15-40% of patients with herpes zoster. PHN has been suggested to be related with the lesion of doral root ganglion (DRG). However, the studies are almost limited to autopsies and animals , and the mechanism of PHN is still unclear. This study was conducted to investigate morphological and metabolic changes of DRG and sympathetic ganglion in patients with postherpetic neuralgia on MRI. Method: 30 patients diagnosed as PHN were recruited. The volume and fractional anisotropy of DRG of lesion dermatomes were measured under MRI, and compared with contralateral and adjacent DRG. The volume and fractional anisotropy of sympathetic ganglion of lesion dermatomes were also measured under MRI, and compared with contralateral and adjacent sympathetic ganglion.Then, the association between clinical phenotypes and DRG changes were analyzed.
Pain|Neuropathy;Peripheral
To compare the volume and fractional anisotropy of DRG between lesion dermatomes and contralateral dermatomes, DRGs of lesion and contralateral dermatomes were scanned under MRI. Then, the valume (the maximum cross-section area ×layers/2) and fractional anisotropy of DRGs were measured with RadiAnt DICOM Viewer, and the comparison was made between lesion and contralateral DRG., 1 year
To compare the volume and fractional anisotropy of sympathetic ganglion between lesion dermatomes and contralateral dermatomes., as primary outcome measure, sympathetic ganglions of lesion and contralateral dermatomes were scanned under MRI. Then, the valume (the maximum cross-section area ×layers/2) and fractional anisotropy of sympathetic ganglions were measured with RadiAnt DICOM Viewer, and the comparison was made between lesion and contralateral sympathetic ganglions., 1 year|To compare the volume and fractional anisotropy of DRG between lesion dermatomes and adjacent dermatomes., DRGs of lesion and adjacent dermatomes were scanned under MRI. Then, the valume (the maximum cross-section area ×layers/2) and fractional anisotropy of DRGs were measured with RadiAnt DICOM Viewer, and the comparison was made between lesion and adjacent DRG., 1 year
Patients with the following conditions were excluded: psychiatric diseases or communication disorders; contraindications to MRI;DRG radiofrequency therapy, spinal cord electrical stimulation and other direct intervention treatments for DRG were performed before examination.