Hypofractionated Radiotherapy Followed by Surgical Resection in the Treatment of Soft Tissue Sarcomas
The trial will use neoadjuvant hypofractionated radiotherapy followed by surgical resection in the treatment for soft tissue sarcoma. It will allow patients to be treated over a shorter course (5 or 15 days of radiation) compared to the traditional 5 week regimen. It is proposed that this will be possible without increasing the risk of wound complication or local recurrence compared with a traditional 5 week course of pre-operative radiation.
Soft Tissue Sarcomas
RADIATION: Ultra-Hypo-fractionation Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Resection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Moderately-Hypo-fractionation Radiotherapy
Local control rate, Will be estimated with a Beta-Binomial model with Beta(0.5, 0.5) as the prior distribution. The median and a 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution will be reported., Approximately 2 years
Complication rate, The complication rate will be modeled with a Beta-Binomial model with Beta(0.5, 0.5) as the prior distribution, and it will be monitored continuously throughout the study. The complication rate will also be modeled with a Beta-Binomial model with Beta(0.5, 0.5) as the prior distribution, and it will be monitored continuously throughout the study., Approximately 2 years
Study Objectives:

Primary:

* To investigate the efficacy of neoadjuvant hypo-fractionated radiotherapy (HRT) followed by surgical resection in the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma (STS) as measured by local control
* Examine the side effect profile using Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) and Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) acute and late side effects criteria and major and minor post-operative complication rates.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups by the radiation oncologist.

GROUP I (ULTRA-HYPOFRACTIONATION \[UH\]): Patients undergo HRT daily for a total of 5 fractions followed by surgery.

GROUP II (MODERATE HYPOFRACTIONATION \[MH\]): Patients undergo HRT daily for a total of 15 fractions followed by surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 3 months, then every 3-6 months for a minimum of 2 years.