Precision Treatment of Recurrent/Metastatic Salivary Gland Carcinoma Guided by Molecular Typing
Patients with salivary gland carcinoma were divided into groups according to HER2, NTRK, AR, TROP-2, etc. Patients in different groups were given precision targeted therapy or chemotherapy to evaluate the efficacy (ORR rate, etc.) and safety of precision neoadjuvant or conversion therapy.
Locally Advanced or Recurrent/Metastatic Salivary Gland Carcinoma|Neoadjuvant or Conversion Therapy|Precision Therapy
DRUG: Vedolizumab|DRUG: larotinib or enttraitinib|DRUG: antiandrogen drug treatment|DRUG: ESG401|DRUG: small molecule multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitors± Chemioterapy|DRUG: albumin paclitaxel with platinum|DRUG: HR-positive group|DRUG: PI3K mutant group|DRUG: Homologous Recombination repair defect group|DRUG: Nectin-4 ADC group|DRUG: Ivoximab group|DRUG: Apalolito vorellizumab group
ORR, ORR rates for neoadjuvant and translational therapy in patients with locally advanced/recurrent and advanced oligometastatic salivary gland cancer, ORR at the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 14 days)|ORR, ORR rate of salvage therapy for locally advanced/recurrent or distantly metastatic salivary gland carcinoma with rapid progression that cannot tolerate or refuses surgery, ORR at the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 14 days)
MPR;, MPR rates in patients who received neoadjuvant and translational therapy and then underwent surgery, MPR rate at the end of surgical treatment|R0 resection rate;, R0 resection rate in patients who received neoadjuvant and translational therapy and then underwent surgery, R0 resection rate at the end of surgical treatment|Facial nerve protection rate, Facial nerve protection rate in patients who received neoadjuvant and translational therapy and then underwent surgery, Facial nerve protection rate at the end of surgical treatment|DFS, 3-year DFS rates for patients who underwent surgery, DFS rates at 3-year|PFS;, 2-Year PFS Rate for Patients Receiving Rescue Therapy, PFS Rate at 2-Year|OS, OS for all patients, OS rate at 5-year
1. Patients with locally advanced/recurrent or oligometastatic salivary carcinoma are divided into groups based on HER2, NTRK, AR, TROP-2, etc. for precision targeted therapy or chemotherapy, and the efficacy (ORR rate, etc.) and safety of precision neoadjuvant or transformative treatment are evaluated.
2. Patients with locally advanced/recurrent or symptomatic, rapidly progressive metastatic salivary carcinoma who cannot tolerate or refuse surgery and radiotherapy are divided into groups based on HER2, NTRK, AR, TROP-2, etc. for precision treatment, and the efficacy (ORR rate, etc.) and safety of salvage treatment are evaluated.
3. The efficacy (ORR rate, etc.) and safety of post-line treatment for locally advanced/recurrent or distant metastatic salivary carcinoma.
4. Multi-omics technology explores the heterogeneity of salivary carcinoma and the biomarkers related to recurrence, metastasis, efficacy, and prognosis.
5. The consistency between the drug sensitivity detection in ex vivo 3D tumor models and the actual clinical efficacy of salivary carcinoma is studied, and the sensitive schemes selected based on the results of the drug sensitivity experiments are used to guide the post-line treatment of salivary carcinoma.