Temozolomide and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Brain Metastasis Secondary to Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs such as temozolomide may make the tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Combining temozolomide with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving temozolomide together with whole-brain radiation therapy works in treating patients with brain metastasis secondary to non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
DRUG: Temozolomide|RADIATION: Radiation therapy
Number of Patients With Intracranial Response, Response was assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST) by brain MRI in the 21 eligible and treated patients.Complete response (CR): complete disappearance of the clinically detectable malignant brain metastasis(es) being followed on MRI scan off corticosteroids and a stable or improving neurologic exam. Partial response (PR): greater than or equal to a 50% reduction in the sum of the product(s) of the maximal cross-sections on MRI scan with a stable or decreasing dose of corticosteroids and a stable or improving neurologic exam. Response = CR + PR, assessed every cycle while on treatment, then every 3 months for 2 years
1-year Neurologic (Central Nervous System, CNS) Progression Free Rate, 1-year CNS progression free rate is the percentage of patients who had no CNS progression after being followed for 1 year . Progressive disease (CNS) was defined as a 25% or greater increase in the sum of the product(s) of the maximal cross-sections on MRI scan, reappearance of any lesion that has disappeared, development of any new lesion(s), stable disease with a deterioration of neurologic exam, or clear worsening of any evaluable disease., assessed every 3 months for 2 years|Time to Non-CNS (Systemic) Progression, Time to non-CNS progression was calculated from time of protocol entry to time of first systemic progressive disease or death. Patients alive and non-CNS progression-free at last follow-up were censored. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter (per RECIST criteria). Development of new lesions in non-CNS sites also constituted non-CNS progression. The 21 eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., assessed every 3 months for 2 years|Overall Survival Time, Overall survival (months) was calculated from time of protocol entry to time of death from any cause. Patients alive at last follow-up were censored. The 21 eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., assessed every 3 months for 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the intracranial response rate in patients with brain metastasis secondary to non-small cell lung cancer treated with whole brain radiotherapy and temozolomide.

Secondary

* Determine the time to radiological progression in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the time to neurological progression (confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo whole brain radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 2 weeks (10 fractions). Patients also receive concurrent oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-14.

Beginning 3 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of neurologic (Central Nervous System, CNS) progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients were followed every 3 months for 2 years.

ACCRUAL: A total of 26 patients were accrued for this study.