Combination Chemotherapy Plus Low-Dose Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage I or Stage IIA Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining chemotherapy with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase 2 trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy together with low-dose radiation therapy works in treating patients with stage I or stage IIA Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma, Hodgkin Disease|Lymphoma|Hodgkin Disease|Lymphoma: Hodgkin
DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Bleomycin|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: Low-dose radiotherapy (RT)
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival was assessed for 3 years from the completion of treatment. Progression-free survival was considered to mean the proportion of patients (percentage) still alive without disease recurrence or progression., up to 3 years
Frequency of Complete Response, The frequency of complete response (CR) is reported as the number (proportion) of subjects in complete response, as assessed during weeks 4 to 5 of chemotherapy. Per protocol, CR is defined as "complete regression of all palpable and radiographic demonstrable disease" by computed tomography (CT) scan or positron emission tomography-CT (PET-CT)., 5 weeks|Early Treatment-related Toxicity, Early treatment-related toxicity was assessed as the number of treatment-related, non-serious adverse events that occurred during treatment or within 30 days of the completion of treatment., Within 30 days of treatment|Late Treatment-related Toxicity, Late treatment-related toxicity was assessed as the overall number of late-appearing toxicities (ie, related adverse events, after treatment completion) including but not limited to diagnosis of a 2nd cancer; hypothyroidism; infertility; pulmonary toxicity; or cardiac toxicity, at up to 16 years from date of diagnosis., 16 years|Second Hodgkin's Disease Progression, Second Hodgkin's disease progression is reported as the number of participants experiencing 2 instances of progression of the underlying Hodgkin's disease, assessed at up to 16 years from date of diagnosis., 16 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was assessed at up to 16 years from date of diagnosis, and reported as the median years of survival with standard deviation., 16 years|Survival at 5 and 10 Years, Survival at 5 and 10 years is expressed at the percentage of subjects known to remain alive at those timepoints., 5 and 10 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Evaluate the freedom from progression in patients with stage I or IIA Hodgkin's lymphoma with a favorable prognosis treated with "Stanford V-C" chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vinblastine, prednisone, vincristine, bleomycin, and etoposide with low-dose radiotherapy (RT).
* Minimize the early and late effects of treatment in these patients by avoiding staging laparotomy and its consequences, limiting cumulative doses of chemotherapy, and reducing the dose of RT to moderately bulky sites of disease.
* Assess early and late treatment-related toxicity, freedom from second disease progression, and overall survival at 5 and 10 years in patients treated with this regimen.

Participants receive Stanford V-C chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 30 to 60 minutes weekly on weeks 1 and 5; doxorubicin IV and vinblastine IV over 5 minutes once weekly on weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7; oral prednisone every other day on weeks 1 to 8; vincristine IV, and bleomycin IV over 5 minutes once weekly on weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8; and etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 2 of weeks 3 and 7. Prior to protocol amendment, participants were assigned to treatment on the basis of tumor size (\< 5 cm vs 5 to 10 cm), with only the participants with larger tumors receiving RT. Beginning 2 to 3 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, participants in the +RT group will receive low-dose radiotherapy 5 days a week for approximately 3 weeks. Subsequent to amendment, all participants received RT.

Participants are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.