Lenvatinib and Weekly Paclitaxel for Patients With Recurrent Endometrial or Ovarian Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenvatinib mesylate when given together with paclitaxel in treating patients with endometrial, ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that has come back or grown. Lenvatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking a protein needed for cell growth and may block the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving lenvatinib mesylate and paclitaxel together may work better in treating patients with endometrial, ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.
Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib Mesylate|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenvatinib mesylate when given with paclitaxel defined as the highest dose level with =< 1 dose limiting toxicities among 6 patients graded by CTCAE, 4 weeks
Objective antitumor activity (complete and partial response) assessed by RECIST criteria, Up to 5 years|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of combination paclitaxel and lenvatinib mesylate, Effect of lenvatinib on the pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel as well as the effect of paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of lenvatinib will be studied. Plasma samples will be collected on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Day 15., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 15 (cycle is 28 days).|Progression free survival, months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of combination lenvatinib mesylate (lenvatinib) and weekly paclitaxel in patients with recurrent endometrial, epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of combination lenvatinib and weekly paclitaxel in patients with recurrent endometrial, epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma.

II. To explore the objective antitumor activity (complete and partial response) of combination lenvatinib and weekly paclitaxel as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

III. To measure the progression free survival. IV. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of combination paclitaxel and lenvatinib.

OUTLINE: This is a dose -escalation study of lenvatinib mesylate.

Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and lenvatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 3 months for 3 years.