RAdiotherapy With FDG-PET Guided Dose-PAINTing for Primary Head and Neck
Dose-painting may increase the chance of cure at minimised radiation-induced toxicity in volumetric-arc radiotherapy (VMAT) for head and neck cancer. This trial (RADPAINT) investigates the safety of FDG-PET guided radiotherapy using VMAT dose-painting by contours for patients with head and neck cancer of poor prognosis.
Head and Neck Cancer
RADIATION: FDG-PET guided dose painting
Late toxicity - mucosal ulcer, The study will be stopped if ≥ 3 patients experience late toxicity as assessed by CTCAE v5.0; mucosal ulcers grade ≥ 3 without healing within the first year after radiotherapy. This endpoint will be assessed by clinical examination., 1 year|Acute or late toxicity, Any life-threatening toxicity (CTCAE v5.0) related to radiotherapy. This endpoint will be assessed by clinical examination., 1 year
Acute toxicity, CTCAE v5.0, < 3 months after radiotherapy|Late toxicity, CTCAE v5.0, 1 year|Loco-regional control, FDG PET/CT at 3 months. Imaging thereafter if clinical progression., 3 years|Disease free survival, FDG PET/CT at 3 months. Imaging thereafter if clinical progression., 3 years|Overall survival, Date from central registry., 3 years
In this study, radiotherapy is planned using 18F-FDG PET/CT (18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography) making one experimental "dose-painting by contours" SIB (simultaneous integrated boost) plan with a maximum point dose of 83 Gy. The participants will be given 73 Gy and 78 Gy minimum doses to two GTVs (gross tumor volumes inside the conventional GTV (68 Gy). GTV_73Gy and GTV_78Gy are determined from the SUV (standardized uptake values) from the 18F-FDG PET/CT according to the formula proposed by the Ghent group (Van der Straeten et al, R\&O -06). It is expected to keep the level of normal tissue side-effects within or slightly above the level of conventional radiotherapy (i.e. maximum dose of 68 Gy).

In addition to the routine follow-up, the participants will be examined with 18F-FDG PET/CT (3 months after treatment and toxicity scoring at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 1.5 years and 3 years after radiotherapy (in addition to the routine follow-up).