To Study the Role of Liquid Based Cytology (LBC) for Diagnosis and Characterization of Biliopancreatic Tumor s Compared With Standard Cytology and On-site Evaluation.
Liquid Based Cytology is a method of preparing samples for examination in cytopathology.Liquid-based cytology (LBC), enables cells to be suspended in a monolayer. LBC makes better cytological assessment possible with improved sensitivity and specificity, since fixation is better and nuclear details are well preserved in the technique. Conventional cytology is gold standard for biliopancreatic malignancy examination. This method is operator depended and have high inter observer variation . On site evaluation increases the sensitivity of conventional cytology but requires the presence of pathologist at the time of sampling . Our study will compare LBC with conventional cytology ,If found to be non inferior will be great help in centre were on site evaluation cannot be carried out . It will further reduce the interobserver variation
Pancreatobiliary-Type Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Liquid based cytology|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Conventional cytology
Sensitivity of LBC for diagnosis of Bilio-pancreatic tumors, compared to cytology, on-site evaluation, and cell-block preparation., 0 day
Comparison of liquid based cytology versus conventional cytology in the diagnosis of tumor with size < 2 cm or > 2 cm, 0 day|Comparison of liquid based cytology versus conventional cytology in the diagnosis of tumor with respect to site of tumor (pancreas biliary tract or gall bladder)., 0 day
Liquid Based Cytology is a method of preparing samples for examination in cytopathology.Liquid-based cytology (LBC), enables cells to be suspended in a monolayer. LBC makes better cytological assessment possible with improved sensitivity and specificity, since fixation is better and nuclear details are well preserved in the technique. Conventional cytology is gold standard for biliopancreatic malignancy examination. This method is operator depended and have high inter observer variation . On site evaluation increases the sensitivity of conventional cytology but requires the presence of pathologist at the time of sampling . Our study will compare LBC with conventional cytology ,If found to be non inferior will be great help in centre were on site evaluation cannot be carried out . It will further reduce the interobserver variation