Dose Escalation Study of Cabozantinib for Advanced HCC Patients With Preserved Liver Function
Open-label, single arm, multicenter phase II trial assessing the tolerability of a reduced starting dose of 40 mg cabozantinib for 4 weeks and subsequent dose escalation to 60 mg cabozantinib until disease progression or intolerable toxicities.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)|Second Line Treatment
DRUG: Cabozantinib Oral Tablet
Treatment discontinuation rate due to treatment-related adverse events, Any unresolved intolerable Grade 2 TRAE or unresolved Grade ≥ 3 TRAE after 60 mg or 40 mg or any intolerable Grade 2 TRAE or Grade ≥ 3 TRAE after 20 mg will count as treatment discontinuation due to AE., 27 months
Overall survival, Time from the date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause. Subjects who have not died by the date of data cutoff will be right censored at the last known date alive., 27 months|Progression free survival (PFS) according to RECIST 1.1, Time from the date of enrollment to the date of first observed disease progression (investigator assessment according to RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause. Subjects who have died without a reported disease progression will be considered to have progressed on the date of their death. Subjects who did not progress or have died will be right censored on the date of their last evaluable tumor assessment., at 10 weeks|Objective response rate (ORR) according to RECIST 1.1, Objective response rate will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1 (refer to Appendix 5). Objective response rate will be defined as the proportion of subjects experiencing a confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1., 27 months|Time on treatment, Time on treatment defined as the interval from therapy initiation until premature discontinuation., 27 months|Treatment exposure, Treatment exposure defined as summary of specific dose intensities on treatment (including dose reductions and interruptions)., 27 months|Treatment-related and -unrelated toxicities (AEs, SAEs) according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, All observed treatment-related and -unrelated toxicities (type, incidence and severity of AEs and SAEs) and side effects will be graded according to NCI CTCAE v5.0 and the degree of association of each with the study treatment assessed and summarized. The treatment related serious adverse events rate (SAE) will be determined., 27 months|Quality of Life with the EORTC QLQ-C30 patient questionnaire, Patient reported outcome assessed by the validated EORTC patient quality of life questionnaire QLQ-C30. The questionnaire evaluates the patient's health and activities in everyday life. Values reach from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Low values mean a better outcome., 27 months|Correlation of biomarkers potentially associated with clinical efficacy (OS, PFS and ORR), The TR projects might include the assessment of the following:

FFPE tissue for IHC staining; FFPE tissue for nucleic isolation to assess the expression of biomarkers, determination of genetic alterations in HCC (panel sequencing) or to determine the mutational load., 27 months
The primary objective is to assess the tolerability of a reduced starting dose of 40 mg cabozantinib once-daily for 4 weeks and subsequent dose escalation to 60 mg cabozantinib once-daily to be maintained until disease progression or intolerable toxicities. Using the same study treatment discontinuation criteria as in the pivotal CELESTIAL trial will allow for comparison of treatment discontinuation rates due to treatment related adverse events (TRAEs) defined as unresolved intolerable Grade 2 TRAEs or any unresolved Grade 3 TRAEs (see Section 6).

Patients eligible for this trial are HCC patients with preserved liver function previously treated with any first line therapy.

Secondary objectives comprise the assessment of overall survival (OS), progression free survival (PFS) at 10 weeks, objective response rate (ORR), time on treatment, treatment exposure (dose intensity/dose reductions), toxicity, and quality of life (QLQ-C30).

In addition, tissue samples (optional) will be analyzed for molecular parameters and immune cell composition to identify biomarkers potentially associated with clinical efficacy (OS, PFS and ORR).

This is an open label, single-arm, multicenter phase II trial. 40 patients suffering from advanced stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with preserved liver function in second line treatment, after any first line therapy, will be enrolled in this trial.

Patients will be recruited from up to 10 sites and patients withdrawn from the trial will not be replaced.