GMMG-HD10 / DSMM-XX / 64007957MMY2003, MajesTEC-5
Phase 2 Study to Evaluate Safety and Efficacy of Teclistamab- and Talquetamab-based Combination Regimens in Participants with Newly Diagnosed Transplant Eligible Multiple Myeloma

OBJECTIVES:

The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of teclistamab- and talquetamab-based combination regimens over the entire treatment phase for each arm, in participants with ND-TEMM

The key secondary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of teclistamab- and talquetamab-based combination regimens as induction and post-transplant maintenance treatments, and teclistamab in combination with talquetamab as replacement for HDT+ASCT following induction
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Teclistamab (Tec)|DRUG: Daratumumab|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Talquetamab
number of incidence and severity of adverse events [safety and tolerability], through study completion, up to 28 months
MRD negativity rate, MRD negativity rate measured by Flow Cytometry, after 6 cycles (each cycle is 28 days) induction therapy (app.month 6), after High Dose Therapy (app. month 10), after 18 cycles (each cycle is 28 days) of maintenance therapy (app. month 28)|Response on therapy [efficacy], Response on therapy according to IMWG:

* Overall Response Rate (ORR) (at least a PR or better)
* Complete Response (CR) or better
* Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) or better
* Duration of Response (DoR), after each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) induction ( app. at month 1,2,...,6), after High Dose therapy (app. month 10), after each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) of maintenance (app. at month 11,12, ...28), during FU every 3 months (app. up to 3-4 years)|Progression Free Survival [efficacy], From randomization to the date of disease progression to death (app. up to 3-4 years)|Serum concentration of teclistamab, talquetamab and daratumumab [pharmacokinetics], through study completion, up to 28 months|Presence of ADAs to teclistamab, talquetamab and daratumumab [immunogenicity], through study completion, up to 28 months|Stem cell yield, feasibility of successful transplantation, after High Dose Therapy (after app. 10 months)|days to engraftment, feasibility of successful transplantation, after High Dose Therapy (after app. 10 months)
OVERALL DESIGN:

130 participants will be enrolled with 10 participants in Arm A, 20 participants in Arm A1, 20 participants in Arm B, 10 participants in Arms C and 10 in C2, 20 participants in Arm D, 10 participants in each Arm E, E1 and optionally F and F1. Cohorts may be further expanded.

Arms A, A1, B, D, E, E1, F, F1 will receive Induction Therapy of 6 cycles (28-days each):

Treatment: Tec-DRd (Arm A, A1), Tec-DVRd (Arm B), Tal-DRd (Arms E, E1), Tal-DVRd (Arms F, F1) followed by HDT and a single ASCT according to local SoC treatment. Thereafter a Maintenance Therapy of maximum 18 cycles with either Tec-D (Arms A, A1, B, E, F) or Tal-D (E1, F1) is performed.

Arm D will receive Tec-DVRd induction followed by 18 cycles Tec-Tal. No HDT ASCT will be performed in Arm D.

In Arm C and C2 participants will enter the study for maintenance treatment of 18 cycles with Tec-D (Arm C) or Tal-DR (Arm C2) , after induction, HDT and ASCT according to local SoC (outside of the study).

Participants will receive maintenance treatment or following induction treatment (Arm D) for a maximum of 18 cycles or until confirmed progressive disease, death, intolerable toxicity, loss to follow-up, or consent withdrawal, whichever comes first. An optional end of treatment is possible for patients who have 12 months sustained MRD negativity.

Periodic safety evaluations will be conducted to ensure that treatment is safe and tolerable. Upon treatment discontinuation, an EOT Visit will be conducted. Thereafter, the participant will continue in the Follow-up Phase until death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, or end of the study, whichever occurs first.