The Munich Adrenaline Cancer Study
Observational studies report associations between physical activity and survival in some types of adult cancer. In addition, some exercise-induced molecules such as catecholamines (e.g., adrenaline) are known to change cancer cell signalling, proliferation and have been linked to clinical outcomes such as survival. The aim of this study is to analyse changes in adrenaline concentration with a single high-intensity interval exercise intervention on a cycle ergometer in children and adolescents during treatment for cancer and to examine the feasibility of the study concept.
Childhood Cancer
OTHER: Single high-intensity interval exercise intervention
Changes in adrenaline concentration, Blood samples are collected at rest pre-exercise (t0) and post-exercise (t1) via a central catheter and prepared for processing by trained personnel (centrifuged, snap-frozen). Both at t0 and t1, 4,9ml blood are taken for adrenaline and lactate concentration (see secondary outcomes). Serum adrenaline concentration is measured with an ELISA kit in mmol/l., Pre-exercise (at rest, t0) and post-exercise (within 3 min, t1)
Feasibility of the study concept, Feasibility of the study concept is examined via compliance, acceptance and safety.

Detailed documentation ensures completeness of feasibility aspects., Through study completion, on average 14 days|Lactate concentration, Lactate concentration is analysed to examine the level of intensity of the single high-intensity interval exercise intervention. Blood samples are collected at rest pre-exercise (t0) and post-exercise (t1), both 4,9ml, via a central catheter and prepared for processing by trained personnel. Lactate concentration is measured with Biosen C-Line in mmol/l., Pre-exercise (at rest, t0) and post-exercise (within 3 min, t1)|Heart rate, Heart rate monitoring is used to objectively measure the level of intensity during the single high-intensity interval exercise intervention for safety monitoring. Heart rate levels are documented at rest pre-exercise, after every interval and post-exercise., Pre-exercise (at rest, t0), during high-intensity interval exercise intervention and post-exercise (within 3 min, t1)|Physical activity before diagnosis, Physical activity levels are investigated using a standardised questionnaire (ActiOn) to evaluate the extent, range and intensity of physical activity shortly before the diagnosis. This questionnaire was developed for children and adolescents during and after treatment for childhood cancer., Once, pre-intervention
Exercise is generally recommended as an adjunct therapy for adult cancer patients as it counteracts the adverse effects of cancer and its treatment. According to epidemiological data, exercise is also associated with a reduced risk of tumour developement and an improval of survival in some tumours. However, the underlying mechanisms by which exercise affects tumour cells are poorly understood in adult cancer patients and mostly unknown in children. Recent studies demonstrate anti-cancer effects of exercise-induced adrenaline through natural killer cell mobilisation and Hippo signalling. In addition, several exercise-induced molecules such as catecholamines (e.g., adrenaline) are known to change cancer cell signalling, proliferation and have been linked to clinical outcomes such as survival. The aim of this pilot study is the analysation of exercise-induced changes in adrenaline concentration in childhood cancer patients and to show feasibility of the study concept. Following recruitment within the first and third cycle of chemotherapy and consent for study participation, all recruited patients perform a single high-intensity interval exercise intervention on a cycle ergometer. Intensity of the intervals is examined both subjectively via a scale for rate of perceived exertion and objectively via changes in lactate concentration pre- and post-exercise as well as heart rate monitoring. Blood samples are taken by trained personnel staff and prepared for processing (centrifuged, snap-frozen). Changes in adrenaline concentration are measured with a commercial ELISA kit. For further identification of metabolites that change with exercise, a non-biased mass spectrometry metabolomics analysis will be used.