Survivor mHealth: Wearable Devices in Cancer Survivors
The Survivor mobile health (mHealth) study is testing the use of wearable devices (Fitbits) and a smartphone application in cancer survivors. The goal of the program is to increase survivor's physical activity levels. The Fitbit will be synced to the app and participants will receive messages and notifications about their activity levels. Participants will also complete surveys through the app asking how useful it is and ways to improve it. The study team will conduct qualitative interviews at the completion of the 3 months to see how participants liked the program, and ways it can be improved and make it more specific to cancer survivors. The study team will also conduct interviews with providers and clinic staff to assess their perceptions of patient digital health programs and preferences for receiving patient-generated health data.
Cancer|Cardiovascular Diseases
BEHAVIORAL: Wearable device deployment
Feasibility of Enrollment, Feasibility will be determined by a participant meeting all three criteria: 1) Enrollment in trial, 2) completion of baseline measures, and 3) Fitbit sync to app., Baseline
3-month Daily Step Count, The mean number of steps taken per day during week 12 of the intervention., At study completion, within 3-months of enrollment|1-Month Usability Overall APP Rating, Mobile Application Rating Scale (MARS). The Rating scale assesses app quality on four dimensions. All items are rated on a 5-point scale from "1.Inadequate" to "5.Excellent". The mean was taken from the overall app usability question and reported. A higher score indicates greater user acceptability of the app. The lowest possible score is a 1, and the highest possible score is a 5., 1-month post-enrollment
The Survivor mobile health (mHealth) study is testing the use of wearable devices (Fitbits) and a smartphone application in cancer survivors. The goal of the program is to increase survivor's physical activity levels. The Fitbit will be synced to the app and participants will receive messages and notifications about their activity levels. Participants will also complete surveys through the app asking how useful it is and ways to improve it. The study team will conduct qualitative interviews at the completion of the 3 months to see how participants liked the program, and ways it can be improved and make it more specific to cancer survivors. The study team will also conduct interviews with providers and clinic staff to assess their perceptions of patient digital health programs and preferences for receiving patient-generated health data.