Abemaciclib in Treating Patients With Surgically Resectable, Chemotherapy Resistant, Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well abemaciclib works in treating patients with triple negative breast cancer that can be removed by surgery (resectable) and does not respond to treatment with chemotherapy alone, or in combination with pembrolizumab. Abemaciclib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Ductal Carcinoma In Situ|Breast Fibrocystic Change|Breast Lobular Carcinoma In Situ|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Abemaciclib|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Proportion of patients who have a CD8/FOXP3 ratio < 1.6 in their residual tumors after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) that convert to CD8/FOXP3 ratio >= 1.6, A Simon optimum two stage phase II clinical trial design was chosen to test the null hypothesis that the rate of conversion to post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio of 1.6 or more is =\< 5% against the alternative that rate of conversion to post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio of 1.6 or more is \>= 20% with the target probability of a type I error and probability of a type II error set to 0.10. The probability of terminating after the first stage is 0.736, if the null hypothesis is true. A 90% confidence interval for this rate of conversion will be constructed using the Duffy-Santner approach taking into account the sequential nature of the study, Up to 21 days
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be monitored and graded with attribution assigned using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. For each type of adverse event (AE) reported, the proportion of patients experiencing a grade 2 or worse level of that AE will be determined., Up to 60 days|Changes in vimentin expression, Vimentin expression will be evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) with using 0, 1+, 2+ or 3+ scoring scheme. A point estimate of the proportion of eligible patients whose post-NAC residual tumor Vimentin expression levels were 2+ or 3+ and then fell to 0 or 1+ after abemaciclib among the eligible patients whose began abemaciclib treatment after a post NAC residual tumor Vimentin expression level finding of 2+ or 3+ will be calculated. A 90% confidence interval for this proportion will be constructed using one-sample binomial confidence for proportions., Up to 60 days|Impact of length of treatment, Association between amount of abemaciclib received and the change in CD8/FOXP3 ratio after abemaciclib will be explored graphically. A plot of the change in change in CD8/FOXP3 ratio after abemaciclib and days of treatment will be constructed to visually assess for trends. Also, the a 90% confidence interval for the difference in binomial proportions will be constructed to assess whether the proportion of patients whose post abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio \>= 1.6 after completing 14-21 days of abemaciclib differs between those who discontinued abemaciclib the day prior to surgery and who discontinued abemaciclib 2 or more days prior to surgery. A 90% binomial confidence interval for the proportion of women who failed to complete 14-21 days of abemaciclib or underwent surgery or breast biopsy 2 or more days after last dose of abemaciclib among the eligible women who began abemaciclib treatment., Up to 60 days
Changes in mitoses, Examined graphically overall and by triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in nuclear pleomorphism, Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in tubule formation, Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in tumor Ki-67, Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in serum tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in SNAIL, Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in SLUG, Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in E-Cadherin, Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Changes in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, Examined graphically overall and by TNBC subtypes., Up to 60 days|Effect of abemaciclib on tumor ribonucleic acid (RNA)-sequencing (seq) data, Effect of abemaciclib on tumor RNA sequencing followed by standard and customized pathway and enrichment analysis (e.g., Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and CIBERSORT methods). The GSEA method determines whether an a priori set of genes are over-represented in the differential expression analysis of the pre- and post- drug response phenotypes. Similarly, CIBERSORT estimates cell composition from RNA transcriptomic data (e.g. immune cell populations)., Up to 60 days|Effect of abemaciclib on the phenotype of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), Will be assessed using mass cytometry (e.g,. CyTOF) to analyze a panel of 29 cell surface markers optimized for identification of human immune cell subsets, including the following targets: CD45, CD195 (CCR6), CD19, CD127, CD38, IgD, CD11c, CD16, CD194 (CCR4), CD123/IL-3R, TCRgd, CD185 (CXCR5), CD3, CD45RA, CD27, CD29, CD66b, CD183 (CXCR3), CD161, CD45RO, CD197 (CCR7), CD8a, CD25/IL-2R, CD20, HLA-DR, CD4, CD14, CD56/NCAM. Identification of specific immune cell subsets will be assessed using consensus clustering methods of predefined combination of markers., Up to 60 days|Effect of abemaciclib on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor sections, Will include (imaging mass cytometry multiplex quantitative RNA/protein immune-based profilings, such as Hyperion TM, Nanostring GeoMX, Codex, and may include the examination of genes directly involved in tumor cell antigen presentation (e.g. B2M, HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, TAP1, TAP2, TAPBP), interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) that regulate antigen presentation (e.g. STAT1, NLRC5) and other ISGs (e.g. IRFs, OAS2), genes involved in double strand RNA response (e.g. DDX58, DHX58), genes encoding interferons, including type 3 IFNs (e.g. IFNL1, IFNL2, IFNL3), genes indicating a cytotoxic T cell response (e.g. PRF1, GZMB), regulatory T cell-specific transcription factor genes (e.g., FOXP3, IKZF2), Up to 60 days|Change in in frequency of JAK-2 amplifications, The collection of JAK-2 will be used to assess the difference in the frequency of JAK-2 amplification among patients whose post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio \>= 1.6 and that among patients whose post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio \< 1.6. A 95% binomial confidence for the difference in two independent proportions will be constructed for the difference in the percentage of patients with a post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio \>= 1.6 among those with JAK-2 amplified TNBC and those with JAK-2 non-amplified TNBC., Baseline up to time of surgery|Change in microbiome with exposure to abemaciclib, The collection of microbiome information via stool collection will be used to generate descriptive analyses about the study population, as the total number of samples is expected to be insufficient for full statistical analysis. Will explore putative mechanistic connections underlying bacteria-drug interactions in all patients and attempt to identify the biomolecular features within the gut (stool) microbiome and its association with the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of abemaciclib., Baseline up to prior to surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To examine the effects of abemaciclib on the CD8/FOXP3 ratio in chemotherapy resistant triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients following neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen without the addition of pembrolizumab (Cohort A).

II. To examine the effects of abemaciclib on the CD8/FOXP3 ratio in chemotherapy resistant TNBC patients following a neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen with the addition of pembrolizumab (Cohort B).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES for Cohort A and Cohort B Independently:

I. Assess abemaciclib toxicities. II. To examine the effects of abemaciclib on the percentage of vimentin expressing invasive cancer cells

III. Within TNBC molecular subtypes (basal, mesenchymal, and luminal androgen receptor \[LAR\]), to evaluate the effects of abemaciclib on:

IIIa. The individual elements of tumor grade (mitoses, nuclear pleomorphism, and tubule formation).

IIIb. Tumor proliferation (as measured by tumor Ki-67 and serum tyrosine kinase inhibitor \[TKI\]).

IIIc. pDUB3 as well as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers including SNAIL/SLUG, TWIST, and E-Cadherin as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

IIId. Quantification of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (as examined by hematoxylin and eosin \[H\&E\]).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES for Cohort A and Cohort B Independently:

I. To evaluate the effect of abemaciclib on tumor ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression.

II. To evaluate the effects of abemaciclib on the immune phenotype of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), by evaluating expression of a panel of cell surface markers optimized of identification of human immune cell subpopulations.

III. To evaluate the effects of abemaciclib on tumor-infiltrating immune cells in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor sections, using multiplexed imaging technologies (e.g imaging mass cytometry, Nanostring digital spatial profiling \[DSP\] or CODEX) which will include:

IIIa. Genes directly involved in tumor cell antigen presentation (e.g. B2M, HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, TAP1, TAP2, TAPBP).

IIIb. Interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) that regulate antigen presentation (e.g. STAT1, NLRC5) and other ISGs (e.g. IRFs, OAS2).

IIIc. Genes involved in double-strand ribonucleic acid (dsRNA) response (e.g. DDX58, DHX58).

IIId. Genes encoding interferons, including type 3 IFNs (e.g. IFNL1, IFNL2, IFNL3).

IIIe. Genes indicating a cytotoxic T cell response (e.g. PRF1, GZMB). IIIf. Regulatory T-cell (Treg)-specific transcription factor genes (e.g. FOXP3, IKZF2).

IV. To assess the difference in the frequency of JAK-2 amplification among patients whose post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio \>= 1.6 and that among patients whose post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio \< 1.6.

V. To generate organoids for future research. VI. To evaluate changes in the microbiome with exposure to abemaciclib.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT A: Patients receive a neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen without pembrolizumab.

GROUP 1: Patients undergo standard of care surgical resection.

GROUP 2: Patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 or days 1-21 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care surgical resection no later than 12 weeks after the last dose of neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients in group 2 are followed up within 30-60 days.

COHORT B: Patients receive a neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen in combination with pembrolizumab.

GROUP 3: Patients undergo standard of care surgical resection.

GROUP 4: Patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 or days 1-21 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care surgical resection no later than 12 weeks after the last dose of neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients in group 4 are followed up within 30-60 days.