Argon Plasma Coagulation Scalpel on Surgical Treatment of Breast Cancer
The investigators are selecting sixty (60) with breast cancer diagnoses where the surgical treatment is indicated.Furthermore the investigators divided in two groups : 1) surgical treatment using regular electric scalpel ; 2) surgical treatment using argon plasma coagulation scalpel. Our primary goal is to measure the bleeding during the surgery using the weight of the surgical tissues used. Secondary we'll evaluate the immediate post operative outcomes, like infection, hematomas and seromas. All these variables will be evaluated by a doctor using our standard clinical record and it will be measured using reliable parameters, for exemple: if the investigators clinically detect a hematoma then we'll perform an ultrasound to take the real extension; if the investigators clinically pick an infection we'll measure the extension of the hiperemia; and if the investigators clinically pick a seroma we'll drain and quantify it. Secondary the investigators going to evaluate and measure (centimeters) the terminal damage caused on the surgical specimens (samples) using the microscope.
Breast Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: argon plasma coagulation
intra-operative outcomes, evaluate the bleeding during the surgery using weight of the surgical tissues used during the procedure., surgery duration|post operative outcomes, evaluate the occurrence of hematomas, seromas and infection using our clinical record as standard evaluation and measure it when it's possible ( like explained on the brief comments., 30 days
margin damage, evaluate the thermal damage on the surgical peace margins produced with both scalpels., during the surgery
The investigators are selecting sixty (60) with breast cancer diagnoses where the surgical treatment is indicated.Furthermore the investigators divided in two groups : 1) surgical treatment using regular electric scalpel ; 2) surgical treatment using argon plasma coagulation scalpel. Our primary goal is to measure the bleeding during the surgery using the weight of the surgical tissues used. Secondary we'll evaluate the immediate post operative outcomes, like infection, hematomas and seromas. All these variables will be evaluated by a doctor using our standard clinical record and it will be measured using reliable parameters, for exemple: if the investigators clinically detect a hematoma then we'll perform an ultrasound to take the real extension; if the investigators clinically pick an infection we'll measure the extension of the hiperemia; and if the investigators clinically pick a seroma we'll drain and quantify it. Secondary the investigators going to evaluate and measure (centimeters) the terminal damage caused on the surgical specimens (samples) using the microscope.