Randomized Study of Conditioning of Fludarabine Combined With Single or Dual Alkylating Agents in Myeloid Malignancies
Fludarabine and busulfan becomes standard conditioning regimen for adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplasia syndrome (MDS). The overall relapse rate is 15\~20%. More recently, the investigators demonstrated that conditioning regimen with dual alkylating agents consistent of fludarabine, busulfan and melphalan achieved a low incidence of relapse (\<10%). This multiple-center randomize study is aim to compare the transplantation outcome in adult patients with AML/MDS undergoing allo-HSCT with conditioning regimen of Flu-Bu4 vs. FLu-Bu-Mel.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Fludarabine, busulfan and melphalan|DRUG: Fludarabine and Busulfan
disease-free survival, event defined as relapse and death of any causes, 2 year
overall survival, event defined as death of any causes, 2 year|incidence of relapse, event defined as disease relapse (bone marrow or extra medullary), 2 year|non relapse mortality, event defined as death without disease relapse, day 100|non relapse mortality, event defined as death without disease relapse, 2 year
Fludarabine and busulfan was considered as myeloablative but reduced toxicity regimen and became as the mainstay of conditioning regimen for adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplasia syndrome (MDS). The disease relapse remained as major cause of treatment failure. In general, the cumulated incidence of relapse (CIR) is about 15\~20% dependent on the risk of patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Conditioning regimen with dual alkylating agents such as fludarabine, busulfan and thiotepa (TBF) showed decreased risk of relapse in myeloid malignancies. More recently, the investigators demonstrated that conditioning regimen with dual alkylating agents consistent of fludarabine, busulfan and melphalan could achieve a low incidence of relapse (2 year CIR \<10%). In this multiple-center randomize study, the aim is to compare the transplantation outcome in adult patients with AML/MDS undergoing allo-HSCT with conditioning regimen of Flu-Bu vs. Flu-Bu-Mel.