Glucose Metabolism in Subjects With Aldosterone-Producing Adenomas
This observational study tests the hypothesis that endogenous aldosterone impairs insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity in subjects with primary aldosteronism.
Primary Aldosteronism
OTHER: Adrenalectomy|DRUG: mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist
Change in Acute Glucose-stimulated Insulin Secretion, measured by hyperglycemic clamp, Change from Baseline vs. 3-12 months after intervention|Change in Insulin Sensitivity Index, measured by hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp, Change from Baseline vs. 3-12 months after intervention|Change in Disposition Index (product of Insulin sensitivity index and acute insulin secretion), Product of insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion, Change from Baseline vs. 3-12 months after intervention
Suppression of Hepatic glucose production, suppression of hepatic glucose production during hyperinsulinemic clamp, determined using glucose tracer, Change from Baseline vs. 3-12 months after intervention
Urinary exosomal biomarkers, Urinary biomarkers of renal sodium channels and sodium transporters, Change from Baseline vs. 3-12 months after intervention|Associative learning Memory testing, Associative learning task matching images and words, Change from Baseline vs. 3-12 months after intervention
The week of each study period, subjects will be provided a standard 160mmol/d sodium diet for 6-8 days to control for inter-individual sodium intake.

In period 1, subjects will report after 5 days of controlled sodium diet for a hyperglycemic clamp study (to measure insulin secretion). Subjects will continue the study diet, and then return for a hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp study (to measure insulin sensitivity).

After completion of period 1 assessment, subjects will undergo adrenalectomy by our endocrine surgeons or initiate medical treatment, according to routine clinical care.

In period 2, the investigators will repeat the studies in the same manner as period 1, 3 to 12 months after adrenalectomy or initiation of medical treatment.