Remote Monitoring in Cancer Care: a Platform Study
This study investigates a device that closely monitors vital signs, as well as a smartphone application (app) that allows patients to respond to different questions and tests that will monitor for new symptoms. This study may help researchers understand if wearing the device is a better tool than standard vital sign assessment tools done only while at the doctor's office or hospital, and if using the smartphone app is a better tool than standard assessment tools used while in the doctor's office or hospital.
Head and Neck Carcinoma|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Lung Carcinoma|Malignant Digestive System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Computer-Assisted Intervention|PROCEDURE: Patient Monitoring|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of remote monitoring-based CRS detection/ prediction (Arm 1), Up to 5 weeks|Assessment of neurotoxicity via digital capture of neurological assessment (Arm 1), Will assess agreement and concordance between assessment of neurotoxicity via digital capture of neurological assessment (ICE) as compared to standard in-person assessment., Up to 5 weeks|BF-Mayo Neuro test (Arm 1), Will assess agreement and concordance between BF-Mayo Neuro test and ICE-based assessment of neurotoxicity., Up to 5 weeks|Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of novel digital neurotoxicity tests (BF-Neuro) (Arm 1), Will compare to standard in-person ICE based neurotoxicity assessment., Up to 5 weeks|Range of physiologic variables associated with receipt of radiation and chemotherapy (Arm 2), Up to 1 year|Quantification of false alerts and downstream clinical actions (Arm 2), Will be used for the establishment of the feasibility for the use of wearable device for continuous, remote monitoring of physiologic parameters., Up to 1 year
Biovital index (Arm 1), Will assess correlation between Biovital index and BF-Mayo Neuro Test and adverse clinical events. Both continuous variables (physiologic parameters) and categorical variables (events) will be used to generate a mixed effects logistic regression model with repeated measures. The goal is to identify patterns of changes in the continuous data associated with either clinically relevant or significant events., Up to 5 weeks|BF-Mayo Neuro Test (Arm 1), Will assess correlation between Biovital index and BF-Mayo Neuro Test and adverse clinical events. Both continuous variables (physiologic parameters) and categorical variables (events) will be used to generate a mixed effects logistic regression model with repeated measures. The goal is to identify patterns of changes in the continuous data associated with either clinically relevant or significant events., Up to 5 weeks|Point-in-time assessment of physiological signals from wearable devices (Arm 1), Will assess agreement and concordance from wearable vs. standard of care devices. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and Bland-Altman methods will be used for agreement and concordance analysis of the remote monitor reading compared to the "gold standard" standard of care devices., Up to 5 weeks|Point-in-time assessment of physiological signals from standard of care devices (Arm 1), Will assess agreement and concordance from wearable vs. standard of care devices. ICC and Bland-Altman methods will be used for agreement and concordance analysis of the remote monitor reading compared to the "gold standard" standard of care devices., Up to 5 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Develop patient-specific algorithms to predict the trajectory of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and or neurotoxicity and time to escalation of medical intervention is needed. (Arm 1) II. Establish the validity for the use of mobile technology to assess neurologic symptoms remotely. (Arm 1) III. Compare the time to escalation of potential medical intervention between remote monitoring (RM) and standard care (SC) based on retrospective analysis of clinical trial data. (Arm 1) IV. Establish the feasibility for the use of wearable device for continuous, remote monitoring of physiologic parameters by quantifying false alerts and downstream clinical actions. (Arm 1) V. Define the range of physiologic variables associated with receipt of radiation and chemotherapy. (Arm 2) VI. Correlate PROs and physician rated CTCAE to biologic parameters. (Arm 2) VII. Establish the feasibility for the use of wearable device for continuous, remote monitoring of physiologic parameters by quantifying false alerts and downstream clinical actions. (Arm 2)

OUTLINE:

ARM 1: Patients undergoing CAR-T therapy use the Biofourmis wearable device(s) and smartphone app to answer a series of questions about health and neurologic symptoms a few times a day for 5 weeks.

ARM 2: Patients undergoing radiation therapy (RT) for head and neck, lung, or gastrointestinal cancers use the Biofourmis wearable device(s) for 60 to 90 days after completion of RT. Patients also use the smartphone app to answer a series of questions about health and neurologic symptoms before start of RT, after completion of RT, 3 months after completion of RT, and 1 year after completion of RT. In addition, patients complete weekly questionnaires regarding side effects and tolerance of the device.