Efficacy and Safety of Lenvatinib as an Adjuvant Therapy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Lenvatinib is the standard of care for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The aim of the single-arm, open-label, phase II clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib as an adjuvant therapy for patients underwent radical resection of HCC with a high risk of tumor recurrence.

Investigator hypothesize that lenvatinib may be an effective adjuvant treatment for HCC, and 12-month adjuvant treatment with lenvatinib can improve one-year recurrence-free survival rate (RFS) of HCC patients after surgical resection.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
DRUG: Lenvima 4 mg Oral Capsule
1-year RFS rate, 1-year RFS rate is defined as the percentage of patients who do not experience tumor recurrence or death from any cause after 1-year treatment., 1 year after LPI
Overall survival (OS), The duration from the date of first dosage to the date of death from any cause., 3 years|Adverse events, An adverse event (AE) refers to any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product, but which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. Number and classification of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0 were recorded., 13 months|Serious adverse events(SAE), A serious adverse event (SAE) refers to an event in clinical trials that requires inpatient hospitalization or causes prolongation of existing hospitalization, permanent disability, incapacity, threats to life or death, and birth defect, etc. Number and classification of participants with treatment-related serious adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0 were recorded., 13 months|Health-related quality of life, Health-related quality of life questionnaire measured by EORTC QLQ-HCC18., 13 months
There's no widely accepted adjuvant therapy for patients with HCC. Lenvatinib, a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor, was approved for advanced or unresectable HCC. In this study, investigators aim to evaluate the effects and safety of adjuvant apatinib therapy for the patients who underwent curative resection for HCC with high risk of disease recurrence.

Participants who underwent radical resection for HCC with high risk of tumor recurrence will be recruited in this study. During 4 to 6 weeks after surgery, each participant will receive a screening visit to exclude residual tumors. Each eligible participant will be treated with lenvatinib until tumor recurrence, intolerant adverse effect, participant' refusal, or completing 12-month treatment.