Brain Glioma Registry Combining Clinical and Imaging Information
This registry aims to collect clinical and radiologic information including detailed clinical, conventional MR and advanced MR imaging data of patients with brain gliomas. Advanced MR imaging may include diffusion-weighted imaging, perfusion-weighted imaging (dynamic susceptibility contrast, arterial spin labeling, dynamic contrast enhancement), and chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST) imaging. This registry will describe course of disease and long-term outcomes of brain gliomas.
Adult Glioma
OTHER: Brain Glioma Registry
Documentation of clinical information (demographics and Karnofsky performance score), 5 years per patient|Documentation of treatment, 5 years per patient|Documentation of radiologic information of conventional MR imaging and advanced MR imaging, 5 years per patient
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Estimated probable duration of life without disease progression, from on-study date to earlier of progression date or date of death from any cause, using the Kaplan-Meier method with censoring. The response was determined by a modification of the RANO criteria that combined the image assessment, neurologic evaluation and assessment of steroid use. Complete Response (CR) was defined as complete disappearance on MR of all enhancing tumor; Partial Response (PR) was defined as greater than or equal to 50% reduction in tumor size on MR by bi-dimensional measurement; Pseudoprogression was defined when there was a decrease or stabilization of the contrast-enhancing lesions for a minimum of six months and combined with no change in treatment/ or a increase in contrast-enhancing lesion on the first subsequent follow-up MR image, as long as it stabilized on the second follow-up and there was no need for treatment change. Responder = CR+PR+Pseudoprogression, Non-responder = Progression., On-study date to lesser of date of progression or date of death from any cause (assessed at 6 months)|One- year survival, Number of months from date of diagnosis to date of death, One year|Overall Survival, 5 years|Identification of Imaging biomarkers of clinical significance (prognostic), 5 years
Though the cure for brain glioma- from low grade to glioblastoma- is yet to be found, seeking for curable treatment option is actively developing. Multimodal advanced MR imaging (contrast-enhanced T1 weighted imaging, diffusion-weighted imaging, chemical exchange saturation transfer imaging, and perfusion imaging) on 3 Tesla have shown potential in patients with glioma to monitor treatment response with quantitative assessment. To find suitable imaging biomarker for treatment response, assessing clinical and radiologic outcome for long-term is essential. The creation of a registry for brain glioma in long-term follow up provides an overview of the clinical, relevant treatment standards, advanced MR imaging information, and survival data of patients and thus create opportunities for imaging biomarker research.