Placebo-Controlled Study of Perifosine + Single Agent Chemotherapy for Metastatic Cancer Patients
This is an exploratory phase 2, randomized placebo-controlled trial with stratification for disease and chemotherapy type. The study is subsequently closed to enrollment in all arms except patients with metastatic colorectal cancer which would be randomized to either capecitabine plus perifosine or capecitabine alone.

The effects of perifosine may be manifested by increased time to progression, tumor regression reflected in partial or complete responses, or a combination of these outcomes. The primary goal of this trial is to obtain a preliminary and objective assessment of the effects of perifosine on time to progression.
Colon Cancer
DRUG: Perifosine|DRUG: Capecitabine|OTHER: Perifosine Placebo
Effects of perifosine on time to progression, Time to progression will be measured from the first day of study drug until progression., Every 12 weeks
Toxicity, Determination of the toxicity of single agent chemotherapy in combination with perifosine. Toxicity evaluation is to be performed throughout the study., Every 12 weeks|Comparison of time to progression to historical experience, To compare the time to progression of chemotherapy in combination with placebo to historical experience., Every 12 weeks
This is an exploratory phase 2, randomized placebo-controlled trial with stratification for disease and chemotherapy type. If there is any evidence of improved time to progression in any tumor type with any of the drugs to be evaluated, the initial study or component(s) of the study will be expanded to increase the certainty that this is an effect of perifosine. If there is compelling evidence of benefit from this study, a phase 3 trial will be conducted to obtain proof of principle.

Primary Study Objectives:

To determine the time to tumor progression when receiving single agent chemotherapy (capecitabine) in combination with perifosine in comparison to patients receiving single agent chemotherapy (capecitabine) alone (i.e., with placebo).

Secondary Study Objectives:

* To determine the toxicity of single agent chemotherapy in combination with perifosine.
* To compare the time to progression of chemotherapy in combination with placebo to historical experience.
* Overall survival will also be evaluated.