Needs Assessment to Guide the Development of a Paediatric Survivorship Programme in Hong Kong
This study aims to fill the gaps in knowledge regarding the effects of cancer and its treatment on Hong Kong Chinese paediatric cancer survivors, especially during the transition period, to further capture a deeper understanding of the challenges, views and needs of Hong Kong Chinese paediatric cancer survivors and the key stakeholders around them via face-to-face conversations.
Pediatric Cancer|Survivorship
OTHER: Not Application as this is a qualitative study
An individual, a face-to-face interview will be conducted with the participants to identify the needs of paediatric cancer survivors during the transition period after cancer treatment, Semi-structured and open-ended questions will be used to collect qualitative data from the participants, through study completion, an average of 15 months|An individual, a face-to-face interview will be conducted with the participants to assess the key elements in the development of a paediatric survivorship programme, Semi-structured and open-ended questions will be used to collect qualitative data from the participants, through study completion, an average of 15 months
Objectives: Although increasing attention has been devoted to the development of paediatric cancer survivorship programmes, most of these studies have originated in Western countries. Given the cultural differences between Asian and Western communities, the applicability of the findings to paediatric cancer survivors in Asian cultural contexts is limited. To date, research remains scant regarding the needs and challenges of Hong Kong Chinese paediatric cancer survivors and the key stakeholders involved during the transition period after cancer treatment. Although Hong Kong paediatric cancer survivors do attend regular medical follow-up visits, most attention has been focused on their physiological care, while their psychosocial needs remain unmet. Accordingly, the aim of this proposed study will be to fill the gaps in knowledge regarding the effects of cancer and its treatment, especially will focus on psychosocial effects in Hong Kong Chinese paediatric cancer survivors during the transition period.

Design and subjects: A qualitative descriptive design will be used. A purposive sample of 15 paediatric cancer survivor participants and their parents or caregivers, five paediatric oncology nurses and three paediatric oncologists will be invited for a semi-structured interview conducted with the aid of an interview guide.

Data analysis: A thematic analysis approach will be used for data analysis.

Expected results: The findings of this study will provide an in-depth understanding of the needs, challenges and views of paediatric cancer survivors and other key stakeholders, which will greatly facilitate the future development of appropriate targeted paediatric cancer survivorship programmes.