Ixabepilone in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Endometrial Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ixabepilone, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. This phase II trial is studying how well ixabepilone works in treating patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IV Endometrial Carcinoma
DRUG: ixabepilone
Tumor Response, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., Every other cycle for first 6 months; then every six months thereafter until completion of study treatment; and at any other time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease|Frequency and Severity of Observed Adverse Effects Associated With Protocol Therapy (CTCAE Version 3), Every cycle until completion of study treatment up to 30 days after stopping study treatment (average length of data collection = 4 months)
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From study entry to disease progression, death or date of last contact, whichever occurs first, up to 5 years of follow-up.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years of follow-up.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate in patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial adenocarcinoma treated with ixabepilone.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive ixabepilone IV over 3 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-51 patients will be accrued for this study within 2.5 years.