Pronostic and Predictive Value of EMT in Localized Lung Cancer
The goal of the present research is to identify an "EMT signature", associated with long term disease-free survival after surgery in NSCLC. This study will potentially lead to specific treatment recommendations, thanks to an integrated molecular approach including DNA, RNA and miR profiling In vitro analyses using lung cancer cell lines will subsequently be conducted to validate markers identified in tumor screenings.
NSCLC, Stage I, II, IIIA, IIIB|Surgery|Progression|Epithelial Mesenchymal Transition
Relapse free survival, Time to relapse after surgery, 1 year|Overall survival, Time to death, 5 years
Overall survival, Time to death, 3 years
One critical issue in studying oncogenesis is the comprehensive understanding of tumor genome complexity. Molecular subtypes may be identified through large-scale molecular screenings or gene expression analyses and molecular signatures are recognized as a relevant source of disease stratification.

The investigators will focus on NSCLC patients with localized diseases included in the ONCOHEGP tissue collection project (OncoHEGP, Ministere de la Recherche n° DC 2009-950). The investigators had previously shown that in EGFR mutated cancer, reactivation of TWIST1 was reversibly linked to EMT and to survival. To go further, the investigators plane to investigate EMT in a large cohort of patients with lung cancer to identify prognostic and predictive markers of long term survival.

The investigators will integrate mutation, and copy number alterations to EMT gene expression analyses and to EMT related miR quantification. Tumor phenotype, miR signatures, mutation status will help classify patients according to survival.

Clinical data will be assessed thanks to the epithor database. Epithor is a government-recognized clinical database, accredited by the French Health Authorities (Haute Autorité de Santé) and is supported by the National Cancer Institute (Institut National du Cancer).

EMT characterization and scoring will be done using 10 markers by qPCR, mutation and CNV screenings by targeted NGS analysis, miRs signature by MIRSeq and qPCR.