Colorectal Cancer Awareness, Research, Education and Screening (CARES)
There are two parts to this study: (1) an information gathering phase leading to the development of new educational materials; and (2) a study to test the newly developed material. The information gathering phase has been completed. The purpose of this part of the research study is to test the usefulness and acceptability of new educational materials investigators have developed. Investigators will compare the new educational material to another widely available educational brochure. The goal is to see if the new educational material will change knowledge and behaviors about colorectal cancer and colorectal screening.
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: Immunochemical Fecal Occult Blood Test (I-FOBT) Kit|OTHER: Standard Intervention (SI) Educational Materials|OTHER: CARES Intervention Educational Materials|OTHER: Baseline Visit Survey|OTHER: Follow-up Questionnaire
Rate of Test Kit Completion, Investigators will measure uptake of I-FOBT/FIT as any completed kit within 180 days of delivery of the intervention. That is, the proportion of participants who return a sampled kit by the 6 month assessment (investigators expect most kits to be returned much sooner) for calculation of the primary screening endpoint. I-FOBT/FIT use will be compared (CARES vs. SI)., 6 months post final enrollment
Overall Colorectal Cancer Screening (CRCS) With Any Test, Overall CRCS with any test will be compared (CARES vs. SI). It is expected that pairing I-FOBT/FIT kits with the CARES toolkit will result in greater CRCS uptake compared to SI plus I-FOBT/FIT., 12 months post final enrollment|Time to Kit Return, Maximum number of months required for kit return per study arm., Up to 12 months post final enrollment
Federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) and other community health clinics (CHCs) provide comprehensive primary health care for underserved patients. Recently, high-sensitivity and high-specificity fecal occult blood tests (FOBT) and fecal immunochemical tests (FIT) have emerged as a preferred initial screening modality within clinics due to convenience, ease of use, and low cost compared with colonoscopy. FOBT/FIT may help to reduce colorectal cancer screening (CRC) screening disparities and overcome several previously mentioned factors that often account for suboptimal CRC screening rates.