Arterial Embolization for the Treatment of Bone Metastases: Prospective Observational Study
To date, arterial embolization constitutes one of the most popular methods in minimally invasive treatment of bone metastases, allowing good results in terms of pain reduction, local control of disease and reduction of peri-operative bleeding, with low invasiveness.
Bone Metastases
Reduction of pain (VAS score), Clinical assessment regarding pain by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score (0-100 mm), in which 0 represents no pain, and 100 represents maximum pain imaginable., 1 year|Improvement in quality of life (EORTC QLQ - BM22), Clinical assessment regarding quality of life by EORTC QLQ - BM22 questionnaire. The questionnaire consists of several scales, covering different aspects related to palliation. The maximum and minimum scores for each scale of the questionnaire can range from 0 to 100. The interpretation of scores depends on the specific scale in the questionnaire, and a higher value may indicate either greater negative impact (e.g., more symptoms or more suffering) or greater positive impact (e.g., better quality of life or less symptomatology). The overall assessment requires a detailed analysis of individual scores and related scales., 1 year|Improvement in quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL questionnaire), Clinical assessment regarding quality of life by EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL questionnaire. The questionnaire consists of several scales, covering different aspects related to palliation. The maximum and minimum scores for each scale of the questionnaire can range from 0 to 100. The interpretation of scores depends on the specific scale in the questionnaire, and a higher value may indicate either greater negative impact (e.g., more symptoms or more suffering) or greater positive impact (e.g., better quality of life or less symptomatology). The overall assessment requires a detailed analysis of individual scores and related scales., 1 year
Volume reduction in cm, Reduction of the lesion evaluated with CT scans, measuring the diameter of the lesion in cm., 1 year
To date, arterial embolization constitutes one of the most popular methods in minimally invasive treatment of bone metastases, allowing good results in terms of pain reduction, local control of disease and reduction of peri-operative bleeding, with low invasiveness.