Pemetrexed Chemotherapy in Poor-Risk Patients With Advanced Head and Neck Cancer
This study will estimate overall response rate of pemetrexed in poor risk patients with advanced, metastatic, or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed
Overall Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 3 years
Toxicities of Pemetrexed,in Poor Risk Cases With Poor Performance Status and Advanced, Metastatic, or Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer, Drug induced toxicities were assessed and graded according to the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0., Up to 3 years|Impact of Pemetrexed Chemotherapy on Quality of Life, Quality of life assessements conducted at BL (baseline assessment) and EoT (End of treatment). University of Washington QOL (UW-QOL) questionnaire tests 9 specific areas relating to head and neck cancer. A composite score is calculated by adding together the 9 domain scores to give a scale from 0 (for poor health) to 900 (good health)., Baseline, End of Treatment [up to 3 years]|Overall Survival, Overall survival was measured from the time of initial study entry to death due to any cause., Up to 2 years
Rationale: Patients with advanced stage head and neck cancer, especially those with disease in the hypopharynx, oropharynx, or oral cavity, and poor performance status defined through clinical testing, are often not eligible for clinical trials and treated with best supportive care. The possibility of developing a well-tolerated chemotherapy regimen in these patients may lead to an equivalent benefit and better palliation. The current study offers the chemotherapy drug pemetrexed to patients with advanced head and neck cancer. Researchers consider this agent to have some anti-tumor efficacy against a variety of site-specific cancers, including head and neck cancer with a response rate that is similar to other single chemotherapy drugs. In addition, previous research indicates that toxicities associated with pemetrexed have been reduced when patients are given folic acid and B12 vitamin supplementation. Along with pemetrexed, the current study provides study participants with both folic acid and B12.

Purpose: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate tumor response, including complete and partial remission, and toxicities from pemetrexed in patients with advanced head and neck cancer. Secondary objectives of this study include measurements of time to tumor progression, survival, and patient quality of life.

Treatment: Study participants will be given pemetrexed through intravenous infusions. Pemetrexed will be administered once every three weeks. This schedule of pemetrexed once every three weeks will be repeated up to six times. Study participants will also be provided with both folic acid and B12 vitamin supplementation before, during, and after study treatments with pemetrexed. Vitamin supplementation is considered critical and compliance must be followed closely. Several tests and exams will be given throughout the study to monitor patients. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth and unacceptable side effects.