Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Spinal Cord Compression
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. It is not yet known which radiation therapy regimen is more effective in treating metastatic spinal cord compression.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is comparing two radiation therapy regimens to see how well they work in treating patients with metastatic spinal cord compression.
Spinal Cord Compression|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
RADIATION: radiation therapy
Patient accrual per center over a 12-month period
Ambulatory status at 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks from day 1 of treatment compared to baseline|Bladder and bowel function at 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks from day 1 of treatment compared to baseline|Acute side effects using RTOG scales at 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks from day 1 of treatment|Quality of life as measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire at 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks from day 1 of treatment compared to baseline|Further treatment|Overall survival at 3, 6, and 12 months|Total number of days spent in hospital|Preferred place of care|Number of patients eligible but not randomized and reasons for non-randomization
OBJECTIVES:

* To examine whether a phase III randomized study comparing a single-fraction of radiotherapy with multi-fraction radiotherapy is acceptable to clinicians and to patients with metastatic spinal cord compression.
* To determine the feasibility of conducting this study in the United Kingdom.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by treatment center and known prognostic factors (ambulatory status at diagnosis, primary tumor type, and extent of disease \[spinal metastases only vs spinal and non-bony metastases\]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I (multi-fraction radiotherapy): Patients undergo 5 fractions of 20 Gy external-beam radiotherapy.
* Arm II (single-fraction radiotherapy): Patients undergo 1 fraction of 8 Gy external beam radiotherapy.

Patients undergo assessment of ambulatory status, quality of life, bladder and bowel function, and acute toxicity via self-reported questionnaires and telephone follow-ups at baseline and weeks 1, 4, 8, and 12.