A Safety and Efficacy Study in Patients With Gastric Cancer
This is an open-label, international, two-arm, parallel, randomized, Phase 3 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of S-1/cisplatin versus 5-FU/cisplatin in patients with advanced gastric cancer previously untreated with chemotherapy for advanced disease. Patients will be randomly assigned (1:1) to S-1/cisplatin (experimental arm) or 5-FU/cisplatin (control arm). Patients will be stratified by number of metastatic sites (one vs. more than one), locally advanced or metastatic disease, prior adjuvant therapy (yes or no), measurable or non-measurable disease, and center.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: S-1/Cisplatin|DRUG: 5-FU/cisplatin
Median Survival, Survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the time of death (from any cause) for each patient., The cutoff date for survival analysis was 07 March 2008 (12 months after last patient randomized).
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with objective evidence of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on tumor response assessments. Per the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid tumors (RECIST), CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions for at least 4 weeks, and PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Data cutoff was 07 March 2008 (12 months after last patient randomized).|Duration of Response (DR), Duration of response was defined as the time from date of first confirmed response (CR or PR) to date of first progressive disease (PD) or death. Per the RECIST criteria, definitions were as follows: CR was the disappearance of all target lesions for at least 4 weeks, PR was at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, and PD was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Data cutoff was 07 March 2008 (12 months after last patient was randomized).|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The time from randomization to date of first documented PD or date of death, whichever occurred first., From date of randomization until date of first documented PD, date of death, or until data cutoff on 07 March 2008 (12 months after last patient randomized), whichever came first.|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), The time from randomization to date of permanent discontinuation of S-1 or 5-FU, first documented PD, or death, whichever occurred first., From date of randomization until date of permanent discontinuation of S-1 or 5-FU, first documented PD, death, or data cutoff on 07 March 2008 (12 months after last patient randomized), whichever came first.
This is an open-label, international, two-arm, parallel, randomized, Phase 3 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of S-1/cisplatin versus 5-FU/cisplatin in patients with advanced gastric cancer previously untreated with chemotherapy for advanced disease. Patients will be randomly assigned (1:1) to S-1/cisplatin (experimental arm) or 5-FU/cisplatin (control arm). Patients will be stratified by number of metastatic sites (one vs. more than one), locally advanced or metastatic disease, prior adjuvant therapy (yes or no), measurable or non-measurable disease, and center.