MediHoney for Radiation Dermatitis
The aim of this study is to compare the effects of Medihoney and Hydrophor on radiation dermatitis reactions in a group of women undergoing radiation therapy for breast cancer. It is hoped that the outcome of this pilot study will provide evidence supporting the use of Medihoney in preventing and treating radiation dermatitis as well as sufficient preliminary data to expand this study to larger, federally funded research (R01) looking at the beneficial aspects of Medihoney across a spectrum of radiation dermatitis and mucositis in several disease settings.
Breast Cancer|Radiation Dermatitis
BIOLOGICAL: Hydrophor (Group A)|BIOLOGICAL: MediHoney (Group B)
Number of Participants Whom Received Medihoney Treatment and Were Analyzed Weekly for Skin Changes While Undergoing Radiation Therapy, The aim of this study is to compare the effects of Medihoney and Hydrophor on radiation dermatitis reactions in a group of women undergoing radiation therapy for breast cancer. It is hoped that the outcome of this pilot study will provide evidence supporting the use of Medihoney in preventing and treating radiation dermatitis as well as sufficient preliminary data to expand this study to larger, federally funded research (R01) looking at the beneficial aspects of Medihoney across a spectrum of radiation dermatitis and mucositis in several disease settings., 12 months
Background: Radiation dermatitis, also known as radiodermatitis or radiation skin reaction, is a widely reported side effect of radiation therapy in cancer. The most common radiation therapy-induced side effect is acute skin reaction, which can range from mild erythema to confluent moist desquamation. Almost all patients receiving radiation therapy have a risk of developing radiation dermatitis (Trueman, 2012).

When not managed appropriately, radiation dermatitis can affect patients' physical functioning and quality of life. It can also cause pain and discomfort and may result in infection and/or interruption of treatment (Feight et al., 2011). An important role for oncology nurses is in educating, assessing, and monitoring patients for radiation dermatitis. Many nursing interventions are in use, including those based on tradition, physician preference, and published reports. In routine practice, most interventions for radiation dermatitis are institution-specific and not reliably evidence based.

At the investigators institution, Hydrophor (Aquaphor), an ointment containing petrolatum, mineral oil, ceresin, and lanolin alcohol is the current standard of care for preventing and treating radiation dermatitis. Some women under treatment for breast cancer report disliking the smell and/or texture of Hydrophor. Rarely reported side effects have included allergic reactions, burning, stinging, and/or redness. Honey is an ancient remedy that has most recently shown promising results in treating burns, oral infections, and promoting surgical wound healing and palliation. The topical application of honey has been reported to be advantageous in radiation mucositis (Biswal et al., 2003). In a continuing effort to identify those treatment options that can make the investigators patients more comfortable and reduce complications from radiation dermatitis, the investigators are interested in conducting a small pilot study comparing the effectiveness of a honey-based treatment (Medihoney) with that of the investigators current standard of care (Hydrophor).