Palliative Spatially Fractionated (GRID) Radiotherapy Using Intensity Modulated Proton Therapy
Spatially fractionated radiotherapy (SFRT or GRID) addresses some limitations of traditional stereotactic body radiation therapy by relying on beam collimation to create high-dose "peaks" and intervening low-dose "valleys" throughout the target volume. Standard palliative radiotherapy regimens provide limited durability of response, and there are challenges with delivery to large tumors or in previously irradiated fields. In this study, Proton GRID radiotherapy will be used to deliver three-fraction palliative radiotherapy to patients with tumors needing palliative radiation. The safety and efficacy of this approach will be assessed. It is hypothesized that GRID is highly effective, immunogenic, and associated with low rates of toxicity.
Unresectable Solid Tumor|Metastatic Cancer
RADIATION: Proton GRID Radiotherapy
Rate of treatment-related acute toxicity, -Grade per CTCAE v5.0., From start of treatment through 90 days|Rate of treatment-related late toxicity, -Grade per CTCAE v5.0., From day 91 through 12 months
Change in PRO-CTCAE (General Inventory and Disease Specific Inventory Assessment), PRO-CTCAE is a standardized inventory to collected patient reported symptomatic adverse events in clinical trials., Baseline, at last day of radiotherapy (day 3), within 2 weeks after completion of radiotherapy (day 14), 30 days, 90 days, 180 days, and 360 days|Change in PROMIS Global Health, PROMIS Global Health is a 10-item patient-reported questionnaire that assesses health related quality of life compared with normal values for the general population with the response options presented as a 5-point (as well as a single 11-point) rating scale. The question that uses an 11-point scale uses a response scale of 0-10 that is recoded to 5 categories (0 = 1; 1-3 = 2; 4-6 = 3; 7-9 = 4; 10 = 5). The results of the questions are used to calculate two summary scores: a Global Physical Health Score and a Global Mental Health score. These scores are then standardized to the general population, using the "T-Score". The average "T-Score" for the United States population is 50 points, with a standard deviation of 10 points. Higher scores are indicative of a healthier patient., Baseline, at last day of radiotherapy (day 3), within 2 weeks after completion of radiotherapy (day 14), 30 days, 90 days, 180 days, and 360 days|Rate of target lesion local control, 3 months
Spatially fractionated radiotherapy (SFRT or GRID) addresses some limitations of traditional stereotactic body radiation therapy by relying on beam collimation to create high-dose "peaks" and intervening low-dose "valleys" throughout the target volume. Standard palliative radiotherapy regimens provide limited durability of response, and there are challenges with delivery to large tumors or in previously irradiated fields. In this study, Proton GRID radiotherapy will be used to deliver three-fraction palliative radiotherapy to patients with tumors needing palliative radiation. The safety and efficacy of this approach will be assessed. It is hypothesized that GRID is highly effective, immunogenic, and associated with low rates of toxicity.