A Study of HAIC Combined With Lenvatinib and Envolizumab in Potentially Resectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This is a single term, open label, single Center, Phase II Trial. The study is to explore the efficacy and safety of FOLFOX-HAIC combined with Lenvatinib and Envolizumab in the treatment of patients with potentially resectable HCC.
Potentially Resectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: FOLFOX-HAIC+Lenvatinib+Envolizumab
AEs, Defined as the proportion of patients with AE, treatment-related AE (TRAE), immune-related AE (irAE), serious adverse event (SAE), assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0, Up to 60 days after last treatment or 30 days after surgery|Overall response rate (ORR), Defined as proportion of patients who have a best response of CR or PR, At the end of Cycle 4 (each cycle is 21 days)
Pathological complete response (pCR), According to post-operative pathology, the proportion of tumor necrosis, viable. tumor cells, and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes indicated by surgical resected specimens., At the end of the surgery|Major Pathological Response(MPR), Survival tumor ≤10% after surgery, At the end of the surgery|R0 resection rate, The tumor was completely removed during surgery, and the resection margin was negative when observed microscopically without residual components of the tumor, At the end of the surgery|1-year recurrence-free survival(RFS) rate, Subjects underwent radical resection from the start until the date of the first documented tumor into recurrence or death from any cause in, whichever occurred first within 1 year after surgery, Up to one years|Recurrence-free survival(RFS), Subjects underwent radical resection from the start until the date of the first documented tumor into recurrence or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, Up to two years|Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time from enrollment to death from any cause, Up to two years
At present, surgery is the preferred modality for the treatment of HCC patients with radical cure and long-term survival. However, 70% to 80% of HCC is advanced, and only 15% to 30% of patients are able to undergo surgical resection. For unresectable HCC, transformation therapy is currently used, and the response rate can be effectively increased through the "TKI plus IO" or "TKI plus IO and local therapy" regimen. For locally advanced HCC (stage III-IV), HAIC or HAIC + systemic therapy is recommended. And the first-line treatment of advanced HCC, TKI (Lenvatinib, Donafenib) or IO combined TKI are recommended. For patients with potentially resectable HCC, there are currently few explorations, and more effective treatment options and evidence-based medical evidence are needed. Therefore, this study investigated the efficacy and safety of FOLFOX-HAIC combined with Lenvatinib and Envolizumab in the treatment of patients with potentially resectable HCC, and explored the relationship between biomarkers, prognostic factors and efficacy.