PBF-1129 in Patients With NSCLC
Phase I clinical trial in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0-1 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC to evaluate safety and tolerability of the compound PBF-1129, an Adenosine A2b receptor antagonist. The phase I dose escalation will be conducted 3+3 method. Pharmacokinetic (PK) data will be also obtained.
Locally Advanced or Metastatic NSCLC
DRUG: PBF-1129
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of PBF-1129, The MTD evaluation will be based on the Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT) of the treated Population, which includes all subjects who receive any dose of PBF-1129, and will include Adverse events (AEs), Serious Adverse events (SAEs), laboratory evaluations and electrocardiogram (ECG) results, 28 days
Time to PBF-1129 peak concentration in plasma "Tmax", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration.It will consist in the time (in minutes) to reach the maximum "PBF-1129" concentration in plasma samples of patients after oral administration of PBF-1129., days 1 and 29|Time to PBF-1129 peak concentration in plasma at steady state "Tmax,ss", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration.

It will consist in the time (in minutes) to reach the maximum "PBF-1129" concentration in plasma samples of patients during a dosing interval at steady state., days 1 and 29|PBF-1129 peak concentration in plasma "Cmax", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration. It will consist in the maximum plasma concentration (ng/mL) of PBF-1129 observed after administration., days 1 and 29|PBF-1129 peak concentration in plasma at steady state"Cmax,ss", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration.It will consist in the maximum plasma concentration (ng/mL) of PBF-1129 observed during a dosing interval at steady state., days 1 and 29|The area under PBF-1129 plasma concentration-time curve to infinite time "AUC(0-inf)", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration.

It will consist in the area under the concentration-time curve from zero up to ∞ with extrapolation of the terminal phase. "AUC(0-inf)" will be given in Amount·time/ volume units, days 1 and 29|The area under PBF-1129 plasma concentration-time curve up to time 't' "AUC(0-t)", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration.It will consist in the area under the concentration-time curve from zero up to a definite time t. "AUC(0-t)" will be given in Amount·time/ volume units., days 1 and 29|The area under PBF-1129 plasma concentration-time curve over the dosing interval "AUC(0-τ)", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration. It will consist in the area under the concentration-time curve over the dosing interval. "AUC(0-τ)" will be given in Amount·time/ volume units., days 1 and 29|PBF-1129 half-life in plasma " t½", The parameter will be calculated from plasma samples collected at days 1 and 29 after drug administration. It will consist in the terminal half-life of PBF-1129 in plasma. "t½" will be given in hours (h), days 1 and 29|Efficacy as measured by Objective response rate (ORR), ORR: Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1).ORR is defined as confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on modified RECIST v1.1., 2 years|Efficacy as measured by Disease control rate (DCR), The disease control rate (DCR) will be estimated considering the following variables:

Complete response (CR), Partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD) as described by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1). These variables will be assessed based on Imaging-based evaluation methods as chest x-ray, conventional computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that will be performed every 2 cycles of 28 days administration., 2 years|Efficacy as measured by duration of response (DoR), Duration of response (DoR) is defined as the duration from the first documentation of OR to the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, 2 years|Efficacy as measured by progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) will be measured from the start of treatment until the documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. For subjects who are alive and progression-free at the time of data cut-off for analysis, PFS will be censored at the last tumor assessment date., 2 years|Efficacy as measured by overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be determined as the time from the start of treatment until death due to any cause., 2 years
Phase I clinical trial in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0-1 patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC to evaluate safety and tolerability of the compound PBF-1129, an Adenosine A2b receptor antagonist. The phase I dose escalation will be conducted 3+3 method. Pharmacokinetic (PK) data will be also obtained.