Evaluate Efficacy of the Association Nimotuzumab(HR3) /Cisplatin-Vinorelbine on Patients With Cervical Carcinom
The objective of the present study is to estimate the overall survival of patients with cervical cancer after the administration of monoclonal antibody (mAb) Nimotuzumab (hR3) in combination with chemotherapy of first intention. Patients will be randomized in two parallel treatment groups. The first group will receive a dose of 200 mg of monoclonal antibody anti-hR3 (weekly during 18 weeks), combined with a chemotherapy (6 cycles, every 21 days of Cisplatin 70mg/m2, Vinorelbine 60 mg/m2 (Per Os) at D1 and D8 and then 80mg / m2. The second group will receive a placebo in combination with the same chemotherapy regimen as the first group.

At the end of the first intention chemotherapy treatment, a dose of maintenance of Nimotuzumab will be administered at the dose of 200mg every 14 days until progression. A second chemotherapy in the second intention is proposed, this one is based on Carboplatin ( CBP) in an AUC (area under curve) of 6, and Paclitaxel (Txl) in 175 mg / m2 / BSA (body surface area ) in drip of 3 hours, every 3 weeks, concomitant with the administration of hR3, every 14 days, until a limit of toxicity or an ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) status superior to 3, appears.
Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Nimotuzumab ( h-R3)|OTHER: Placebo
Overall survival in patients who received hR3 mAb treatment combined with Chemotherapy, Calculated from patient randomisation to death (36 months)
Antitumor Response, up to 24months (every 3 months)|Duration of response, from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Time to progression, Time from randomization until objective tumor progression assessed up to 60 months|Progression-free survival, Time from randomization until disease progression or death, assessed up to 60 months
The objective of the present study is to assess the overall survival of patients after administration of Nimotuzumab hR3 monoclonal antibodies (combined with a chemotherapy) in the treatment of patients with cervix epithelial tumors as first-line treatment.

The patients included will be divided into two treatment groups. The first group receive a 200 mg dose of hR3 monoclonal antibody (weekly for 18 weeks), and chemotherapy (6 cycles, every 21 days: Cisplatin (CDDP) 70 mg / m2 on day 1, Vinorelbine 60 mg / m2 on day 1 and day 8) and then 80mg / m2. The second group receive a placebo in addition to the listed chemotherapy.

After the first line , a 200mg dose of hR3 monoclonal antibodies will be given every 14 days until progress.

A second -line chemotherapy is proposed, this is based on Carboplatin (CBP) at AUC of 6, and Paclitaxel (Txl) 175 mg / m2 / SC as 3 hour infusion, every 3 weeks, concomitant with the administration of hR3, every 14 days, until a toxicity limit or an ECOG status greater than 3 appears.

The survival overall will be considered as the main variable of the response and survival without progression from the antitumor response, the toxicity assessment and the quality of life will be the secondary variables. In addition, the effects may arise during treatment will be identified, and tumor biopsy markers such as, EGF-R and HPV will be determined and those of p53, Ki67 and Bcl-2 by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

It is expected to achieve a difference in survival between the treatment groups of 6.5 vs 10.5 months (0.278 vs 0.62) in favor of the group with mAb hR3.