Treatment of Axial Spondyloarthritis by Recombinant Human Tumor Necrosis Factor-α Receptor Ⅱ IgG Fc Fusion Protein
This is a randomized, double-blind, multicentral clinical trial to investigate the efficacy and safety of Recombinant Human Tumor Necrosis Factor-α Receptor Ⅱ IgG Fc fusion protein injection (Yisaipu®) in the treatment of active axial spondyloarthritis(SpA). The primary purpose is to assess the different situations in maintaining treatment programme in SpA patients with controlled inflammation by Yisaipu®. And the second purpose is to assess the eficacy and safety of Yisaipu® in axial SpAs. The trial will include 150 patients with stable NSAIDs therapy, and at the first stage they will receive 24-week full-dose of Yisaipu®. Then at the second stage the patients who achieve low disease activity (LDA, ASDAS\<2.1) at 24th week will be randomizedly divided into three group: full-dose of Yisaipu® group, half-dose of Yisaipu® group and placebo group. And the blind stage will last for 48 weeks. Patients who complete the 72-week therapy or achieve disease-flare criteria during the blind stage would finish the study.
Spondyloarthritis
DRUG: 50mg Yisaipu|DRUG: 25mg etanercept|DRUG: Placebo
proportion of patients achieving ASDAS<2.1, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 week
proportion of patients achieving ASDAS<1.3, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|proportion of ASDAS major improvement, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|proportion of ASDAS clinically important improvement, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|ASAS 20, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|ASAS 40, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|ASAS5/6, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|ASAS PR, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|BASDAI50, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|BASDAI, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|BASFI, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|BASMI, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|spinal pain score, The unabbreviated scale title is VAS from 0 to 100mm. 100 mm mean the most severe pain, 72 weeks|patient global assessment(PGA) score, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|physician global assessment(PhGA) score, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|ESR, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks|CRP, in the groups given 50 mg Yisaipu, 25mg Yisaipu compared to placebo in the double-blind period, 72 weeks
This randomised controlled trial enrolled adult patients aged 18 years or older diagnosed with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis at 3 centres in China. Patients had to fulfil ASAS axial spondyloarthritis criteria but could not fulfil the modified New York radiologic criterion for ankylosing spondylitis,and had to have objective evidence of active inflammation or chronic structral change，such as bone erosion or fat metaplasia in the sacroiliac joints on MRI at screening. Active disease activity was defined as a disease activity score in ASDAS-CRP ≥2.1,or Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index \[BASDAI\] ≥4 on a numerical rating scale of 0-10, and an inadequate response to more than one non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for 4 weeks at least, intolerance to NSAIDs, or contraindication for NSAIDs. No change in NSAIDs dose was required from 2 weeks before screening to the end of the study. Dose stability or discontinuation was required for 4 weeks before baseline for concomitant DMARDs or corticosteroids (prednisone or equivalent at a dose of less than 10 mg/day). Chinese herbal medicine, physical therapy, or live (attenuated) vaccine, or intravenous immunoglobulin IgG, was required for discontinuation and wash period for at least 4 weeks. Patients were excluded if they had previously taken or were taking biologic treatment, any biologic Dmards such as IL-6 or CD-20 inhibitors. Patients with latent tuberculosis infection were included only when local guidelines were followed for prophylactic treatment and if treatment was initiated before Yisaipu.

All patients provided written informed consent, and the study protocol was approved by an institutional review board or independent ethics committee at each study site. The study was conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and the ethical principles of Good Clinical Practice as defined by the International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) and the Declaration of Helsinki.

A randomized envelope was used to enrol all patients at the baseline visit and to randomly assign qualifying patients in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive either blinded Yisaipu 50 mg subcutaneously every week or 25 mg subcutaneously every week or matching placebo at week 24. All study personnel, including the sponsor (with the exception of the Sanshengguojian drug supply management team), investigator, and study site personnel, and the patient remained blinded to treatment throughout the double-blinded period from week 24 through week 72 of the study. Investigational products were provided to maintain blinding.

In the initial open-label period, enrolled patients were given subcutaneous injections of 50 mg Yisaipu every week for 36 weeks. Participants were given the dose of NSAIDs they had been receiving at screening; a dose decrease or discontinuation was allowed when the patients were intolerance to NSAIDs, or contraindication for NSAIDs. Patients who achieved clinical remission, defined as achieving ASDAS inactive or moderate disease (ASDAS score \<2.1) at weeks 24, were randomly assigned to receive either blinded 50mg Yisaipu (continuation arm), 25mg Yisaipu(reduction arm) or matching placebo (withdrawal arm) for 48 weeks during the double-blind period, for a total of 72 weeks of treatment.

During the double-blind period, patients who experienced a flare (defined as an increase in BASDAI ≥2 points compare to the BASDAI score when randomization) were allocate to termination of this trial.