Trial of Proton Versus Carbon Ion Radiation Therapy in Patients With Chordoma of the Skull Base
This study is a prospective randomised clinical phase III trial. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate, if the innovative therapy (carbon ion irradiation) in chordomas is superior to the standard proton treatment with respect to the local-progression free survival (LPFS).
Chordoma|Tumor|Treatment
RADIATION: Carbon ion|RADIATION: Protons
local-progression free survival (LPFS), The primary objective of this study is to evaluate, if the innovative therapy (carbon ion irradiation) in chordomas is superior to the standard proton treatment with respect to the LPFS defined as time from the randomisation to observed local reccurrence or death from any cause in the absence of documented local disease progression. Lo-cal recurrence defined as MRT or CT - morphological tumor progress in the former irradiated region. A 10% increase in the LPFS is considered clinically relevant as-suming that the LPFS rate for the proton therapy is 70%., 8-years
Survival, Assessment of overall survival, progression free and metastasis free survival., 8-years|Local control and patterns of recurrence, Local recurrences will be confirmed radiologically and histologically whenever possible. At least two medical doctors (radiation oncologist and/or radiologist) will be required to judge of the recurrence., 8 years|Toxicity, Acute and late toxicity will be analysed due to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events: CTCAE V4.0 for acute reaction and RTOG/EORTC for late effects., 8 years
The study is a prospective randomised clinical phase III trial. The trial will be carried out at Heidelberger Ionenstrahl-Therapie (HIT) centre as monocentric trial.

Proton therapy is the gold standard in the treatment of skull base chordomas. However, high-LET beams such as carbon ions theoretically offer biologic advantages by enhanced biologic effectiveness in slow-growing tumors. Up until now it was impossible to compare two different particle therapies, i.e. proton and carbon ion therapy directly with each other. The aim of this study is to find out, whether the biological advantages of carbon ion therapy mentioned above can also be clinically confirmed.

Patients with skull base chordoma will be randomised to either proton or carbon ion radiation therapy. As a standard, patients will undergo non-invasive, rigid immobilization and target volume delineation will be carried out based on CT and MRI data. The biologically isoeffective target dose to the PTV in carbon ion treatment (accelerated dose) will be 63 Gy E ± 5% and 72 Gy E ± 5% (standard dose) in proton therapy respectively. Local-progression free survival (LPFS) will be analysed as primary end point. Toxicity and survival are the secondary end points. Also matters of interest are patterns of recurrence, prognostic factors and plan quality.