Financial Navigation Study Among Young Adult Blood Cancer Survivors
Young adult cancer survivors (18-39y) are at increased risk of financial distress. This study seeks to better understand the financial challenges experienced by these individuals via quantitative serial assessments, study-based financial navigator encounters and an end of study qualitative interview.
Survivorship|Cancer|Financial Stress
BEHAVIORAL: Providing financial navigation via active navigation, ad hoc navigation or no study-based navigation.
Personal Financial Wellness Scale (PFW), To evaluate the change in financial distress associated with randomization group assignment from baseline to 6-month follow up as measured by the 8-item Personal Financial Wellness Scale (PFW). The PFW scores range from 1-10 where lower scores indicate greater financial distress., 6 months
Health-Related Quality of Life (HrQoL) Measures, As part of Aim 1, we will explore whether changes in financial distress (baseline to 6-months) are moderated by emotional distress, self-efficacy, and cognitive functioning, as measured by Patient-Reported Measurement Information System (PROMIS) 4-item short forms for emotions distress (depression and anxiety) and self-efficacy, as well as the 4-item cognitive functioning scale from the Quality of Life in Neurological Disorders (Neuro-Qol) battery. For each of these short forms, high scores connote better functioning., 6 months
This fully remote, multi-site study will evaluate the role of financial navigators in relieving financial distress in young adults (18-39y) who have completed treatment for blood cancer at least three years ago. Serial Assessments at study entry, 3-months, and 6-months measure financial distress measured using the study's primary outcome measure the Personal Financial Wellness Scale™ (PFW) (see below), hypothesized effect modifiers (emotional distress, self-efficacy, cognitive functioning), as well as care seeking, household finances and insurance characteristics. Randomization will occur following completion of baseline measures (see below for description of study arms). In addition to a formal evaluation of the intervention at 3- and 6-months, an optional interview will occur following the 6-month assessment/navigation intervention period to gain further insight from participants about the acceptability of the intervention. For ethical considerations related to the topic of study, all participants will be provided with the Leukemia \& Lymphoma Society's information specialist hotline.