Tucatinib, Trastuzumab, and Capecitabine for the Treatment of HER2+ LMD
A phase 2 non-randomized study to assess the safety and efficacy of the combination of tucatinib and trastuzumab with capecitabine for the treatment of leptomeningeal metastases in HER2-neu positive breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Leptomeningeal Disease
DRUG: Tucatinib|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Capecitabine
Length of Subject Survival After Starting Study Treatment, Number of participants alive. A Gehan-like trial design with an interim futility analysis will be used., Through study completions, an average of 2 years
Number of Adverse Events, Adverse event reporting will be graded following the National Cancer Institute of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0. Subjects who receive at least one dose of the drug combination will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of the first dose., Baseline up to 3 years or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity or death.|Progression Free Survival, From the start of treatment to 12 weeks, Baseline to 12 weeks|Objective Response in the Central Nervous System (CNS), Data from subjects who have received at least one cycle of therapy and disease re-evaluation for CNS tumors by imaging, cytopathology, and clinical evaluation will be accumulated until disease progression., Baseline up to 3 years|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) in CNS, The overall survival from the combination therapy is compared to the historical control. Clinical benefit is observed with a ratio of successes and corresponding confidence interval., Baseline to 3 years|Objective Response in Extra-CNS Disease, Data from subjects who have received at least one cycle of therapy and disease re-evaluation for extra-CNS tumors by imaging, cytopathology, and clinical evaluation will be accumulated until disease progression. Extra-CNS response will be classified per the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., Baseline up to 3 years|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) in Extra-CNS Disease, The overall survival from the combination therapy is compared to the historical control. Clinical benefit is observed with a ratio of successes and corresponding confidence interval., Baseline to 3 years|Symptom Burden, The M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor (MDASI -BT) module questionnaire will collect data at each study time point and evaluate changes of symptom burden., Beginning at baseline and every 21 days until the end of study up to three years|Quality of Life Assessment, The Linear Analog Scale Assessment Quality of Life will be used to evaluate changes in the quality of life at restaging visits., Beginning at baseline and every 42 days until the end of study up to three years
The purpose of this study is to evaluate a new treatment for patients with HER2+ metastatic breast cancer (MBC) with leptomeningeal disease (LMD). This is a rare and fast-growing form of cancer. Leptomeningeal disease refers to the seeding of tumor cells to the leptomeninges and dissemination in the cerebrospinal fluid.

Currently, there are is no standard of care treatment for LMD. However, we think the combination therapy will be safe and well-tolerated and may also improve survival. Blood and spinal fluid samples will be collected to evaluate the effects on the body and the cancer, which will help provide greater understanding to therapy response in patients.

The study has a two-stage design with the first stage including 15 subjects from up to ten institutions nationwide. If it advances to the second stage based on the number of successes, another 15 subjects will be enrolled.