Honey Products for Cancer Patients With Oral Mucositis: a Randomized Controlled Trial
The investigators plan to conduct a 3-year pioneering care research project for mucositis in cancer patients. These include: (1) an analysis of the incidence and severity of mucositis, severity, treatment methods, and treatment costs; (2) an RCT comparing the effectiveness of honey, Taiwan green propolis, and usual care in mucositis of cancer patients; (3) monitoring of related symptom changes using a smart bracelet device; (4) a measurement of IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, and TNF in saliva and (4) modeling of the trend of mucositis for alertness and search of essential parameters of the complications.
Oral Mucositis
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: honey|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: propolis
oral mucositis, measurement tool: National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events and The World Health Organization grading system, twelve weeks
Numerical Rating Scale, measurement tool:Numerical Rating Scale,for pain status, range from 0 to 10, 10 was the most pain, 0 was no pain., twelve weeks|Xerostomia, measurement tool: Xerostomia Questionnaire, twelve weeks|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Scale- Head and Neck, measurement tool : Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Scale- Head and Neck, for patient's Quality of life (QoL), range from 0 to 100, score 100 means better outcome., twelve weeks|fatigue--Brief-Fatigue Inventory, measurement tool: Brief-Fatigue Inventory, range 0 to 10, 10 was the worst fatigue., Brief-Fatigue Inventory for two weeks.|fatigue--Visual Analogue Scale, measurement tool: Visual Analogue Scale for fatigue, range 0 to 10, 10 was the worst fatigue., Visual Analogue Scale for fatigue for twelve weeks.|IL-1, IL-6, IL-10,TNF, The patient collected this saliva before the start of radiotherapy, on the 7th, 14th, 21st day and at the end of radiation therapy, a total of 5 tubes of saliva at a time, radiotherapy on Day 0, on the 7th, 14th, 21st day and on an average of 28 st day.
Mucositis is common among cancer patients receiving radiotherapy and chemotherapy. A total of 80-100% of the patients are suffering from the mucositis pain; their regular dieting is disturbed, nutritional status deteriorated, and even treatment discontinued. Some self-paid medications like glutamine have been used to prevent mucositis before and during radiotherapy/chemotherapy. However, the cost of glutamine is relatively high (NT15,000 month/person) and its treatment efficacy and side effects are still to be determined. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and experiments have shown that honey and propolis may be used for the management of mucositis. Taiwan is a country of rich agriculture with unique bee products among which the longan honey demonstrates the most significant antibacterial effects; the green propolis has also been proved to comprise antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant effects. However, none of these propolis products have been specifically trialed for the management of mucositis of cancer patients.

Bee products have been concerned as potential sources of natural antioxidants such as flavonoids, phenolic acids, and terpenoids. Their potential treatment effects have caught the attention of the medical community. Accumulating evidence is supporting the use of bee products in mucositis caused by chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or both. However, systematic review and meta-analysis have suggested a low quality of the included RCTs, and this affects the applicability of the evidence in the real clinical scenario.

The investigators plan to conduct a 3-year pioneering care research project for mucositis in cancer patients. These include: (1) an analysis of the incidence and severity of mucositis, severity, treatment methods, and treatment costs; (2) an RCT comparing the effectiveness of honey, Taiwan green propolis, and usual care in mucositis of cancer patients; (3) monitoring of related symptom changes using a smart bracelet device; (4) a measurement of IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, and TNF in saliva and (4) modeling of the trend of mucositis for alertness and search of essential parameters of the complications. In the first year, our project will focus on the analysis of the incidence and severity of mucositis, treatment methods, and treatment costs. In the second year, the planned RCT will be carried out and changes in heart rate, stress, and fatigue of the patients are to be collected using the smart bracelet. In the third year, the investigators will conduct a deep machine learning of the clinical and serial test data to predict the changes in symptoms. The modeling is anticipated to provide important parameter combinations that assist the alerting of possible severe complications. The overall findings of this project shall the strategical references for applying bee products in the prevention and treatment of mucositis in cancer patients.