Survivorship Care Plans and Telehealth Education for the Improvement of Access to Cancer Survivorship, the IMPACT Study
This trial studies how well self-generated survivorship care plans and telehealth education works in improving knowledge and self-efficacy in cancer survivors living in rural areas. Patients living in rural areas often face barriers to survivorship care and report unmet needs. A survivorship care plan created by the patient (self-generated) may help them to better transition from oncology to primary care and improve communication between care teams in order to meet these needs and create better health outcomes. Telehealth is a way of delivering health care services from a distance, including patient education. Combining a self-generated survivorship care plan with telehealth education may help to improve knowledge and self-efficacy in cancer survivors.
Breast Carcinoma|Colorectal Carcinoma|Lung Carcinoma|Lymphoma|Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Survivorship Care Plan|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Supportive Care
Initial participation rate of cancer survivors identified from community-based or partner practices, and Cancer Surveillance System of Western Washington, Up to 8 weeks|Accuracy of survivors' self-generated survivorship care plans (SCPs) in relation to those based on medical record abstraction, Will measure the accuracy of participants' SCPs by comparing their self-reported medical history collected via questionnaire, with data abstracted from medical records. Accuracy will be reported by percentage of missing data in the self-generated SCP compared to medical records, and percentage of incorrect data in the self-generated SCP compared to medical records., Up to 8 weeks|Proportion of survivors who receive the phone-based education session within the study time period, Up to 8 weeks|Proportion of survivors who complete the follow-up questionnaire within the study time period, Up to 8 weeks|Response rate among primary care providers (PCPs) to the PCP survey, Up to 8 weeks
Participant perceived self-efficacy: questionnaire using the PROMIS Global 10 and health related self-efficacy scales, The effects of the intervention versus (vs.) control on participant perceived self-efficacy will be measured at baseline and at the end of the study via a questionnaire using the PROMIS Global 10 and health related self-efficacy scales., Up to 8 weeks|Survivorship knowledge, The effects of the intervention vs. control on survivorship knowledge will be measured at baseline and at the end of the study via a questionnaire., Up to 8 weeks|PCP self-efficacy towards survivorship care, The effects of the intervention vs. control on PCP self-efficacy towards survivorship care will be measured at baseline and at the end of the study via a questionnaire using the PROMIS Global 10 and health related self-efficacy scales., Up to 8 weeks|Local oncology clinics' attitudes towards survivorship care implementation, Assess oncology practitioners' and clinic administrators' views on utility and feasibility of implementing SCPs in target clinics, using the ORCA (Organizational Readiness to Change Assessment) instrument and qualitative interviewing, Up to 8 weeks
OUTLINE:

Patients complete a questionnaire at baseline (paper, online, or telephone-based) and have medical records reviewed and are assigned to 1 of 3 cohorts.

COHORTS A AND B: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive a self-generated SCP (i.e., generated from baseline questionnaire responses).

ARM II: Patients receive a self-generated SCP as in Arm I. Patients also receive a 30-minute telephone-based educational counseling session on survivorship care administered by trained lay health counselors.

COHORT C: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM III: Patients receive generic information on survivorship care on study.

ARM IV: Patients receive generic information on survivorship care and a self-generated SCP as in Arm I on study.

ARM V: Patients receive generic information on survivorship care as well as a self-generated SCP as in Arm I and a telephone-based educational counseling session as in Arm II on study.

PRIMARY CARE PROVIDERS: Primary care providers complete a questionnaire about perceptions of the SCP and self-efficacy in providing survivorship care.

ONCOLOGY CLINICS: Participants complete Organizational Readiness to Change Assessment (ORCA) questionnaire and participate in a qualitative interview about perceptions of implementation of survivorship care.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at approximately 8 weeks.