18 Fluoro-deoxy-glucose Positrons Emission Tomography Combined With Computed Tomography (18-FDG TEP-CT ) in the Diagnosis of the Degeneration of Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Tumor of the Pancreas
The aim of the study is to evaluate whether the TEP-CT can be sensitive and specific in identifying degenerated intraductal papillary mucinous tumor of the pancreas.The results will be compared to those obtained by the pathological analysis of the removed piece of pancreas.
Tumor
OTHER: 18 fluoro-deoxy-glucose positrons emission tomography combined with computed tomography
Specificity of TEP-CT to point out malignant lesions in pancreas, the gold standard being the anatomopathological analysis of the piece of pancreas removed during the surgery., TEP-CT of the different 5 parts of the pancreas (head, uncus, isthmi, body and tail) will be interpreted by nuclearity Doctors. TEP-CT will be considered positive if there is a pathological fixation of the 18-FDG , defined as any focal or diffuse fixation of 18-FDG above the background level of fixation in the pancreas.

The anatomopathological analysis of the piece of pancreas removed during the ablative surgery will be considered as positive if the degree of dysplasia seen for each part of the pancreas is "infiltrating carcinoma".

Results will then be compared in term of specificity., 3 months
Sensitivity of TEP-CT to point out malignant lesions in pancreas, the gold standard being the anatomopathological analysis of the piece of pancreas removed during the surgery., TEP-CT of the different 5 parts of the pancreas (head, uncus, isthmi, body and tail) will be interpreted by nuclearity Doctors. TEP-CT will be considered positive if there is a pathological fixation of the 18-FDG , defined as any focal or diffuse fixation of 18-FDG above the background level of fixation in the pancreas.

The anatomopathological analysis of the piece of pancreas removed during the ablative surgery will be considered as positive if the degree of dysplasia seen for each part of the pancreas is "infiltrating carcinoma".

Results will then be compared in term of sensitivity., 3 months|Comparison of specificity of the TEP-CT to detect malignant lesions in pancreas versus specificity of conventional devices, the gold standard being the anatomopathological analysis results, Result of conventional devices (such as computed tomography, magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography or endoscopic ultrasound) will be considered positive if diagnosis is "malignant lesion" or "probable malignant lesion". The 5 parts of the pancreas will be examined., 3 months|Number of patients for which metastasis will be detected through TEP-CT and confirmed by biopsy and/or conventional specific device, 3 months
Before surgery is undertaken, a 18 fluoro-deoxy-glucose positrons emission tomography combined with computed tomography (18-FDG TEP-CT ) will be performed. The primary outcome of this study is to compare results of the TEP-CT with those obtained by the pathological analysis of the removed piece of pancreas.