Augmented BLAdder NecK rEconstruction Trial for Improved Urinary Function After Radical Prostatectomy
The investigators are conducting a prospective, randomized trial to investigate whether patients randomized to receive an augmented bladder neck reconstruction (aBNR) at the time of robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy experience improved urinary function post-operatively compared to patients who undergo prostatectomy with a standard BNR. An aBNR here consists of the autologous medial umbilical ligament sling as well as a bladder neck intussusception stitch. The standard BNR group will receive the intussusception stitch only.
Prostate Cancer|Urinary Incontinence|Surgery
PROCEDURE: Augmented Bladder Neck Reconstruction|PROCEDURE: Standard Bladder Neck Reconstruction
EPIC Urinary Incontinence subscale score, Score of 0-100 on questionnaire with higher scores reflecting better health-related quality of life related to urinary incontinence (closer to 0 is more incontinence, closer to 100 is less incontinence)., 1 Month
EPIC Urinary Incontinence subscale score, Score of 0-100 on questionnaire with higher scores reflecting better health-related quality of life related to urinary incontinence (closer to 0 is more incontinence, closer to 100 is less incontinence)., 2 Weeks|EPIC Urinary Incontinence subscale score, Score of 0-100 on questionnaire with higher scores reflecting better health-related quality of life related to urinary incontinence (closer to 0 is more incontinence, closer to 100 is less incontinence)., 3 Months|EPIC Urinary Incontinence subscale score, Score of 0-100 on questionnaire with higher scores reflecting better health-related quality of life related to urinary incontinence (closer to 0 is more incontinence, closer to 100 is less incontinence)., 6 Months|EPIC Urinary Incontinence subscale score, Score of 0-100 on questionnaire with higher scores reflecting better health-related quality of life related to urinary incontinence (closer to 0 is more incontinence, closer to 100 is less incontinence)., 12 Months
A bladder neck reconstruction is a standard step in performing a radical prostatectomy. Over the years, various maneuvers to improve continence have been tried and studied including intussusception stitches and slings. Slings of various origins have been used by surgeons at the time of radical prostatectomy without consistent evidence demonstrating a benefit (vas deferens, biologic). However, use of the medial umbilical ligament to create a sling has not previously been studied in a randomized trial.

The medial umbilical ligaments are normally cut during intraperitoneal robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy to allow the surgeon access to the Retzius space between the bladder and pubic bone. To create a medial umbilical ligament autologous sling, the ligaments are dissected out and wrapped around the vesicourethral anastomosis.

The investigators are conducting a prospective, randomized trial to investigate whether patients randomized to receive an augmented bladder neck reconstruction (aBNR) at the time of robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy experience improved urinary function post-operatively compared to patients who undergo prostatectomy with a standard BNR. An aBNR here consists of the autologous medial umbilical ligament sling as well as a bladder neck intussusception stitch. The standard BNR group will receive the intussusception stitch only.