Switch Maintenance in Pancreatic
This study is being done to test the safety and effectiveness of combining domvanalimab (AB154), zimberelimab (AB122), and APX005M with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other parts of body.

This research study involves immunotherapy. Immunotherapy triggers the body's immune system to fight cancer cells.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Domvanalimab (also known as AB154)
* Zimberelimab (also known as AB122)
* APX005M
Pancreatic Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Pancreas|Adenosquamous Carcinoma of the Pancreas
DRUG: ZIMBERELIMAB|DRUG: DOMVANALIMAB|DRUG: APX005M|DRUG: FOLFIRI
Dose-limiting toxicities-Phase 1, Toxicity assessments will be evaluated using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, 28 Days|Switch Maintenance-Progression Free Survival, PFS is defined as the time from registration to the Crossover Arm to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause.

The PFS2 distribution will be calculated and plotted using the Kaplan-Meier method, baseline up to 38 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Tumor reassessment with baseline CT scan and restaging scans will occur every 8 weeks using RECIST v1.1, Every 8 weeks up to 38 Months|Disease Control Rate, Tumor reassessment with baseline CT scan and restaging scans will occur every 8 weeks using RECIST v1.1, Every 8 weeks up to 38 Months|Duration of Response (DoR), The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, or death due to any cause. Participants without events reported are censored at the last disease evaluation)., Baseline up to 38 Months|Progression Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation, baseline up to 38 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive, baseline up to 38 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events, Toxicity assessments will be evaluated using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 38 Months
This is an open-label, Phase 1b/2, multicenter, randomized study evaluating the safety and efficacy of 'switch maintenance' combination immunotherapy (domvanalimab) zimberelimab and APX005M versus 'continuous maintenance' in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer following 4-6 months of FOLFIRINOX

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Domvanalimab (also known as AB154)
* Zimberelimab (also known as AB122)
* APX005M

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will be randomized into one of two groups:

* Arm A will receive domvanalimab, zimberelimab, and APX005M every two weeks through an infusion.
* Arm B will receive leucovorin, fluorouracil, and irinotecan every two weeks through an infusion

If you are in Arm B and the drugs stop working, participants may receive the drugs given in Arm A.

Participants will receive study treatment as long the disease does not worsen or there are no serious side effects for a maximum of 26 cycles (2 years) and will be followed for 12 months after the discontinue the study drugs.

It is expected that about 46 people will take part in this research study.

This is a Phase I/II clinical trial. A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational drug or drugs and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug(s) to use for further studies. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug or drugs to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved domvanalimab, zimberelimab, or APX005M as a treatment for any disease.

drug regimen.