Treatment of Opioid-refractory Pain (WHO Level III) by Pituitary Radiosurgery
80% of palliative care cancer patients suffer from severe pain. The management of these pain improves the quality of life of these patients. The management of opioid pain refractory to date remains a difficulty for caregivers. Hypophysectomy performed to try to control hormone-dependent neoplasia also help relieve pain associated with lesions secondary cancer. The surgical hypophysialis radio Gamma Knife ® was recently performed on a small number of patients. She would have the advantage of reducing the risk of complications compared to other techniques and achieve similar analgesic effect on diffuse, or mixed nociceptive pain associated with metastases on average in 2 days and would reduce or stop opiates most often responsible for side effects impairing the quality of life. The objective of this clinical trial, multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled is to evaluate the effectiveness of surgical hypophysialis radio for patients in palliative situations with refractory cancer pain in opioid level III. The type of pain "cancer pain" was done in order to optimize the recruitment and homogenization of the study population: patients cared for in palliative care units are mostly patients cancer (70-80%). This study is therefore part of a palliative setting and the results of this test can be extrapolated to other populations of palliative patients with refractory pain.
Any Cancer With Multiple Bone Metastases
DEVICE: GammaKnife®|DEVICE: 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose - positron emission tomography (FDG-PET)|DEVICE: MRI
The pain assessment, using the Numeric Pain Intensity Scale (NPSI), 36 months|The pain assessment, Neuropathic pain questionnaire (DN4), 36 months|The pain assessment, Self-reported pain and Quality of life, 36 months
assessment of the visual fields, visual perimeter test, 36 months|assessment of the visual acuity, exploration test macular function, 36 months|endocrine balance, Rate of Corticotropic in the blood, 36 months|endocrine balance, Rate of Gonadotropic in the blood, 36 months|endocrine balance, Rate of Somatotropic in the blood, 36 months|endocrine balance, Rate of Thyrotropic in the blood, 36 months|Pituitary morphology, MRI with gadolinium, 36 months|evaluate metabolic consumption of glucose, FDG-PET, 36 mois|evaluate metabolic connectivity at resting-state, 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose - positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), 36 mois
80% of palliative care cancer patients suffer from severe pain. The management of these pain improves the quality of life of these patients. The management of opioid pain refractory to date remains a difficulty for caregivers. Hypophysectomy performed to try to control hormone-dependent neoplasia also help relieve pain associated with lesions secondary cancer. The surgical hypophysialis radio Gamma Knife ® was recently performed on a small number of patients. She would have the advantage of reducing the risk of complications compared to other techniques and achieve similar analgesic effect on diffuse, or mixed nociceptive pain associated with metastases on average in 2 days and would reduce or stop opiates most often responsible for side effects impairing the quality of life. The objective of this clinical trial, multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled is to evaluate the effectiveness of surgical hypophysialis radio for patients in palliative situations with refractory cancer pain in opioid level III. The type of pain "cancer pain" was done in order to optimize the recruitment and homogenization of the study population: patients cared for in palliative care units are mostly patients cancer (70-80%). This study is therefore part of a palliative setting and the results of this test can be extrapolated to other populations of palliative patients with refractory pain.