A Study to Evaluate Safety and Therapeutic Activity of RO6874281 in Combination with Pembrolizumab, in Participants with Advanced or Metastatic Melanoma
This is an open-label, multicenter, Phase Ib study to evaluate the safety and therapeutic activity of RO6874281 in combination with pembrolizumab. The study will consist of 3 parts: a safety run-in (Part I: Cohorts 1.1. and 1.2) and two expansion parts (Parts II and III). Part II will start once all participants in Cohort 1.1 have completed the observation period. Part III will start once all participants in Cohorts 1.1 and 1.2 have completed the observation period.
Metastatic Melanoma
DRUG: RO6874281|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Percentage of participants with adverse events, Baseline to end of study (approximately 24 months)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Time from first occurrence of a documented objective response until the time of documented disease progression or death from any cause during treatment (whichever occurs first) until the end of study (approximately 24 months)|Complete Response Rate (CRR), Baseline to end of study (approximately 24 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Baseline to end of study (approximately 24 months)|Duration of Response, Time from first occurrence of a documented objective response until the time of documented disease progression or death from any cause during treatment (whichever occurs first) until the end of study (approximately 24 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from study treatment initiation to the first occurrence of documented disease progression (based on Investigator's assessment) or death from any cause during treatment (whichever occurs first) until the end of study (approximately 24 months)|Baseline PD-L1, Baseline to end of study (approximately 24 months)|Fibroblast Activation Protein-a (FAP), Baseline to end of study (approximately 24 months)|Change from baseline in density (cell/mm2) of immune cells including CD8+, FOXP3, and PD-L1, Baseline to end of study (approximately 24 months)
This is an open-label, multicenter, Phase Ib study to evaluate the safety and therapeutic activity of RO6874281 in combination with pembrolizumab. The study will consist of 3 parts: a safety run-in (Part I: Cohorts 1.1. and 1.2) and two expansion parts (Parts II and III). Part II will start once all participants in Cohort 1.1 have completed the observation period. Part III will start once all participants in Cohorts 1.1 and 1.2 have completed the observation period.