Sarcosinamide Nitrosourea in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Solid Tumors
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of sarcosinamide nitrosourea in treating patients who have metastatic or unresectable solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: SarCNU|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD, 28 days|Pharmacokinetics: plasma concentration-time profiles of SarCNU, Analyzed by nonlinear least squares regression using WinNonlin (Scientific Consulting, Inc.). Final values of the iterated parameters in the best-fit equations describing the plasma profiles will be used to calculate all pharmacokinetic terms according to standard equations. Mean values of the pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated at each dose and subject to appropriate statistical tests for the existence of dose-dependent trends., Days 1 and 9 of course 1: 5, 15, 20, 30, and 45 min; 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hr
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of an oral formulation of SarCNU given on an every 4th day times three schedule (days 1, 5, 9).

II. Establish an appropriate oral dose of SarCNU for phase II clinical trials. III. Identify the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of SarCNU. IV. Determine the oral bioavailability of SarCNU. V. Characterize the plasma pharmacokinetics of SarCNU.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether SarCNU undergoes metabolic N-demethylation to generate reactive isocyanate species that have been implicated in BCNU pulmonary toxicity.

II. Evaluate response to treatment with SarCNU in patients with measurable or evaluable disease.

III. Attempt to establish pharmacodynamic relationships for response and/or toxicity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive oral sarcosinamide nitrosourea (SarCNU) on days 1, 5, and 9. Treatment continues every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SarCNU until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Patients are followed at 4-5 weeks posttreatment.