Study of CAbozantinib in Combination with AtezolizumaB for Muscle-Invasive BladdEr Cancer
This is an open-label phase II study assessing the activity of cabozantinib combined with atezolizumab in patients with resectable muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma who are ineligible for cisplatin-based therapy or decline cisplatin-based therapy. Each cycle equals 21 days. The dose of atezolizumab is 1200 mg IV flat dose every 3 weeks (Day 1) plus cabozantinib 40 mg orally daily (Day 1 through Day 21). Patients will receive three cycles of treatment prior to cystectomy unless they discontinue treatment for unacceptable toxicity or progressive disease by RECIST v1.1 or withdraw consent.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Cabozantinib|DRUG: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Cystectomy
Pathologic Response Rate, Estimate the pathologic response (PaR) rate to neoadjuvant cabozantinib and atezolizumab in subjects with muscle-invasive urothelial cancer of the bladder. Pathologic response rate (PaR) is defined as the absence of residual muscle-invasive cancer in the surgical specimen (pathologic downstaging to ≤ pT1pN0), which includes pT0, pT1, pTa, and pTis, 12 months
Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events, Assess the frequency and severity of adverse events per CTCAE v5, 12 months|Pathologic complete response rate, Estimate the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate to neoadjuvant cabozantinib and atezolizumab in subjects with muscle-invasive urothelial cancer of the bladder. pCR rate is defined as the proportion of patients whose pathological staging was T0N0M0 as assessed per local institutional pathology review using specimens obtained via cystectomy following the neoadjuvant treatment., 12 months|Event Free Survival, EFS is defined as the time from registration to the first recurrence of disease after cystectomy, the time of first documented progression in patients who are precluded from cystectomy, or the time of death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 24 months
This is an open-label phase II study assessing the activity of cabozantinib combined with atezolizumab in patients with resectable muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma who are ineligible for cisplatin-based therapy or decline cisplatin-based therapy. Each cycle equals 21 days. The dose of atezolizumab is 1200 mg IV flat dose every 3 weeks (Day 1) plus cabozantinib 40 mg orally daily (Day 1 through Day 21). Patients will receive three cycles of treatment prior to cystectomy unless they discontinue treatment for unacceptable toxicity or progressive disease by RECIST v1.1 or withdraw consent.