New Preclinical and Clinical Approaches to Mesothelioma
This study protocol involves the coordination between UO1 (IRCCS San Raffaele Hospital) and UO2 (Istituto Nazionale Tumori di Napoli - IRCCS G. Pascale) to explore the role of HMGB1 and CXCR4 in cancer treatment and metastasis. UO1 focuses on the role of HMGB1 in inflammation, mesothelioma progression, and tissue repair, as well as developing, in future, possible HMGB1 inhibitors for cancer therapy. UO2 specializes in CXCR4's role in cancer, developing CXCR4 antagonists, and tracking CXCR4-dependent metastasis. The hypothesis is that targeting HMGB1 and CXCR4 pathways will inhibit tumor progression and metastasis, enhancing anti-tumor immunity and improving therapeutic outcomes in cancer.
Mesothelioma
To set up spheroids models to study and serve as a platform, Number of spheroids with infiltrated macrophages. About of 30% of macrophages infiltrated into spheroids., 0/baseline|To set up spheroids models and serve as a platform, Evaluation of macrophages polarization status M1 or M2 based on different genes and proteins expression using qPCR and Flow Cytometry., 0/baseline|To set up organoid models, Number of organoids formation. About of 30% of biopsies generated organoids., 0/baseline|Test inhibitors on spheroids and organoids and assess the response of individual patients to therapy, Rate of growth to test the efficacy of anti-CSF1R, BoxA and DFL using human mesospheres from MPM primary cell lines derived from patients and monocytes from controls., 0/baseline
To investigate inhibitors of the CXCR4-CXCL12-HMGB1 axis on the crosstalk, Percentage of migrated or invaded MPM cell lines NCI-H2052 (BAP1 WT/NF2 MUT) vs NCI-H28 (BAP1 mut/NF2 WT) with and without macrophages in presence of CDDP-Nivolumab (NIVO)-Peptide R54., 0/baseline|To investigate inhibitors of the CXCR4-CXCL12-HMGB1 axis on the crosstalk, Percentage of cell death of Tregs/Macrophages from peripheral blood and pleural effusion derived from MPM patients treated with and without R54., 0/baseline|To investigate inhibitors of the CXCR4-CXCL12-HMGB1 axis on the crosstalk, Overall survival of mice with MPM treated with CDDP-anti-PD-1/R54., In vivo experiment 3 weeks.
Repurposing Diflunisal as antitumor drug in MPM, Overall survival of MPM mice treated with DFL in combination with the gold-standard treatment of MM patients, i.e. checkpoint inhibitors (Nivolumab + Ipilimumab)., In vivo experiment 3 weeks.
This is a multicentric cross-sectional observational study with an additional blood volume collected during blood sampling performed for normal clinical practice. The enrollment will take