Testing the Addition of an Anti-Cancer Drug, AZD1390, During Radiation Therapy for Newly Diagnosed High Grade Glioma, Diffuse Midline Glioma, or Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma
This phase I clinical trial studies the side effects and best dose of AZD1390 and to see how well it works when given together with radiation therapy for the treatment of pediatric patients with high grade glioma, diffuse midline glioma or diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma. AZD1390 is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the signals that cause cancer cells to multiply. This helps to stop the spread of cancer cells. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Giving AZD1390 with radiation may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating pediatric patients with high grade glioma, diffuse midline glioma or diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma.
Childhood Astrocytoma|Childhood Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma|Childhood Diffuse Midline Glioma|Childhood Glioblastoma|Childhood Malignant Glioma
DRUG: ATM Kinase Inhibitor AZD1390|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Survey Administration
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of ATM Kinase Inhibitor AZD1390 (AZD1390) for pediatric supratentorial high-grade gliomas, The maximum tolerated dose or recommended phase 2 dose will be estimated by the isotonic estimates of toxicity probabilities for which the estimate of the DLT/RP2D rate is closed to the target rate of 25% in children and adolescents with supratentorial tumors., Up to 75 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of AZD1390 for pediatric infratentorial high-grade gliomas, The maximum tolerated dose or recommended phase 2 dose will be estimated by the isotonic estimates of toxicity probabilities for which the estimate of the DLT/RP2D rate is closed to the target rate of 25% in children and adolescents with infratentorial tumors., Up to 75 days|Incidence of adverse events for AZD1390 for pediatric supratentorial high-grade gliomas, Frequency (%) of evaluable patients with toxicity at least possibly attributable to study agent stratified by study part and dose level using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v 5.0)., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events for AZD1390 for pediatric infratentorial high-grade gliomas, Frequency (%) of evaluable patients with toxicity at least possibly attributable to study agent stratified by study part and dose level using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v 5.0)., Up to 5 years|Maximum serum concentration of AZD1390, Median (min, max) of the maximum serum concentration of AZD1390 assessed at time 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24-hours post dose on cycle 1 day 1., Up to 24 hours|Time to peak drug concentration of AZD1390, Median (min, max) of the time to peak drug concentration of AZD1390 assessed at time 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24-hours post dose on cycle 1 day 1., Up to 24 hours|Elimination half-life of AZD1390, Median (min, max) of the elimination half-life of AZD1390 assessed at time 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24-hours post dose on cycle 1 day 1., Up to 24 hours|Clearance of AZD1390, Median (min, max) of the clearance of AZD1390 assessed at time 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24-hours post dose on cycle 1 day 1., Up to 24 hours|Volume of distribution of AZD1390, Median (min, max) of the volume of distribution of AZD1390 assessed at time 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24-hours post dose on cycle 1 day 1., Up to 24 hours
Progression free survival (PFS) for patients with supratentorial high-grade gliomas, Median (95% confidence interval) of the time to progression for patients with supratentorial high-grade gliomas., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS) for patients with supratentorial high-grade gliomas, Median (95% confidence interval) of the time to death due to any cause for patients supratentorial high-grade gliomas., Up to 5 years|Overall radiographic response (ORR) for patients with supratentorial high-grade gliomas, Best overall response (CR, PR, SD, PD) will be summarized by frequency (%) of response-evaluable patients with supratentorial high-grade gliomas., Up to 5 years|PFS for patients with infratentorial high-grade gliomas, Median (95% confidence interval) of the time to progression for patients with infratentorial high-grade gliomas., Up to 5 years|OS for patients with infratentorial high-grade gliomas, Median (95% confidence interval) of the time to death due to any cause for patients with supratentorial high-grade gliomas., Up to 5 years|ORR for patients with infratentorial high-grade gliomas, Best overall response (CR, PR, SD, PD) will be summarized by frequency (%) of response-evaluable patients with infratentorial high-grade gliomas., Up to 5 years|Pediatric neurological assessment in neuro-oncology (pNANO), Median (min, max) pNANO scores stratified by disease cohort (supratentorial and infratentorial) and dose level at baseline and then every 8-weeks., Up to 5 years
Change in Neurocognitive function, Median (min, max) change in scores for each of detection, identification, on-back, one-card learning, and Groton maze learning test stratified by disease cohort (supratentorial and infratentorial) and dose level at 22-weeks and 44-weeks versus baseline., Up to 44-weeks|Change in patient reported outcomes measurement information system, Median (min, max) change in PROMIS scores for each subdomain (Cognitive function, global health, 29 profile, early childhood parent report global health, and parent proxy every 8-weeks during the first 12-months and then every 3-4 months versus baseline., Up to 5 years|Alternative lengthening of telomeres phenotype, Frequency (%) of patients with alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) phenotype., Up to 5 days|Genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and cytokine markers, including homologous recombination deficiency and associated mutational signatures and TP53/related deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair gene mutational status, Median (min, max) genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and cytoking markers stratified by patient best overall response., Up to 5 years|Differences in radiation dosimetry to organs at risk and target volumes by radiation technique and modality, Median (min, max) radiation dosimetry to organs at risk and target volumes by radiation technique and modality., Up to 5 years|Circulating tumor DNA in plasma and CSF (when obtained) and pharmacodynamic markers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Median (min, max) plasma ctDNA, CSF, and pharmacodynamic markers of PBMCs stratified by patient best overall response., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the recommended phase 2 dose of ATM Kinase Inhibitor AZD1390 (AZD1390) when given in combination with radiation for pediatric supratentorial high-grade gliomas.

II. To define the recommended phase 2 dose of AZD1390 when given in combination with radiation for pediatric infratentorial high-grade gliomas.

III. To define the toxicities and characterize the safety profile of AZD1390 when given in combination with radiation for pediatric supratentorial high-grade gliomas.

IV. To define the toxicities and characterize the safety profile of AZD1390 when given in combination with radiation for pediatric infratentorial high-grade gliomas.

V. To characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of AZD1390 when given in combination with radiation to pediatric patients for pediatric supratentorial and infratentorial high-grade gliomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate preliminary efficacy when AZD1390 is given in combination with radiation to pediatric patients with supratentorial high-grade gliomas as determined via progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and overall radiographic response (ORR) within the confines of a phase 1 trial.

II. To evaluate preliminary efficacy when AZD1390 is given in combination with radiation to pediatric patients with infratentorial high-grade gliomas as determined via PFS, OS and ORR within the confines of a phase 1 trial.

III. To obtain preliminary data on neurological function of patients with supratentorial and infratentorial high-grade gliomas receiving AZD1390 and focal radiation via the pediatric neurologic assessment in neuro-oncology (NANO) scale.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in neurocognitive function from baseline (within 2 weeks of enrollment) to end of protocol directed therapy (completion of AZD1390), at 22 weeks (5.5 months) and at 44 weeks (11.5 months) after completion of radiation.

II. To evaluate changes in patient reported outcomes utilizing Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) from baseline (within 2 weeks of enrollment) and at the time of imaging assessments.

III. To evaluate the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) phenotype in archival tumor and cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) in patients with high grade glioma (HGG) undergoing AZD1390 and radiation therapy.

IV. To evaluate the correlation of genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and cytokine markers, including homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) and associated mutational signatures and TP53/related DNA repair gene mutational status, with response to AZD1390 and radiation therapy.

V. Evaluate differences in radiation dosimetry to organs at risk and target volumes by radiation technique and modality and its correlation with toxicity and response and survival.

VI. Evaluate cfDNA in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (when obtained) and pharmacodynamic markers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) prior, during and after therapy to better understand its correlation with treatment response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of AZD1390 in combination with radiation.

Patients receive AZD1390 orally (PO) once within 5 days prior to radiation therapy. Patients then receive AZD1390 PO once daily (QD), 5 days per week, Monday through Friday, and also receive radiation therapy on the same days for approximately 6 weeks. Patients then receive AZD1390 on days 1-14 after radiation in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood sample collection and may optionally undergo cerebrospinal fluid collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 8 weeks until progression or 2 years after the last dose of AZD1390 as well as at 22 and 44 weeks after completion of radiation therapy. From progression, patients are followed up will be every 6 months until year 4 from the last dose of AZD1390 then yearly until year 5.