Optimize First-line Treatment for AL Amyloidosis With t (11; 14)
Achievement of complete hematologic response (CHR) is vital for systemic AL amyloidosis. Currently, the CHR rate of daratumumab, bortezomib, and dexamethasone (DBD) is close to 60%. Considering that Bcl-2 inhibitor is effective for AL amyloidosis with t(11; 14) and the median hematologic onset time of DBD is 7 days. We design a a prospective study on AL amyloidosis with t(11; 14). All patients receive DBD at the beginning. Patient will receive DBD for at least 6 cycles if achieve rapid hematologic response at day 7, while other patients will receive daratumumab, venetoclax and dexamethasone.
Amyloidosis; Systemic|AL Amyloidosis
DRUG: Daratumumab|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Venetoclax
Overall CHR rate at 6 months, Overall complete hematologic response rate at 6 months, Overall CHR rate at 6 months
Cardiac response at 6 months, Cardiac response at 6 months, Cardiac response at 6 months|Renal response at 6 months, Renal response at 6 months, Renal response at 6 months|Hepatic response at 6 months, Hepatic response at 6 months, Hepatic response at 6 months|Estimated 2-year PFS, Estimated 2-year progression free survival, Estimated 2-year PFS|Estimated 2-year OS, Estimated 2-year overall survival, Estimated 2-year overall survival|MRD status at 6 months, Minimal residual disease status at 6 months, MRD status at 6 months|TRAEs, treatment-related adverse events up to 6 months, TRAEs
The goal of this clinical trial is to optimize the first line treatment for systemic AL amyloidosis with t(11;14). The aim of this study is to pursue early complete hematologic response. The primary endpoint is overall complete hematologic response (CHR) rate at 6 months. Participants will be treated according to the hematologic response after 7 days. If the patient get rapid response after 7 days, he/she will receive daratumumab, venetoclax and dexamethasone (DBD) for at least 6 cycles. If the patient do not get rapid response, he/she will receive daratumumab, venetoclax and dexamethasone.