Epidural-inhalational Versus Epidural-intravenous Anaesthesia on Anti-tumor Immunity in Patients With Cancer Colon
Surgery is the primary treatment for colon cancer. However, the rate of recurrence or metastasis in colon cancer can be as high as 30%, even in stages 1 and 2 . Most colon cancer-related deaths are caused by metastatic disease . Many patients with colon cancer harbour micrometastases and disseminated tumour cells at the time of surgery . Whether the micrometastases develop into clinically significant metastases depends on the immune system's ability to eradicate them.The aim of the study is to declare the effect of epidural-intravenous based anesthetic technique on anti-tumor immunity and in comparison to epidural inhalational based anesthetic technique in patients undergoing open surgical resection of colon cancer.
Immunity Factors in Cancer Colon Patients
PROCEDURE: thoracic epidural
anti tumour immunity, Venous blood samples are withdrawn. Samples for measurement of percentage of expression of CD8,CD16 and CD56 will be collected in sodium heparin anticoagulant tubes and will be processed according to manufacturer's instructions,and samples for VEGF-C will be centrifuged at 4000 g. Thereafter, the serum will be stored at -22 C for future measurement, preoperative and Day 1 postoperatively
change in pain intensity, pain intensity measured by Visual analogue scale from 0 to 10 where 0 no pain and 10 is sever pain, 24 hours postoperative
Surgery is the primary treatment for colon cancer. However, the rate of recurrence or metastasis in colon cancer can be as high as 30%, even in stages 1 and 2 . Most colon cancer-related deaths are caused by metastatic disease . Many patients with colon cancer harbour micrometastases and disseminated tumour cells at the time of surgery . Whether the micrometastases develop into clinically significant metastases depends on the immune system's ability to eradicate them.The aim of the study is to declare the effect of epidural-intravenous based anesthetic technique on anti-tumor immunity and in comparison to epidural inhalational based anesthetic technique in patients undergoing open surgical resection of colon cancer.