Trial of TRC105 and Sorafenib in Patients With HCC
The purpose of the phase 1b portion is to evaluate safety and tolerability and determine a recommended phase 2 dose for TRC105 when added to standard dose sorafenib in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Up to 18 patients will be treated.

The purpose of the phase 2 portion is to estimate the ORR of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma by RECIST 1.1. Up to 21 patients will be treated in phase 2.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Carotuximab (TRC105)|DRUG: Sorafenib
Number of Patients Who Experience Dose Limiting Toxicities by Dose Level, If 1 of 3 patients experienced a DLT, the dose level was expanded to 6 patients. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) would have been exceeded if ≥ 33% of patients experience DLT at a given dose level. DLT occurred when a patient had 1 or more toxicities outlined in the protocol that was considered at least possibly related to TRC105 during the first 4 months of participation in the trial. The number of DLTs by dose cohort have been presented., 4 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Number of patients with a response (PR or CR) are included by dose level. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. Patients must have had a screening scan and at least 1 on study scan to be eligible for RECIST 1.1 evaluation., 4 months
Pharmacokinetic Profile of TRC105 When Given With Sorafenib, Steady state mean trough serum concentrations by dose level of TRC105 after 5 weeks of dosing were measured using validated methods after 5 weeks of dosing., 5 weeks|TRC105 Immunogenicity as Assessed by Anti-Product Antibody (APA), Number of patients who tested positive for antibodies to TRC105 by dose level. Anti-Product Antibody (APA) concentrations were measured using validated ELISA methods., 19 months
Sorafenib is an oral multikinase inhibitor targeting several receptor tyrosine kinases, including the VEGF receptor (VEGFR), implicated in pathologic angiogenesis, tumor growth, and cancer progression. Sorafenib is approved for the treatment of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). TRC105 is an antibody to endoglin, an important angiogenic target on proliferating endothelial cells that is distinct from VEGFR. TRC105 inhibits angiogenesis, tumor growth and metastases and complements the activity of bevacizumab and multi-kinase inhibitors that target the VEGFR in preclinical models. Together, the use of TRC105 with sorafenib may result in more effective angiogenesis inhibition and improved clinical efficacy over that seen with sorafenib alone.