A Multi-center Clinical Study of Zanubrutinib in Combination With First-line Chemoimmunotherapy in Patients With Grade 3A High-risk Follicular Lymphoma
Background： At present, there is controversy about whether FL3a is treated as FL or DLBCL. Relevant studies have shown that compared with patients with FL3a grade 1\~2, they have unique immunohistochemical characteristics, and there are some differences in clinical features and outcomes. In patients with FL3a, the Ki-67 index is higher, the recurrence rate is higher, there is more histologic transformation, the prognosis is worse, and the likelihood of lymphoma-related death is higher. Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a key kinase in the B-cell signaling pathway, and studies have shown that BTK inhibitors including zanubrutinib combined with traditional immunochemotherapy regimens may have a synergistic effect in the treatment of B-cell malignancies, and the combination has become one of the current clinical research directions.

Aim:

To assess the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib in combination with first-line immunochemotherapy in high-risk patients with FL3a.
Follicular Lymphoma
CR, complete response, 2 years
ORR, ORR: the proportion of patients whose tumors shrink by 30% and remain in effect for more than 4 weeks., 2 years|PFS of 2 years, PFS of 2 years: the time from the start of treatment to the time when the patient has progressed on the disease or dies due to any cause in 2 years., 2 years|OS of 2 years, OS of 2 years: the time from the time when the patient receives treatment to the time when the patient dies due to any cause in 2 years., 2 years
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a key kinase in the B-cell signaling pathway, and its abnormal activation leads to abnormal activation of the B-cell receptor signaling pathway, B-cell malignant proliferation, and lymphoma.

There is controversy about whether FL3a is treated as FL or DLBCL. Relevant studies have shown that compared with patients with FL3a grade 1\~2, they have unique immunohistochemical characteristics, and there are some differences in clinical features and outcomes. In patients with FL3a, the Ki-67 index is higher, the recurrence rate is higher, there is more histologic transformation, the prognosis is worse, and the likelihood of lymphoma-related death is higher. Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a key kinase in the B-cell signaling pathway, and studies have shown that BTK inhibitors including zanubrutinib combined with traditional immunochemotherapy regimens may have a synergistic effect in the treatment of B-cell malignancies, and the combination has become one of the current clinical research directions.

The recent study is to assess the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib in combination with first-line immunochemotherapy in high-risk patients with FL3a.