Doxorubicin Hydrochloride and Alvocidib in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Sarcoma That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of alvocidib when given with doxorubicin hydrochloride in treating patients with metastatic or recurrent sarcoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride and alvocidib, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Alvocidib may also help doxorubicin hydrochloride work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving more than one drug may kill more tumor cells
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: alvocidib|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride
MTD of alvocidib when given every three weeks in conjunction with doxorubicin hydrochloride, Defined as the dose level immediately preceding the dose where 2 or more patients experienced DLT., Course 1
Dose limiting toxicity, Defined as the occurrence of Grade 4 hematologic toxicity 21 days after treatment, Grade 4 hematologic toxicity lasting 7 days or longer, Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity, or any delay in treatment of more than two weeks. Evaluated using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria. Graded using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., Weekly during course 1 at initiation of each course thereafter|Clinical pharmacokinetics of the regimen, Biopsies will be performed by Tru-Cut or CT guidance. The material obtained will be examined for p21, p53 and pRb expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) as well as measurements of apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)., Week 1|Therapeutic activity of alvocidib in combination with doxorubicin hydrochloride in patients with advanced solid tumors, Evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee., Every 2 courses for the first 6 courses and every 3 courses thereafter
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of flavopiridol (alvocidib) when administered with a fixed dose of doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride) in patients with unresectable metastatic or locally recurrent sarcoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the clinical pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine, preliminarily, the therapeutic activity of this regimen in these patients.

III. Correlate pRb, p53, and p21 protein levels with treatment response and apoptosis in patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Correlate NMR biochemical patterns with response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of alvocidib.

Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 5-10 minutes and alvocidib IV over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients reaching a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 600 mg/m\^2 or experiencing cardiotoxicity may receive alvocidib alone at the discretion of the investigator. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of alvocidib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Ten additional patients receive treatment at the MTD. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.