Cessation of Somatostatin Analogues After PRRT in Mid, Hind-Gut and Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumours
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are slow growing cancers, which commonly present as metastatic incurable disease. Some neuroendocrine tumours, termed functional NETs, overproduce hormones which result in a variety of symptoms. However, approximately 75% of NETs are considered non-functional meaning that they do not result in hormone overproduction. The main treatment for both functional and non-functional NETs is somatostatin analogues (SSA, a type of inhibitory hormone). These drugs slow tumour growth and reduce hormone production. Over time, the majority of patients will experience tumour growth despite treatment with SSA therapy. When this occurs, the addition of Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT, a type of targeted radiotherapy) in combination with ongoing SSA therapy is given. However, it is not known if continuing SSA therapy after commencement of PRRT is beneficial or not.

The aim of this study is to estimate the outcomes of patients with grade 1 and 2 well differentiated mid, hind-gut or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours who have progressed on SSA therapy and receive subsequent PRRT with or without concurrent SSA.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Cessation of somatostatin analogues|DRUG: Continuation of somatostatin analogues
20-month progression free survival rate after PRRT, Estimate the 20-month progression free survival rate after PRRT in patients who cease and who continue SSA., 20 months|Assess the barriers which would impede the feasibility of a subsequent phase 3 trial, 1. Proportion of participants that remained on the SSA cessation arm for the duration of the 20-month study follow up (patient acceptance of SSA cessation).
2. Rate of recruitment: ability to complete recruitment over the 24-month recruitment period, 20 months
Measure Quality of life using the European Organisation For Research And Treatment Of Cancer (EORTC) Core Quality of Life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) scales, Responses to the QLQ-C30 scale from 0-100 using EORTC guidelines, with higher scores reflecting better level of functioning., 20 months|Measure Quality of life using the EORTC QLQ-GINET21 scales, Responses to the QLQ-GINET21 scale from 0-100 using EORTC guidelines, with higher scores reflecting more severe symptoms., 20 months|Cost-effectiveness of SSA therapy cessation, Access to Medicare and PBS data to asses use of other healthcare providers, diagnostic tests and imaging services funded via public health care systems and use of pharmaceutical services respectively., The MBS/PBS data will be obtained for the period six months prior to study entry, and until the end of 2 years follow-up post PRRT for patients who have provided consent.|Psycho-oncological impacts of SSA therapy cessation: Decision Regret, Psycho-oncological impacts of SSA therapy cessation using the self-reported measures of Decision Regret Scale from 1 - 5 (1-Strongly Agree, 2-Agree, 3-Neither Agree Nor Disagree, 4-Disagree, 5-Strongly Disagree), 20 months|Psycho-oncological impacts of SSA therapy cessation: Fear of Cancer Progression, Psycho-oncological impacts of SSA therapy cessation using the self-reported measures of the Fear of Cancer Progression Scale from 1 - 5 (1-Never, 2-Seldom, 3-Sometimes, 4-Often, 5-Very often), 20 months|Psycho-oncological impacts of SSA therapy cessation: Decisional Conflict, Psycho-oncological impacts of SSA therapy cessation using the self-reported measures of the Decisional Conflict Scale from 0 - 4 (0-Strongly Agree, 1-Agree, 2-Neither Agree Nor Disagree, 3-Disagree, 4-Strongly Disagree), 20 months|Time to commencement of subsequent therapy, Time to commencement of subsequent therapy (e.g re-challenge with PRRT, liver directed therapies, chemotherapy, targeted therapies), 20 months|Overall survival, Estimate the 20-month overall survival rate in patients who cease and who continue SSA., 20 months|Rates of SSA being recommenced over time, Cumulative percentage of SSA recommencement over time., 20 months
Exploratory analyses, Exploratory analyses including, but not limited to: Define and validate NET tissue and circulating biomarkers with a particular focus on miRNA., 20 months
Neuroendocrine tumours commonly originate from the gut and metastasise widely including to the liver, lymph nodes and bones. Originally called "carcinoid tumours", these cancers are most commonly treated with somatostatin analogues (SSA) first line. These analogues treat carcinoid syndrome and slow tumour growth. Despite SSA therapy, progression develops over time. Upon progression, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) is the next standard therapeutic option. After PRRT is initiated, it is unclear if continuing SSA injections is beneficial. There are reasons to believe it might be necessary to continue SSAs, but other reasons to believe they should cease. Given that SSA injections are expensive and associated with side effects, this study aims to clarify the utility of continuing SSA injections after progression on SSA therapy and commencement of PRRT.

STOPNET aims to explore outcomes in grade 1 and 2 mid, hind gut or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours, that have progressed on SSA therapy, are eligible to receive PRRT and in whom the SSA is either continued or ceased after PRRT is commenced.

The two primary objectives include

1. To estimate the 20-month progression free survival rate after PRRT commencement in patients who cease and who continue SSA.
2. Feasibility as measured by:

   1. Recruitment rate and
   2. Patient acceptance of ceasing and staying off SSA over the 20 month follow up period.

The study design of STOPNET is prospective, randomised, non-comparative, open label, multicentre phase II study. Patients meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomised, prior to commencing PRRT, to either continue or cease SSA treatment. Randomisation will occur centrally in REDCap by the AGITG STOPNET study team. Randomisation will be 2:1 (the majority being randomised to cease SSA) and will be stratified by WHO tumour grade (1 V 2), sites of metastases (visceral only verse visceral and bone) and institution.