Effectiveness of Multi-target FIT-DNA Analysis as a Colorectal Cancer Screening Test
Colorectal cancer is one of the most common cancer in Hong Kong. In 2018, CRC accounted for 17.4%, 5,780 cases, of the total new cancers. CRC claimed 2,279 lives (15.8%) making it the second most deadly killer in the population.

Since 2010, the Cancer Expert Working Group (CEWG) has recommended that asymptomatic average-risk individuals aged 50 to 75 years should consider one of the screening methods: fecal occult blood test (FOBT) every one to two years; OR flexible sigmoidoscopy every 5 years; OR colonoscopy every 10 years. However, it poses great challenges for large scale CRC screening using colonoscopy, such as bowel preparation difficulties, complications of procedure and poor compliance.

ColoClear速 is intended for use as an adjunctive screening test for the detection of colorectal neoplasia associated DNA markers and for the presence of occult hemoglobin in human stool. It has the potential of increasing the sensitivity of detecting CRC as compared to FOBT or faecal immunochemical test (FIT), which detects the presence of hemoglobin in stool alone. A positive result may indicate the presence of colorectal cancer or pre-malignant colorectal neoplasia. ColoClear速 is not intended as a replacement for diagnostic colonoscopy. A positive result in ColoClear速, as with any screening test, should be followed by colonoscopy. ColoClear速 is intended for colorectal cancer screening in average risk individuals: adults of either sex, 40 years or older, who are at high risk for colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer|Adenoma Colon
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: multi-target FIT-DNA analysis
Sensitivity & specificity of colorectal cancer detection, The primary endpoint is the point estimate of sensitivity and specificity of ColoClear for screening of CRC., within 3 months
The objective of this study is to evaluate the clinical performance of ColoClear test in early screening of colorectal cancer in Hong Kong. Other outcomes to analyze include, but are not limited to the point estimate of the sensitivity of ColoClear for the detection of advanced adenoma (AA) in Hong Kong.