Effects of Music and Conversation in Prostate Biopsy
The goal of this observational study is to learn about the effects of music and conversation on pain and anxiety levels during Transrectal Ultrasound-Guided Prostate Biopsy. The main question it aims to answer is:

Does music or conversation reduces the pain and anxiety levels of patients
Prostate Neoplasms|Prostate Biopsy
BEHAVIORAL: Music intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Conversation
Visual Analog Scale of Pain, pain levels were assessed using a visual analog scale (VAS), where a score of "0" indicated "no pain or anxiety," and a score of "10" represented "the most severe pain, Periprocedural|Visual Analog Scale of Anxiety, Anxiety levels were assessed using a visual analog scale (VAS), where a score of "0" indicated "no pain or anxiety," and a score of "10" represented "the most severe anxiety, Periprocedural|State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) test, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) test, which consists of 40 questions, with 20 questions each in the state and trait subscales, both before and after the procedure. The test was scored using a 4-point Likert scale, with total scores ranging from 20 to 80. Low scores indicated low anxiety levels, while high scores reflected higher anxiety levels., Periprocedural
The patients who were scheduled to undergo TRUS-PBx were randomly assigned to one of three groups (n=30) via sealed envelope randomization method: the control group, the music group, and the conversation group.

Patients' sociodemographic data such as age, height, weight and body mass index were documented. The International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), PSA level and prostate volume of all patients was recorded before the procedure. Blood pressure and heart rate were checked before and after the procedure.

Patients completed the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) test, which consists of 40 questions, with 20 questions each in the state and trait subscales, both before and after the procedure. Low scores indicated low anxiety levels, while high scores reflected higher anxiety levels. Also, anxiety and pain levels were assessed using a visual analog scale (VAS).

The procedure room was designed to minimize external disturbances (e.g., sound or noise). Prior to the biopsy, patients received detailed information according to their assigned group. In the music group, patient-selected music was played throughout the procedure. In the conversation group, discussions based on the patients' interests were initiated and continued during the procedure. In the control group, no additional interaction beyond the informational briefing was provided.

Post-procedure, patients were asked whether they would be willing to undergo the procedure again if necessary. Responses were categorized as "positive," "negative," or "abstained."