Lymph Drainage Mapping for Tailoring Elective Nodal Irradiation in Head and Neck Cancer
This study aims to explore the safety and outcome of lymph drainage mapping(LDM) to individually tailor the elective nodal irradiation (ENI) to the ipsilateral neck only. The goal is to exclude the contralateral negative neck from the irradiation fields when there is no contralateral draining sentinel node. In case contralateral lymph drainage is found on SPECT/CT, a contralateral sentinel node procedure (SNP) is performed to remove the draining node. The patient will only receive contralateral ENI if (micro/macro)metastasis are found in this contralateral sentinel node.
Head and Neck Cancer
RADIATION: Unilateral elective nodal irradiation
Contralateral regional failure, Cumulative incidence of contralateral regional metastasis., 1 year
Treatment toxicity, Physician-rated early and late treatment toxicity (CTCAE v5.0), Until 2 years after end of radiotherapy|Health-related quality of life, Health-related quality of life after treatment (EORTC QLQ-C30/HN35), Until 18 months after end of radiotherapy
The SUSPECT2 study is a modified concept from the first SUSPECT study (N14SUS). The first study investigated whether lymph drainage mapping (LDM) using SPECT/CT was a safe and feasible method to exclude the contralateral neck from irradiation, or, in case of contralateral lymph drainage, to tailor the contralateral ENI field to the level containing the tracer accumulation. In this study, large dose reductions to most organs at risk were realized, as well as significant reductions of both short term (mucositis, dysphagia) and long term (xerostomia, dysphagia) toxicities.

Firstly, the SUSPECT2 study aims to expand the inclusion criteria of the original SUSPECT study. Secondly, it aims to further reduce the proportion of patients that undergoes bilateral ENI, by performing a contralateral sentinel node procedure (SNP) in case of contralateral lymph drainage. The patient will only receive contralateral ENI if (micro/macro)metastasis are found in this contralateral sentinel node.