Testing the Addition of the Drug BMX-001, a Radioprotector, or a Placebo to the Usual Chemoradiation Therapy for Patients With Head and Neck Cancer
This phase II trial compares the effectiveness of adding BMX-001 to usual symptom management versus usual symptom management alone for reducing oral mucositis in patients who are receiving chemoradiation for head and neck cancer. Oral mucositis (inflammation and mouth sores) is a common side effect of chemoradiation that can cause pain and difficulty swallowing. Usual management of these side effects typically consists of using mouth rinses and pain medications during treatment and for several weeks after completion of treatment. BMX-001 neutralizes harmful substances in the body, preventing damage to macromolecules such as DNA and minimizes free radical-related toxicity in normal tissues. Adding BMX-001 to usual symptom management may be more effective than usual symptom management alone at reducing oral mucositis in patients receiving chemoradiation for head and neck cancer.
Clinical Stage I HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Nasopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage 0 Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage 0 Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage 0 Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage 0 Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage I Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage I Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage I Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage I Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage II Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage II Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage II Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage II Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stomatitis
OTHER: Best Practice|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: Image Guided Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: MnSOD Mimetic BMX-001|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of severe oral mucositis (SOM), Will be defined as \>= grade 3 per World Health Organization criteria. The difference in proportions between the two treatment arms would be tested using a test of proportions z-test with a one-sided significance level of 5%., From start of radiation through 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
Duration of SOM, The mean duration will be compared between arms using a t-test., From first determination of >= grade 3 oral mucositis (OM) to the first instance of non-SOM (=< grade 2), without subsequent instance of >= grade 3 within the following 4 weeks|Time to SOM, Gray's test will be used to assess between treatment arm comparisons. Cause-specific Cox proportional hazards models will be used to evaluate the effect of stratification factors and other relevant covariates., From date of randomization to date of first determination of >= grade 3 OM, assessed through 12 weeks after completion of chemoradiation|Incidence and duration of xerostomia and radiation dermatitis, The rate of any grade and grade ≥ 3 xerostomia and radiation dermatitis, separately, will be compared between arms using a chi-square test. The mean duration will be compared between arms using a t-test., Up to 24 months after completion of chemoradiation|Incidence of toxicity, Adverse events (AEs) will be graded by the physician-reported Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and also measured using the Patient Reported Outcome-CTCAE. Counts of all AEs by grade will be provided by treatment arm., Up to 24 months after completion of chemoradiation|Patient reported oral mucositis, Will be measured by the Oral Mucositis Weekly Questionnaire (OMWQ). Decline within patients using a minimally important difference of 7 will be compared between arms at each timepoint using a chi-square test, or Fisher's exact test in the case of small cell counts., Up to 24 months after completion of chemoradiation
Pain improvement, Pain improvement will be measured by opioid use collected in morphine equivalent doses. Longitudinal mixed effects models will be used to assess the changes between treatment arms in opioid use over the course of the study. In addition to treatment arm and a treatment by time interaction, stratification factors and other relevant covariates will be included in the model., Up to 24 months after completion of chemoradiation|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between treatment arms will be tested using the log rank test. The Cox proportional hazard model will be performed with the type of neck irradiation and other baseline characteristics as fixed variables to assess the treatment effect while adjusting for stratification factors and patient-specific risk factors., From the date of randomization until occurrence of local, regional (neck lymph nodes) or distant failure, or death, assessed up to 24 months after completion of chemoradiation|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between treatment arms will be tested using the log rank test. The Cox proportional hazard model will be performed with the type of neck irradiation and other baseline characteristics as fixed variables to assess the treatment effect while adjusting for stratification factors and patient-specific risk factors., From the date of randomization to death, assessed up to 24 months after completion of chemoradiation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the incidence of severe oral mucositis (SOM) between manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) mimetic BMX-001 (BMX-001) and placebo, defined as \>= grade 3 per World Health Organization (WHO) criteria from the start of radiation through 4 weeks after completion of study treatment, with additional assessments at 6, 8 and 12 weeks after completion of study treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the duration of SOM in the BMX-001 arm versus (vs.) placebo arm. II. To assess the difference between arms in the Oral Mucositis Weekly Questionnaire-Head and Neck (OMWQ-HN) change score from baseline to 4 weeks after the end of chemoradiation.

III. To describe the incidence and severity of xerostomia and radiation dermatitis, as measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0, in both arms.

IV. To compare the duration of radiation dermatitis in the BMX-001 arm vs. placebo arm.

V. To describe toxicity, as measured by CTCAE v5.0 and Patient Reported Outcome (PRO)-CTCAE, in both arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the between arm difference in progression-free survival (PFS). II. To assess the between arm difference in overall survival (OS). III. Data demonstrating improvement in pain, as measured by reduction in narcotic use between BMX-001 versus usual care.

IV. Collect serum and plasma for future translational research analyses.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive cisplatin once weekly (QW) or once every 3 weeks (Q3W) and undergo image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy once daily (QD) 5 days per week for 7 weeks per standard of care (SOC). In addition to usual symptom management, patients receive placebo subcutaneously (SC) as early as 96 hours and no later than one hour prior to their first dose of radiation therapy, and as early as 96 hours and no later than 48 hours prior to first dose of cisplatin. Patients then receive placebo SC twice a week (BIW) for 8 weeks (16 doses). Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on study and may optionally undergo collection of blood, serum, and/or plasma throughout the study.

ARM 2: Patients receive cisplatin QW or Q3W and undergo image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy QD 5 days per week for 7 weeks per SOC. In addition to usual symptom management, patients receive BMX-001 SC as early as 96 hours and no later than one hour prior to their first dose of radiation therapy, and as early as 96 hours and no later than 48 hours prior to first dose of cisplatin. Patients then receive BMX-001 SC BIW for 8 weeks (16 doses). Patients also undergo CT and/or MRI on study and may optionally undergo collection of blood, serum, and/or plasma throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 2, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months.