Therapeutic Effects of Epstein-Barr Virus Immune T-Lymphocytes Derived From a Normal HLA-Compatible Or Partially-Matched Third-Party Donor in the Treatment of EBV Lymphoproliferative Disorders and EBV-Associated Malignancies
This is a Phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) partially-matched third-party allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus cytotoxic T lymphocytes (EBV-CTLs) for the treatment of EBV-induced lymphomas and EBV-associated malignancies.
EBV-induced Lymphomas|EBV-associated Malignancies|Transplant Patients With EBV Viremia at High Risk for Developing a Recurrent EBV Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: EBV-specific T cells (EBV-CTLs)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as percentage of participants with best overall response of complete remission/response (CR) or partial remission/response (PR) based on investigator's assessment. For participants with clinically and/or radiologically evident EBV LPD or malignancies, CR is complete resolution of all clinical and radiologic evidence of lymphoma, confirmed by biopsy of the affected tissues when indicated, lasting for at least 3 weeks following completion of a cycle of tabelecleucel; and PR is a 50 % or greater reduction in the size of all lymphomatous lesions as determined by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of tumor volume, which was maintained for at least 3 weeks following completion of a cycle of tabelecleucel. For participants without clinically and/or radiologically evident tumors with increasing levels of EBV DNA, CR is clearance of EBV without subsequent development of EBV+ LPD; and PR is at least a 10-fold decrease in EBV DNA levels., From Day 1 through 65.3 months after Day 1 dose
Overall Survival (OS), The OS is defined as the time from the first dose of tabelecleucel to the date of death due to any cause. The OS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who were lost to follow-up or still alive were censored on the last known-to-be-alive date., From Day 1 through 65.3 months after Day 1 dose|OS Rate at 12 Months, Percentage of participants with OS at 12 months are reported. The OS is defined as the time from the first dose of tabelecleucel to the date of death due to any cause. The OS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who were lost to follow-up or still alive were censored on the last known-to-be-alive date., From Day 1 through 12 months after Day 1 dose|OS Follow-up Time, The OS follow-up time are reported. The OS is defined as the time from the first dose of tabelecleucel to the date of death due to any cause. The OS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who were lost to follow-up or still alive were censored on the last known-to-be-alive date., From Day 1 through 65.3 months after Day 1 dose|Time to Response (TTR), The TTR is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of tabelecleucel to the date of a PR or CR, whichever occurred first. For participants with clinically and/or radiologically evident EBV LPD or malignancies, CR is defined as complete resolution of all clinical and radiologic evidence of lymphoma, confirmed by biopsy of the affected tissues when indicated, lasting for at least 3 weeks following completion of a cycle of tabelecleucel; and a PR is defined as a 50 % or greater reduction in the size of all lymphomatous lesions as determined by CT or MRI scan measurements of tumor volume, which was maintained for at least 3 weeks following completion of a cycle of tabelecleucel. For participants without clinically and/or radiologically evident tumors with increasing levels of EBV DNA, CR is defined as clearance of EBV without subsequent development of EBV+ LPD; and PR is defined as at least a 10-fold decrease in EBV DNA levels., From Day 1 through 65.3 months after Day 1 dose
This is a Phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) partially-matched third-party allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus cytotoxic T lymphocytes (EBV-CTLs) for the treatment of EBV-induced lymphomas and EBV-associated malignancies.