Decision Aid for the Improvement of Decision-Making in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This clinical trial refines and tests the effect of a decision aid in improving decision-making in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Patients with cancer want to be informed about their diagnoses, treatment procedures and goals of treatment. They also seek active roles in decision-making. Shared decision-making (SDM) is the process of clinician and patient jointly participating in a health decision after discussing the options, benefits and harms, and considering the patient's values, preferences, and circumstances. SDM can improve patient involvement in decision making, satisfaction, health care quality, and quality of life. Decision aids can improve patient knowledge, create more realistic outcome expectations; reduce decisional conflict, distress, depression and uncertainty; and improve physician-patient communication and quality of life, compared with no decision aid. This trial's main aim is to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of a decision aid in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Feasibility of the conversation tool, The number of patients enrolled divided by the number of patients offered enrollment., At enrollment|Acceptability of the conversation tool, The number of participants who completed the conversation tool divided by the number of participants who began the conversation tool., At enrollment
Anxiety, Assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale., From enrollment to the end of follow-up at 8 weeks|Decisional conflict, Assessed using the Decisional Conflict Scale., At the end of follow-up at 8 weeks|Decisional Regret, Assessed using the Decisional Regret Scale., At the end of follow-up at 8 weeks|Perceived involvement in care, Assessed using the Perceived Involvement in Care Scale., At the end of follow-up at 8 weeks|Shared decision-making quality, Assessed using the Shared Decision Making Questionnaire., At the end of follow-up at 8 weeks|Decision making involvement, Assessed using the Control Preferences Scale., From enrollment to the end of follow-up at 8 weeks|Self-efficacy, Assessed using the Decision Self-Efficacy Scale., From enrollment to the end of follow-up at 8 weeks|Values-treatment concordance, Assessed using electronic medical record (EMR)., From enrollment to the end of follow-up at 8 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Refine a conversation tool among patients with lung cancer by conducting prototype testing in an iterative process.

II. Conduct a trial at two comprehensive cancer treatment centers representing academic and Veterans Affairs medical centers.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive the conversation tool.

ARM II: Patients receive usual care.

Patients in both arms are followed up within 4-8 weeks after baseline to complete a second questionnaire.