Ph II Study of Cabozantinib With Pembrolizumab in Metastatic Gastric and Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma
This is a phase 2 single-arm, open-label clinical trial determining efficacy of cabozantinib in combination with pembrolizumab in subjects with advanced gastric and gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. These are subjects who have progressed, or not tolerated, at least one prior line of chemotherapy with a fluoropyrimidine and platinum agent.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|GastroEsophageal Cancer
DRUG: Cabozantinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Percentage of Participants with Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, This is defined as the percentage of subjects who are free of progression 6 months after study treatment start. Progression is defined death, radiographic progression or clinical deterioration attributed disease progression as judged by an investigator. Radiographic progression is defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm and/or appearance of new lesions., 6 Months
Percentage of Grade 3-5 Adverse Events, To evaluate the tolerability of administering cabozantinib in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced gastric and gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma from the start of treatment, duration of treatment and up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment. Toxicity and adverse events are based on the CTCAE (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 5.0., From the start date of treatment until 4 weeks after removal of treatment due to disease progression, toxicity, delay of treatment, or withdrawal of treatment, whichever came first, an average of 1 year.|Overall Response Rate as Assessed by RECIST v1.1, To assess the overall response rate to the combination of cabozantinib and pembrolizumab. Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as confirmed complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1): Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) is defined as a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions. ORR = CR + PR, From date of registration until first date of disease progression, toxicity, delay of treatment, or withdrawal of treatment, whichever came first, an average of 1 year.]|Overall Survival of Patients Who Received Cabozantinib and Irinotecan, To evaluate overall survival in patients with advanced gastric and gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma treated with this combination of cabozantinib and irinotecan., From date of registration for up to 18 months after last patient is enrolled or until death from any cause, whichever came first.
Treatment on study will be administered in 21 day cycles.