Decitabine and Cedazuridine in Combination With Venetoclax for the Treatment of Patients Who Have Relapsed Acute Myeloid Leukemia After Donor Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II trial tests how well decitabine and cedazuridine (DEC-C) works in combination with venetoclax in treating acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in patients whose AML has come back after a period of improvement (relapse) after a donor stem cell transplant. Cedazuridine is in a class of medications called cytidine deaminase inhibitors. It prevents the breakdown of decitabine, making it more available in the body so that decitabine will have a greater effect. Decitabine is in a class of medications called hypomethylation agents. It works by helping the bone marrow produce normal blood cells and by killing abnormal cells in the bone marrow. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Giving DEC-C in combination with venetoclax may kill more cancer cells in patients with relapsed AML.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Cedazuridine|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Composite complete response (CR) rate (CR/complete response with partial recovery of peripheral blood counts [CRh]/complete remission with incomplete hematological recovery [CRi]), Categorical variables (e.g., objective response) will be summarized in frequency tables and compared among patient subgroups using the chi-square test. Linear regression and logistic (or ordinal logistic) regression will be used to construct multivariable models for continuous, binary, and ordinal variables, as appropriate. In addition to ORR, the distributions of progression-free and overall survival will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. We will consider statistical comparisons statistically, but not necessarily clinically, significant for p\<0.05., Up to 24 months post-treatment.
Rate of partial response (PR) following treatment with DEC-C/venetoclax, Up to 24 months post-treatment.|Rate of morphologic leukemia free state (MLFS) following treatment with DEC-C/venetoclax, Up to 24 months post-treatment.|Rate of relapse free survival, Up to 24 months post-treatment.|Rate of overall survival, The distributions of progression-free and overall survival will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 24 months post-treatment.|Incidence of adverse events, Up to 24 months post-treatment.|Rate of measurable residual disease negativity in patients achieving a CR, Up to 24 months post-treatment.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the effect of DEC-C/venetoclax on the investigator-assessed composite complete remission (CR) rate (CR/complete remission with partial hematologic recovery \[CRh\]/complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery \[CRi\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the rate of partial response (PR) and morphologic leukemia free state (MLFS) following treatment with DEC-C/venetoclax. II. To assess the relapse free survival of patients treated with DEC-C/venetoclax.

III. To assess overall survival of patients treated with DEC-C/venetoclax. IV. To assess the safety and tolerability of DEC-C/venetoclax in the post-hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) setting.

V. To assess the rates of measurable residual disease negativity in patients achieving a CR.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) daily for 28 days in a 28-day cycle. Patients receive DEC-C PO daily on days 1-5 of a 28-day cycle. Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy and aspiration and blood sample collection throughout the study.