Pralatrexate vs Observation Following CHOP-based Chemotherapy in Undiagnosed Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma Patients
The purpose of this study is to see if pralatrexate extends response and survival following CHOP-based chemotherapy (CHOP: cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) and if pralatrexate improves response in patients with partial response following CHOP-based chemotherapy. Patients will either receive pralatrexate or be under observation. All patients will receive vitamins B12 and folic acid and attend regular clinic visits to evaluate their disease and health.
Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Pralatrexate Injection
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time in days from randomization to the date of objective documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death, regardless of cause (date of PD or death - date of randomization + 1). PFS was to be assessed according to the International Workshop Criteria (IWC) without including positron emission tomography (PET). PD was defined as any new lesion or increase by greater than or equal to (\>=) 50 percent (%) of previously involved sites from nadir. Participants who were alive without a disease response assessment of PD was to be censored at their last disease assessment date or the date of randomization, whichever was later. Date of progression was not to be imputed for participants with missing tumor assessments before an assessment of PD. Participants who withdraw from treatment prior to PD were to be followed for disease status whenever possible. Participants who have no response assessments after baseline were to be censored at randomization., From randomization to the date of progression of disease or death due to any cause (up to 76 months)|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time in days from randomization to the date of death, regardless of cause (date of death - date of randomization + 1)., From randomization until death (up to 76 months)
Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate was defined as percentage of participants with an objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), relative to disease status at the time of study entry. The percentage was to be calculated by dividing number of participants within each category of response by the number of participants with measurable disease at baseline. Objective response was assessed according to the IWC without including PET. CR was defined as complete disappearance all detectable clinical evidence of disease and disease-related symptoms if present before therapy. PR was defined as regression of measurable disease and no new sites., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Worst Grade Adverse Events (AEs), Deaths, Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), and SAEs Leading to Discontinuation of Study Treatment, and Worst Grade Laboratory Abnormalities, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study treatment without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death, initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization, life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying), persistent or significant disability or incapacity, congenital anomaly. AE included both serious and non- SAEs. An AE of "Hematology and Chemistry" was collected and graded as per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 4.03, where Grade 3 refers to severe or medically significant but not immediately life threatening and Grade 4 refers to life-threatening consequences., From first dose of study drug to 35 (±5) days after last dose of study drug for the Pralatrexate Arm, and until 35 (± 5) days after the study treatment discontinuation for the Observation Arm (Up to 2 years)
This was an international, multi-center, randomized, Phase 3, open-label study of sequential pralatrexate versus observation in patients with previously undiagnosed PTCL who have achieved an objective response following initial treatment with CHOP-based chemotherapy.

Upon documentation of completion of an objective response following at least 6 cycles of a designated CHOP-based chemotherapy confirmation of histopathology by independent review, and confirmation that all eligibility criteria were met, patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either pralatrexate or observation, according to a permuted block design with stratification factor of Tumor Response per Investigator at completion of CHOP-based therapy (Complete Response \[CR\] vs Partial Response \[PR\]).

All patients who receive at least 1 dose of pralatrexate were followed for safety through 35 (± 5) days after their last dose of pralatrexate or until all treatment-related AEs have resolved or returned to baseline/Grade 1, whichever is longer, or until it was determined that the outcome does not change with further follow-up.