Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding in Late Dysphagia for Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
This is a prospective multicenter study with patients with delayed dysphagia after radiotherapy. Patients enrolled are randomly divided equally into the observation group and the control group. All patients receive conventional care, and the observation group received Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding while the control group received Nasogastric Tube Feeding for enteral nutrition support. Baseline information (demographics, medical history, etc.), nutritional status at admission and after treatment, depression, dysphagia, and quality of life after treatment as well as adverse events are compared.
Dysphagia
DEVICE: Intermittent Oral-esophageal Tube Feeding|DEVICE: Nasogastric Tube Feeding|BEHAVIORAL: comprehensive rehabilitation therapy
concentration of Hemoglobin, Hemoglobin was recorded through the blood routine test. (Hb, g/L), day 1 and day 15|concentration of Serum albumin, Serum albumin was recorded through the blood routine test. (ALB, g/L), day 1 and day 15|concentration of Serum prealbumin, Serum prealbumin was recorded through the blood routine test.(PA, g/L), day 1 and day 15|Body Mass Index, Body Mass Index was assessed with the combination of body weight and height: weight (kg)/ \[height (m)\] \^2, day 1 and day 15
Depression, The PATIENT HEALTH QUESTIONNAIRE scale is utilized to evaluate the depression of patients at admission and after treatment. Options representing varying degrees of severity, ranging from 0 to 3 were provided in each aspect. The total scores between 0 and 4 were classified as negative, indicating the absence of depressive symptoms, while scores above 4 were classified as positive, indicating the presence of potential depressive symptoms., day 1 and day 15|Functional Oral Intake Scale, The Functional Oral Intake Scale (FOIS) was used to evaluate function of oral intake. In the FOIS assessment, two professional rehabilitation therapists communicated with the patients, observed and recorded to assess their swallowing function. The assessment scale consists of seven levels, with a higher level indicating progressively better swallowing function (less dysphagia)., day 1 and day 15|Penetration-Aspiration Scale, In this study, the Penetration-Aspiration Scale (PAS) was recruited, which was a commonly used to evaluate the occurrence of penetration or aspiration during swallowing. It categorizes dysphagia into eight levels, with Level 0 indicating no penetration or aspiration and Level 8 indicating severe aspiration. A higher level indicates more severe dysphagia., day 1 and day 15|Swallowing-Quality of Life questionnaire, The Chinese version of the Swallowing-Quality of Life questionnaire (SWAL-QOL) was used to assess the quality of life of patients.he Likert scale ranging from 1 to 5 was utilized for scoring, with a total of 44 items, including difficulties in swallowing, dietary restrictions, oral health, social communication, and others. The total score was converted to a standard percentage scale ranging from 0 to 100, with positively correlated with quality of life., day 1 and day 15|Feeding amount, The total amount of nutrients consumed by the patient on the day was recorded, excluding fresh water, units: milliliters, day 1 and day 15
Palliation to delayed dysphagia after radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma continues to be a challenge. This is a prospective multicenter study with patients with delayed dysphagia after radiotherapy. Patients enrolled are randomly divided equally into the observation group and the control group. All patients receive conventional care, and the observation group received Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding while the control group received Nasogastric Tube Feeding for enteral nutrition support. Baseline information (demographics, medical history, etc.), nutritional status at admission and after treatment, depression, dysphagia, and quality of life after treatment as well as adverse events are compared.