Study to Identify the Optimal Adjuvant Combination Scheme of Ipilimumab and Nivolumab in Melanoma Patients
This is a two-arm Phase 1b feasibility trial consisting of 20 patients receiving the combination of ipilimumab+nivolumab, either adjuvant, or split neo-adjuvant and adjuvant.
Stage III Skin Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Surgery of the tumor|DRUG: Infusion with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg q3wks|DRUG: Infusion with nivolumab 1 mg/kg q3wks
The alteration in magnitude of the neo-antigen specific T cell response in the time interval pre- to post-adjuvant therapy in peripheral blood, To this purpose the immunogenic mutational load of each patient's melanoma will be determined by DNA and RNA sequencing from baseline biopsies (3x14g, 5ug tumor DNA). Proteasomal degradation and peptide presentation in HLA will be predicted in silico. MHC-tetramer staining containing the predicted peptides will be done as described before \[2\]. In addition, the effect of therapy on intratumoral T cell responses to obtain better insight into the mode of action of therapy will be analyzed. Identified neo-antigen specific T cells will be analyzed with respect to their phenotype and immunologic function (intracellular cytokine staining, lytic function as determined by CD107 staining, and coculture with APC presenting the cognate antigen)., 12 weeks from baseline|Safety as measured by SUSARs., 12 weeks from baseline|The alteration in breadth of the neo-antigen specific T cell response in the time interval pre- to post-adjuvant therapy in peripheral blood, To this purpose the immunogenic mutational load of each patient's melanoma will be determined by DNA and RNA sequencing from baseline biopsies (3x14g, 5ug tumor DNA). Proteasomal degradation and peptide presentation in HLA will be predicted in silico. MHC-tetramer staining containing the predicted peptides will be done as described before \[2\]. In addition, the effect of therapy on intratumoral T cell responses to obtain better insight into the mode of action of therapy will be analyzed. Identified neo-antigen specific T cells will be analyzed with respect to their phenotype and immunologic function (intracellular cytokine staining, lytic function as determined by CD107 staining, and coculture with APC presenting the cognate antigen)., 12 weeks from baseline|Feasibility as measured adherence to the timelines in the study protocol., 12 weeks from baseline
Recurrence Free Survival, as determined according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Until progression, median 10 months.|Rate of adverse events and late adverse events, Until end of follow-up, median 3 years.|Type of adverse events and late adverse events, Until end of follow-up, median 3 years.
Patients with stage III melanoma with palpable disease, naïve for CTLA-4/PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy, will be treated either post-surgery for 12 weeks with the combination of ipilimumab+nivolumab or in a split design for 6 weeks upfront surgery and for 6 weeks postsurgery. It is a two-arm Phase 1b feasibility trial consisting of 20 patients, 10 in each arm.

At different timepoints tumor biopsies and blood for PBMCs will be taken for translational research. Also scans will be done on specific timepoints.

The study will be held to determine safety, feasibility, and the immune-activating capacity of short-term combined neo-adjuvant and adjuvant ipilimumab + nivolumab. And to determine relapse free survival (RFS), any late adverse events, pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics, and the correlation between RFS and changes in neo-antigen specific T cell response.