Cinacalcet Hydrochloride in Treating Men With Recurrent Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well cinacalcet hydrochloride works in treating men with recurrent prostate cancer. Cinacalcet hydrochloride may be effective in lowering prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in patients with recurrent prostate cancer that has not responded to previous treatment
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer
OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: questionnaire administration|DRUG: cinacalcet hydrochloride
Rate of Rise of Serum PSA, The difference of post treatment and pre-enrollment PSA.For those with multiple PSA measures post we use the median of those measures to estimate the participant's post PSA level., 24 weeks
Change in Quality of Life (QOL) as Assessed by the Brief Male Sexual Inventory, The Brief Male Sexual Inventory is an 11 question assessment including subscales: sex drive, erections, ejaculation. The scores are totaled to produce an overall score with a range of 1-45, with higher score indicating worse outcomes., Up to 20 weeks|Change in Hormonal Assessment Scale From Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) is a comprehensive instrument designed to evaluate patient function and bother after prostate cancer treatment. Epic produces two scores, one for function (5 items) and the other for bother (6 items). The response for each item is standardized to a 0 to 100 scale. For both scales, higher scores indicate worse outcomes., up to 20 weeks|Change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P), The FACT-P is a multidimensional, self-report QoL instrument specifically designed for use with prostate cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Each item is rated on a 0 to 4 Likert type scale, and then combined to produce subscale scores for each domain, as well as a global QoL score. All subscale items are summed to a total. The score range is 0-156. Higher scores represent better quality of life., up to 20 weeks|Change in Total and Free Testosterone, The detectable difference is estimated using a paired t-test approach. The lab measure will also be analyzed longitudinally using all measures with a mixed model approach adjusting for individual covariates., Up to 20 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the hypothesis that once-daily treatment with 30 mg of cinacalcet hydrochloride (Sensipar) will reduce the rate of rise of serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) compared to pre-treatment PSA values in subjects with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer after failed definitive local therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cinacalcet hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 20 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.