Study Evaluating Biomarkers in Patients With Colorectal Cancer and Native KRAS Treated With Chemotherapy + Cetuximab
Advanced colorectal cancer (ACRC) is a heterogeneous disease and classification of patients is nowadays inefficient. Roughly twenty per cent of patients present with favorable figures (less than 4 liver nodules and less than 5 cm) and are suitable for local treatments (surgery or local-ablative therapies). Additionally, 10-15% of patients have poor performance status (PS \>2) or are severe disabled due to geriatric syndromes or/and co-morbid diseases that preclude any treatment strategies than best supportive care alone. The rest of patients (fit patients not suitable for radical treatments) constitute the population of patients treated with palliative therapies. Despite of it not all these patients have the same prognosis. Patients with PS 0,1 and levels of LDH \<ULN (Intermediate-risk patients) have better PFS and OS irrespective of therapy in all randomized clinical trials (de Gramont et al, JCO 2000; Douillard et al, Lancet 2000; Koopman et al, 2007).

CRYSTAL trial shows a benefit in PFS (1.5 months) in RASWT of FOLFIRI plus cetuximab compared with FOLFIRI alone. Nowadays the selection of patients for cetuximab treatment is based on mutational status of KRAS, which allow to select those patients who will not respond to therapy. Other surrogate markers of activity should be also evaluated. Our hypothesis is that the suggested biomarkers will allow the selection of the patients who will benefit the most from the biweekly cetuximab treatment.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: FOLFIRI (m)|DRUG: FOLFOX-6 (m)|DRUG: Cetuximab
Progression Free Survival, Measurements according to RECIST 1.1 criteria (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors). Main techniques: CT-scan. Two groups will be defined based on the score built from the proposed clinical variables and biomarkers. Instead of a binomial distribution, a Log-rank method has been used to calculate the sample size in order to include all the incidents during the follow-up. Expecting a minimum 20% difference (60 vs. 40%) on PFS at 12 months between groups and with the following assumptions:

Alpha error (bilateral): 5% Beta error: 20% Results are reported by subgroups to compare outcome measure according to BRAF mutation. All patients belong to same treatment/study arm., 4 years
Overall Survival, Measured as time in months from start of study treatment to death or lost to follow up.

Results are reported by subgroups to compare outcome measure according to BRAF mutation. All patients belong to same treatment/study arm., 4 years|Response Duration, Duration of the partial or total response to the treatment. Evaluation and classification according to RECIST 1.1 criteria (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors), 4 years|Frequency of Adverse Events, Frequency and type of adverse events (AEs). AEs were coded according to NCI CTCAE V3.0 and classified by frequency, relatedness to study treatment (related/not related) and severity (Grade).

Severity ranges from grade 1 (low intensity) to Grade 5 (max. intensity, death), 4 years|Secondary Biomarkers Analysis, The secondary biomarkers in serum and tumoral tissue will be analysed in order to predict the acquired resistance., 4 years|Tumoral Response, Measurements according to RECIST 1.1 criteria (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors). Main techniques: CT-scan. Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR Results are reported by subgroups to compare outcome measure according to BRAF mutation. All patients belong to same treatment/study arm., 4 years
Advanced colorectal cancer (ACRC) is a heterogeneous disease and classification of patients is nowadays inefficient. Roughly twenty per cent of patients present with favorable figures (less than 4 liver nodules and less than 5 cm) and are suitable for local treatments (surgery or local-ablative therapies). Additionally, 10-15% of patients have poor performance status (PS \>2) or are severe disabled due to geriatric syndromes or/and co-morbid diseases that preclude any treatment strategies than best supportive care alone. The rest of patients (fit patients not suitable for radical treatments) constitute the population of patients treated with palliative therapies. Despite of it not all these patients have the same prognosis. Patients with PS 0,1 and levels of LDH \<ULN (Intermediate-risk patients) have better PFS and OS irrespective of therapy in all randomized clinical trials (de Gramont et al, JCO 2000; Douillard et al, Lancet 2000; Koopman et al, 2007).

CRYSTAL trial shows a benefit in PFS (1.5 months) in RASWT of FOLFIRI plus cetuximab compared with FOLFIRI alone. Nowadays the selection of patients for cetuximab treatment is based on mutational status of KRAS, which allow to select those patients who will not respond to therapy. Other surrogate markers of activity should be also evaluated. Our hypothesis is that the suggested biomarkers will allow the selection of the patients who will benefit the most from the biweekly cetuximab treatment.