Virtual Reality and Fatigue Education
It was planned to evaluate the effect of distraction intervention with virtual reality and fatigue education on the level of fatigue and anxiety in children with cancer.
Fatigue|Anxiety
DEVICE: virtual reality and fatigue education|BEHAVIORAL: fatigue education
fatigue, Child Fatigue Scale-24 Hours: It consists of 10 items related to the perception of fatigue in children with cancer. The items in the scale contain statements that will show the child's experience of fatigue-related symptoms in the last 24 hours. The items were arranged according to likert scoring between 'never (1)' and 'a lot (5)'., pretest, 1., 2. and 3. days of chemotheraphy|anxiety, The Children's Anxiety Meter (CAM-S). The Children's Anxiety Meter assesses children's anxiety and uses before medical procedures. This scale is drawn like a thermometer with a bulb at the bottom and also includes horizontal lines at intervals going up to the top (0-10). This scale ranges from 0 to 10. Higher values represent higher anxiety, pretest, 1., 2. and 3. days of chemotheraphy
H1: The fatigue scores of the patients who received distraction intervention with virtual reality and were given fatigue training were lower than the group that was given only fatigue training.

H2: The anxiety scores of the patients who received distraction intervention with virtual reality and were given fatigue training were lower than the group that was given only fatigue training.

Data collection After the child and his family are informed about the study, their written informed consent will be obtained. All children included in the study on the day (day 0) prior to the start of chemotherapy treatment will be given training on fatigue. In order to determine how he felt and his level of fatigue on the day of the training, it was planned to apply the Child Anxiety Scale-State (CAS-D), Child Fatigue Scale-24 Hours and Visual Fatigue Scale at 16.00 (pretest).

After randomization is achieved, a distraction intervention will be applied once a day for 10-15 minutes with virtual glasses on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd days of the chemotherapy treatment of the children in the study group. This intervention is planned to take place between 14.00-15.00 in the afternoon.