Erlotinib for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Chemoprevention
This phase IIa trial studies long-term low-dose erlotinib hydrochloride treatment to assess its efficacy and safety to prevent development of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with liver cirrhosis.
Cirrhosis, Liver
DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride
Modulation of gene expression signatures associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) risk, The relationship between the treatment and modulation of a gene expression signature associated with HCC risk will be assessed. Expression levels of the signature genes will be compared between baseline and at the end of treatment, and magnitude of the modulation will be measured by Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic-based Combined Enrichment Score (CES) and tested for significance by using one-sample t-test., Baseline to week 48
Overall adverse event profile for erlotinib hydrochloride, Graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each participant and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine the overall patterns. The number and severity of adverse events will be tabulated and summarized across all grades. Grade 3+ adverse events will be similarly described and summarized separately. Overall toxicity incidence, as well as toxicity profiles will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Baseline to week 48|Change in quality of life (QOL), QOL will be measured by using the SF-12v2 health survey questionnaire, and compared between baseline and end of the treatment. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will be used to summarize the results. Paired t-test will be used to assess change of the measurements., Baseline to week 48
Changes in phospho-ERK levels in the liver, The relationship between dose-level and staining of biomarkers in the liver will be assessed. The baseline biomarker expression levels across all the dose levels using analysis of variance (ANOVA) or the nonparametric equivalent will be compared. The changes in these biomarker values will be assessed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and compare these changes across dose levels using ANOVA. Graphical methods will be used to assess the differences in these biomarker values across dose levels. All categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square or Fisher's exact tests., Baseline to week 48|Changes in PCNA levels in the liver, The relationship between dose-level and staining of biomarkers in the liver will be assessed. The baseline biomarker expression levels across all the dose levels using ANOVA or the nonparametric equivalent will be compared. The changes in these biomarker values will be assessed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and compare these changes across dose levels using ANOVA. Graphical methods will be used to assess the differences in these biomarker values across dose levels. All categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square or Fisher's exact tests., Baseline to week 48|Changes in EGF levels in the liver, The relationship between dose-level and staining of biomarkers in the liver will be assessed. The baseline biomarker expression levels across all the dose levels using ANOVA or the nonparametric equivalent will be compared. The changes in these biomarker values will be assessed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and compare these changes across dose levels using ANOVA. Graphical methods will be used to assess the differences in these biomarker values across dose levels. All categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square or Fisher's exact tests., Baseline to week 48|Changes in alphaSMA levels in the liver, The relationship between dose-level and staining of biomarkers in the liver will be assessed. The baseline biomarker expression levels across all the dose levels using ANOVA or the nonparametric equivalent will be compared. The changes in these biomarker values will be assessed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and compare these changes across dose levels using ANOVA. Graphical methods will be used to assess the differences in these biomarker values across dose levels. All categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square or Fisher's exact tests., Baseline to week 48|Changes in GSTp levels in the liver, The relationship between dose-level and staining of biomarkers in the liver will be assessed. The baseline biomarker expression levels across all the dose levels using ANOVA or the nonparametric equivalent will be compared. The changes in these biomarker values will be assessed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and compare these changes across dose levels using ANOVA. Graphical methods will be used to assess the differences in these biomarker values across dose levels. All categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square or Fisher's exact tests., Baseline to week 48
This phase IIa trial studies long-term low-dose erlotinib hydrochloride treatment to assess its efficacy and safety to prevent development of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with liver cirrhosis.