Virus-Based Gene Therapy (AdV-HSV1-TK and AdV-Flt3L) in Combination With Valacyclovir for the Treatment of Pediatric and Young Adult Patients With Resectable, Recurrent Primary Malignant Brain Tumors
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects and best dose of AdV-HSV1-TK and AdV-Flt3L in combination with valacyclovir for the treatment of patients with primary cancerous (malignant) brain tumors that can be removed by surgery (resectable) and that have come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). AdV-HSV1-TK and AdV-Flt3L use a virus modified in the laboratory to kill tumor cells and stimulate the immune system to recognize the tumor cells as "invaders" which can lead to tumor shrinkage. For this process to work, an oral anti-herpes medication called valacyclovir is also needed. Giving AdV-HSV1-TK, AdV-Flt3L and valacyclovir may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in treating patients with resectable, recurrent primary malignant brain tumors.
Recurrent Diffuse Hemispheric Glioma, H3 G34-Mutant|Recurrent Malignant Brain Neoplasm|Resectable Brain Neoplasm
GENETIC: Ad-hCMV-Flt3L|GENETIC: Ad-hCMV-TK|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Survey Administration|PROCEDURE: Tumor Resection|DRUG: Valacyclovir
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Each participant will be classified as either having a DLT prior to Day 21 after dual vector administration or Day 21 after dual vector administration with no DLT (a binary endpoint). Adverse events (AEs) will be defined according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5., Up to day 21
Overall survival at 6 months (OS6), Defined as the percentage of participants alive at least 6 months (26 weeks) after the study enrollment. Will be addressed by using the Kaplan-Meier method with confidence intervals. Estimation of OS6 will be addressed by using the Kaplan-Meier method with confidence intervals (R module: 'survival')., At 6 months|OS time, Estimation of median OS will be addressed by using the Kaplan-Meier method with confidence intervals (R module: 'survival')., From study enrollment until death from any cause, up to 5 years|Progression free survival at 6 months (PFS6), Defined as the percentage of participants alive and free from progression (relapse, progression per Response Assessment in Pediatric Neuro-Oncology \[RAPNO\] criteria, or death from any cause) at 6 months (26 weeks) after study enrollment. Estimation of PFS6 will be addressed by using the Kaplan-Meier method with confidence intervals (R module: 'survival'). Point estimates of PFS6 will be presented along with either standard error or 90% confidence intervals., At 6 months after study enrollment|PFS time, Estimation of median PFS will be addressed by using the Kaplan-Meier method with confidence intervals (R module: 'survival')., From study enrollment until the occurrence of the first event (relapse, progression per RAPNO criteria, or death from any cause), up to 5 years
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects and best dose of AdV-HSV1-TK and AdV-Flt3L in combination with valacyclovir for the treatment of patients with primary cancerous (malignant) brain tumors that can be removed by surgery (resectable) and that have come back after a period of improvement (recurrent). AdV-HSV1-TK and AdV-Flt3L use a virus modified in the laboratory to kill tumor cells and stimulate the immune system to recognize the tumor cells as "invaders" which can lead to tumor shrinkage. For this process to work, an oral anti-herpes medication called valacyclovir is also needed. Giving AdV-HSV1-TK, AdV-Flt3L and valacyclovir may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in treating patients with resectable, recurrent primary malignant brain tumors.