Radiologic Pathologic Correlation of Imaging to Distinguish True Progression From Pseudoprogression in Brain Malignancies
To learn if advanced imaging methods can tell apart true progression (the disease has actually gotten worse) from pseudoprogression (the disease appears to have gotten worse, but it actually has not).
Brain Malignancies|Pseudoprogression
PROCEDURE: MRI Scan|PROCEDURE: CT Scan|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Safety and adverse events (AEs), Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), Through study completion; an average of 1 year
Primary Objectives To determine if advanced imaging findings can correlate with tissue changes in order to distinguish true progression from pseudoprogression. We will recruit participants with new suspicious enhancement developing during treatment for glioma, and systematically perform: a) high quality routine MR imaging (including routine, diffusion, permeability, perfusion and spectroscopy imaging as part of our regular ABTI protocol) and compare this imaging to b) pathology obtained by means of stereotactic biopsy. Pathology will serve as the gold standard to determine which imaging strategies are most successful in distinguishing between true Tumor recurrence and Pseudoprogression for each lesion.

Secondary Objectives

1. To assess the feasibility of Contrast Clearance MR (delayed T1 enhanced MR) subtraction maps in distinguishing Pseudoprogression from true progression.
2. To gather observational data for Dual Energy CT imaging and delayed contrast clearance with Dual Energy CT in the assessment of glioma.
3. To correlate quantitative imaging biomarkers (derived from MR imaging data) along the biopsy tract with histological and clinical biomarkers. This exploratory data could generate novel comparisons to determine those imaging biomarkers that are most effective at predicting (a) cellular density and, (b) the types and relative numbers of cells present in the brain.
4. To observe clinical outcomes such as progression free survival and overall survival in the trial population and relate these to imaging findings.