A Study of Whole Brain Radiation Therapy and Capecitabine in Breast Cancer Participants With Newly Diagnosed Brain Metastasis
This open-label, randomized, parallel arm study will evaluate the effect of capecitabine administered concurrently with WBRT and as maintenance therapy in participants with breast cancer and newly diagnosed brain metastases. Participants will be randomized to receive either capecitabine with 10 days standard WBRT, or WBRT alone. Maintenance therapy will follow with capecitabine or another systemic therapy in the WBRT only group.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: WBRT|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Standard of Care
Percentage of Participants With Best Objective Central Nervous System (CNS) Response, Assessed by Centralized Independent Expert According to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) - Intent-to-Treat (ITT) Population, Best objective CNS response was defined as having complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) for CNS metastasis, assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI using response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST). CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: greater than or equal to (\>/=) 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of longest diameters (LD) of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until disease progression (PD), unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Percentage of Participants With Best Objective CNS Response, Assessed by Centralized Independent Expert According to MRI - Per-Protocol (PP) Population, Best objective CNS response was defined as having CR or PR for CNS metastasis, assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: \>/=30% decrease in sum of LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)
Percentage of Participants With Objective CNS Response at 4 Weeks After Completion of WBRT, Assessed by Centralized Independent Expert According to MRI, Objective CNS response was defined as having CR or PR for CNS metastasis, assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: \>/=30% decrease in sum of LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first up to 4 weeks after completion of WBRT (up to approximately 7 weeks)|Percentage of Participants With Best Objective CNS Response, Assessed by Investigator According to MRI, Best objective CNS response was defined as having CR or PR for CNS metastasis, assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: \>/=30% decrease in sum of LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Percentage of Participants With Objective CNS Response at 4 Weeks After Completion of WBRT, Assessed by Centralized Independent Expert According to MRI in 3 Dimension, Objective CNS response was defined as having CR or PR for CNS metastasis, assessed by 3 dimensional MRI using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: \>/=30% decrease in sum of LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first up to 4 weeks after completion of WBRT (up to approximately 7 weeks)|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit, Assessed by Investigator According to MRI, Clinical benefit was defined as having CR, PR, or stable disease (SD), assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: \>/=30 % decrease in sum of LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD) taking as reference smallest sum LD since treatment started. PD: a 20% or greater increase in the sum of the LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more CNS lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing CNS lesions., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Percentage of Participants With Objective CNS Response at 4 Weeks After Completion of WBRT, Assessed by Investigator According to MRI, Objective CNS response was defined as having CR or PR for CNS metastasis, assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: \>/=30 % decrease in sum of LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first up to 4 weeks after completion of WBRT (up to approximately 7 weeks)|Duration of CNS Response, Assessed by Investigator According to MRI, Duration of CNS response was defined as the time from first documented cranial CR or PR (whichever was recorded first) until the first date CNS recurrence or progression was documented as assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI according to RECIST criteria but without exam for response confirmation. CR: disappearance of all CNS lesions. PR: \>/=30 % decrease in sum of LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD. PD: a 20% or greater increase in the sum of the LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more CNS lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing CNS lesions., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Time to CNS Progression, Assessed by Investigator According to MRI, Time to CNS progression was defined as the time from start of study treatment to first documentation of PD or death due to CNS metastasis. PD was assessed by contrast-enhanced MRI according to RECIST. PD: a 20% or greater increase in the sum of the LD of CNS lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more CNS lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing CNS lesions., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Percentage of Participants With Best Objective Extra-cranial Disease Response, Assessed by Investigator According to Computed Tomography (CT), Best objective extra-cranial response was defined as having CR or PR for extra-cranial lesions, assessed by CT using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all extra-cranial lesions. PR: \>/=30 % decrease in sum of LD of extra-cranial lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Extra-cranial Disease Response at 4 Weeks After Completion of WBRT, Assessed by Investigator According to CT, Objective extra-cranial response was defined as having CR or PR for extra-cranial lesions, assessed by CT using RECIST. CR: disappearance of all extra-cranial lesions. PR: \>/=30 % decrease in sum of LD of extra-cranial lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first up to 4 weeks after completion of WBRT (up to approximately 7 weeks)|Time to Extra-cranial Disease Progression, Assessed by Investigator According to CT, Time to extra-cranial progression was defined as the time from start of study treatment to first documentation of PD or death due to extra-cranial lesions. PD was assessed by CT according to RECIST. PD: a 20% or greater increase in the sum of the LD of extra-cranial lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more extra-cranial lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing extra-cranial lesions., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Time to Progression, Assessed by Investigator According to MRI and CT, Time to progression was defined as the time from start of study treatment to first documentation of PD or death due to tumor (CNS or extra-cranial). PD was assessed by MRI or CT according to RECIST. PD: a 20% or greater increase in the sum of the LD of CNS or extra-cranial lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or appearance of one or more CNS or extra-cranial lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing CNS or extra-cranial lesions., Baseline until PD, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, change of therapeutic strategy (for arm "WBRT Followed by Standard of Care" only), or death, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. OS was assessed using Kaplan-Meier analysis., Baseline until death (up to approximately 1 year 5.5 months overall)|Absolute Change From Baseline in Mini Mental State (MMS) Total Score, MMS was an 11-question measure that tested five areas of cognitive function: orientation, registration, attention and calculation, recall, and language. Four items were scored on a scale of 0 to 1; 1 item was scored on a scale of 0 to 2; 3 items were scored on a scale of 0 to 3; and 3 items were scored on a scale of 0 to 5. MMS total score was obtained by adding the scores of all individual items and ranged from 0 to 30, where higher scores indicate better cognitive state., Baseline, Up to end of Treatment (up to 10.6 months overall)
This open-label, randomized, parallel arm study will evaluate the effect of capecitabine administered concurrently with WBRT and as maintenance therapy in participants with breast cancer and newly diagnosed brain metastases. Participants will be randomized to receive either capecitabine with 10 days standard WBRT, or WBRT alone. Maintenance therapy will follow with capecitabine or another systemic therapy in the WBRT only group.