Adoptive Transfer of iNKT Cells for Treating Patients With Relapsed/Advanced HCC
This study enrolls patients who have relapsed/advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC, BCLC stage C). The HCC tumor relapsed or metastasized through the body after standard treatment or the patients cannot receive standard treatment under current conditions. This research study uses special immune system cells called iNKT cells, a new experimental treatment.

The purpose of this study is to find the biggest dose of iNKT cells that is safe and tolerance, to see how long they last in the body, to learn the immunoresponse in the body, to learn the side effects are and to see if the iNKT cells will help people with relapsed/advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: iNKT cells|DRUG: IL-2|DRUG: Tegafur
Number of Adverse Events, Defined as signs/symptoms, laboratory toxicities, and clinical events that are possibly, likely, or definitely related to study treatment Adverse events assessed according to NCI-CTCAE v4.0 criteria 2., During the first 12 weeks, participants were assessed for adverse events every 2-4 weeks after infusion; after the first 12 weeks, participants were assessed for adverse events every 3 months, up to 20 months.
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is the time that passes from the date that patient enrolled in the clinical trial and the date on which HCC progresses or the date on which the patient dies. HCC progression was evaluated by imaging according to the irRC standard. Progression is defined as a ≥25% increase in the nadir of the sum of target lesions., Through study completion, an average of 12 months.|Number of Participants With Stabilized (SD) or Progressive (PD) Disease., Disease stabilization (SD) or progressive diseasee (PD) were valuated by imaging according to the irRC standard. Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all lesions; Partial response (PR): ≥50% decrease from baseline; SD: Neither CR or PD is met; PD≥25% increase in the nadir of the sum of target lesions., 4 weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks after cell infusion.|Overall Survival (OS), OS is the time that passes from the date that patient enrolled in the clinical trial and the date on which the patient dies, according to the irRC standard., Through study completion, up to 20 months.
PBMCs of enrolled patients were collected and then further separated by density gradient centrifugation. After washing three times, the cells were resuspended in serum-free medium with recombinant human IL-2 and α-GalCer. Restimulation with α-GalCer-pulsed autologous DCs was done on days 7. After 14 days of cultivation, the iNKT cells were harvested, washed thrice, and then resuspended in saline. The frequency of iNKT cells before and after cultured in vitro were determined by flow cytometry analysis.