Impact of Real-time Notification of Colonoscopic Optical Diagnosis on Patients' Anxiety and Depression After Polypectomy
The accuracy of endoscopic optical diagnosis for colorectal polyps has been approaching histological diagnosis after implementation of image enhancement endoscopic technologies. The real-time notification of possible nature of resected polyp after colonoscopy is expected to reduce the anxiety and depression level of the patients before the availability of histological diagnosis and improve their quality of life. We designed and conducted a randomized control trial to confirm this hypothesis.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Colonic Polyp|Anxiety|Depression|Colonoscopy
OTHER: Real-time endoscopic optical diagnosis
Proportion of definite anxiety cases, The level of anxiety of the two study arms will be measured by using the Taiwan version questionnaire of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results. The anxiety score of this questionnaire ranging from 0 to 21. Scored 0 to 7 defined as normal case, scored 8 to 10 defined as doubtful case, and scored 11 to 21 defined as definite case. The proportion of definite anxiety cases of the two study arms will be compared., This outcome will be assessed right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results (around 1 to 2 weeks after polypectomy)..|Proportion of definite depression cases, The level of depression of the two study arms will be measured by using the Taiwan version questionnaire of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results. The depression score of this questionnaire ranging from 0 to 21. Scored 0 to 7 defined as normal case, scored 8 to 10 defined as doubtful case, and scored 11 to 21 defined as definite case. The proportion of definite depression cases of the two study arms will be compared., This outcome will be assessed right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results (around 1 to 2 weeks after polypectomy)..
Anxiety score, The level of anxiety of the two study arms will be measured by using the Taiwan version questionnaire of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results and compared the difference between the two study arms. The anxiety score of this questionnaire ranging from 0 to 21. Higher score means higher anxiety level., This outcome will be assessed right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results (around 1 to 2 weeks after polypectomy)..|Depression score, The level of depression of the two study arms will be measured by using the Taiwan version questionnaire of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results and compared the difference between the two study arms. The depression score of this questionnaire ranging from 0 to 21. Higher score means higher depression level., This outcome will be assessed right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results (around 1 to 2 weeks after polypectomy)..
This is a single center, open-label, prospective and parallel randomized controlled trial. This study planning to recruit outpatients from the age of 40 to 79 who are scheduled to undergo sedated colonoscopy. Once eligible subjects were diagnosed of colorectal polyps during colonoscopy and received polypectomy, they will be randomized into "ordinary care group (explained at next scheduled clinic)" and "real-time notification group (explained immediately after colonoscopy)". The level of anxiety, depression of the two groups will be measured by using the Taiwan version questionnaire of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) right before the next scheduled clinic for histological results and compared the difference between the two groups.This study is expected to determine the impact of real-time notification of colonoscopic optical diagnosis on patients' anxiety and depression after polypectomy, and provide evidence to improve post-polypectomy care.