Investigation of the Effects of Functional Inspiratory Muscle Training in Patients With Lung Cancer
Patients' pulmonary functions and diffusion capacity worsen following lung cancer surgery. Diaphragmatic activity and lung compliance decrease due to surgery. Peripheral and respiratory muscle functions are impaired in patients with lung cancer, exercise capacity and physical activity level decreased. Patients have postural instability and balance problems. Inspiratory muscle training has increased inspiratory muscle strength in patients with lung cancer. However, there is no study investigating functional inspiratory muscle training in patients with lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DEVICE: Functional inspiratory muscle training group|DEVICE: Control group
Oxygen Consumption, Maximum exercise capacity will be assessed by symptom-limited cardiopulmonary exercise testing on a treadmill at gradually increasing speed and degree, and oxygen consumption will be measured during the test., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Muscle oxygenation, Muscle oxygenation of the quadriceps femoris (during the exercise test) and the diaphragm, scalene muscles, sternocleidomastoid muscle, and rectus abdominis muscle (at rest) will be assessed with a muscle oxygen monitor., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Balance, Balance will be evaluated using a balance assessment device., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Balance (timed up and go test), Balance will be evaluated a timed up and go test., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Physical activity level, A multi-sensor activity monitor will be used to assess the level of physical activity., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year
Respiratory Muscle Strength, Maximal inspiratory and expiratory muscle strength will be evaluated using mouth pressure device., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Respiratory Muscle Endurance, The test will be started at 30% of maximum inspiratory pressure and the inspiratory threshold load will be increased by 10% of the maximal inspiratory pressure value every two minutes. New pressure loading will be maintained without removing the device from the mouth. If the individual cannot breathe 3 consecutive times, the test will be terminated by the physiotherapist. The total duration of the test and the maximum pressure value at which it continues to breathe for at least 1 minute will be multiplied. The value found will be recorded as the respiratory muscle endurance value., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Pulmonary function (Forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1)), Pulmonary function will be evaluated with the spirometry. Dynamic lung volume measurements will be made according to American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society criteria. With the device, forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1) will be evaluated., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Pulmonary function (Forced vital capacity (FVC)), Pulmonary function will be evaluated with the spirometry. Dynamic lung volume measurements will be made according to American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society criteria. With the device, forced vital capacity (FVC) will be evaluated., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Pulmonary function (FEV1/FVC), Pulmonary function will be evaluated with the spirometry. Dynamic lung volume measurements will be made according to American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society criteria. With the device, FEV1 / FVC will be evaluated., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Pulmonary function (Flow rate 25-75% of forced expiratory volume (FEF 25-75%)), Pulmonary function will be evaluated with the spirometry. Dynamic lung volume measurements will be made according to American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society criteria. With the device, flow rate 25-75% of forced expiratory volume (FEF 25-75%) will be evaluated., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Pulmonary function (Peak flow rate (PEF)), Pulmonary function will be evaluated with the spirometry. Dynamic lung volume measurements will be made according to American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society criteria. With the device, peak flow rate (PEF) will be evaluated., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Peripheral Muscle Strength, Shoulder abduction and knee extensor muscle strength using portable hand held dynamometer will be evaluated., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Trunk muscle endurance, Trunk muscle endurance will be evaluated with the pelvic bridge test and partial sit-up test., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Cough Strength, Cough strength will be assessed using a peak cough flow meter (PEFmeter) (ExpiRite Peak Flow Meter, China)., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Dyspnea, Modified Borg Scale: The Modified Borg scale is a subjective scale that scores 0-10 for breathlessness and fatigue at rest and/or during activity. The lowest 0 points "not at all" the highest 10 points "very severe" means shortness of breath.

The Modified Medical Research Council (MMRC) dyspnea scale will be used to determine the perception of dyspnea during activities of daily living., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Fatigue, Fatigue will be assessed with Fatigue Severity Scale (Turkish version). This scale includes 9 items and each item scores from 1 (strong disagreement) to 7 (strong agreement) point. Fatigue Severity Scale total score is calculates by deriving an arithmetic mean. Cut-score of over 4 means significant fatigue and higher score indicates more severe fatigue., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year|Disease Specific Quality of Life, Quality of life will be measured using Turkish version of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 version 3.0 (EORTCQLQ). The cancer-specific questionnaire has 30 questions and incorporates five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status and several single items. All item scores are transformed to 0-100. Higher values indicate higher functional/health level in functional scales, a higher quality of life level in global health status and increased symptoms in symptom scales., Trough study completion, an average of 2 year
Lung cancer is a malignant lung tumor characterized by uncontrolled cell growth in lung tissues. The main treatment methods for lung cancer are chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and surgery. Molecularly targeted therapy and immunotherapy are also among the treatment options. Patients with lung cancer experience various symptoms such as dyspnea, cough, chest pain, hemoptysis, fatigue, weight loss due to the disease process, the effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatment, and comorbidities. The treatment method varies depending on the histological type, stage, location of the tumor, and the physical condition of the patient. Surgery is performed as a therapeutic option for many patients with lung cancer. Lung cancer surgery impair the cardiorespiratory functions of the patients. Patients' pulmonary functions and diffusion capacity worsen following lung cancer surgery. In lung cancer patients, the incision applied to the respiratory muscles due to surgery and changes in the mechanics of the chest wall cause worsening of respiratory muscle function. The condition results in dyspnea in patients at rest and during activities of daily living. Mitochondrial dysfunction due to the pathogenesis of the disease and chemotherapy/radiotherapy leads to deterioration in muscle oxygen metabolism. In individuals with reduced muscle oxygen, exercise tolerance and muscle strength decrease. Impairment of diaphragm function is associated with decreased postural stability after lung cancer surgery. Patients with lung cancer have postural instability and balance problems. Lung cancer significantly affects the quality of life of patients, limiting their physical and social activities. Inspiratory muscle training is recommended as part of disease management for lung cancer. In the literature, there are studies investigating the effectiveness of inspiratory muscle training in lung cancer patients in the preoperative, perioperative, and postoperative periods. However, there is no study investigating functional inspiratory muscle training in patients with lung cancer. Functional inspiratory muscle training (IMT) was developed by McConnell. It is a program that is based on the functions of respiratory muscles other than breathing, and IMT is applied along with exercise.

The primary aim of this study: To investigate the effects of functional inspiratory muscle training on oxygen consumption, muscle oxygenation, balance and physical activity level in patients with lung cancer.

The secondary aim of this study: To investigate the effects of functional inspiratory muscle training on pulmonary functions, peripheral and respiratory muscle strength, inspiratory and trunk muscle endurance, cough strength, fatigue, dyspnea and quality of life in patients with lung cancer.