Tislelizumab or Tislelizumab Combined With Lenvatinib Neo-adjuvant Treatment for Resectable RHCC
This non-randomized phase II clinical trial aimed to explore the efficacy and safety of Tislelizumab or Tislelizumab combined with Lenvatinib as neoadjuvant treatment for resectable RHCC patients
Recurrent Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Tislelizumab combined with Levatinib
Disease-free survival rate, Defined as the percent of patients without recurrence, progression or death in one year after enrollment, 1 year
Objective response rate, Defined as the percent of patients with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) documented by the Investigator per RECIST 1.1., At time of surgery|Incidence of severe adverse events, Defined as the percent of patients with adverse events over grade 3., Three months after treatment|Major pathological response rate, Defined as the percent of patients with less than 10% visible cancer cells out of the surface expression of the total tumor area at the time of surgery, At time of surgery
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients have about 70% of 5-year recurrence rate after curative treatment. Only 30% of recurrent HCC (RHCC) patients are resectable when diagnosed. Neoadjuvant treatment may reduce tumor burden and recurrence rate after surgery for RHCC patients. Immune checkpoint inhibitors combined with or without antiangiogenic agents have already been reported effective in advanced HCC patients as first-line therapy, and in several early-stage solid tumors as neoadjuvant therapy. According to several preclinical results, immune infiltration and the expression of PD-1 were higher in RHCC tumors than in paired primary tumors. So, immune checkpoint inhibitors combined with or without antiangiogenic agents might have a better response in RHCC patients than primary HCC patients. Herein, we designed this phase II clinical trial to explore the efficacy and safety of Tislelizumab (PD-1 inhibitor) or Tislelizumab combined with Lenvatinib as neoadjuvant treatment for resectable RHCC patients. Enrolled resectable RHCC patients will be divided into two non-randomized seperate arms, sequentially (arm 1: neoadjuvant tislelizumab; arm 2: neoadjuvant tislelizumab and lenvatinib). Each arm was estimated to enroll 40 patients. We have already enrolled 17 patients in arm 1, and have terminated the enrollment of arm 1 due to modest treatment responses. The enrollment of arm 2 is ongoing.