Therapeutic Effect of Cytoreductive Radical Prostatectomy in Men With Newly Diagnosed Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well surgical removal of the prostate and antiandrogen therapy with or without docetaxel work in treating men with newly diagnosed prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Antiandrogen therapy may lessen the amount of androgens made by the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Surgery, antiandrogen therapy and docetaxel may work better in treating participants with prostate cancer.
Stage IV Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Antiandrogen Therapy|DRUG: Docetaxel|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy
Failure-free survival (FFS), Failure is defined as any one of the following events: PSA progression, clinical progression, radiographic progression, or death from prostate cancer. The % of men who fail within 2 years of randomization will be compare between the two groups using a one-sided log-rank test., At 2 years
Cancer-specific survival, Up to 2 years|Overall complication rate, Up to 2 years|Time to biochemical progression, Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Through study completion, a minimum of 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical benefit of combining radical surgery cytoreductive radical prostatectomy (CRP) - with the best systemic therapy (BST) in men with newly diagnosed clinical metastatic prostate cancer (mPCa).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the impact of CRP+BST on time to biochemical progression, cancer-specific survival, complication rates, and quality of life (QOL) in patients with mPCa.

II. To determine the transcription levels of bone morphogenetic protein -6 (BMP-6) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-?).

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants receive antiandrogen therapy with or without docetaxel at the discretion of the treating physician.

ARM II: Participants receive antiandrogen therapy for at least 1 month, then undergo cytoreductive radical prostatectomy. Participants continue antiandrogen therapy and may receive docetaxel prior to surgery at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months from time of progression.