5-Fluoro-2'-Deoxycytidine and Tetrahydrouridine in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of 5-Fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine (FdCyd) when given together with tetrahydrouridine (THU) in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). FdCyd may inhibit cancer cell growth by increasing the production in cells of compounds that suppress growth or by otherwise killing cells. Although FdCyd is stable as a drug solution, it is rapidly inactivated by an enzyme present in people. THU is included in the treatment to inhibit the enzyme, prolonging the time FdCyd remains in the body
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: 5-fluoro-2-deoxycytidine|DRUG: tetrahydrouridine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|GENETIC: reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction|GENETIC: DNA methylation analysis
MTD and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of the new 10-day schedule of FdCyd/THU, Toxicities will be summarized by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade and attribution using the version current at the initiation of the protocol., 10 days
Toxicities of the FdCyd/THU treatment, 3 years|Time to progression, 3 years|Overall survival, 3 years
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of FdCyd administered with a fixed dose of THU in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), once daily on days 1-10 of a 21-day treatment cycle. II. To describe the toxicities of FdCyd/THU in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). III. To document all clinical responses and hematologic improvement in patients treated with FdCyd/THU. IV. To obtain preliminary information regarding the effect of FdCyd/THU on deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation patterns in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and bone marrow aspirates, including malignant myeloid cells; the ratio of gamma- to beta-globin messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) in blood cells; and serum cytokines. OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of FdCyd. Patients receive FdCyd intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and THU IV over 3 hours on days 1-10. Courses repeat every 21days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.