ICG-fluorescence Imaging for Intraoperative Breast Cancer Margins Evaluation: a Dose-timing Study
Designed in five-arm, single-center, prospective randomized, observational- interventional, open-label study which will evaluate patients with histological proven early-stage BC that will undergo planned BCS for their local treatment.

Two preoperatively times frames will be used for the administration of a total of 5 different indocyanine green (ICG) dose as a single dose-patient arm.

In the first time frame (intraoperative arms), the dose of, respectively 0.125 mg/kg and 0.25 mg/kg of ICG will be administered at induction anesthesia (at least 20 minutes before the BCS) in two subgroups.

In the second time frame, (preoperative arms), the dose of, respectively, 0.5 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg, and 2 mg/kg of ICG will be administered 24 h before surgery in 3 subgroups.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Indocyanine green
Accuracy of ICG-FI technique for the detection of positive (involved) surgical margins at the patient level, The sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp), negative predictive value (NPV), false negative rate (FNR), FPR of the ICG-FI technique will be computed at the patient level, 2 years
Comparison of ICG-FI technique accuracy at different doses and timing, The sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp), negative predictive value (NPV), false negative rate (FNR), FPR of the ICG-FI technique will be computed, 2 years|Characterization of the breast tumor fluorescence (tumor-to- background fluorescence ratio), Characterization of the appearance and intensity of fluorescence at the level of tumor cells, 2 years|Evaluation of fluorescence intensity of axillary lymph nodes, The distribution of fluorescence intensity will be calculated depending on the type of axillary lymph node (LN) : sentinel vs other and respectively metastatic LN vs healthy LN), 2 years
The majority of breast cancer (BC) patients are diagnosed with an early-stage disease and are good candidates for breast-conserving surgery (BCS). Achieving adequate margins of excision is the most important component of BCS. Currently intra-operative margin assessment (IOMA) techniques used for margins evaluation in BC, either histological or imagistic is not accurate enough to predict the margins status of breast resected tumours and to guide surgery.

Fluorescence imaging (FI) using indocyanine green (ICG), a non-specific fluorophore, has also been reported to be a new, promising, non-invasive and relatively low cost technology to improving the accuracy of tumor detection during surgery in different clinical cancers, such as those of the liver, colon, ovaries, head and neck, lungs and breast. Furthermore ICG-FI can provide a real-time guidance during surgery and could establish corrects margins resection by improving the visual delineation between normal and tumoral tissues.

Only two clinical experience of ICG-FI for evaluating surgical margins in BC was reported. The group of Keating reported the first one, in a pilot study of 12 patients, after ICG intravenous (IV) injection (5mg/kg) they found that there was residual fluorescence in the tumoral bed in 6 out of 12 patients, but none of these patients had positive margins at definitive pathology. Recently, the investigators have reported the utility of ICG-FI after intraoperative ICG IV injection of 0.25 mg/kg for intraoperative breast surgical margin assessment during BCS. In a study of 35 BC patients, the investigators observed that the sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp), and negative predictive value (NPV), of ICG-FI to predict margin involvement on the breast operative specimens were 100%, 60% and 100% respectively. Several important technical points exist in the experimental and clinical use of ICG-FI. There is a great variability of the published data regarding the baseline characteristics of the ICG use, like dosage and timing of administration (perioperative vs delayed). Furthermore, the fluorescence imaging system is usually different.

In this study, the investigators would like to emphasize and to get more precision about the optimal ICG doses and timing, which could increase the diagnostic accuracy of intraoperative ICG-FI for resection margins assessment during BCS, after intravenously ICG administration.