A Safety Study of Sativex in Combination With Dose-intense Temozolomide in Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
An open-label phase to assess the frequency and severity of adverse events in recurrent glioblastoma patients receiving Sativex in combination with dose-intense Temozolomide (Part A). A randomisation phase to assess the safety of Sativex compared with placebo (Part B). Part A will be reported here.
Cancer
DRUG: Sativex
The incidence of adverse events in patients receiving Sativex in combination with dose-intense Temozolomide in the open-label phase of the study, Adverse events will be coded according to the current medical dictionary for regular activities graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events criteria. The number of patients who experienced an adverse event whilst on treatment will be presented., Study Day 1 - Day 358
The number of patients with Progression Free Survival at six months (PFS6), PFS6 will be assessment at Visit 11 (Day 190). Progression of disease will be determined from Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology tumour assessment (based on Magnetic Resonance Imaging scans). The number of patients with PFS6 will be presented for the open-label phase (Part A)., Study Day 1 - Day 190|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be assessed at the end of the treatment visit (Day 358 or at early termination). The number of surviving patients from the open-label phase (Part A) will be presented., Study Day 1 - Day 358
Patients will receive Sativex and dose-intense Temozolomide in an open-label phase. The incidence of adverse events will be monitored (Part A). An investigator led Safety Review Team will assess the safety profile of the open-label patients and decide whether the study can progress to the randomisation phase (Part B). Patients who enrol in the randomisation phase patients will receive either Sativex or placebo. The safety of Sativex compared to placebo will be assessed by pharmacokinetic analysis of Temozolomide and its metabolites, clinical laboratory tests, adverse events and vital signs.