Tarlatamab in Advanced Delta-like 3 (DLL3)-Expressing Tumors Including Neuroendocrine Neoplasms
This study is being done to learn more about the drug tarlatamab in people with your condition. The purpose of this study is to see the efficacy (how well something works) of study treatment (tarlatamab) and whether it causes any side effects. Tarlatamab is being developed as an anti-cancer drug for tumors and is FDA-approved for extensive-stage small cell lung cancer. Tarlatamab is investigational for the purpose of this study.
DLL3-expressing Tumors|Advanced Tumors
DRUG: Tarlatamab treatment
1. Primary efficacy endpoint is overall response rate (ORR) as defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by RECIST 1.1 criteria. This is evaluated in the response evaluable set of patients., 18 months
Duration of response (DOR), Duration of response, defined as time from the first documentation of OR until the first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Only participants who have achieved OR will be evaluated for DOR, 18 months|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as time from randomization until disease progression based on RECIST 1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from randomization until death from any cause., 18 months|Safety and tolerability, Safety and tolerability of tarlatamab as measured by adverse events defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events V5.0 (CTCAE 5.0). CRS and ICANS will be graded per ASTCT Consensus Grading., 18 months
Biomarker analysis, Assessment of potential biomarkers using tissue and based analyses, 18 months|Evaluate radiologic correlates, Evaluate radiologic correlates such as DLL3 PET tracer uptake at sites where this is available., 18 months
This is a phase II, multicenter, basket trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of tarlatamab in DLL3-expressing tumors. The study will enroll patients with advanced tumors, other than small cell lung cancer or neuroendocrine prostate cancer, that are confirmed to exhibit DLL3 expression. Patients will be treated with tarlatamab until disease progression, death, unacceptable adverse effects, or withdrawal of consent.

A Simon's two-stage optimum design will be used \[1\]. The primary objective of this phase II trial is the overall response rate (ORR, as defined by confirmed complete and partial response) per RECIST v1.1 criteria. Our null hypothesis is an ORR of 10% or lower, based on the requirements for prior therapies, and our alternative hypothesis is an ORR of 30% or greater. We will utilize a Simon two-stage design, in which 10 patients will be entered into the first stage. If 2 or more patients show a response, then an additional 19 patients will be enrolled. If 6 or more patients out of 29 show a response, then the trial will reject the null hypothesis.