Study of Tabalumab (LY2127399) in Japanese Participants With Relapsed or Refactory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effect on the body of Tabalumab (LY2127399) in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone in Japanese participants with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (MM).
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Tabalumab|DRUG: Bortezomib IV|DRUG: Bortezomib SC|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Number of Participants With One or More Drug Related Adverse Events (AEs) or Any Serious AEs, A summary of other non-serious AEs, and all SAE's, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Events section., Baseline through 8 months
Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) for Tabalumab (LY2127399), Cycle 1, Day 1: 6 + or - hours after bortezomib (BTZ); Cycle 7, Day 1: immediately post BTZ dose and 2 hours after tabalumab|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to the Last Measurable Plasma Concentration (AUC0-tlast) of Tabalumab (LY2127399), Cycle 1, Day 1: 6 + or - hours after bortezomib (BTZ); Cycle 7, Day 1: immediately post BTZ dose and 2 hours after tabalumab|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to Infinity (AUC0-∞) of Tabalumab (LY2127399), Cycle 1, Day 1: 6 + or - hours after bortezomib (BTZ); Cycle 7, Day 1: immediately post BTZ dose and 2 hours after tabalumab|Number of Participants With Tumor Response (Tumor Response Rate), Stringent Complete Response- Complete response in addition to normal free light chain ration and no clonal cells in bone marrow.

Complete Response- no monoclonal protein (mp) in blood, no serum or urine mp, less than 5% plasma cells in bone marrow.

Very Good Partial Response-more than 90% decrease in mp and urine protein. Partial Response- over 50% decrease in serum mp. Stable Disease- less than 25 percent decrease of monoclonal protein. Progressive Disease- 25% increase compared to lowest value of serum mp, urine mp, no measurable mp., Baseline to disease progression (up to 421 days)|Duration of Response (DoR), DoR is defined as the time from the date when the measurement criteria are met for CR, CRu, or PR (whichever status is recorded first) until the date of first observation of measured progressive disease. For responding participants who die without progressive disease (including death from study disease),DoR will be censored at the date of death. For responding participants not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who do not have progressive disease, DoR will be censored at the last objective progression-free assessment date prior to the data cut-off date., Time from Response until measured Progressive Disease (up to 455 days)|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from the date of study enrollment to the date of objectively determined progressive disease. TTP will be censored at the date of the last objective progression free disease assessment., Baseline to date of Progressive Disease (up to 455 days)|Pharmacodynamics (PD): Change From Baseline in Absolute B-cell Count, Baseline through study completion (up to 455 days)|Pharmacodynamics (PD): Change From Baseline in B-cell Subset Fractions, CD19+ peripheral B-cells counts are based on the percentage of total leukocyte population and absolute cell counts., Baseline, Cycle 1 and Cycle 7: prior to first tabalumab dose.
The study has 3 cohorts. Cohort 2 and cohort 2-SC will be conducted in parallel with some data presented combined.

Cohort 1 - Participants will receive 100 mg Tabalumab (LY2127399) intravenously (IV), 1.3 milligram per square meter (mg/m\^2) bortezomib IV, and 20 mg dexamethasone orally.

Cohort 2 - Participants will receive 300 mg Tabalumab (LY2127399) IV, 1.3 mg/m\^2 bortezomib IV, and 20 mg dexamethasone orally.

Cohort 2-SC - Participants will receive 300 mg Tabalumab (LY2127399) IV, 1.3 mg/m\^2 bortezomib subcutaneously (SC), and 20 mg dexamethasone orally.

Cohort 2-SC was added per protocol amendment in February 2013.