Intranasal Oxytocin in Hypothalamic Obesity
This research study will test if oxytocin, delivered by nasal spray, will promote weight loss in children, adolescents, and adults with Hypothalamic Obesity as compared to a placebo. The study is divided into two parts. During the first part, subjects will receive either oxytocin or placebo. In the second part, subjects will "cross-over" to receive the other treatment - either oxytocin or placebo. During study visits participants will do blood tests, physical exams, metabolic testing, a MRI scan, and some surveys and questionnaires.
Craniopharyngioma|Hypothalamic Obesity
DRUG: Syntocinon|DRUG: Placebo (for Syntocinon)
Weight Loss, The primary objective of this study is to determine whether treatment with 8 weeks of intranasal OXT (relative to 8 weeks of placebo) will promote weight loss in children and adolescents with brain tumors and hypothalamic obesity syndrome ages 10 to 35 years. Specifically, the primary outcome will be: the difference of the post-treatment weight between the two periods (treatment vs. placebo); the statistical model will include the difference of the baseline weight between the two periods and the sequence (OXT-PBO versus PBO-OXT)., Assessed at the beginning and end of each Intervention Period (Intervention 1: Visit 1 to Visit 4 = 8 Weeks, Intervention 2: Visit 5 to Visit 8 = 8 Weeks)
Peripheral Oxytocin Area Under the Curve (AUC), We will determine the immediate peripheral pharmacokinetics of intranasal oxytocin (versus placebo/endogenous oxytocin). In order to minimize participant burden, each participant had the assessment at one time point with either the low or high dose of oxytocin. And at one point during the placebo block.

For this exploratory outcome, visits representing lower dose and higher dose oxytocin were Combined versus lower and higher dose placebo., Assessed during each treatment block: at either initial lower dose at baseline (week 0 & week 12) or increased dose at 2 weeks (week 2 & week 15); 50% of participants at each set.
Cognitive Restraint at Test Meal Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo, Cognitive Restraint at Test Meal Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo measured using stop-signal task, stop signal reaction time (SSRT).

For this exploratory outcome, in order to minimize participant burden, each participant had the assessment at one time point with either the low or high dose of oxytocin. And at one point during the placebo block for comparison., Intervention 1: Week 2 (Low Dose) or Week 4 (High Dose) and Intervention 2: Week 14 (Low Dose) or Week 16 (High Dose)|Within Participant Difference in Calories Consumed Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo Dose 1 (Week 0 & Week 12), as a % of kcal Offered., Within Participant Difference in Calories Consumed Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo Dose 1 (Week 0 \& Week 12). Total number of calories consumed during the standardized test meal., Assessed during Intervention 1: Week 0 (Dose 1) and Intervention 2: Week 12 (Dose 1)|Within Participant Difference in Calories Consumed Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo Dose 2 (Week 2 & Week 14), as a % of kcal Offered., Within Participant Difference in Calories Consumed Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo Dose 2 (Week 2 \& Week 14). Total number of calories consumed during the standardized test meal., Assessed during Intervention 1: Week 2 (Dose 2) and Intervention 2: Week 14 (Dose 2).|Within Participant Difference After Oxytocin vs After Placebo in Resting Energy Expenditure (kcal/kg Lean Body Mass/Day), Within Participant Difference After Oxytocin vs After Placebo in Resting Energy Expenditure (kcal/kg lean body mass/day). Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) with output of kcal/kg lean body mass/day measured using indirect calorimetry., Assessed at the end of each treatment block: Week 8 & Week 20.|Respiratory Quotient (VCO2/VO2), Within Participant Difference After Oxytocin vs Placebo in Respiratory Quotient (RQ) measured using indirect calorimetry., Assessed at the end of each treatment block: week 8 & week 20.|Within Participant Difference After Oxytocin vs Placebo in % Body Fat, Total % Body Fat measured using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA)., Assessed at the end of each treatment block: week 8 & week 20.|Skeletal Muscle Oxidative Phosphorylation (OXPHOS) Capacity, Measured using MRI-based post-exercise Creatine Chemical Exchange Saturation Transfer (CrCEST) decline exponential time constant., Assessed at the end of each treatment block.|Within Participant Change in Hyperphagia (Total Score) Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo, Measured using the Dykens Hyperphagia Questionnaire.

The Dykens Hyperphagia Questionnaire is a 11-item questionnaire with responses on a scale of 1 to 5. 1 = Not a Problem, 5 = Severe or Frequent Problem. The scale includes three domains: hyperphagic behavior, hyperphagic drive, and hyperphagic severity. There is also a total or overall score which is calculated by combining the scores from each domain. Maximum Possible Score: 55, Minimum Possible Score: 11. Higher scores indicated more severe and/or frequent Hyperphagia., Assessed using data from Intervention 1: Screening and Visit 4 (Week 8) and Intervention 2: Visit 5 (Week 12) and Visit 8 (Week 20).|Within Participant Change in Disinhibition of Eating Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo, Within Participant Change in Disinhibition of Eating Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo. Measured using the Eating Inventory questionnaire.

The Eating Inventory consists of 36 statements where participants respond true or false, 14 questions where participants select a response from 1 (least severe: rarely or not at all) to 4 (most severe: always or very much), one final question askes participants to rate their level of restraint in eating from 1 (no restraint) to 6 (constantly limiting food). The scores are assessed in 3 dimensions: Dietary Restraint (Max Score: 21), Disinhibition (Max Score: 16), and Hunger (Max Score: 14).

Within Participant Change in Scores from the Disinhibition of Eating dimension are reported., Assessed using data from Intervention 1: Screening and Visit 4 (Week 8) and Intervention 2: Visit 5 (Week 12) and Visit 8 (Week 20).|Within Participant Change in Mental and Emotional Health Related Quality of Life Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo, The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) quality of life in neurological disorders (Neuro-QoL) scale is a set of self-reported measures to assess health-related quality of life of adults and children.

Individuals rate domains on a scale from 1 (Never/Not at all) to 5 (Always/Very Often). Each response is assigned a value. Values are combined for a total raw score, then converted to a T-Scores (cohort-specific mean 50, SD 10). Higher scores on the sub-scale domains indicate more of the entity. Adult and child scores were combined in analyses., Assessed using data from Intervention 1: Screening and Visit 4 (Week 8) and Intervention 2: Visit 5 (Week 12) and Visit 8 (Week 20)|Within Participant Change in Family Assessment Device-General Function Scale (FAD-GFS) Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo, Within Participant Change in Family Assessment Device-General Function Scale (FAD-GFS) Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo.

The Family Assessment Device (FAD-GFS) includes 12 statements where individuals select from a scale of 4 responses ranging from Strongly Agree (SA) to Strongly Disagree (SD). Each response has a score ranging from 1 to 4, some of the items are reverse scored (i.e. 1 = 4, 2 = 3, 3 = 2, 4 = 1). Minimum Total Score: 12, Maximum Total Score: 48. The scores for each question are added and then divided by the total number of questions. The Minimum Overall Score: 1, Maximum Overall Score: 4. A score of 2 or above is considered dysfunction., Assessed using data from Intervention 1: Screening and Visit 4 (Week 8) and Intervention 2: Visit 5 (Week 12) and Visit 8 (Week 20).|Within Participant Change in Voluntary Physical Activity Attributable to Oxytocin vs Placebo, Measured using the Bone Mineral Density in Childhood Study (BMDCS) physical activity questionnaire.

The Bone Mineral Density in Childhood Study (BMDCS) questionnaire captures the amount of time spent in physical activity. The assessment asks participants to record the number of hours spent in different categories of physical activity (Min: 0 hours per week, Max: 11+ hours per week)., Assessed using data from Intervention 1: Screening and Visit 4 (Week 8) and Intervention 2: Visit 5 (Week 12) and Visit 8 (Week 20)|Eye-Tracking Task, Amount of time spent viewing socially relevant versus socially irrelevant stimuli during eye-tracking., Assessed at the end of each treatment block.|EEG Task, N170 EEG signal during eye-tracking, Assessed at the end of each treatment block.
This research study will test if oxytocin, delivered by nasal spray, will promote weight loss in children, adolescents, and adults with Hypothalamic Obesity as compared to a placebo. The study is divided into two parts. During the first part, subjects will receive either oxytocin or placebo. In the second part, subjects will "cross-over" to receive the other treatment - either oxytocin or placebo. During study visits participants will do blood tests, physical exams, metabolic testing, a MRI scan, and some surveys and questionnaires.