GTI-2040, Oxaliplatin, and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer or Other Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of capecitabine when given together with GTI-2040 and oxaliplatin in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer or other solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. GTI-2040 may increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs. Giving GTI-2040 together with oxaliplatin and capecitabine may kill more tumor cells
Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Stage IIIC Colon Cancer|Stage IIIC Rectal Cancer|Stage IVA Colon Cancer|Stage IVA Rectal Cancer|Stage IVB Colon Cancer|Stage IVB Rectal Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
BIOLOGICAL: GTI-2040|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: capecitabine|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of the combination of GTI-2040, oxaliplatin and capecitabine based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) as assessed by CTCAE version 3.0, Adverse events will be summarized by grade, attribution, and organ system. Hematological and clinical chemistry laboratory results will be included in the adverse event summary., 21 days
Objective response (confirmed PR and CR) according to RECIST, Calculated with exact binomial 95% confidence interval., At 6 weeks|Pharmacokinetics, Peak and integrated blood levels will be summarized by dose level, and displayed in scatterplots with RR-M2 mRNA levels and changes., At baseline, and at 7 and 14 days after the start of infusion|Change in biochemical and molecular correlates, Molecular correlates will be analyzed descriptively in relation to clinical outcome. The association with progression-free survival or overall survival will be assessed by dichotomizing the measures of gene expression at the median (or by previously-established cut-points) and constructing Kaplan-Meier plots., From baseline to up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated (MTD) of a 21 day cycle of capecitabine given orally twice daily for 14 days in combination with oxaliplatin given intravenously on day 1 and GTI-2040 given as a continuous infusion over 14 days in patients with advanced metastatic solid tumors.

II. To describe the toxicities at each dose level studied.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of GTI-2040, capecitabine, and oxaliplatin when these are given in combination.

II. To evaluate levels of ribonucleotide reductase -M2 subunit (RR-M2) mRNA levels using TaqMan RT-PCR in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and in tumor samples (when available). TRF support will be required and sought.

III. To quantitate changes in dCTP levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells during treatment as a surrogate marker of RR inhibition. TRF support will be required and sought.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of capecitabine.

Patients receive GTI-2040 IV continuously on days 1-14, oral capecitabine twice daily on days 2-15, and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 2 of the first course. In all subsequent courses, capecitabine is administered on days 1-14, oxaliplatin is administered on day 1, and GTI-2040 is administered as in course 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of capecitabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.