Aquatic Versus Land Based Exercise on Lymphedema Post Mastectomy
Fifty eligible breast cancer survivors (median, 10 yrs after surgery) with arm lymph-edema (median, 21% inter limb difference) were included and randomized into the intervention(group A, n = 25) or control ( Group B, n = 25). Intervention group received 60 minutes aquatic-based exercise in the form of warm-up for 10 mins, then strengthening exercise for 40 minutes, followed by 10 min cooling down in the form of stretching and mobility exercise, three times a week for 8 weeks, plus land-based exercise session for 60 minutes for 8 weeks in the form of warm-up, strengthening, and cooling down exercise. The control group received 60 minutes of land base exercise, three times a week, for 8 weeks. Arm volume, shoulder flexion, abduction range of motion and pain using a visual analogue scale were assessed at baseline and after 8 weeks of treatment.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: aquatic based exercise.|OTHER: land-based exercise.
Limb volume measurement:, the patient in a comfortable sitting position, a standard one cm, retractable, the fibreglass tape measure was used to perform circumference measurement. The measurement was made at, 10, 20, 30, and 40 cm above the ulnar styloid process,, 8 weeks.
Range of Motion, Upper extremity active ROM for shoulder flexion and abduction were assessed in the standing position using a standard goniometric method, 8 weeks.
Visual analogue scale for pain assessment, horizontal (HVAS) or vertical (VVAS) line, usually 10 centimetres (100 mm) in length, anchored by 2 verbal descriptors, one for each symptom extreme. Instructions, the time period for reporting, and verbal descriptor anchors have varied widely in the literature depending on the intended use of the scale, 8 weeks.
Group A: 25 female Patients there aged ranged from 37 to 67 years old with BCRL, in Group-A had been dealt with water-based exercise was conducted at a hydrotherapy pool for the Eden Health care, cairo, The pool measures 8 × 15 m and ranges from 1 to 1.8 m in depth with access via steps. Interventions were conducted predominately in the deeper section of the pool so participants immerse their neck in water.

Control group, Group B: 25 female Patients there aged ranged from 37 to 67 years old with BCRL, in control group had been dealt Land-based exercise program: Supervised program consisted of 60-min sessions, three times a week, over 8 weeks. The exercise program consisted of the first 10 minutes for warm-up exercise with a small softball, fit -ball, mobility and stretching exercise. Then 30-40 minutes for strength development with different materials and positions, that require more body control and increase joint motion. Then the last 10 minutes for cooling down for stretching exercise for the arm muscles .