TrasGEX™: Phase 1 Study in Cancer Patients
This was a prospective, open label, multicenter study evaluating the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of TrasGEX™ after intravenous administration in patients with HER-2 positive cancers. The effect of TrasGEX™ on the development of anti-drug antibodies and on tumour response was also evaluated.
Solid Tumors
DRUG: TrasGEX™
optimal dose and regimen of TrasGEX™, The primary objective of this first-in-man study is to determine the optimal dose and regimen of TrasGEX™ in patients with locally advanced or metastatic human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER-2)-positive cancer. The recommended phase II dose needs to have an acceptable safety profile and provides evidence for efficacy based on clinical observations or the pharmacokinetic profile., up to at least 8 weeks after the first TrasGEX™ administration
To determine preliminary evidence of activity, CT or MRI imaging will be performed. Assessment of tumor response (SD, PR, CR. PD) will be performed following a modified version of the revised RECIST guidelines, version 1.1. Basically, patients will receive treatment with TrasGEX™ until progression of disease and/or unacceptable toxicities are observed., approx. every 8 weeks|safety and tolerability of TrasGEX™, To assess the safety and tolerability of TrasGEX™ in patients with advanced and/or metastatic HER-2-positive cancer at various dose levels considering observed adverse events, laboratory values, vital signs, ECOG performance status and physical examination., until 4 weeks after the last treatment with TrasGEX™|To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of TrasGEX™ (part I), c(max): to determine the PK profile samples will be taken before the first infusion and up to 24 h after after infusion, followed by weekly samples for the first infusion and samples immediately before and after infusion for the following infusions, prior to 1st infusion until the end of 5th infusion|To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of TrasGEX™ (part II), t(1/2): to determine the PK profile samples will be taken before the first infusion and up to 24 h after after infusion, followed by weekly samples for the first infusion and samples immediately before and after infusion for the following infusions, prior to 1st infusion until the end of 5th infusion
Adult patients with advanced and/or metastatic HER2-positive cancer who were resistant to or for whom there was no standard anti-tumor therapy available at the time of enrollment and who had an estimated life expectancy of at least 3 months were eligible for participation in this study.

Patients were to receive the study drug until disease progression (clinical or radiologic), unacceptable toxicity, or any other reason leading to termination of study treatment.

Dose-escalation was performed in 3 to 6-patient cohorts.