CPAP in Treating Obstructive Sleep Apnea in Patients With Polycythemia Vera or Essential Thrombocythemia
This early phase I trial studies how well the use of a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine works in treating obstructive sleep apnea in patients with polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia. Obstructive sleep apnea is a condition where a person stops breathing during sleep, and is estimated to affect 30 to 50 percent of patients with polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia. A patient with obstructive sleep apnea typically snores, has disrupted sleep, experiences morning headaches, and has daytime sleepiness. Patients diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea are typically treated with a device called CPAP. The CPAP provides pressurized air that keeps upper air passages open during sleep and may prevent them from narrowing or collapsing as occurs during snoring or sleep apnea.
CALR Gene Mutation|Essential Thrombocythemia|JAK2 Gene Mutation|MPL Gene Mutation|Obstructive Sleep Apnea Syndrome|Polycythemia Vera
PROCEDURE: Continuous Positive Airway Pressure|OTHER: Patient Observation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form - Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS), Will be tested at the two-sided 0.025 significance level to provide overall control of the type I error for the co-primary endpoints at 0.05. The endpoints will be summarized by mean, median, range, standard deviation, interquartile range and boxplots. Scatterplots will be used to show bivariate associations. An assessment of normality will be made prior to statistical testing. Paired t tests will be used to analyze endpoints that are sufficiently Gaussian in distribution. Paired Wilcoxon tests will be used to analyze variables that are highly skewed or otherwise non-Gaussian in distribution., Baseline, after 3 months, and after 6 months on trial|Change in JAK2 V617F allele burden, Will be tested at the two-sided 0.025 significance level to provide overall control of the type I error for the co-primary endpoints at 0.05. The endpoints will be summarized by mean, median, range, standard deviation, interquartile range and boxplots. Scatterplots will be used to show bivariate associations. An assessment of normality will be made prior to statistical testing. Paired t tests will be used to analyze endpoints that are sufficiently Gaussian in distribution. Paired Wilcoxon tests will be used to analyze variables that are highly skewed or otherwise non-Gaussian in distribution., Baseline, after 3 months, and after 6 months on trial
Proportion of patients with a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), Assessed by Snoring, Tiredness, Observed Apnea, Blood Pressure, Body Mass Index, Age, Neck Circumference and Gender (STOP-BANG) questionnaire. The proportion of patients whose results indicate a diagnosis of OSA will be calculated. All patients with a diagnosis of OSA, regardless of whether they are enrolled to the treatment component of the study, will be counted towards the assessment of prevalence. An assessment of normality will be made prior to statistical testing. Paired t tests will be used to analyze endpoints that are sufficiently Gaussian in distribution. Paired Wilcoxon tests will be used to analyze variables that are highly skewed or otherwise non-Gaussian in distribution., During the OSA screening|Leucocytes, platelets, red cell counts, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) analysis, The endpoints will be summarized by mean, median, range, standard deviation, interquartile range and boxplots. Scatterplots will be used to show bivariate associations. An assessment of normality will be made prior to statistical testing. Paired t tests will be used to analyze endpoints that are sufficiently Gaussian in distribution. Paired Wilcoxon tests will be used to analyze variables that are highly skewed or otherwise non-Gaussian in distribution., Baseline, after 3 months, and after 6 months on trial|Thrombotic and inflammatory marker levels for all patients, Will be measured in blood samples taken from all patients. OSA-related adverse events reported in the Treatment Cohort at these timepoints will be correlated with these marker levels. Pearson or Spearman correlation will be used to assess correlation between thrombo-inflammatory markers and oximetric abnormalities., Baseline, after 3 months, and after 6 months on trial
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To understand effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) on the course of polycythemia vera/essential thrombocythemia (PV/ET).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate prevalence of OSA in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms. II. To understand effects of CPAP for sleep apnea on the course of myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs).

III. To correlate OSA severity with thrombotic and inflammatory marker values in patients with PV/ET at baseline.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I (OBSERVATIONAL COHORT): Patients not diagnosed with OSA undergo observation for 6 months.

COHORT II (TREATMENT COHORT): Patients diagnosed with OSA and prescribed a CPAP machine for treatment receive continuous treatment with CPAP for 6 months.