Prostate Cancer IRE Study (PRIS)
The aim of this study is to evaluate the feasibility to treat localized prostate cancer diagnosed with MRI and targeted/systematic biopsies, with IRE in comparison with conventional radical treatments with the primary objective to locally control the tumour with a minimum of side effects.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Irreversible electroporation, IRE|PROCEDURE: Radical prostatectomy|RADIATION: Radiation therapy
Primary outcome in PRIS 1: Urinary continence, Urinary incontinence defined by Q3 in EPIC-26, ≥1 pad/day ("Yes") versus none ("No"), 12 months postoperatively|Primary outcome in PRIS 2: Irritative urinary symptoms, Irritative urinary symptoms defined by Q4e in EPIC-26, Moderate/big problem ("Yes") Versus no/small problem ("No"), 12 months postoperatively
Erectile dyfunction, IIEF score: International Index of Erectile Function, change. The possible scores for the IIEF-5 range from 5 to 25, and ED was classified into five categories based on the scores: severe (5-7), moderate (8-11), mild to moderate (12-16), mild (17-21), and no ED (22-25)., 12 months postoperatively|Voiding function, International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS score), change. It is a validated, reproducible scoring system to assess disease severity and response to therapy. The IPSS is made up of 7 questions related to voiding symptoms. A score of 0 to 7 indicates mild symptoms, 8 to 19 indicates moderate symptoms and 20 to 35 indicates severe symptoms., 12 months postoperatively|Bowel function, Expanded Prostate Cancer Index, EPIC-26, Q6 change in score. The EPIC-26 is a validated instrument that measures health-related quality of life across 5 PCa-specific domains. Consequently, the minimum symptom score (best HRQOL) = 0 and the maximum symptom score (worst HRQOL) = 12 in each domain. For consistency, the values assigned to each question range from 0 (best) to 4 (worst) regardless of whether there were 4 or 5 response options per question., 12 months postoperatively|Adverse events, Clavien-Dindo, 3 months postoperatively|Quality of life, EuroQoL-5 Dimensions, EQ5D; The descriptive system comprises five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems and extreme problems., 12 months postoperatively|Treatment Failure, experimental arms, 1. Need for additional focal or whole gland treatment or ADT
2. Need for whole gland treatment or ADT
3. Need for whole gland treatment or ADT or ISUP 2 at 12 mo biopsy, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Treatment Failure, control arm (surgery), Post-operative PSA ≥0.2 ng/ml or adjuvant treatments including ADT, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Treatment Failure, control arm (radiation), PSA \>2 over nadir (Phoenix) or adjuvant treatments including ADT, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
OBJECTIVES The aim of the proposed research is to evaluate the cancer control, genitourinary, rectal and overall health-related quality of life outcomes of focal therapy for unifocal localized prostate cancer using irreversible electroporation (IRE).

PRIMARY AIM

• To evaluate functional outcomes in men treated for unifocal ISUP 2-3 localized prostate cancer with focal treatment in comparison to conventional treatment with either radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy

SECONDARY AIMS

* To evaluate adverse events in men treated for unilfocal ISUP 2-3 localized prostate cancer with focal treatment in comparison to conventional treatment with either radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy
* To evaluate progression free and treatment free survival in men treated for unifocal ISUP 2-3 localized prostate cancer with focal treatment in comparison to conventional treatment with either radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy
* Economic evaluation of each technique

TRIAL DESIGN This study is a randomized controlled exploratory trial comparing focal therapy to conventional radical treatment of prostate cancer with the primary aim to evaluate functional outcomes 12 months after treatment.

Patients will be included from 4 different hospitals within the Stockholm County; Karolinska University Hospital, Danderyd Hospital, St Görans Hospital, Södersjukhuset. Eligible patients, after MRI and targeted/systematic biopsies, will be men with clinically significant intermediate-risk PCa or dominant unifocal clinically significant intermediate-risk and small contralateral low-risk disease without previous history of prostate cancer treatment.

Potential study participants will have a visit scheduled together with an urologist and oncologist, where a treatment decision of radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy will be done together with the patient. At this visit the patient will receive oral and written information about the study. If the patient is interested in participating, a baseline visit is scheduled during which informed consent is obtained and the patient randomized to one of two standard treatments or focal treatment.

Patients eligible for radical prostatectomy will be randomized in study 1 to focal treatment or radical prostatectomy. Patients eligible for radiation therapy will be randomized in study 2 to focal treatment or radiation therapy. Time between randomization and treatment will be \<= 6 weeks.

Patients will be asked to fill out study specific questionnaires with questions on functional outcomes and quality of life.

Main outcome measurement in study 1 will be urinary incontinence at 12 months post treatment and in study 2 irritative urinary symptoms 12 months post treatment. Further outcomes will be erectile dysfunction, adverse events, progression-free and treatment-free survival.