Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Compared to Platinum-Based Chemotherapies in Participants With Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (MK-3475-024/KEYNOTE-024)
This is a study to assess the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab (MK-3475/SCH 900475) compared to standard of care (SOC) platinum-based chemotherapies in the treatment of participants with previously untreated stage IV, programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) strong expressing Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC). The primary hypothesis of this study is that participants with PD-L1 strong NSCLC will have a longer Progression Free Survival (PFS), as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) when treated with pembrolizumab than when treated with SOC platinum-based chemotherapies.

With Amendment 09 (20 December 2017), once participants have achieved the study objective or the study has ended, participants will be discontinued from this study and enrolled in an extension study to continue protocol-defined assessments and treatment.
Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate at Month 6, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to documented disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first and was based on blinded independent central radiologists' (BICR) review. Progressive Disease (PD) was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions and an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression). Participants were evaluated every 9 weeks with radiographic imaging to assess their response to treatment. The data cutoff was 09-May-2016. The PFS rate at Month 6 was calculated., Month 6
Overall Survival (OS) Rate, OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up. The data cutoff was 10-July-2017. The median OS rate at 12 months is presented., 12 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a Complete Response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on BICR evaluation. ORR was assessed from enrollment/treatment initiation of a participant through data cutoff of 09-May-2016. The ORR is presented for each treatment group., Up to ~1.6 years
Treatment Phase: Participants randomized to pembrolizumab will be treated for up to 35 cycles or until documented progressive disease (PD) occurs. Participants randomized to SOC chemotherapies will be treated with their randomized study drug for up to 4-6 cycles. After this, participants with non-squamous histologies may choose to be treated with maintenance pemetrexed for the remainder of the study or until disease progression, unacceptable adverse event(s) (AEs), intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the participant, noncompliance with study treatment or procedures requirements, the participant receives 35 treatments of study treatment (pembrolizumab arm only), or administrative reasons. Participants receiving pembrolizumab who stop drug administration after receiving 35 study treatments for reasons other than disease progression or intolerability, or participants who attain a complete response and stop study treatment may be eligible for retreatment with pembrolizumab upon experiencing disease progression. The decision to retreat with a second course of pembrolizumab will be at the discretion of the Investigator only if participants meet the criteria for retreatment and the study is ongoing. Retreatment (second course) is limited to 17 cycles. Participants randomized to receive SOC chemotherapy may be eligible to receive pembrolizumab if criteria to switch are met.

Switch-Over Phase: This is only applicable for participants randomized to receive SOC. Eligible participants will be treated with pembrolizumab for the remainder of the study or until disease progression, unacceptable AEs, intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the participant, noncompliance with study treatment or procedures requirements, the participant receives 35 treatments of study treatment (pembrolizumab arm only), or administrative reasons.