Combination of Zanubrutinib, Rituximab and Venetoclax in Patients With Previously Untreated Follicular Lymphoma
This is a single center, open label, single arm phase II clinical trial. The objective of this study is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of zanubrutinib combined with venetoclax and Rituximab in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma (FL) .
Ann Arbor Stage II Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Zanubrutinib|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Venetoclax
CR rate, Determined by PET/CT based on Cheson, Lugano classification 2014 as assessed by the investigator. The number and percentage of subjects with a CR will be tabulated., Within 6 months of therapy completion
Overall response rate (ORR), CR + partial response (PR), determined by PET/CT based on Cheson, Lugano classification 2014 as assessed by the investigator. The number and percentage of subjects with an ORR will be tabulated., Within 6 months of therapy completion|Progression-free survival, PFS is defined as the duration from date of treatment initiation to date of disease progression or death from any cause, up to two years|Overall survival, PFS is defined as the duration from date of treatment initiation to date of death from any cause, up to two years|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Incidence of subjects occuring treatment related adverse events., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drugs
Follicular lymphoma (FL)is the most common inert non Hodgkin's lymphoma (iNHL). Their natural courses are slow but highly variable. The standard first-line treatment of advanced FL is based on rituximab. Whether combined with chemotherapy or not, it can induce lasting remission, but it is usually incurable. Although the first-line immunochemotherapy regimen has high efficacy, it also has high toxicity. Cytotoxic chemotherapy is related to many side effects, including bone marrow suppression and immunosuppression, gastrointestinal and cardiac toxicity, neurotoxicity and the occurrence of secondary tumors. About 20% of FL patients relapse within 2 years after first-line chemotherapy. The overall prognosis of these patients is poor. This clinical trial aims to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of free-chemotherapy regimen (zanubrutinib combined with venetoclax and Rituximab) in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma.