Introduction and Influence of Total Mesorectal Excision (TME) in the Treatment of Rectal Cancer
Total mesorectal excision (TME) is a rather new operation technique in the treatment of rectal cancer. It is known to reduce the rate of local recurrences. However, the influence on long-term survival is unclear.
Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: conventional rectal surgery|PROCEDURE: total mesorectal excision
Local recurrence, recurrence-free survival, overall survival, 6 months and 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years after the operation
Surgical complications, first 30 days after the operation|quality of life|Percentage of patients undergoing transcatheter arterial embolisation
Background

The TME technique for rectal cancer surgery was introduced in our department in summer 1995. TME is known to reduce the rate of local recurrences. However, its influence on long-term survival in unclear.

All patients with rectal cancer from 1993 to 2001 are reviewed. The patients charts are reviewed and the following main characteristics are retrieved: age, gender, time of operation, operation technique, tumor stage, tumor localisation, tumor size, neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment, complications, follow-up with respect to the appearance of local recurrences and distant metastases.

Comparison of two groups of patients. Group 1: patients operated before summer 1995, that is before the introduction of TME. Group 2: patients operated after summer 1995, that is after the introduction of TME.

Objective

Study the influence of a new operation method (TME) on outcome (local recurrence, survival).

Methods

All patients with rectal cancer from 1993 to 2001 are reviewed. The patients charts are reviewed and the following main characteristics are retrieved: age, gender, time of operation, operation technique, tumor stage, tumor localisation, tumor size, neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment, complications, follow-up with respect to the appearance of local recurrences and distant metastases.

Comparison of two groups of patients. Group 1: patients operated before summer 1995, that is before the introduction of TME. Group 2: patients operated after summer 1995, that is after the introduction of TME.