Novel MRI Techniques on Evaluation of Lymphedema
In this project, the investigators aim to investigate the imaging approaches for breast cancer-related secondary lymphedema. The clinical study aims to optimize the conventional MRI methods for mapping lymphedema and assess the post-surgical therapeutic effects in longitudinal follow-up studies. Additionally, a normal imaging database of lymphedema MRI images will be established for future reference. For pre-clinical animal study, investigators aim to develop and integrate two novel MRI methods, including free water elimination diffusion MRI and diffusion kurtosis MRI techniques. By integrating clinical and pre-clinical studies, the investigators aim to establish a precise imaging tool for evaluating the therapeutic effects of lymphedema for following translational applications.
Lymphedema of Upper Limb
PROCEDURE: Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging
change from baseline circumference of both arms at 3 months after lymphaticovenous anastomosis, circumference in cm, baseline, 3 months after lymphaticovenous anastomosis|change from baseline volume of both arms at 3 months after lymphaticovenous anastomosis, volume in mL, baseline, 3 months after lymphaticovenous anastomosis
A total of three sub-projects will be conducted in this project. Sub-project 1 will establish a pre-clinical rat model for lymphedema and develop novel MRI methods, including diffusion kurtosis MRI and free water elimination diffusion MRI techniques, for mapping tissue characteristics of lymphedema. Sub-project 1 will be complemented with the clinical images provided by sub-project 2, yielding more information about the lymphedema. Sub-project 2 aims to optimize the clinical MRI methods for mapping lymphedema and quantitatively assess the severity of lymphedema. A normal imaging database will be established for reference. Sub-project 2 and sub-project 3 will be complementary in co-developing the image assessment of post-surgical therapeutic effect. Sub-project 3 will quantitatively evaluate the severity of lymphedema secondary to different kinds of axillary treatments by using the clinical MRI methods for establishing longitudinal monitoring and prediction approaches. It also focuses on the pre-surgical and post-surgical evaluation of lymphedema undergone supermicrosurgical technique by using the clinical MRI methods.