Development of a Prediction Platform for Adjuvant Treatment and Prognosis in Resected Pancreatic Cancer Using Organoid
The investigators create organoid from the pancreatic cancer tissue obtained via EUS-FNA and EUS-FNB within the pancreatic cancer diagnostic process. And also the investigators create organoid from the pancreatic cancer tissue obtained after surgery as part of the pancreatic cancer treatment process. Check for the reactivity to anti-cancer drugs through cell viability assay after treating with various anti-cancer drugs, such as anti-cancer drugs used as adjuvant chemotherapy for pancreatic cancer to the organoid. Also, perform genomic analysis on each organoid, and then check if there are any unique genomic mutations for each organoid. By recognizing the relationship between the unique genomic mutations and reactivity to the anti-cancer drug within pancreatic cancer patients eligible for surgery, the investigators aim to strategize appropriate adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery, thus developing a platform to predict the outcomes of each patient.
Pancreatic Cancer Resectable
OTHER: Organoid
Overall survival rate, The percentage of people in a group who are still alive for a certain period of time after they were started adjuvant chemotherapy for pancreatic cancer, From date of initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months
The investigators create organoid from the pancreatic cancer tissue obtained via EUS-FNA and EUS-FNB within the pancreatic cancer diagnostic process. And also the investigators create organoid from the pancreatic cancer tissue obtained after surgery as part of the pancreatic cancer treatment process. Check for the reactivity to anti-cancer drugs through cell viability assay after treating with various anti-cancer drugs, such as anti-cancer drugs used as adjuvant chemotherapy for pancreatic cancer to the organoid. Also, perform genomic analysis on each organoid, and then check if there are any unique genomic mutations for each organoid. By recognizing the relationship between the unique genomic mutations and reactivity to the anti-cancer drug within pancreatic cancer patients eligible for surgery, the investigators aim to strategize appropriate adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery, thus developing a platform to predict the outcomes of each patient.