Effect of Nurse-led Supportive Care on Caregiver Burden and Well-being
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer in women with a high mortality rate in the world. Women may experience many different physiological and psychological symptoms (such as pain, nausea-vomiting, fatigue, stress, anger, and isolation) during diagnosis and treatment process. Family members often become caregivers at the time of diagnosis, and treatment of breast cancer patients. Therefore, family caregivers experience burden and poor health-related quality of life.
Nurse-led Supportive Care
BEHAVIORAL: Nurse-led supportive care
Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI), The ZBI is a measure of caregiving burden developed by Zarit et al. (1980). The Turkish version of this scale has been validated by Inci and Erdem (2018). It consists of 22 items, and responses are recorded on a five-point Likert scale. The level of caregiver burden can be ascertained based on the total scale scores, which range from 0 to 88. Higher scores indicate a higher level of caregiver burden.The Cronbach's α of the Turkish version of this scale was 0.91 in Inci and Erdem (2018) validation study, Change from baseline Zarit Burden Interview score at 9th weeks.
Caregiver Well-Being Scale, The scale was developed by Berg-Weber et al. (2000) in order to measure the level of caregivers of patients with chronic diseases to meet their basic needs and activities of living. The scale is made up of two subscales, namely, basic needs and activities of living, which try to measure the daily activity level of the caregivers. It consists of 44 items, and responses are recorded on a five-point Likert scale. Higher scores indicate a higher level of well-being. The Cronbach's α of the Turkish version of this scale was 0.86 in Demirtepe and Bozo (2009) validation study., Change from baseline Caregiver Well-Being Scale score at 9th weeks.
This a pragmatic, parallel group randomized controlled trial aimed that investigating the effect of nurse-led supportive care on caregiver burden and well-being among primary caregivers of women with breast cancer. This trial was conducted in the chemotherapy outpatient clinic of training and research hospital located in Turkey. All primary caregivers were family members.