Comparison of Laparoscopic Proximal Gastrectomy and Laparoscopic Total Gastrectomy
Experimental: Laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy Laparoscopy proximal gastrectomy with esophago-jejunostomy, gastro-jejunostomy and jejuno-jejunostomy (double tract reconstruction). Systemic en bloc lymph node dissection is mandatory. Resection margin should be negative for malignancy with intraoperative frozen biopsy.

Active Comparator: Laparoscopic total gastrectomy Laparoscopic total gastrectomy with esophago-jejunostomy and jejuno-jejunostomy (Roux-en-Y reconstruction). Systemic en bloc lymph node dissection is mandatory. Resection margin should be negative for malignancy with intraoperative frozen biopsy.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic proximal gastrectomy|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic total gastrectomy
Change of Hemoglobin, from blood sample, up to 2 years postoperatively|Vitamin B12 cumulative supplement quantity, from blood sample, up to 2 years postoperatively
Operative morbidity, Complications occuring after operation, 30 days for early morbidity|Operative mortality, Mortality after operation, mortality for 90 days|QOL measurement, EORTC C30/STO22, 6 month, 1 year, 2 year, postoperatively|Reflux esophagitis, assessed by Visick score and endoscopic grading according to LA classification, check at every 12 months up to 2 years postoperatively|Relapse-free survival, Relapse-free survival, 2 years postoperatively|Overall survival, Overall survival, 2 years postoperatively
Participating Surgeons Prior to this clinical trial, only the surgeons who are considered to have the standardization by review committee participated.

Patients Registration It is required to ensure that the patients meet the inclusion criteria for this clinical trial, are free from any items of exclusion criteria, are explained about the participation in the clinical trial along with the informed consent forms.

After rechecking the patients with the registration check list by accessing the web-based randomized program provided from Seoul National University Bundang Hospital Medical Research Collaborating Center.

Each group 69 patients, total 138 subjects will be enrolled. Randomization The registration randomization should be done with 1:1 ratio for each researcher.

Baseline number (BN) should be provided to the subjects in the order of acquisition of informed consent form. Based on the subjects who are selected as the appropriate subjects in the end, the allocation number (AN) shall be provided in the order of randomized allocation table.

Procedure Operations are performed according to the allocated group.