Effect of Optimized PEEP on Mechanical Ventilation During Robot Assisted Laparoscopic Prostatectomy
Steep trendelenburg posture or pneumoperitoneum for surgery causes ventilation problems during surgery, so finding a way to overcome is a challenging task for anesthesiologists. In this study, for patients undergoing robot assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy under general anesthesia, anesthesia is going to perform by applying conventional positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP 5cmH2O) or individually determined positive end-expiratory pressure values for each patient using electrical impedance tomography. We plan to compare intraoperative ventilation through arterial blood gas analysis to find out the way to improve intraoperative ventilation.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: conventional PEEP|DEVICE: optimized PEEP
PaO2/FiO2, PaO2/FiO2 is the ratio of arterial oxygen partial pressure (PaO2) to oxygen fraction (FiO2), and is a commonly used indicator for evaluating pulmonary ventilation and diagnosing lung damage. Using this index, it is possible to determine whether oxygen obtained through the lungs is well delivered to the blood or not. It can be easily obtained by arterial blood gas analysis without complicated formulas or graphs., end of surgery (before extubation)
PaO2/FiO2, partial pressure (PaO2) to oxygen fraction (FiO2), and is a commonly used indicator for evaluating pulmonary ventilation and diagnosing lung damage. Using this index, it is possible to determine whether oxygen obtained through the lungs is well delivered to the blood or not. It can be easily obtained by arterial blood gas analysis without complicated formulas or graphs., 15 minutes after intubation, 1 hour after pnemoperitoneum|ROI (region of interests), region of interest using EIT, 15 minutes after intubation, 1 hour after pnemoperitoneum, end of surgery (before extubation)|inhomogeneity index, inhomogeneity index : this index calculated from tidal EIT images representing the difference in impedance between the end of inspiration and the end of expiration., 15 minutes after intubation, 1 hour after pnemoperitoneum, end of surgery (before extubation)|total amount of fluid administered during surgery, end or surgery|total dose of vasopressor administered during surgery, end of surgery|length of hospitalization after surgery, 1 month after surgery
Steep trendelenburg posture or pneumoperitoneum for surgery causes ventilation problems during surgery, so finding a way to overcome is a challenging task for anesthesiologists. In this study, for patients undergoing robot assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy under general anesthesia, anesthesia is going to perform by applying conventional positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP 5cmH2O) or individually determined positive end-expiratory pressure values for each patient using electrical impedance tomography. We plan to compare intraoperative ventilation through arterial blood gas analysis to find out the way to improve intraoperative ventilation.