A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of MK-3120 in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors (MK-3120-002)
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat people with certain advanced solid tumors. Advanced means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body and cannot be removed with surgery. Solid tumors are cancers mostly in body organs and tissues, not in the blood or other body liquids. The main goal of this study is to learn about the safety of MK-3120 and if people tolerate it.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Malignant Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: MK-3120
Number of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experience at least one AE will be presented., Up to ~ 30 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to ~ 30 months
Objective Response (OR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by the Investigator, OR is defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) as assessed by the investigator using RECIST 1.1. OR as assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1 will be presented., Up to ~ 34 months|Duration Of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by the Investigator, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. DOR as assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1 will be presented., Up to ~ 34 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by the Investigator, PFS is defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first will be assessed by the investigator using RECIST 1.1. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1 will be presented., Up to ~ 34 months|Overall Survival (OS) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by the Investigator, OS is defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to death due to any cause. as assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1 will be presented., Up to ~ 34 months|Area Under the Concentration (AUC) of MK-3120, Blood samples will be collected to determine the AUC of MK-3120., Pre dose and at specified time points up to approximately 4 months|Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of MK-3120, Blood samples will be collected to determine the Cmin of MK-3120., Pre dose and at specified time points up to approximately 4 months|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of MK-3120, Blood samples will be collected to determine the Cmax of MK-3120., Pre dose and at specified time points up to approximately 4 months
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat people with certain advanced solid tumors. Advanced means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body and cannot be removed with surgery. Solid tumors are cancers mostly in body organs and tissues, not in the blood or other body liquids. The main goal of this study is to learn about the safety of MK-3120 and if people tolerate it.