MRI/MRSI in Risk Assessment of Prostate Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to see if magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) can tell which patients with prostate cancer are at a low risk for their cancer growing and spreading. Magnetic resonance methods use magnets and radio waves to take pictures of body structure (MRI) and to measure amounts of important chemicals within the body (MRSI). This study will look at the structural and chemical properties of prostates before undergoing treatment. Hopefully, doctors will be able to use this method before making treatment decisions for patients with newly diagnosed cancer of the prostate. This study will continue our work to assess the value of MRI/MRSI in addressing what is currently one of the greatest clinical challenges in the management of prostate cancer: the identification of low-risk organ-confined prostate cancer that can be managed expectantly with deferred treatment.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: eMRI/MRSI
In a population of patients designated as clinically indolent by NCCN guidelines, we will evaluate the ability of eMRI/MRSI to predict pathologically indolent cancer. eMRI/MRSI findings will be compared with step-section pathology., October 2010
In the patients who are identified as harboring indolent prostate cancer by both clinical guidelines and eMRI/MRSI, clinical progression of disease will be evaluated in a cohort of patients receiving deferred therapy., October 2010|We will explore whether eMRI/MRSI markers of progression correlate with clinical markers of progression., Patients undergoing deferred treatment will undergo followup eMRI/MRSI exams before surveillance biopsies, beginning approximately 12-18 months after confirmatory biopsy., October 2010
In this study, patients with low-risk, organ-confined prostate cancer identified in clinic or prior to their already scheduled standard of care MRI in the Department of Radiology will be approached for the study. Eligible patients will undergo a baseline eMRI/MRSI exam between 6 and 24 weeks following biopsy. Patients will undergo definitive treatment (radical prostatectomy (RP) or radiation therapy (RT)) or will be placed on deferred therapy. Predictor variables will be recorded for each patient after enrollment, before treatment and during treatment follow-up. Patient outcome-disease progression will be determined by long term clinical follow-up