Interleukin-12 and Interferon Alfa in Treating Patients With Metastatic Malignant Melanoma
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining interleukin-12 and interferon alfa in treating patients who have metastatic malignant melanoma. Interleukin-12 may kill tumor cells by stopping blood flow to the tumor and by stimulating a person's white blood cells to kill cancer cells. Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of the cancer cells. Combining interleukin-12 and interferon alfa may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interleukin-12|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interferon alfa|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response rate, Up to 2 years|PFS, From registration until time of documented progression of disease or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the clinical response rates in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma treated with rhIL-12 and interferon alfa-2b.

II. To estimate the progression-free survival in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma treated with rhIL-12 and interferon alfa-2b.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure serum levels of interferon-gamma. II. To measure levels of JAK-STAT signaling intermediates in patient PBMCs and tumor samples.

III. To analyze interferon-alpha-induced STAT signaling in patient PBMCs. IV. To determine the expression of IFN-regulated genes in patient PBMCs and tumor tissues.

V. To determine the pattern of gene expression induced by treatment with IL-12 and interferon-alpha using DNA microarray techniques in patient PBMCs.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive interleukin-12 IV over 5-15 seconds on day 1 and interferon alfa subcutaneously on days 2-6. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients are reassessed after 6 courses. Patients with a complete response receive 2 additional courses. Patients with a partial response or stable disease continue treatment in the absence of disease progression.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 1 year.