ORIENT-31 Regimen in Combination with SBRT for EGFR-mutant Metastatic NSCLC After First-line Third-generation EGFR-TKIs
The goal of this prospective study is to explore the safety and preliminary efficacy of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) combined with ORIENT-31 regimen (Sintilimab plus bevacizumab plus platinum-doublet chemotherapy) for advanced epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who failed first-line third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) treatment. Participants will first receive the standard four-drug combination therapy: PD-1 antibody + vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antibody + platinum + pemetrexed. The efficacy will be evaluated every two courses. According to the efficacy evaluation results, personalized SBRT was be administered.
NSCLC (advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer)|EGFR Mutation Positive Advanced Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: ORIENT-31 regimen|RADIATION: SBRT
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The time from the start of drug treatment until the documentation of disease progression or death from any cause, assessed according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria. Patients who are still alive at the time of analysis will have their last contact date used as the cutoff date., 1 year
Overall Survival (OS), The time from the start of drug treatment until death from any cause. Patients who are still alive at the time of analysis will have their last contact date used as the cutoff date., 1 year|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The percentage of participants who achieve a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) after treatment, assessed according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria., 1 year|Treatment-related adverse event (TRAE), Investigator-assessed treatment-related adverse events were recorded and assessed according to CTCAE5.0., 1 year
The goal of this prospective study is to explore the safety and preliminary efficacy of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) combined with ORIENT-31 regimen (Sintilimab plus bevacizumab plus platinum-doublet chemotherapy) for advanced epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who failed first-line third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) treatment. Participants will first receive the standard four-drug combination therapy: PD-1 antibody + vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antibody + platinum + pemetrexed. The efficacy will be evaluated every two courses. According to the efficacy evaluation results, personalized SBRT was be administered.