Neoadjuvant Cabozantinib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Kidney Cancer
This phase II clinical trial studies how well cabozantinib works in treating patients with kidney cancer before surgery. Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) criteria. All tumor measurements must be recorded in centimeters.

For target lesions, a complete response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. A partial response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter., At 12 weeks after cabozantinib dose
Disease-free Survival (DFS), Disease-free survival will be defined as the interval between time of surgery and the first tumor recurrence or death. Patients will be censored at time of last follow-up. Disease-free survival will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method., From time of surgery to first tumor recurrence or death, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), For overall survival, death from any cause will be defined as the event. Patients will be censored at time of last follow-up. Overall survival will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method., From time of surgery to death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Quality of Life Assessment: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Kidney Specific Index-19 (FKSI-19) Questionnaire, Quality of life will be studied using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Kidney Specific Index-19 (FKSI-19) questionnaire. The questionnaire consists of 19 statements such as "I have a lack of energy" and "I have pain" which are answered on a scale of 0-4, with 0 being "Not at all" and 4 being "Very much.", Baseline and weeks 6 and 12 after treatment initiation|Frailty Assessment, Frailty assessment will be studied using the Fried Frailty score. Domains to be assessed include shrinking, weakness, exhaustion, low activity, and slow walking speed. Each domain yields a dichotomous score of 0 or 1. Totaled scores classify patients as not frail (0-1), intermediate frail (2-3), and frail (4-5)., Baseline and weeks 6 and 12 after treatment initiation|Sarcopenia Assessment, Sarcopenia assessment will be done by using baseline and week 12 scans via SliceOmatic version 5.0 by TomoVision program., Baseline and week 12 after treatment initiation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the objective response rate (complete and partial responses), following the administration of cabozantinib for 12 weeks in patients with locally advanced biopsy-proven non-metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) prior to undergoing surgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety, and tolerability of neoadjuvant cabozantinib.

II. To determine the clinical outcome (disease-free survival \[DFS\], overall survival \[OS\]) of patients with non-metastatic ccRCC who treated with neoadjuvant cabozantinib.

III. To evaluate the surgery related outcomes.

IV. To evaluate correlative studies, including biomarkers, quality of life, and frailty/sarcopenia assessment of patients with non-metastatic ccRCC who treated with neoadjuvant cabozantinib.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.