Efficacy and Safety of a Donor Lymphocyte Preparation Depleted of Functional Host Alloreactive T-cells (ATIR) in Patients Undergoing a Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant From a Related, Haploidentical Donor
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the administration of a donor lymphocyte preparation depleted of functional host alloreactive T-cells (ATIR) after a T-cell depleted stem cell transplant from a related, haploidentical donor enhances survival by improving the immune effect against infections while preventing graft-versus-host disease .
Myeloid Leukemia|Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myeloproliferative Disorders
BIOLOGICAL: Donor lymphocyte preparation depleted of host functional alloreactive T-cells
Transplant Related Mortality, TRM is defined as death due to causes other than disease relapse or progression, or other causes which are unrelated to the transplantation procedure (e.g. accident, suicide), 6, 12 and 24 months after the transplantation
Incidence and Severity Graft-versus-host Disease (GVHD), GVHD was graded according to standard criteria as referred to in the reference module (Filipovich et al. 2005; Przepiorka et al. 1995)., Up to 24 months after the transplantation|Progression Free Survival, Up to 24 months after the transplantation|Incidence and Severity of Bacterial, Viral or Fungal Infection, Up to 24 months after the transplantation|Immune Reconstitution, Up to 24 months after the transplantation|Health Status (Including Quality of Life), Up to 24 months after the transplantation|Overall Survival, 6, 12, and 24 months after the transplantation
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation is the treatment of choice for many patients with leukemia and other hematologic malignancies. However, a major limitation of this therapy is that for a significant number of patients no fully HLA-matched donor can be found. The application of partially HLA-matched (haploidentical) family donors, who are virtually always available, has some complications. If there is no T-cell add-back it increases the risk for life-threatening infections and disease relapse, while in case of T-cell add-back the risk for graft-versus-host disease is raised.

Kiadis Pharma has developed a method to selectively deplete host alloreactive T-cells through photodynamic therapy, using TH9402 ex vivo. The donor lymphocyte preparation depleted of functional host alloreactive T-cells (ATIR) is administered to the patient 28-42 days after the stem cell transplant.