CED of MTX110 Newly Diagnosed Diffuse Midline Gliomas
The blood brain barrier (BBB) prevents some drugs from successfully reaching the target source. Convection-Enhanced Delivery (CED) is a method of direct infusion of drugs under controlled pressure to the tumor that may reduce systemic side effects of drugs in the patient.

The purpose of this Phase I study is to find the maximum tolerated dose of MTX110 (a water-soluble Panobinostat nanoparticle formulation) and Gadolinium that can be given safely in children with newly diagnosed diffuse midline gliomas. All patients enrolled in the study will receive infusion of MTX110 and Gadolinium delivered with a pump directly into the tumor over 9-11 days.
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma|Diffuse Pontine and Thalamic Gliomas|Diffuse Midline Glioma
DRUG: Infusate with MTX110 and gadolinium|DEVICE: Convection-Enhanced Delivery (CED)
Incidence of Adverse Events, Safety of repeated convection-enhanced delivery (CED) of MTX110 will be reported by summarizing the incidence rate of adverse events observed or reported. Adverse events will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to six weeks after second infusion|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of MTX110, The MTD will be determined based on the number of dose limiting toxicities (DLT) observed in each of the titrated doses., 14 days
Steady state volume of drug distribution, Measured by volumetric contrast enhancement intensity on MRI and magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy, 14 days|Time to tumor progression/recurrence (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of MTX110 treatment to time of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2 years|Overall survival (OS) or time to death, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from the start of MTX110 treatment to death from any cause. OS will be measured by follow-up with a study participant every 3-6 months until death for any reason., 2 years|Score on PedsQL 4.0 Brain Tumor Module, The 24-item PedsQL 4.0 Brain Tumor Module encompasses six scales: (1) cognitive problems (seven items), (2) pain and hurt (three items), (3) movement and balance (three items), (4) procedural anxiety (three items), (5) nausea (five items), and (6) worry (three items). Each item is measured with a 5-point Likert scale from 0 (never a problem) to 4 (almost always a problem), which is then transformed on a scale from 0-100. Higher scores indicate lower problems and therefore a better outcome., 2 years
Diffuse midline gliomas (DMGs), constitute 10% of all pediatric central nervous system (CNS) tumors. Subjects with Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Gliomas (DIPG) have a poor prognosis with a median survival that is usually reported to be 9 months, and nearly 90% of children die within 18 months from diagnosis. The mainstay of treatment is radiation to the primary tumor site. Surgical resection does not influence outcome and is often not feasible in this part of the central nervous system.

Many promising drugs for central nervous system (CNS) disorders have failed to attain clinical success due to an intact blood brain barrier (BBB), limiting their access form the systemic circulation into the brain. Systemic administration of high doses may increase delivery to the brain, but this approach risks significant side effects and systemic toxicities. Direct delivery of the drugs to the brain by injection into the parenchyma bypasses the BBB, however, drug distribution form the site of injection tends to be limited. The convection-enhanced delivery (CED) of drugs describes the infusion of drugs under controlled pressure to the brain parenchyma via targeted microcatheter. This technique facilitates and deliver higher drug concentrations in brain tissue or tumor. The BBB can now operate to retain drug and to significantly reduce systemic side effects. In addition, the fact that panobinostat seems to be most efficacious clinically available drug against DIPG cells.