Study Evaluating Hot Flashes in Hormone Sensitive Breast Cancer
The validation of the HFRDIS questionnaire in French will allow the use in common practice of this questionnaire in consultation in order to have a concrete and reproducible assessment of the impact of hot flashes on the daily life of patients. This validation will also allow this questionnaire to be used in therapeutic trials to assess the effectiveness of a symptomatic treatment under study.

The use of this questionnaire in patients on hormone therapy will allow for an overall assessment of the impact of hot flashes in their daily lives.

There are no risks induced by participation in this research, it is only an observational study without change on the monitoring of participants in both cohorts.
Breast Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: HFRDIS questionnaire completion
Score at the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale, The score is calculated with 10 questions ticked from 0 to 10. The highest numbers are a higher degree of impact on the participant Life. If the participant are not prone to hot flashes or if hot flashes do not no impact on these aspects of her life, she checks "0" for all categories. The total score of a scale ranges from 0 to 100., Day 1
The main objective is to assess the impact of hot flashes on the daily lives of patients on adjuvant hormone therapy for hormone-sensitive breast cancer.

The primary test of judgment is composite. The first step is a French validation of the HFRDIS questionnaire assessing the impact of hot flashes on daily life in a control population free of breast cancer (validated in English). The second step is a comparison of the impact of hot flashes on the quality of life of patients in both populations (control and hormone therapy adjuvant for hormone-sensitive breast cancer) via the HFRDIS questionnaire.

In the first part of the study (control population): Patients will be seen in a city gynecology consultation. Patients between the ages of 40 and 60 will be offered participation in the study consecutively. If patients answer "yes" to the question "Do you have hot flashes?", they will then be included in the study and will have access to the study questionnaire. Upon their 2nd connection on the website (D15), patients will answer the HFRDIS Questionnaire again.

In the second part of the study (patients on hormone therapy for breast cancer): Patients at the Institut Curie Saint Cloud aged 40 to 60 years included on hormone therapy adjuvant therapy who will be seen in a monitoring consultation will be offered participation in the study consecutively.