Safety and Efficacy Clinical Study of SNS-595 in Patients With Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the objective response rate, safety and identify potential biomarkers in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer patients treated with voreloxin injection given on a 28-day cycle.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Voreloxin Injection
Overall Response Rate (CR+PR) Per Investigator Assessment Based on GOG-RECIST Criteria, Response rate was calculated per investigator's tumor assessment based on GOG-RECIST, which includes radiographic imaging, physical examination results, and CA-125 levels. No independent review of CT scans (lesion assessments) was performed. CR: disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Normalization of CA125, if elevated at baseline, is required for ovarian carcinoma studies. PR is \>= 30% decrease in the sum of LD of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of nontarget lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required., GOG-RECIST assessment obtained on cycle2, 4 and 6 Day 21for patients treated with 48 mg/m2 SNS-595 and Day 28 for patients treated with 60 mg/m2, through 28 (±14) days afte the last treatment at the end of safety follow up period
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Using Kaplan-Meier Methods, PFS is the the time between the date the patient first received Vosaroxin and the earliest date of disease progression.

For patients who experienced disease progression, the date of disease progression will be the earliest date on which disease progression is indicated based on the rules.

For patients who died with no indication of disease progression, the date of death will be the earliest date on which death is documented based on the rules.

For patients who have no indication of disease progression or death, the censoring date will be the Date of Confirmed Contact from the last Survival Follow-Up CRF, or if not in survival follow-up, then the Assessment Date from the last GOG-RECIST CRF, or if no response assessment available, Date of Last Visit / Contact from Extended Treatment Completion CRF if in extended treatment, or from Cycle 6 Completion / Early Termination CRF if not in extended treatment., From the first teratment of Vosaroxin to the end of Cycle 6 or 28 days after the last treatment at the end of safety follow up period if continued in the extended treatment period
Other objectives of this study are to evaluate Progression-free survival and measure CA-125 response rate.