RISE (Reinvent, Integrate, Strengthen, Expand) Self-Management Program for Cancer Survivors: A Feasibility Study
This is a prospective feasibility study using a convenience sample of cancer survivors from Cedars-Sinai and its surrounding catchment area. As this study will be primarily focused on optimization of the RISE (Re-invent, Integrate, Strengthen, Expand) protocol, there will be no control group or randomization of participants. The RISE intervention is informed by the principles of Lifestyle Redesign, an occupational therapy-based therapeutic technique focused on measurable, individually-tailored, health-related goals. All participants will complete the 13-session RISE intervention. Sessions will occur weekly or biweekly. Measures will be completed at baseline (session #0) and post-intervention (session #12), with repeat survey measures at midpoint (session #6). There will also be a follow-up timepoint 12 weeks after the final session, at which time some measures will be completed to assess long-term maintenance of self-efficacy improvement.
Cancer|Survivorship
OTHER: RISE (Reinvent, Integrate, Strengthen, Expand) Intervention
RISE program feasibility will be measured by tracking participant attrition rate. RISE program will be considered feasible if ≥80% of study participants complete ≥10 RISE sessions., All participants will complete the 13-session RISE intervention. RISE program will be considered feasible if ≥80% of study participants complete ≥10 RISE sessions of the total 13 sessions., Up to 38 weeks.
To measure participant acceptability of the RISE program through a survey at the final RISE session., The RISE Satisfaction Survey will use a Likert scale to ask to what extent participants found that the program improved their confidence in their ability to manage their own health, as well as how much it improved their overall well-being. Two questions are measured on a scale of 0-4, where higher scores indicate higher satisfaction rate. The remaining questions are measured on a scale of 0-10, where higher scores indicate more positive feedback and higher acceptability of the program. Participants will also have the opportunity to rate the RISE instructor (on a scale of 0-10, 10 being the best possible rating) and will include an open text box for suggestions for future iterations of the program., Up to 24 weeks.|To test the impact of the RISE intervention on participant self-efficacy, as measured by the PROMIS General Self-Efficacy Short Form questionnaire., he PROMIS General Self-Efficacy Short Form questionnaire consists of 4 questions that asks the subject to rate their confidence levels in managing various situations, problems, and events. Each question is answered on a scale of 1-5, where higher scores indicate the highest level of confidence. The questionnaire responses at baseline and end of study will be compared., Up to 24 weeks.
This is a prospective feasibility study using a convenience sample of cancer survivors from Cedars-Sinai and its surrounding catchment area. As this study will be primarily focused on optimization of the RISE (Re-invent, Integrate, Strengthen, Expand) protocol, there will be no control group or randomization of participants. The RISE intervention is informed by the principles of Lifestyle Redesign, an occupational therapy-based therapeutic technique focused on measurable, individually-tailored, health-related goals. All participants will complete the 13-session RISE intervention. Sessions will occur weekly or biweekly. Measures will be completed at baseline (session #0) and post-intervention (session #12), with repeat survey measures at midpoint (session #6). There will also be a follow-up timepoint 12 weeks after the final session, at which time some measures will be completed to assess long-term maintenance of self-efficacy improvement.