Safety and Efficacy Study of Idelalisib (GS-1101, CAL-101) in Patients With Previously Treated Low-grade Lymphoma
The primary objectives of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of idelalisib (GS-1101, CAL-101) in participants with previously treated indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL).

Eligible patients will initiate oral therapy with idelalisib at a starting dose of 150 mg twice per day. Treatment with idelalisib can continue in compliant participants for up to twelve 28-day cycles of idelalisib. Participants who appear to be benefiting from treatment at the completion of 12 cycles of treatment with idelalisib may be eligible for participation in a long-term safety extension study of idelalisib.
Indolent Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: Idelalisib
Overall Safety of Idelalisib, The overall safety of idelalisib was assessed as the percentage of participants experiencing treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs; Serious AEs, Grade ≥ 3 AEs, AEs related to idelalisib, and AEs leading to discontinuation of idelalisib)., 30 days post last study treatment (up to 12 months)|Clinical Response: Overall Response Rate, Participants were assessed for clinical response by appropriate imaging at the end of cycles 3, 6, 9, and 12.

Overall response rate (ORR) was assessed based on standardized criteria (Cheson 2007), and was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on investigator assessment after the start of idelalisib treatment until progression or the end of study drug treatment.

* CR was defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease.
* PR was defined the regression of measurable disease and no new sites., Up to twelve 28-day cycles (maximum of 12 months)
Flow Cytometric Measurement of Constitutive or Inducible Phosphorylation of Akt (at S473) and S6 Within Tumor B Cells, Up to twelve 28-day cycles (maximum of 12 months)|Flow Cytometric Measurement of Tumoral and Peripheral Blood T and NK Cells, Up to twelve 28-day cycles (maximum of 12 months)|Changes in Concentration of Peripheral Blood Chemokines and Cytokines, Up to twelve 28-day cycles (maximum of 12 months)|Changes in Liver Imaging as Assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Gadoxetic Acid (GD-EOB-DTPA) Contrast, Up to twelve 28-day cycles (maximum of 12 months)
The primary objectives of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of idelalisib (GS-1101, CAL-101) in participants with previously treated indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL).

Eligible patients will initiate oral therapy with idelalisib at a starting dose of 150 mg twice per day. Treatment with idelalisib can continue in compliant participants for up to twelve 28-day cycles of idelalisib. Participants who appear to be benefiting from treatment at the completion of 12 cycles of treatment with idelalisib may be eligible for participation in a long-term safety extension study of idelalisib.