Study of MEN1112 Intravenous Infusion in Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety of MEN1112, given as intravenous infusion, in patients with relapsed or refractory AML. Pharmacokinetics, clinical activity and potential immunogenicity of MEN1112 will be evaluated as well.
Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia, in Relapse
DRUG: MEN1112
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Identification of DLT defined as an adverse event occurring during the first treatment cycle, judged to be related to MEN1112 and meeting any of the following criteria:

* Grade 3 non-haematological toxicity lasting more than 7 days
* Grade ≥ 4 non-haematological toxicity., over 3 weeks after the first dose|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Identification of MTD defined as one dose level below the Maximum Administered Dose (i.e. one dose level below the one at which ≥ 2 DLTs out of 6 treated patients occur)., over 3 weeks after the first dose
Treatment Emergent Signs and Symptoms (TESSs), Number of patients with Treatment Emergent Signs and Symptoms (TESSs) by CTCAE severity grade \>3 and treatment related causality, 6 months|MEN1112 Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameter Cmax, Cmax is the maximum serum drug concentration. For Cohort 1 to 3c (administration as 'one shot' infusion) Cmax is measured at the end of the first intravenous infusion ( 1 to 6 hours; depending on the individual subjects being the infusion frequently interrupted) For Cohort 1.7, 2.0 and 3.0 (dose administration as ramp up, divided in three sub-doses), Cmax is measured at the end of each out of 3 intravenous infusions, end of intravenous infusion|MEN1112 PK Parameter AUC (0-t), AUC (0-t) is the area under the serum concentration-time curve from time 0 extrapolated to t time evaluated after the first dose, Dose 1- cycle 1|MEN1112 PK Parameter AUC (0-∞), AUC (0-∞) is the area under the serum concentration-time curve from time 0 extrapolated to infinite time, dose 1 of cycle 1|MEN1112 PK Parameter t1/2, t1/2 is the drug elimination half-life

It is calculated on the first dose for all cohorts, dose 1 of cycle 1|Complete Remission (CR) Rate, CR rate at any time point, where CR is defined as: bone marrow blasts \<5%, absence of extramedullary disease, absolute neutrophil count \>1 x 109/L and platelet count \> 100 x 109/L.

According to the protocol, the efficacy analysis population includes all patients completing the first treatment cycle and having a post-cycle peripheral blood lab test and bone marrow aspirate., 6 months|Best Response Rate, best observed response at any time point to include Complete Remission (CR is defined as bone marrow blasts \< 5%, absence of extramedullary disease, absolute neutrophil count \> 1 x 109 / L and platelet count \> 100 x 109 / L) Complete Remission with incomplete blood count recovery \[CRi defined as all criteria for CR except residual thrombocytopenia (platelets \<100 x 109/L), and/or neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count \<1 x 109/L)\] Partial remission (PR defined as all haematological criteria for CR with bone marrow blasts 5-25% and decrease of pre-treatment bone marrow blast percentage by at least 50%., 6 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is the time from the date of the first drug administration to the date of death from any cause. If the fatal event does not occur during the study, the overall survival time is censored at the date when the patient was last known to be alive.

The overall survival (OS) is calculated on 29 patients (72.5%) out of 40 belonging to the efficacy population.

Results are reported as mean (and range) days, 6 months
Immunogenicity of MEN1112, Incidence of anti-MEN1112 auto-antibodies, 64 days
This trial is designed as an open label, non randomised, dose escalation and cohort expansion, first administration to human study to be conducted in approximately 20 European sites. The study is aiming to identify the Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) and Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), to assess the pharmacokinetics and to determine the clinical activity and potential immunogenicity of MEN1112, administered as IV infusion for two 21-day cycles.

Approximately 100 male and female ≥ 18 years-old patients, with a documented diagnosis of relapsed or refractory AML (not M3 FAB subtype), will be treated in the study, which consists of two steps.

Step 1 is the dose escalation phase according to a 3+3 patients cohort design. Incremental mg/Kg doses will be tested. Briefly, MEN1112 doses are to be administered to 3 patients; if no DLT is observed in a cohort of 3 DLT evaluable patients at a given dose level, the next cohort of 3 new patients will be treated with the next higher dose. In case of DLT occurrence by one of the three patients at any dose, the cohort will be expanded to 6 DLT evaluable patients at the same dose level. If two or more patients at a given dose level exhibit DLT, the dose escalation phase will be concluded as the MTD will be identified as one dose level below the one at which ≥ 2 DLT out of 6 treated patients occur.

Step 2 is the cohort expansion phase which will include patients treated at the MTD or the maximum dose level judged to be tolerable.

In each study Step, patients will be given two induction cycles of MEN1112 followed by a four-week End of Treatment period and a Follow-up period. In Step 1 and Step 2, DLT and MTD will be assessed when MEN1112 is given as a 'one shot' infusion (first group of patients) for all doses as well as a 'ramp up' administration to be infused in 3 days for the first two doses in Cycle 1 (second group of patients).

Along the study period, adverse events, changes in hematology/serum biochemistry parameters and bone marrow treatment response will represent the major clinical findings to be monitored on regular basis. The individual experimental clinical phase will last up to 6 months (except for female patients of childbearing potential that will undergo monthly pregnancy test until 6 months from the last study drug administration) encompassing approx. 40 planned visits at site, including Screening,Treatment, End of Treatment, Follow-up period and the End of Study visit.