Impact of Dietary Fiber as Prebiotics on Chemotherapy-related Diarrhea in Patients With Gastrointestinal Tumors
This study evaluates longitudinal data associating changes in gut microbiota composition and diversity, defecation, performance status and adverse reactions in response to prebiotic fiber supplementation in patients with gastrointestinal cancer chemotherapy-related diarrhea. 120 adult participants , age 18 to 65 years, will be randomized into one of the two arms. Arm A (intervention group) will receive prebiotic fiber and loperamide hydrochloride capsule(a drug for standard treatment). Arm B will receive maltodextrin placebo and loperamide hydrochloride capsule.
Chemotherapy-related Diarrhea
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Prebiotic Fiber Supplement + loperamide hydrochloride capsule|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Maltodextrin + loperamide hydrochloride capsule
Therapeutic effect on the chemotherapy-related grade 2 to 4 diarrhea, Numbers of bowel movements per day, 2 weeks
onset time, 2 weeks|Adverse events, Incidence of mild (e.g. self-resolving), moderate (e.g. those that warrant medical evaluation and treatment) and serious (e.g. those that cannot be resolved by medical treatment) adverse events based on criteria adopted by the National Institute of Health common terminology criteria for adverse events (NIH severity) will be evaluated, 2 weeks|Changs in Karnofsky Performance Status, 2 weeks|Gut microbiota changes in response to intervention, 16S rRNA sequencing, Change from baseline in gut microbiota at 1 and 2 weeks ]
This study evaluates longitudinal data associating changes in gut microbiota composition and diversity, defecation, performance status and adverse reactions in response to prebiotic fiber supplementation in patients with gastrointestinal cancer chemotherapy-related diarrhea. 120 adult participants , age 18 to 65 years, will be randomized into one of the two arms. Arm A (intervention group) will receive prebiotic fiber and loperamide hydrochloride capsule(a drug for standard treatment). Arm B will receive maltodextrin placebo and loperamide hydrochloride capsule.