Dovitinib Lactate, Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, and Paclitaxel Albumin-Stabilized Nanoparticle Formulation in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors or Pancreatic Cancer
This phase I trial studies the highest and safest doses of dovitinib lactate, paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, and gemcitabine hydrochloride when given together. Dovitinib lactate disrupts the activity of fibroblast growth factor receptors and reduces cancer growth and spread. Gemcitabine hydrochloride and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation are anti-cancer drugs for treating many cancer types.
Duct Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: dovitinib lactate|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose of dovitinib lactate, defined as the highest dose level at which < 33% of patients experience study treatment-related dose-limiting toxicity, graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 4.0, 28 days|Incidence of adverse events graded by NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Characterized by type, frequency, timing, seriousness and relationship to study treatment. All toxicities and adverse events will be summarized with frequencies and descriptive measures, and tabulated according to body system, severity and relation to treatment. Demographic data and baseline disease characteristics will be displayed, and summary statistics will be used to describe patient population., Up to 4 weeks
Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of dovitinib lactate, Pharmacokinetic parameters will be summarized for each cohort of patients. Comparison of PK parameters among the dose levels will be performed using non-parametric statistical methods for K-independent samples. Drug-drug interaction will be examined comparing PK parameters using nonparametric statistical methods., Pre-dose, 0.5, 1-2,4-5, 6-8, 24 hours post-dose day 1 of course 2; pre-dose trough day 8 of course 2|Plasma PK parameters of gemcitabine hydrochloride, Pharmacokinetic parameters will be summarized for each cohort of patients. Comparison of PK parameters among the dose levels will be performed using non-parametric statistical methods for K-independent samples. Drug-drug interaction will be examined comparing PK parameters using nonparametric statistical methods., Prior to end of infusion, and 0.5, 1-2, and 4-6 hours post-end of infusion day 1 of course 2; prior to infusion of IV chemotherapy day 8 of course 2|Plasma PK parameters of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, Pharmacokinetic parameters will be summarized for each cohort of patients. Comparison of PK parameters among the dose levels will be performed using non-parametric statistical methods for K-independent samples. Drug-drug interaction will be examined comparing PK parameters using nonparametric statistical methods., Prior to end of infusion, and 0.5, 1-2, and 4-6 hours post-end of infusion day 1 of course 2; prior to infusion of IV chemotherapy day 8 of course 2|Survival (expansion cohort), Overall survival will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., 6 months|Response rate, defined according to RECIST 1.1 (expansion cohort), Up to 4 weeks|Progression-free survival (expansion cohort), Up to 4 weeks|Biomarker expression levels in tumor specimens, Differences in biomarkers between responders and non-responders will be explored with frequencies and summary statistics. Tests for differences in continuously measured biomarkers will be done with standard two-sample testing procedures. Categorical biomarkers will be tested with Fisher's exact test., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of dovitinib (dovitinib lactate) when administered concurrently with gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) and nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) in patients with advanced solid malignancies.

II. To characterize the safety profile of dovitinib, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel combination in patients with advanced solid malignancies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of dovitinib, nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine and their metabolites when administered concurrently in patients with advanced solid malignancies.

II. To determine the preliminary efficacy of the study combination in patients with advanced solid tumors and pancreas adenocarcinoma.

III. To explore serum and tumor biomarkers predictive of efficacy to the study combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of dovitinib lactate.

Patients receive dovitinib lactate orally (PO) once daily (QD) 5 days per week, paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes, and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.