Faith-based Approaches to Treating Hypertension and Colon Cancer Prevention
Primary Aim: To evaluate the effect of a lifestyle intervention delivered through telephone-based motivational interviewing (MINT) versus a patient navigation intervention on blood pressure reduction and CRC screening.

Hypotheses: Among black men, aged \> 50 years with uncontrolled HTN and in need of CRC screening:

1. Hyp. 1: those randomized to the lifestyle intervention will have lower BP compared to those randomized to the patient navigation intervention at 6 months.
2. Hyp. 2: those randomized to the patient navigation intervention will have higher CRC screening rates compared to those randomized to the lifestyle intervention at 6 months.
Blood Pressure|Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Motivational Interviewing|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation
Blood Pressure, The primary outcomes will be (1) within-patient change in systolic and diastolic BP from baseline to 6 months and (2) CRC screening rates as determined by colonoscopy report or fecal immunochemical test (FIT) result from the primary care provider at 6 months. Blood pressure will be assessed with an automated digital BP monitor based on American Heart Association guidelines.1 CRC screening will be assessed by self-report and verified with medical records and/or the actual colonoscopy or FIT report from participants' providers., 6-months|Colorectal Cancer Screening, The primary outcomes will be (1) within-patient change in systolic and diastolic BP from baseline to 6 months and (2) CRC screening rates as determined by colonoscopy report or fecal immunochemical test (FIT) result from the primary care provider at 6 months. Blood pressure will be assessed with an automated digital BP monitor based on American Heart Association guidelines.1 CRC screening will be assessed by self-report and verified with medical records and/or the actual colonoscopy or FIT report from participants' providers., 6M
The primary outcomes will be (1) within-patient change in systolic and diastolic BP from baseline to 6 months and (2) CRC screening rates as determined by colonoscopy report or fecal immunochemical test (FIT) result from the primary care provider at 6 months. Blood pressure will be assessed with an automated digital BP monitor based on American Heart Association guidelines.1 CRC screening will be assessed by self-report and verified with medical records and/or the actual colonoscopy or FIT report from participants' providers.