Trial of Paclitaxel Plus Gemcitabine and Cisplatin in Bladder Cancer
This trial is for people with bladder cancer that has spread. The purpose of this research study is to see if the chemotherapy combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin plus paclitaxel is safe and effective treatment for bladder cancer.

Paclitaxel, gemcitabine and cisplatin have all been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Gemcitabine and cisplatin is a standard treatment for bladder cancer. There have been studies that show that paclitaxel and cisplatin have antitumor activity in bladder cancer. European researchers studied paclitaxel, gemcitabine and cisplatin (same drug combination in this trial) and found that the combination provided good disease control and was well tolerated. Investigators are studying the same drug combination, but at different dosages and schedule.
Urinary Bladder Neoplasms
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin
Efficacy as Measured by the Objective Response Rate (ORR)., Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients achieving either a complete response or a partial response based on imaging at any time during the study. Complete response or partial response is based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the time the participant signs the informed consent until the participant was taken off-study or the study was stopped, an average of 6 months
Safety of Drug Regimen as Measured by Number of Adverse Events, Toxicity assessment will be observational. Numbers and types of events will be quantified and graded according to CTCAE., From the time the participant signs the informed consent until the participant was taken off-study or the study was stopped, an average of 6 months|Efficacy as Measured by Number Who Progressed, Progression is defined using RECIST 1.1 criteria: " At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression).", From the time the participant signs the informed consent until the participant was taken off-study or the study was stopped, an average of 6 months
The rationale of the present study is to develop a combination based on the pharmacokinetics and mechanisms of action of the agents paclitaxel plus gemcitabine and cisplatin, which are all known active agents in urothelial tumors. Gemcitabine may be synergistic with DNA-damaging drugs such as paclitaxel and cisplatin because it can antagonize DNA repair. Investigators will investigate the combination in this Phase II study.