The Efficacy of N-acetylcysteine on Alleviating Symptom Caused by Lugol Chromoendoscopy
Lugol chromoendoscopy is essential in detecting and characterizing squamous cell carcinoma of esophagus. Esophageal irritating symptom has been reported as an common adverse event, which could be alleviated by sodium thiosulfate solutions. However, sodium thiosulfate was not widely available. N-acetylcysteine has been previously used as a mucolytic reagent, we propose that it may also be used to alleviate irritating symptoms caused by Lugo's chromoendoscopy. A prospective, non-inferior, randomized double-blind clinical trial was designed to study the efficacy of N-acetylcysteine solutions in relieving esophageal discomfort .
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: N-acetylcysteine solution|DRUG: sodium thiosulfate solution
Mean Visual analogue scale change, Visual analogue scale change for esophageal irritation after Lugol chromoendoscopy, 30 minute after endoscopy
Rate of patients with symptom, The percentage of patients with symptom after Lugol chromoendoscopy for certain time, 5 minute or 30 minute or 24 hour after endoscopy|Neutralization rate, Neutralizing effect for residual iodine in esophagus and stomach, During endoscopy|Heart rate variability, the percentage of heart rate change 5 min or 30 min compared to that Before endoscopy, 5 minute or 30 minute after endoscopy|Severe discomfort rate, the percentage of patient with Visual analogue scale over 4, 5 minute or 30 minute after endoscopy|exam time, the time of endoscopy from the beginning of spraying diluted Lugol's solution to end of endoscopy minus time required for biopsy., during endoscopy
Lugol chromoendoscopy is essential in detecting and characterizing squamous cell carcinoma of esophagus. Esophageal irritating symptom has been reported as an common adverse event, which could be alleviated by sodium thiosulfate solutions. However, sodium thiosulfate was not widely available. N-acetylcysteine has been previously used as a mucolytic reagent, we propose that it may also be used to alleviate irritating symptoms caused by Lugo's chromoendoscopy. A prospective, non-inferior, randomized double-blind clinical trial was designed to study the efficacy of N-acetylcysteine solutions in relieving esophageal discomfort .