Phase II Study of the Combination of Irinotecan and POF (POFI) and Tislelizumab in Advanced Gastric Cancer
This study is a single center, phase II study, to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of PD-1 Antibody(Tislelizumab) Plus Irinotecan Combined With POF(paclitaxel plus oxaliplatin plus 5-fluorouracil plus leucovorin) , in the first-line treatment for patients with advanced/metastatic gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Levo-Leucovorin|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Objective response rate(ORR), ORR was defined as percentage of participants with best (confirmed) overall response (BOR) of either CR or PR. ORR was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST version 1.1 and is based on BOR, which is defined as best response recorded from start of study treatment until disease progression/recurrence or death. Participants needed to have two consecutive assessments of PR or CR to be a responder. Only participants with measurable disease at baseline were included in the analysis of BOR and who did not have any evaluable post-baseline assessments were classified as not evaluable.The ORR will be reported by percentage with each arms and appropriate confidence intervals., From enrollment to 12 month
1.Progression-Free Survival(PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to first documented disease progression (PD) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. For target lesions, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD was defined as the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.The PFS will be will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. A Kaplan-Meier curve, median PFS, hazard ratio with appropriate confidence intervals will be reported.The PFS will be will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. A Kaplan-Meier curve, median PFS, hazard ratio with appropriate confidence intervals will be reported., From enrollment to 12 month|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS), defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death. Participants who were alive at the time of the analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up assessment. Participants without follow-up assessment were censored at the day of last study medication and participants with no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization.The OS will be will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. A Kaplan-Meier curve, median OS, hazard ratio with appropriate confidence intervals will be reported., From enrollment to 12 month|Disease control rate(DCR), DCR was defined as percentage of participants with best (confirmed) overall response (BOR) of either CR or PR or SD. ORR was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST version 1.1 and is based on BOR, which is defined as best response recorded from start of study treatment until disease progression/recurrence or death. Participants needed to have two consecutive assessments of PR or CR or SD to be a responder. Only participants with measurable disease at baseline were included in the analysis of BOR and who did not have any evaluable post-baseline assessments were classified as not evaluable.The ORR will be reported by percentage with each arms and appropriate confidence intervals., From enrollment to 12 month
This is a exploratory, single-arm, open-label trial. The investigator's primary purpose is to compare that ORR of patients with Tislelizumab plus Irinotecan and POF for advanced/metastatic gastric cancer.

In treatment period, patients will be administrated Tislelizumab plus Irinotecan and POF, every 21 days for 1 cycle, until disease progression, toxicity intolerance, withdrawal of informed consent, patients judged must be terminated study termination.

The imaging evaluation was performed according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria every 6 weeks.