Soy Bread Diet in Improving Immune Function in Participants With Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effects of a soy bread versus a wheat bread in improving immune function in participants who are beginning a course of androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer. Components found in soy foods may influence the immune system in a way that may be beneficial for prostate cancer prevention and survivorship.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Dietary Intervention|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in peripheral blood myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC), A two-sample t-test will be used to compare the differences (log-transformed if necessary to improve normality)., Week 0 to week 20|Treatment effect on peripheral blood MDSC, Mixed-effects regression models will be used to estimate the treatment effect on peripheral blood MDSC after adjusting for covariates such as age, compliance, and weight. A condition by time (pre versus \[vs.\] post) interaction will be included to test for a treatment effect. A random effect will be included for each subject to account for the dependency between the pre-post measurements. Correlations (Pearson and Spearman) between measures will be evaluated to determine if positive or negative relationships exist between the measures themselves or the week 0 to week 5 differences (e.g. MSDC vs. T-cell proliferation, MDSC vs. cytokines). Model adequacy and assumptions will be evaluated via residual plots. In the event that model assumptions are violated, outcomes will be transformed or non-parametric methods will be used. Tissue MDSC will be compared using linear regression., Up to week 20|Treatment effects in plasma cytokines, Mixed-effects regression models will be used to estimate the treatment effect. Correlations (Pearson and Spearman) between measures will be evaluated to determine if positive or negative relationships exist between the measures themselves or the week 0 to week 5 differences (e.g. MSDC vs. T-cell proliferation, MDSC vs. cytokines). Model adequacy and assumptions will be evaluated via residual plots. In the event that model assumptions are violated, outcomes will be transformed or non-parametric methods will be used., Up to week 20|Treatment effects in T-cell proliferation, Mixed-effects regression models will be used to estimate the treatment effect. Correlations (Pearson and Spearman) between measures will be evaluated to determine if positive or negative relationships exist between the measures themselves or the week 0 to week 20 differences (e.g. MSDC vs. T-cell proliferation, MDSC vs. cytokines). Model adequacy and assumptions will be evaluated via residual plots. In the event that model assumptions are violated, outcomes will be transformed or non-parametric methods will be used., Up to week 20|Treatment effects in prostate specific antigen (PSA), Mixed-effects regression models will be used to estimate the treatment effect., Up to week 20
PSA response, Mixed-effects models will be used to explore treatment effects in PSA outcomes, Up to week 20
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To precisely define the impact of soy on myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) in a human model clinical trial.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (SOY BREAD): Participants consume 2 slices of soy bread daily for approximately 20 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Concurrent with the intervention, participants will be staring androgen deprivation therapy at the direction of their medical oncologist.

ARM II (WHEAT BREAD): Participants consume 2 slices of wheat bread daily for approximately 20 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Concurrent with the intervention, participants will be staring androgen deprivation therapy at the direction of their medical oncologist.