9-ING-41 Plus Carboplatin in Patients With Advanced, Metastatic Salivary Gland Carcinoma
9-ING-41 is a small molecule potent selective GSK-3β inhibitor with antitumor activity. This study investigates 9-ING-41 in combination with carboplatin chemotherapy in patients with incurable, recurrent or metastatic salivary gland carcinomas (SGC). Patients with advanced SGC (including all histologic subtypes and adenoid cystic carcinoma \[ACC\]) will receive 9-ING-41 intravenously (IV) along with carboplatin IV at standard dosing together on Day 1, and 9-ING-41 alone on Day 4 of a 21-day cycle. Participants will be enrolled to two histologic cohorts: Cohort 1 will be comprised of those with ACC, and Cohort 2 will include patients with non-ACC SGC (or all other salivary gland cancer histologies). Treatment will continue until progression of disease, death, or discontinuation of therapy for any reason.
Salivary Gland Carcinoma|Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma|Salivary Gland Cancer|Salivary Gland Neoplasms
DRUG: 9-ING-41|DRUG: Carboplatin
Number of evaluable patients with objective response as measured by RECIST version 1.1, Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the international Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1). Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria., 3-24 months
9-ING-41 is a small molecule potent selective GSK-3β inhibitor with antitumor activity. It acts through downregulation of NF-κB and decreases the expression NF-κB target genes cyclin D1, Bcl-2, anti-apoptotic protein (XIAP) and B-cell lymphoma-extra large (Bcl-XL) leading to inhibition of tumor growth in multiple solid tumor cell and lymphoma lines and patient derived xenograft (PDX) models. 9-ING-41 may also function as an immune modulatory agent by decreasing checkpoint expression and enhancement of T-cell / NK-cell effector function. This is a phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, single institution study investigating the novel glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) inhibitor 9-ING-41 in combination with carboplatin chemotherapy in patients with incurable, recurrent or metastatic salivary gland carcinomas (SGC). The safety of this combination has been established in the Actuate 1801 study. Thirty-one evaluable patients with advanced SGC (including all histologic subtypes and adenoid cystic carcinoma \[ACC\]) will receive 9-ING-41 intravenously (IV) along with carboplatin IV at standard dosing together on Day 1, and 9-ING-41 alone on Day 4 of a 21-day cycle. Participants will be enrolled to two histologic cohorts: Cohort 1 will be comprised of those with ACC, and Cohort 2 will include patients with non-ACC SGC (or all other salivary gland cancer histologies). Treatment will continue until progression of disease, death, or discontinuation of therapy for any reason.

The primary aim of the study is to assess the overall response rate (ORR) as defined by RECIST v1.1 in the overall study population (including both Cohorts 1 and 2). Secondary aims include assessing progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), determining safety and tolerability, measuring patient-reported quality of life metrics, and correlating efficacy with molecular and immunologic predictors of response. We hypothesize that the novel combination of a GSK-3β inhibitor with carboplatin chemotherapy will result in an ORR of 25% or greater in this patient population where no approved therapies have been established.