Study of Sotorasib Combined With Chemotherapy for Second Line Treatment of Pancreas Cancer
This is a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, phase Ib/II study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of sotorasib in combination with chemotherapy for patients with advanced KRAS p.G12C mutant pancreatic cancer with progression of disease after first line treatment. There will be a safety lead in to determine the safety and tolerability of the sotorasib in combination with standard chemotherapy. A Simon two-stage design will be employed to evaluate the efficacy of sotorasib in combination with standard of care second line chemotherapy.
Pancreatic Cancer|Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer|KRAS P.G12C
DRUG: Sotorasib|DRUG: Liposomal Irinotecan (nal-IRI)|DRUG: 5 Fluorouracil (5FU)|DRUG: Leucovorin (LV)|DRUG: Gemcitabine (GEM)|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Clinical activity will be assessed by overall response rate (ORR). ORR is defined as the percentage of patients whose best response is Complete Response (CR) plus those with Partial Response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1., 2 years
Assess Adverse Events, Characterize the safety and tolerability of patients receiving sotorasib combined with chemotherapy for second line treatment of pancreas cancer. Determine safety and tolerability as determined by NCI CTCAE v 5.0, 2 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Determine progression free survival (PFS) including the 6- month, 1- year, 2-year and median progression free survival. PFS is defined from the date from first dose of study drug administration (C1D1) until the date of first documentation of progressive disease by RECIST 1.1 or death from any cause, whichever comes first, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years|Duration of Response (DoR), Determine the Duration of Response (DOR). DOR is defined from the date of first documentation of response to treatment, to the date of first documentation of progressive disease by RECIST 1.1 or death, whichever comes first, in patients who experience a response., 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Determine the Disease Control Rate (DCR). DCR is defined as the percentage of patients whose best response is complete response (CR) plus partial response (PR) plus stable disease (SD) by RECIST 1.1., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Determine Overall Survival (OS). OS is assessed from the date of registration to the study until the date of death from any cause for up to 2 years., 2 years
This is a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, phase Ib/II study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of sotorasib in combination with chemotherapy for patients with advanced KRAS p.G12C mutant pancreatic cancer with progression of disease after first line treatment. There will be a safety lead in to determine the safety and tolerability of the sotorasib in combination with standard chemotherapy. A Simon two-stage design will be employed to evaluate the efficacy of sotorasib in combination with standard of care second line chemotherapy.