Ziv-Aflibercept for Advanced Progressive Carcinoid Tumors
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial, which tests the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific cancer. "Investigational" means that the drug, Ziv-aflibercept, is being studied. It also means that the FDA has not yet approved Ziv-aflibercept for use in patients with your type of cancer.

Every person has molecules in their bloodstream called vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs). These molecules help grow and sustain new blood vessels needed by the human body. Cancer tumors hijack this mechanism because they need new blod vessels and oxygen to grow. Ziv-aflibercept is an antibody. Antibodies are proteins that are produced naturally in our bodies and help to recognize foreign substances in our body. Ziv-aflibercept is a "targeted therapy" called a "VEGF Trap", that "traps" (binds) these VEGFs and prevents the cancer from using them to grow.

Though Ziv-aflibercept has not yet been FDA approved for the treatment of carcinoid tumors, it has recently been approved for patients with treatment-resistant colorectal cancer.

In this research study, we will use Ziv-aflibercept in combination with standard octreotide therapy to see if it slows the growth or spread of your carcinoid tumor. Standard octreotide (sandostatin) therapy is currently approved for treating symptoms of carcinoid tumors, such as those caused by carcinoid syndrome. Carcinoid syndrome is caused by hormones and other substances released by carcinoid tumors into the bloodstream. One of these secreted substances is serotonin, one of the body's natural chemical messengers. When excess serotonin secreted by the carcinoid tumors reaches the body's tissues, it is thought to cause diarrhea and redness (flushing) of the face, chest or back. Excess serotonin may also cause changes in the structure of the heart valves, which can impair the heart's function. Octreotide works by binding to receptors found on carcinoid tumors and prevents the release of hormones from the tumor.
Carcinoid Tumor
DRUG: Ziv-aflibercept
Progression Free Survival, To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) duration of patients with metastatic, unresectable, progressive carcinoid tumors treated with Ziv-aflibercept. Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) was used.

Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least a 5 mm absolute increase in the sum of all lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions denotes disease progression. Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 2 years
Evaluation of Disease Response, To evaluate disease response using RECIST criteria, version 1.1, of patients with advanced carcinoid tumors treated with Ziv-aflibercept.

Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT include the following categories of disease response: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable disease (SD), less than 30% decrease but no more than 20% increase in sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 2 years|Evaluation of Biochemical Response - Number of Patients With Greater Than 50% Drop in Chromogranin A From Baseline, To evaluate biochemical response in patients with elevated chromogranin A at baseline, using levels of chromogranin-A measured at baseline and following treatment with Ziv-aflibercept. Biochemical response was defined as greater than 50% drop in chromogranin A from baseline.

During the screening period, all patients were evaluated for serum chromogranin A. Per protocol, if results of these are normal at baseline, they were not repeated while on study. If above institutional ULN at baseline, they were evaluated at time of tumor restaging., 2 years|Biochemical Response - Number of Patients With Greater Than 50% Drop in 24hr Urine 5-HIAA From Baseline, To evaluate biochemical response in patients with elevated 24hr urine 5-HIAA at baseline, using levels of 24hr urine 5-HIAA at baseline and following treatment with Ziv-aflibercept. Biochemical response was defined as greater than 50% drop in 24hr urine 5-HIAA from baseline.

During the screening period, all patients were evaluated for 24hr urine 5HIAA. Per protocol, if results of these were normal at baseline, they were not repeated while on study. If above institutional ULN at baseline, they were evaluated at time of tumor restaging., 2 years
If you are willing to participate in this study you will be asked to undergo some screening tests and procedures to confirm that you are eligible. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures include: a medical history, physical examination, CT or MRI, blood tests, serum chromogranin A, urine tests, 24-hour urine collection, pregnancy test and an electrocardiogram. If these tests show that you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate in this research study.

If you meet the requirements for this study and you agree to continue your participation, you will receive Ziv-aflibercept every two weeks. Each dose of Ziv-aflibercept consists of an approximately 60 minutes infusion (through a needle into a vein). You will also receive an injection of Octreotide LAR (long acting release) monthly as part of your treatment for carcinoid tumor. This injection will be given to you by a nurse in your buttock. You may already be on Octreotide LAR. In that case, you will continue taking it at the same dose and schedule.

You will need to come to the clinic every two weeks while participating in this study. Each cycle is 28 days.

The following tests and procedures will be performed on Days 1 and 15 of each cycle: questions about your health, physical exam (Day 1 of each cycle only), vital signs, blood tests, pregnancy test (Day 1 of each cycle only).

Urine tests will be performed every other cycle.

The following tests and procedures will be done at the end of every third cycle: CT scan or MRI, Serum Chromogranin A, 24-hour urine collection.

After the final dose of the study drug the following tests and procedures will be performed: questions about your general health, physical exam, vital signs, blood tests, pregnancy test, EKG, Serum Chromogranin A, 24-hour urine collection.