A Study of Pharmacokinetic Drug Interaction Study of the Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitor GDC-0449 in Combination With Rosiglitazone or Combined Oral Contraceptive in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors That Are Refractory to Standard Therapy or for Whom No Standard Therapy Exists
This is a single-arm, multicenter, Phase Ib study designed to describe the effect of GDC-0449 on the pharmacokinetics of rosiglitazone and oral contraceptives in patients with advanced solid tumors who are refractory to treatment or for whom no standard therapy exists.
Solid Cancers
DRUG: Vismodegib|DRUG: Rosiglitazone|DRUG: Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol
Geometric Mean Ratio of the Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From 0 to Infinity (AUC[0-inf]) of Rosiglitazone, On Days 1 and 8, blood samples were taken prior to the administration of rosiglitazone and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose. Plasma concentrations of rosiglitazone were determined using a validated liquid chromatography mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC MS/MS) assay. Individual and mean plasma rosiglitazone concentration versus time data were tabulated and plotted by analyte. The pharmacokinetic parameters of each analyte were calculated using standard non-compartmental methods (WinNonlin version 5.2.1, Pharsight Corp., Mountain View, CA). The geometric mean ratio of AUC(0-inf) of rosiglitazone was defined as the AUC(0-inf) of rosiglitazone on Day 8/AUC(0-inf) of rosiglitazone on Day 1., Pre-dose and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose|Geometric Mean Ratio of the Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Rosiglitazone, On Days 1 and 8, blood samples were taken prior to the administration of rosiglitazone and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose. Plasma concentrations of rosiglitazone were determined using a validated liquid chromatography mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC MS/MS) assay. Individual and mean plasma rosiglitazone concentration versus time data were tabulated and plotted by analyte. The pharmacokinetic parameters of each analyte were calculated using standard non-compartmental methods (WinNonlin version 5.2.1, Pharsight Corp., Mountain View, CA). The geometric mean ratio of Cmax of rosiglitazone was defined as the Cmax of rosiglitazone on Day 8/ Cmax of rosiglitazone on Day 1., Pre-dose and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose|Geometric Mean Ratio of the Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From 0 to Infinity (AUC[0-inf]) of Ethinyl Estradiol and Norethindrone, On Days 1 and 8, blood samples were taken prior to the administration of the contraceptive norethindrone 1 mg/ethinyl estradiol 35 µg (Ortho-Novum 1/35®) and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose. Plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone were determined using a validated liquid chromatography mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC MS/MS) assay. Individual and mean plasma ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone concentration versus time data were tabulated and plotted by analyte. The pharmacokinetic parameters of each analyte were calculated using standard non-compartmental methods (WinNonlin version 5.2.1, Pharsight Corp., Mountain View, CA). The geometric mean ratios of AUC(0-inf) of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone were defined as the ratios of AUC(0-inf) of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone on Day 8 divided by AUC(0-inf) of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone on Day 1, respectively., Pre-dose and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose|Geometric Mean Ratio of the Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Ethinyl Estradiol and Norethindrone, On Days 1 and 8, blood samples were taken prior to the administration of the contraceptive norethindrone 1 mg/ethinyl estradiol 35 µg (Ortho-Novum 1/35®) and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose. Plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone were determined using a validated liquid chromatography mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC MS/MS) assay. Individual and mean plasma ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone concentration versus time data were tabulated and plotted by analyte. The pharmacokinetic parameters of each analyte were calculated using standard non-compartmental methods (WinNonlin version 5.2.1, Pharsight Corp., Mountain View, CA). The geometric mean ratios of Cmax of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone were defined as the ratios of Cmax of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone on Day 8 divided by Cmax of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone on Day 1, respectively., Pre-dose and 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, between 8 and 12 hours, and 24 hours post-dose
This is a single-arm, multicenter, Phase Ib study designed to describe the effect of GDC-0449 on the pharmacokinetics of rosiglitazone and oral contraceptives in patients with advanced solid tumors who are refractory to treatment or for whom no standard therapy exists.