Bortezomib Plus Gemcitabine and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for cancer cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one chemotherapy drug and bortezomib may kill more tumor cells
Malignant Pleural Effusion|Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: bortezomib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Toxicities at each dose level, graded using the CTC version 2.0, Summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity, (by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures, time of onset (i.e. course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and course., 18 weeks
Response rate, assessed by standard RECIST criteria, Summarized by exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Survival, Summarized with Kaplan-Meier plots., From registration to time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Time to failure, Summarized with Kaplan-Meier plots., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and feasibility of combining bortezomib with gemcitabine and carboplatin in patients with advanced or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer.

II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib administered in combination with gemcitabine and carboplatin in these patients.

III. Correlate results from laboratory studies on patient tissue and serum specimens with potential predictors of response in patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Determine, preliminarily, the response of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of bortezomib.

Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes on day 1, followed 1 hour later by bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with a clinical or radiographic response may continue receiving bortezomib beyond 6 courses.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, at least 10 additional patients with chemotherapy-naive disease receive treatment as above with the MTD of bortezomib.

Patients are followed for survival.