Topotecan With Erlotinib for Topotecan Pretreated Ovarian Cancer
This is a single arm phase II study with a combination of Hycamptin® (topotecan) and erlotinib for a minimum of 2 cycles in patients (18 yrs of age and older) with recurrent ovarian cancer previously treated with chemotherapy drug Hycamptin® (topotecan). Up to 30 patients will be enrolled in this study.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Erlotinib
CA125 Response Rate With Continuous-infusion Topotecan and Erlotinib, Response was assessed after every treatment cycle. Response rate is defined as number of the patients who experienced complete or partial CA125 response (CR or PR). CR: normalization of the CA125 value, determined by 2 observations not less than 4 weeks apart; PR: CA125 decreases by \>50% and is confirmed to be 50% or greater on a subsequent determination at least one month later., Up to 3 years
CA125 Response Duration, Response duration is measured from the time measurement criteria for CA125 CR/PR at the first met until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented., Up to 3 years|CA125 Stable Disease Duration, Stable disease (SD) duration is measured from the tile of start of therapy until the criteria for progression are met. SD: CA125 decreases \<50% or increases \<100%. Disease progression: CA125 doubles the value of baseline, or more, over time., Up to 3 years|Time to Progression, Time to progression is defined as the time from first study drug administration until the first day radiological and /or symptomatic disease progression is documented, or until death in the absence of progression., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, estimated total time from the start of the trial, 4 years|Toxicity Profile, Number of participants (patients) who experienced AEs.

Dry skin, dry eye, acne, erythema, rash, pruritus, and diarrhea were related erlotinib; dehydration, anemia, leukopenia, nausea, vomiting, platelets, and fatigue were realted to topotcan., the whole treatment phase and 30 days post-treatment
On Day 1 of each treatment cycle, topotecan 0.4 mg/m\^2/day will be administered via continuous infusion for 9 days beginning on Day 1 of every 21 day cycle. Additionally, patients will receive erlotinib 150 mg daily Days 1-9 in a cycle of 21 days. Thereafter both drugs will be given as long as patient benefit continues. Treatment will be administered on an inpatient or outpatient basis, repeating administration on an every 3 week cycle.

A cycle will be one three-week course of the erlotinib-topotecan regimen (the cycle could be extended to 4 weeks if blood studies at 21 days result in treatment delay).

The dose of topotecan will be calculated as follows:

BSA (m\^2) X drug dose (mg/m\^2) = dose (mg)