Clinical Trial to Test the Phenolization in Sacrococcygeal Pilonidal Disease
Randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy and safety of phenolization in uncomplicated Sacrococcygeal pilonidal disease
Sacrococcygeal Fistula|Pilonidal Sinus|Pilonidal Disease|Pilonidal Disease of Natal Cleft
DRUG: phenolization|PROCEDURE: Conventional surgery
recurrence, short or medium-term recurrence of sacrococcygeal disease. For this purpose, a clinical follow-up was performed in outpatient clinics where the patient was assessed and explored regularly for signs of recurrence. The number of recurrences per group and the time from surgery to recurrence were assessed, up to 1 year
sick leave, time from surgery to return to work. This will be counted in days., up to 1 year
This is a single center randomized controlled clinical trial consisting in 2 treatment groups.

All patients admitted at University Hospital of Tarragona Joan XXIII with Sacrococcygeal pilonidal disease were likely to enter in the study. All patients with uncomplicated sacrococcygeal disease, localized in the midline and with only 1 fistulous orifice.

When the patients met the criteria and after consenting the admission in the study, they were included and were operated. The patients were randomly assigned to the phenolization group or conventional-surgery group. A unique anesthetic and surgical protocol were established for both groups.

Patients in the phenolization group underwent curettage with an otorhinolaryngology spatula and endocavitary phenol with an abocath needle until complete coagulation of the cyst. Patients in the conventional-surgery group were referred to conventional surgery consisting of complete excision of the cyst and closure by second intention. Both groups were managed without admission and discharged within a few hours if they met ALDRETE criteria. They were followed daily by the home hospitalization team

The main endpoint was short or medium-term recurrence of sacrococcygeal disease. The number of recurrences per group and the time from surgery to recurrence were assessed. Secondary endpoints included degree of satisfaction and sick leave