P53 Mutational Status and cf HPV DNA for the Management of HPV-associated OPSCC
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate whether genomic based risk-stratification can be used in deciding whether to de-intensify in patients with Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-associated Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC) with \> 10 pack years smoking history. Hypothesis: Patients with HPV-associated OPSCC, \> 10 pack years smoking history, and non-mutated p53 will have similar 2 year progression-free survival (PFS) as patients with \< 10 pack years smoking history.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell|Head and Neck Neoplasms|Oropharyngeal Neoplasms
RADIATION: Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT)|DRUG: Cisplatin (or alternative)|PROCEDURE: Assessment for surgical evaluation
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was assessed as the time from the first day of chemoradiation therapy (CRT) until disease progression. Disease progression was defined as biopsy proven tumor cells. Positron emission tomography / computerized tomography (PET/CT) was performed at week 10-16 (optimally at week 12) after completion of therapy. Biopsies were performed for subjects with imaging or clinical exam results suspicious for tumor. Clinical follow-up occurred and chest imaging was performed during the follow-up., Two years after completion of the treatment
Number of Participants With Plasma Circulating Free DNA -Baseline, The number of subjects who have or do not have plasma circulating free Human papillomavirus Deoxyribonucleic acid (HPV- DNA) was tabulated., Baseline|Number of Participants With Plasma Circulating Free DNA -3months, The number of subjects who have or do not have plasma circulating free Human papillomavirus Deoxyribonucleic acid (HPV- DNA) was tabulated., 3 months after completion of the treatment|Number of Participants With Plasma Circulating Free DNA -1 Year, The number of subjects who have or do not have plasma circulating free Human papillomavirus Deoxyribonucleic acid (HPV- DNA) was tabulated., 1 year after completion of the treatment|Number of Participants With Plasma Circulating Free DNA -2 Year, The number of subjects who have or do not have plasma circulating free Human papillomavirus Deoxyribonucleic acid (HPV- DNA) was tabulated., 2 years after completion of the treatment|Local Control Rate, The local control rate is defined as the total disappearance of the primary tumor without any local recurrence. Local recurrence was defined as biopsy-proven tumor cells in the primary tumor region. Biopsy was performed for a subject with a positive positron emission tomography / computerized tomography scan and /or clinical discretion of the surgeon 16 weeks after completion of the treatment., 2 years after completion of the treatment|Regional Control Rate, Regional control rate is defined as the total disease disappearance of the related lymph node metastases without any lymph node recurrence. Regional recurrence was defined as biopsy proven tumor cells in related lymph nodes. Biopsy was performed for a subject with a positive positron emission tomography / computerized tomography scan and /or clinical discretion of the surgeon 16 weeks after completion of the treatment., 2 years post-CRT|Local-regional Control Rate, Local-regional control rate is defined as the total disappearance of the primary tumor and related lymph node metastases without any recurrence. Local-regional recurrence was defined as biopsy-proven tumor cells in the primary tumor region and/or related lymph nodes. Biopsy was performed for a subject with a positive positron emission tomography / computerized tomography scan and /or clinical discretion of the surgeon 16 weeks after completion of the treatment., 2 years after completion of the treatment|Distant Metastasis Free Survival, Distant metastasis-free survival is defined as the time from the first day of the study treatment to the date of disease spreads while subjects are alive.

Distant metastasis-free survival is defined as no disease outside of the primary tumor and related lymph node metastases. Distant metastasis was defined as biopsy-proven tumor cells outside of the primary tumor and related lymph node metastases. Biopsy was performed for a subject with a positive positron emission tomography / computerized tomography scan and /or clinical discretion of the surgeon 16 weeks after completion of the treatment., Two years after completion of the treatment|Overall Survival Rate, The overall survival rate is defined as the time from the first day of the study treatment to the date of death for any cause. Subjects who have not had an event will be censored at the date of the last assessment documenting the subject was alive., Up to 2 years after completion of treatment
The proposed study is a follow-up study to LCCC 1120 and 1413. The investigators have shown that de-intensification is efficacious in these two phase II studies. A major question is whether the investigators can de-intensify in patients with HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancer who have smoking histories. The investigators' hypothesis is that genomic profiling of patients' tumors (specifically for p53 mutations) will help in triaging patients to de-intensification versus standard of care. Patients with HPV-associated OPSCC will be enrolled regardless of smoking history and p53 mutational status will be assessed in patients with a smoking history. The investigators will use the same de-intensification chemoradiotherapy regimen already evaluated in LCCC 1120 and 1413 in patients with HPV-associated OPSCC who have a minimal smoking history and in patients with a smoking history but with wild-type p53. Patients with a smoking history who have mutated p53 will not receive de-intensified chemoradiotherapy, but instead will receive standard doses. The hypothesis is that by using genomics in the patients with a significant smoking history, the investigators will better select those who can be safely de-intensified. Circulating free HPV DNA (cf-HPV-DNA) will also be prospectively assessed from blood samples.