Phase II Study on Sintilimab Combined With Docetaxel for Chemotherapy Failure Advanced NSCLC: the SUCCESS Study
The study aim to Evaluate the combination of ididilimumab and docetaxel alone in the treatment of previous platinum-containing double-drug chemotherapy according to RECIST 1.1Objective remission rate of advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with negative, driving gene negative (EGFR, ALK, ROS1); (ORR).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Sintilimab Combined With Docetaxel
ORR (Overall response rate), Evaluation of objective response rates in patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who failed to receive platinum-based dual-drug chemotherapy in response to RECIST 1.1 and in combination with docetaxel and docetaxel, Approximately 1 years
PFS (progression free survival time), Assessment of the disease-free progression of the subject according to RECIST 1.1, Approximately 1 years|OS (overall survival time), Assess the overall survival of the subject according to RECIST 1.1, Approximately 1 years|DOR (duration of response), Assessment of subject's duration of remission according to RECIST 1.1, Approximately 1 years|DCR (disease control rate), Assessment of subject's disease control rate according to RECIST 1.1, Approximately 1 years|TTR (time to response), Assessment of subject's objective response time according to RECIST 1.1, Approximately 1 years
This study is a single case of syndilizumab plus docetaxel monotherapy in a Chinese-negative late-stage or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) failed platinum-containing dual-drug chemotherapy. Center, single arm phase II study. In this study, 30 patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who had failed platinum-containing dual-drug chemotherapy were treated with rituximab plus docetaxel every 3 weeks until disease progression and intolerance. Toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, death or other cessation of treatment as prescribed by the program, whichever occurs first. The primary end point was the ORR based on RECIS 1.1, which was evaluated by the Independent Imaging Review Board (IRRC). The longest treatment time for ididibizumab is 24 months. An interim analysis will be conducted during the course of the study. The results and reports will be provided to the Independent Data Audit Committee (IDMC), which determines whether the trial is valid based on the valid cut-off value of the trial and whether the study data can be submitted in advance. Make recommendations to the sponsor. Prior to the interim analysis, the IDMC charter will be finalized and approved by IDMC and the sponsor. The responsibilities and related procedures of IDMC members will be defined in the IDMC charter.