Checkpoint Inhibitor and Radiotherapy for Recurrent Gastric Cancer (CIRCUIT)
This study aims to evaluate safety and efficacy of nivolumab (anti-PD-1 antibody), which is approved as tertiary therapy, and neoadjuvant short-term limited local radiotherapy in patients with unresectable recurrent gastric cancer who progressed (intolerance or PD) after standard treatment (primary and secondary chemotherapy) and have more than one lesion assessable in diagnostic imaging (one lesion must be \>=2cm).
Gastric Cancer
RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Nivolumab
Disease Control Rate, Analysis item: Disease control rate of non-irradiated target lesions. The rate of patients with a best overall response of stable disease (SD) or better confirmed by 180 days, starting from the start date of radiotherapy. The RECIST Guidelines Version 1.1 was used to determine overall response such as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), SD, and progressive disease (PD) at each imaging time. If imaging is not available, the patient is considered deficient (NE)., 6 months
Median Survival Time, Overall survival is defined as the period from the start date of radiotherapy until the date of death from any cause or date of last documented survival. In surviving cases, the last date of confirmation of survival is the date of termination. Untraceable cases are terminated on the last date of confirmed survival before the loss of follow-up. At the end of the study period, all enrolled cases are confirmed alive., From the start date of radiotherapy until the date of death from any cause or date of last documented survival, assessed up to approximately 31 months.|Safety (Grade and Frequency of Adverse Events), The frequency of adverse events from all enrolled cases is tabulated by adverse event name and worst grade according to CTCAE ver.4.0. All adverse events are summarized without regard to causal relationships to the study treatment. The frequency and rate of grade 3 or higher adverse events are calculated., Adverse events were monitored from the start date of radiotherapy until the end of study protocol or death from any cause, and were assessed up to approximately 6 months. All-Cause Mortality was assessed up to approximately 31 months.|Local Control Rate, Analysis item: Disease control rate of irradiated target lesions. The rate of patients with a best overall response of SD or better confirmed by 180 days, starting from the start date of radiotherapy. The RECIST Guidelines Version 1.1 was used to determine overall response such as CR, PR, SD, and PD at each imaging time. If imaging is not available, the patient is considered NE., 6 months
In patients with unresectable recurrent gastric cancer who progressed (intolerance or PD) after standard treatment (primary and secondary chemotherapy) and have more than one lesion assessable in diagnostic imaging (one lesion must be \>=2cm), localized short-term radiotherapy of 22.5 Gy/5 fractions/5 days is applied to a symptomatic lesion or the largest asymptomatic lesion suitable for irradiation (Day 1-5). Nivolumab is administered starting from Day 15-22 at a dose of 3 mg/kg (body wait) or 240 mg/body every 2 weeks to a total of 6 courses (end of intervention).

The patients are observed up to Day 180±14 and evaluated on Day 180±14 (end of study).