Pentoxifylline, Atorvastatin, and Vitamin E in Treating Patients With Erectile Dysfunction After Radiation Therapy for Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pentoxifylline, atorvastatin, and vitamin E (PAVE) work in treating patients with erectile dysfunction after radiation therapy for prostate cancer. Atorvastatin may reduce high cholesterol. Pentoxifylline and vitamin E may enhance blood flow. Giving PAVE may work better in treating prostate cancer patients with post-radiation therapy erectile dysfunction.
Male Erectile Disorder|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Erectile Dysfunction, CTCAE|Impotence
DRUG: Atorvastatin|DRUG: Pentoxifylline|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin E Compound
Change in International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) Scores, To estimate the proportion of participants who achieve a clinically significant improvement in erectile dysfunction (ED) when treated with a combination of Atorvastatin or participant's currently prescribed statin, Vitamin E, and Pentoxifylline (PAVE), 12 months
Number of Participants With Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), The safety profile of the pentoxifylline, atorvastatin and vitamin E (PAVE) combination will be reported for each cohort, with adverse events summarized by grade and time to onset to first grade 3 adverse event., Up to 12 months|Choosing Other Erectile Dysfunction (ED) Treatments After Pentoxifylline, Atorvastatin and Vitamin E (PAVE), To report the rate of choosing other ED treatments after PAVE., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the proportion of patients who achieve a clinically significant improvement in erectile dysfunction (ED) when treated with a combination of atorvastatin or patient's currently prescribed statin, vitamin E, and pentoxifylline (PAVE).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To report the safety profile of PAVE. II. To report the rate of choosing other ED treatments after PAVE.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive atorvastatin orally (PO) once daily (QD) for up to 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning week 7, patients receive atorvastatin PO QD, vitamin E PO QD, and pentoxifylline PO thrice daily (TID) for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.