Aldesleukin and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Melanoma
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of IL-2 when given in combination with pembrolizumab to patients with advanced melanoma. Aldesleukin may stimulate white blood cells to melanoma cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving aldesleukin and pembrolizumab may kill more tumor cells.

There are two parts to this study:

* Phase Ib: To determine the safety and side effects of increasing doses of IL-2 in combination with pembrolizumab
* Phase II: Once the maximum tolerated dose of IL-2 is determined, additional patients will be treated to determine if it is effective against the cancer.
Metastatic Melanoma|Stage III Mucosal Melanoma of the Head and Neck|Stage IIIA Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIB Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIC Skin Melanoma|Stage IV Skin Melanoma|Stage IVA Mucosal Melanoma of the Head and Neck|Stage IVB Mucosal Melanoma of the Head and Neck|Stage IVC Mucosal Melanoma of the Head and Neck
BIOLOGICAL: Aldesleukin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Best Overall Response Rate as Assessed by Response (BORR) Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, With the Modification That Progressive Disease Must be Confirmed on a Subsequent Scan, Estimated using OTD of IL-2 and pembrolizumab assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1,for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI imaging: Complete response (CR) - disappearance of all target lesions; Partial response (PR) - \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD) - At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; or Stable Disease (SD) - neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD.

By testing increasing doses up to 600,000 IU. Receive IL-2 6,000 International Units per kilogram (IU/kg);in cycles 2, 3, 6,7,10 and 11, with follow up thirty days after the last dose of study drug, Four to six weeks later up to one year
Complete Response Rate, Participants are treated with pembrolizumab and the MTD of IL-2. Will be measured using the RECIST v 1.1. For all participants who experience a complete response, the date noted for disease response is the time of the scan when it was originally determined, and not the later date of the confirmatory scan., Four to six weeks later, up to three years|Number of Adverse Effects (AE) as Evaluated by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for AE's, Version 4.0, Each participant will be assessed for potential or new worsening AE's. AE's will be graded and recorded through the study and during follow-up period according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for AE's, version 4.0. Grade 1-5 with grade 5 being the most severe., Thirty days after last dose of treatment, up to three years|Overall Survival Estimated Using Kaplan-Meier Curves, Assess for survival status until death. Time to death measured in months., Baseline to end of follow-up, up to 3 years|Progressive Free Survival Retaining Progression-free Survival Status up to 36 Months, As measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) for targeted lesions; Partial response (PR) - \>= 30% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; or stable (SD) - neither sufficient shrinkage to quality for PR nor Sufficient increase to quality PD. Descriptive statistical will be used. Continuous variables will be presented by summary statistics (such as mean, median, standard error and 90% CI) and the categorical variables by frequency distributions (i.e., frequency counts, percentages and 90% CI)., Up to three years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine an optimal tolerated dose (OTD) of aldesleukin (interleukin \[IL\]-2) that is effective and tolerable in combination with pembrolizumab.

II. To characterize the efficacy of the OTD of IL-2 in combination with pembrolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the safety of IL-2 in doses ranging up to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)- approved dose when administered in combination with pembrolizumab.

II. To characterize clinical endpoints, including overall survival, progression-free survival, and complete response rate.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize immune parameters in the blood and tumor microenvironment and cellular and molecular features of the tumor tissue that correlate with response to combination therapy for study as potential predictive biomarkers.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 every 3 weeks and aldesleukin IV every 8 hours for up to 14 doses at weeks 4, 7, 16, 19, 28, and 31 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months up to 10 years.