Olanzapine Versus Megestrol Acetate for the Treatment of Loss of Appetite Among Advanced Cancer Patients
This phase III trial compares the effects of olanzapine versus megestrol acetate in treating loss of appetite in patients with cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced). Olanzapine may stimulate and increase appetite. This study aims to find out if olanzapine is better than the usual approach (megestrol acetate) for stimulating appetite and preventing weight loss.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Anorexia|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm
DRUG: Olanzapine|DRUG: Megestrol Acetate|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in appetite, Will be compared between the two study groups (olanzapine versus megestrol acetate) using a 0-10 numerical rating scale. Will be summarized by mean (standard deviation \[SD\]) and median (range) by treatment arm. The difference in appetite change from baseline to 4 weeks of treatment between arms will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval and will be compared using a t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test as appropriate., Baseline up to 4 weeks
Proportion of patients who report a 5% or greater weight gain, The proportion of patients with a 5% or greater weight gain from baseline will be calculated for each arm. The difference in proportion of patients with 5% or greater weight gain between the arms will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval using a normal approximation of the binomial distribution and will be compared using a Chi-squared test., Baseline up to 4 weeks|Change in well-being status and cachexia/anorexia symptoms, Responses to the Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment (FAACT)-Anorexia/Cachexia Subscale (A/CS) questionnaire will be scored according to the established algorithm. The total score of the FAACT-A/CS will be summarized weekly and the change from baseline to 4 weeks will be compared between the treatment arms using the same methods described for the primary endpoint., Baseline up to 4 weeks
The primary and secondary objectives of the study:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether olanzapine leads to greater appetite improvement from baseline in cancer patients suffering from anorexia compared to megestrol acetate using the 0-10 numerical rating scale (NRS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether olanzapine leads to a greater proportion of patients who report a 5% or greater weight gain from baseline compared to megestrol acetate.

II. To compare change in cachexia/anorexia symptoms with olanzapine compared to megestrol acetate using the Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment (FAACT)-Anorexia/Cachexia Subscale (A/CS) instrument.

OUTLINE: Patient are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive olanzapine orally (PO) once daily (QD) for up to 4 weeks in the absence of consent withdrawal or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive megestrol acetate PO QD for up to 4 weeks in the absence of consent withdrawal or unacceptable toxicity.