Personalized TCR-T: Study of Adoptively Transferred T-cell Receptor Gene-engineered T Cells (TCR-T)
This is a phase I/Ib study of adoptively transferred T-cell receptor gene-engineered T cells (TCR-T) targeting tumor-specific antigens, with in vivo CD40 activation and PD-1 blockade, for patients with incurable cancers. The study design is a safety lead-in TCR-T with CD40/PD-1 (3+3), followed by Simon's Two-Stage expansion design, 80% power and 5% one-sided alpha: stage-one futility assessment at n = 10; stage-two assessment at n = 22, (accrual up to 24 to allow for potential study drop-out).
Malignant Epithelial Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: TCR-transduced T cells|DRUG: CDX-1140|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Incidence of adverse events, Incidence of adverse events, 2 years|Severity of adverse events, Severity of adverse events using CTCAE version 5.0, 2 years
Objective response rate, percentage of subjects having CR or PR, 2 years|Duration of response, the time from the earliest date of disease response (CR or PR) until earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause, 2 years|Clinical benefit rate, percentage of subjects having CR, PR, or SD (with minimum duration \> 4 months), 2 years|Overall survival, determined by survival follow-up, 2 years
Patients will be infused with T cells engineered to express TCRs targeting one to five tumor-specific neoantigens expressed by their autologous tumor. The number of T cells infused will range from 2e9 to 1e11. Monoclonal antibodies targeting PD-1 (pembrolizumab) and CD40 (CDX-1140, Celldex Therapeutics)39 will be administered, in that order, starting within 24 hours of cell infusion and re-administered at approximately 3 week intervals. Clinic visits will include longitudinal evaluation of toxicities and monitoring of immunological parameters. The presence or absence of replication competent retrovirus (RCR) will be evaluated for the first year following adoptive cell transfer, or longer, if there is evidence of RCR.

Tumor Response assessment by RECIST 1.1 is performed every 9-12 weeks. Study treatment continues until progression. Option repeat TCR-T infusion is allowed and in addition may incorporate preconditioning chemotherapy using a de-intensified non-myeloablative (NMA) regimen consisting of a single dose of gemcitabine and a single dose of either cyclophosphamide or epirubicin, designed to elicit immunogenic cell death and transient lymphopenia.

The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety of the adoptive transfer of TCR-gene engineered T cells targeting TSA in combination with CD40 and PD-1 immunotherapy. The secondary objective is to determine whether this therapy can mediate objective clinical responses as determined by objective criteria (e.g. RECIST 1.1). The study will also characterize the differentiation and functional state of the TCR-gene modified T cells before and after cell therapy and monitor their persistence in the patient after treatment. Up to 24 patients will be enrolled in this study. Based on published trials treating patients with TCR-transduced T cells, adverse events such as fever, chills, dyspnea, hypotension, fatigue, edema, rash, and rarely acute cytokine release syndrome, may occur.

Clinical and immunological data will be analyzed which will determine whether this therapy is safe and effective, and whether there are biomarkers or immunological signatures that correlate to efficacy and/or lack of efficacy. This data will determine whether additional studies are warranted.