Effects of Music and Affirmation Recital in Women With Breast Cancer
The aim of this study is to determine the effect of music and affirmation recitals on symptom control, psychological resilience and anxiety levels in women with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Experimental (Music)|OTHER: Experimental (Affirmation)
Edmonton Symptom Diagnostic Scale, This scale is used to measure cancerous voice, youth, medium units, durable, anxiety, sleepiness, excitement, feeling good and shortness of breath. The measurement of the degree of feeling to be measured from the numbers 0 to 10 on a line on the scale. In the scale, 0 represents no hissing of the symptom, 10 represents very strong hissing. The Turkish validity and publication study of the scale was published by Kurt and Unsar and the Cronbach alpha value works as 0.70., 1 month|Beck Anxiety Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory: Developed by Beck et al. (1988) to determine the level and frequency of anxiety symptoms experienced by an individual. The scale is a Likert-type self-assessment scale consisting of 21 items and scored between 0-3. The high total score indicates the high level of anxiety experienced by the individual. The score range varies between 0-63. The scale is evaluated as 0-7 points, no anxiety symptoms, 8-15 points, mild anxiety, 16-25 points, moderate anxiety, 26-63 points, severe anxiety symptoms. The validity and reliability study in our country was conducted by Ulusoy et al. (1998) and the Cronbach alpha value of the scale was found to be 0.93., 1 month|Brief Resilience Scale, The scale was developed by Smith in 2008, and its Turkish validity and reliability study was conducted by Doğan in 2015. Brief Resilience Scale is a 5-point Likert-type self-report measurement tool consisting of 6 items. The answers are "Not at all appropriate (1), Not appropriate (2), Somewhat appropriate (3), Appropriate (4), Completely appropriate (5)". Items 2, 4, and 6 of the scale are reverse coded. The score obtained from the scale varies between 1 and 30. High scores obtained indicate high psychological resilience. In the validity and reliability study, the Cronbach alpha reliability value of the scale was found to be 0.83., 1 month
Introduction: Music therapy is attracting attention today because it is a person-centered approach that does not require any special skills and/or significant financial investments.

Method: The aim of this study is to determine the effect of music and affirmation recitals on symptom control, psychological resilience and anxiety levels in women with breast cancer. This study will be conducted using a randomized controlled trial design. It is planned to include 75 women in total, 25 patients in the music recital group, 25 patients in the music and affirmation group and 25 patients in the control group. Data in the study will be collected using the Introductory Information Form, Edmonton Symptom Diagnostic Scale, State Anxiety Scale and Psychological Resilience Scale.

Conclusion: It is thought that the findings obtained in this study will contribute to the use of music and affirmation, which are cheap, effective and easily applicable methods, in chemotherapy units as a method to help reduce patients' anxiety. The study is expected to reduce the symptoms of breast cancer patients and reduce their anxiety levels