Immunization of Patients With Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The study of the vaccine will proceed in two stages after the method of Simon (102). In the first stage, 15 patients will be accrued and treated. If two or fewer objective immunologic responses occur, the study will be terminated. If 3 or more responses are observed, the study will proceed to the second stage, accruing an additional 22 patients. If the second stage is complete and a total of 9 or more immunologic responses are observed among the 37 patients treated, the treatment response rate for the vaccine will be considered high enough to warrant further study. Conversely, if the evaluation of the vaccine concludes at the first stage, or if 8 or fewer total immunologic responses occur after completing the second stage, the vaccine will not be considered for further study.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
BIOLOGICAL: semi-allogeneic human fibroblasts (MRC-5) transfected with DNA
Safety and feasibility; patients will be observed for treatment-related toxicity during and after each immunization,and for 1 h after immunization in the event that an immediate-type hypersensitivity reaction occurs., 2.5 years
To evaluate the ability of the DNA-based vaccine to induce immune responses to the autologous tumor (if available) and/or the vaccine., 14
This is an uncontrolled, non-randomized trial to evaluate safety, immunogenicity and feasibility of a new vaccine, consisting of semi-allogeneic fibroblasts transfected with autologous tumor-derived DNA. Briefly, the plan is to use a two-stage trial design and to initially enroll 15 patients with non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) over a period of 2 years. The patients will undergo surgery and a portion of the primary tumor specimen not necessary for the pathologic diagnosis will be obtained to serve as a source of tumor DNA. Each DNA-based vaccine will contain 1 x 10e7 DNA-transfected human allogeneic fibroblasts. The vaccine will be lethally irradiated before it is used for immunization. It will be administered intradermally in the Outpatient Clinic. Patients delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses will be tested but will not be an eligibility criterion. Immunologic response to the vaccine will be evaluated. If there is no evidence of toxicity, and \>3 of the 15 initial patients show immunologic response, the second stage of the study will be opened for accrual of 22 patients. All patients will be monitored by IFN-g secretion in ELISPOT assays prior to and after vaccination for the frequency of T-cells responsive to autologous tumor (if available) and/or to the vaccine. The patients will also be evaluated before and after vaccination for the capability of their T cells to respond to activating signals delivered via the T cell receptor (TcR).