S0009 Combination Chemo and Surgery in Stage III or Stage IV Ovarian Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug or combining chemotherapy with surgery may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy and surgery in treating patients who have stage III or stage IV ovarian epithelial cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, or fallopian tube cancer.
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: debulking surgery
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of registration until the date of death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive were censored at the date of last contact. Patients were followed every 3 months for the first year, every 6 months for years 2 and 3, and then annually for years 4 and 5., assessed every 3 months for 1st year, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for years 4 and 5|Progression-Free Survival, Progression was defined as a CA-125 value that is both twice the nadir since registration and greater than 70 units/ml, and is confirmed by a second determination at least 7 days apart, or appearance of any new lesion/site. Symptomatic deterioration was defined as a global deterioration of health status requiring removal from protocol treatment. Progression-Free Survival was defined as the time from the date of registration to the date of progression, symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and progression-free were censored at last contact date., Monthly during protocol treatment, then every 3 months up to the end of Year 1, then every 6 months for the next two years, then annually up to Year 5.
OBJECTIVES:

* Evaluate the overall survival and progression-free survival in patients with stage III or IV ovarian epithelial cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, or fallopian tube cancer treated with neoadjuvant paclitaxel and carboplatin followed by surgery and adjuvant paclitaxel and carboplatin.
* Estimate the percentage of these patients whose disease is successfully cytoreduced to less than 1 cm in diameter following neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
* Evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Explore the relationship between tumor p53 expression, proliferation rate as measured by proliferating cell nuclear antigen and apoptotic rate, and human tumor cloning assay results at time of debulking surgery with progression-free survival and overall survival in these patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive neoadjuvant therapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 35 days of receiving the third course of chemotherapy, patients with at least a 50% reduction in CA 125 undergo debulking surgery. Within 35 days of undergoing surgery, patients with a tumor reduction to below 1 cm receive adjuvant therapy comprising paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by carboplatin intraperitoneally (IP) on day 1 and paclitaxel IP on day 8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for up to 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 55 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.