Phase 2 Study of Brigatinib in Japanese Participants With Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK)-Positive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate efficacy and safety of brigatinib in Japanese participants with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive NSCLC.
ALK-positive Advanced NSCLC
DRUG: Brigatinib
Confirmed Objective Response Rate (ORR) in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, Confirmed ORR: Percentage of participants confirmed to have achieved complete response(CR) or partial response(PR) per Independent Review Committee(IRC) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors(RECIST) version 1.1 after the initiation of study treatment(confirmed ≥4 weeks after initial response). CR(target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR(non-target lesion response): disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size(\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR(target lesions): at least 30% decrease in sum of the longest diameters(SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference Baseline sum diameters. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure was assessed and reported data only in the participants with at least 1 line of prior treatment(called as Main Cohort) of the Refractory Expansion Part., From the start of study treatment up to confirmed CR or PR (Up to approximately 23 months)|12 Months Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Rate in the Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) Naïve Expansion Cohort, 12 months PFS rate was defined as the percentage of the participants who did not have PFS events (PD per IRC using RECIST version 1.1, or death by any cause) at 12 months after the start of study treatment. PD for target lesion: SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest), the SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD for non-target lesion: unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Kaplan-Meier method was used for analysis of percentage of participants who achieved PFS of 12 months. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure was assessed and reported data only in the TKI-Naïve Expansion Cohort (participants with no prior treatment)., From the start of study treatment up to Month 12
Confirmed ORR as Assessed by an IRC in All Refractory Participants and TKI-Naïve Expansion Cohort, Confirmed ORR was defined as percentage of participants who were confirmed to have achieved CR or PR per an IRC using RECIST version 1.1 after initiation of study treatment (confirmed ≥4 weeks after initial response). CR for target lesion response: disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR for non-target lesion response: disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: at least a 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters. As pre-specified in the protocol, the data for this outcome measure is reported based on previous treatment as: All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the start of study treatment up to confirmed CR or PR till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Confirmed ORR as Assessed by the Investigator in Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, Safety Evaluation Lead-in Part, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, Confirmed ORR was defined as the percentage of the participants who were confirmed to have achieved CR or PR per the investigator using RECIST version 1.1 after the initiation of study treatment (confirmed ≥4 weeks after initial response). CR for target lesion response: disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR for non-target lesion response: disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort. The Safety Evaluation Lead-in Part was excluded from the analysis., From the start of study treatment up to confirmed CR or PR till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by an IRC in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, DOR was assessed by an IRC, per RECIST version 1.1. DOR was defined as the time between the first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR) and the first subsequent documentation of objective PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PD for target lesion: SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest), the SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD for non-target lesion: unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Only responders were analyzed for this outcome measure. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From first dose at 8-week intervals through Cycle 15 (each cycle=28 days) and at 12-week intervals thereafter until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by an IRC in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, and All Refractory Participants, PFS was assessed by an IRC, per RECIST version 1.1. PFS was defined as the time from the start of study treatment to the first documentation of objective PD or to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PD for target lesion: SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest), the SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD for non-target lesion: unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. This outcome measure reports the data in refractory participants only and data is reported per cohort separately for Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, and for All Refractory Participants., From the start of the treatment up to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|PFS as Assessed by an IRC in the TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, PFS was assessed by an IRC, per RECIST version 1.1. PFS was defined as the time from the start of study treatment to the first documentation of objective PD or to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PD for target lesion: SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest), the SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PD for non-target lesion: unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. This outcome measure reports data only in the TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the start of the treatment up to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) as Assessed by an IRC in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, DCR was assessed by an IRC, per RECIST version 1.1. DCR: percentage of participants confirmed to have achieved CR or PR or have best overall response of stable disease (SD), for 6 weeks or more after initiation of study drug. CR (target lesion): disappearance of all target lesions. CR (non-target lesions): the nontarget lesion(s) has fully resolved. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD (target lesion): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. PD (target lesion): SLD increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study, the SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the start of the treatment up to confirmed CR or PR or SD till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Time to Response as Assessed by an IRC in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, Time to response was assessed by an IRC, per RECIST version 1.1. and was defined as the time interval from the date of the first dose of study treatment until the initial observation of CR or PR for participants with confirmed CR/PR. CR(target lesion response):disappearance of all extranodal target lesions, all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. CR(non-target lesion response):disappearance of all extranodal nontarget lesions, all lymph nodes must be nonpathological in size (\<10 mm short axis) and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the start of the treatment up to confirmed CR or PR till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Overall Survival (OS) as Assessed by an IRC in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, OS is defined as the time interval from the date of the first dose of the study treatment until death due to any cause. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the start of the treatment up to death due to any cause till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Intracranial Objective Response Rate (iORR) in Participants With Measurable Central Nervous System (CNS) Metastases at Baseline in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, Confirmed iORR was defined as the percentage of the participants who had achieved confirmed CR or PR in the intracranial CNS per modified RECIST version 1.1 as evaluated by an IRC after the initiation of study treatment. CR for target lesion: disappearance of all target lesions. CR for non-target lesions: the nontarget lesion(s) has fully resolved. PR for target lesion: at least a 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline SLD. Additionally, progression of target lesions must not be present. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the start of the treatment up to confirmed CR or PR till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Duration of Intracranial Response (iDOR) in Participants With Measurable CNS Metastases at Baseline in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-naive Expansion Cohort, iDOR was assessed by an IRC, per modified RECIST version 1.1 and was defined as the time between first documentation of objective intracranial tumor response (CR or PR) and first subsequent documentation of objective intracranial PD or death due to any cause. Participants who had systemic PD without intracranial PD were censored. CR (target lesion): disappearance of all target lesions. CR (non-target lesions):the nontarget lesion(s) has fully resolved. PR (target lesion):at least a 30% decrease in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference Baseline SLD. Progression of target lesions must not be present. CNS PD (target lesions):at least a 20% increase in SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the nadir SLD (or the baseline) and SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From first dose at 8-week intervals through Cycle 15 (each cycle=28 days) and at 12-week intervals thereafter until intracranial disease progression or death due to any cause till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Intracranial Progression-free Survival (iPFS) in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, iPFS was assessed by an IRC, per modified RECIST version 1.1 and was defined as the time from the start of study treatment to the first documentation of objective intracranial PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. The participant who had systemic PD and withdrawn from study without intracranial PD was censored. CNS PD for target lesions: at least a 20% increase in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the nadir SLD (or the baseline, if the baseline is the nadir value) and the SLD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. PD for non-target lesions: the nontarget site of disease has shown unequivocal progression. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure was assessed and reports data per cohort in all participants with measurable or not measurable intracranial metastases at Baseline: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the start of the treatment up to intracranial disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Time on Treatment in the Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort, Time on treatment was defined as the time interval from the first dose to the last dose of brigatinib. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort: Main Cohort of the Refractory Expansion Part, All Refractory Participants, and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., From the first dose up to last dose of study drug till data cut-off date: 29 September 2020 (Up to approximately 32 months)|Change From Baseline in Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) of Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) Scores and Symptoms as Assessed by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQC30) Subscale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 contains 30 items - 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), 9 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnea, sleep disturbance, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a QOL scale. Out of 30, 28 questions had 4 response levels (not at all, a little, quite a bit, and very much); 2 questions for global health status had score of 1 to 7 (very poor to excellent) to evaluate overall health and QOL. Each subscale raw score including global health status was transformed to a total score of 0 to 100. For functional scales, global health status scale, higher scores=better QOL (positive change from Baseline=improvement). For symptom scales, lower scores=better QOL (negative change from Baseline=improvement). As pre-specified in protocol, this outcome measure was assessed and reports data per cohort: Refractory Expansion Participants (including Main Cohort and Sub-Cohort), and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., Refractory Expansion Participants: Baseline and Cycle 22 - each cycle was of 28 days; TKI-Naive Participants: Baseline and Cycle 19 - each cycle was of 28 days|Change From Baseline in HRQOL Scores and Symptoms of Lung Cancer as Assessed With the EORTC QLQ- Lung Cancer (LC) 13 (QLQ-LC13) Subscale Score, HRQOL scores was assessed with EORTC, its lung cancer module QLQ-LC13. QLQ-LC13 contains 13 questions (4-point scale where 1=Not at all \[best\] to 4=Very much \[worst\]) assessing lung cancer-associated symptoms \[cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, and site-specific pain (chest, arm or shoulder, other parts)\], treatment-related side effects (sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, and alopecia), and use of pain medication. Subscale score range: 0 to 100. Higher symptom score = greater degree of symptom severity. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort only in the Refractory Expansion Participants (including Main Cohort and Sub-cohort), and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., Refractory Expansion Participants: Baseline and Cycle 22 - each cycle was of 28 days; TKI-Naive Participants: Baseline and Cycle 19 - each cycle was of 28 days|Number of Participants With Responses to HRQOL Scores and Symptoms of Lung Cancer as Assessed With the EuroQol 5-Dimensional Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) Score, EQ-5D-5L comprises of 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression), each rated on 5 levels: 1= no problems, 2= slight problems, 3= moderate problems, 4= severe problems, 5= extremely severe problems. Higher scores indicated greater levels of problems across the five dimensions. As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort only in the Refractory Expansion Participants (including Main Cohort and Sub-cohort), and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort. Number of participants with a particular score at the given timepoint is reported. Only categories with data are reported., Refractory Expansion Participants: Cycle 22 - each cycle was of 28 days; TKI-Naive Participants: Cycle 19 - each cycle was of 28 days|Change From Baseline in HRQOL Scores and Symptoms of Lung Cancer as Assessed With the EuroQol Visual Analogue Scale (EQ VAS) Score, The EQ VAS records the respondent's self-rated health on a 20 centimeter (cm), vertical, visual analogue scale ranging from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state). As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure assessed and reports data per cohort only in the Refractory Expansion Participants (including Main Cohort and Sub-cohort), and TKI-Naive Expansion Cohort., Refractory Expansion Participants: Baseline and Cycle 22 - each cycle was of 28 days; TKI-Naive Participants: Baseline and Cycle 19 - each cycle was of 28 days|Cmax: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration for Brigatinib on Cycle 1 Days 1 and 22, As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure was assessed only in the participants with or without prior ALK-TKI treatment called as the Safety Evaluation Lead-in Part., Pre-dose and at multiple time points (0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24; up to 24 hrs) post-dose of Cycle 1 Days 1 and 22 (each cycle = 28 days)|Tmax: Time of First Occurrence of Cmax for Brigatinib on Cycle 1 Days 1 and 22, As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure was assessed only in the participants with or without prior ALK-TKI treatment called as the Safety Evaluation Lead-in Part., Pre-dose and at multiple time points (0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24; up to 24 hrs) post-dose of Cycle 1 Days 1 and 22 (each cycle = 28 days)|AUC(0-24): Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to 24 Hours Post-dose for Brigatinib on Cycle 1 Days 1 and 22, As pre-specified in the protocol, this outcome measure was assessed only in the participants with or without prior ALK-TKI treatment called as the Safety Evaluation Lead-in Part., Pre-dose and at multiple time points (0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24; up to 24 hrs) post-dose of Cycle 1 Days 1 and 22 (each cycle = 28 days)
The drug being tested in this study is called brigatinib. Brigatinib is being tested in participants with ALK-positive NSCLC in order to evaluate efficacy and safety of oral doses of brigatinib in Japanese participants with ALK-positive NSCLC.

The study will enroll approximately 110 participants. Participants will be enrolled in non-randomized and opened manner:

- Brigatinib 90 mg for the first 7 days, followed by Brigatinib 180 mg of Brigatinib tablets, once daily in a 28-days cycle.

All participants will be asked to take tablets of brigatinib once daily with or without food throughout the study.

This multi-center trial will be conducted in Japan. The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 53 months. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic during the treatment period, and posttreatment period including a follow-up assessment after last dose of study drug.