A Study Examining Long Response in Lung Cancer Patients Treated With Tarceva (Erlotinib)
This multicenter, retrospective and prospective observational, cohort study will examine the effect of second-line Tarceva treatment on long response in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) participants with wild type or unknown EGFR status. Participants will be observed from the start of treatment for 8 months or until death. The extension of the retrospective versus prospective observation will depend on the lag between the date of the participant enrollment and the date of beginning of erlotinib therapy.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Percentage of Participants With Stable Disease (SD) or Objective Response (Complete and Partial Response [CR + PR] According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Objective response was defined as having a CR or PR. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions, and all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 millimeters (mm) in short axis. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), no progression in non-target lesions, and no new lesions. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, progression of existing non-target lesions, or presence of new lesions., Up to 8 months|Duration of SD or Objective Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, The duration of SD or objective response (CR+PR) was defined as the time from first occurrence of SD or objective response to the time of PD, or death for any cause. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Objective response was defined as having a CR or PR. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions, and all pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), no progression in non-target lesions, and no new lesions. PD was defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, progression of existing non-target lesions, or presence of new lesions., Up to 8 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST v1.1, PFS was defined as the time from the beginning of therapy with erlotinib to the first occurrence of disease progression, as determined by the investigator using RECIST v1.1 criteria, or death from any cause. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm, progression of existing non-target lesions, or presence of new lesions., Up to 8 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the beginning of therapy with erlotinib to death from any cause., Up to 8 months|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is an unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with a clinical study, regardless of causality., Up to 8 months
This multicenter, retrospective and prospective observational, cohort study will examine the effect of second-line Tarceva treatment on long response in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) participants with wild type or unknown EGFR status. Participants will be observed from the start of treatment for 8 months or until death. The extension of the retrospective versus prospective observation will depend on the lag between the date of the participant enrollment and the date of beginning of erlotinib therapy.