Simple Simulation Based Breast Cancer Awareness Training
It was planned to determine the effect of simple simulation-based breast cancer awareness training on women's breast cancer knowledge and fear levels. The research population will consist of female service personnel working in institutions within the University of Health Sciences (SBÜ) (N: 670). In order to determine the sample size in this research, which was planned as a quasi-experimental with a pre- and post-test design and a control group; The data showed a normal distribution, the standard deviation of the population was estimated to be 1, and the effect size (difference) was estimated to be 0.8. It was calculated that if two independent n₁=40, n₂=40 samples were taken for the analysis to be carried out, at a 5% significance level, the maximum power value of the research would be 0.942182. Both groups will be given theoretical training about breast cancer awareness, and women in the intervention group will practice breast cancer awareness with a simple valid simulator. All groups will be informed before the applications. The training content will be supported by distributing a 5-page training booklet created from breast health and cancer awareness content to the participants. "Comprehensive Breast Cancer Knowledge Test", "Breast Cancer Fear Scale" and "Breast Cancer Awareness Scale" will be applied as a pre-test after the information.
Breast Cancer Awareness Training
OTHER: Simple reality simulator application
Introductory Information Form, In this form, created by the researchers based on the literature, participants' age, obstetric history (number of pregnancies, number of births, breastfeeding status, etc.), self-breast examination status, etc. questions are included., 10 minutes|Comprehensive Breast Cancer Knowledge Test, The scale, developed by Stager in 1993, consists of 20 knowledge questions. The Turkish adaptation of the scale was carried out by Başak and Tosun in 2015. The scale is answered in a true-false manner, and there are 8 correct and 12 incorrect answers among the questions. After the test application is carried out; According to the answer key of the scale, "correct" answers are given 1; "Incorrect" and blank answers were given 0 points. GKMKBT includes two dimensions: general knowledge and treatability. Questions from 1 to 12; general knowledge about breast cancer; Questions 13 to 20 contain information about the treatability of breast cancer. The reliability of the scale was found to be 0.71., 10 minutes|Breast Cancer Fear Scale, It was developed by Champion in 2004 to examine women's breast cancer fears by determining their emotional responses to breast cancer and screening. The Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Seçginli in 2012. The scale contains eight items and is scored on a 5-point Likert type. According to this scoring, the lowest possible score is 8 and the highest score is 40. A higher score from the scale indicates a higher level of breast cancer fear. On scale; Scoring between 8 and 15 indicates a low level of fear of breast cancer, scoring between 16 and 23 indicates a moderate level of fear of breast cancer, and scoring between 24 and 40 indicates a high level of fear of breast cancer. Cronbach's Alpha value of the scale was found to be 0.90., 10 minutes|Breast Cancer Awareness Scale, The scale was developed in 2010 by the UK cancer research center, "King's College London" and "University College London" to determine breast cancer awareness. In our country, the Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Baş and Ursavaş (2022). The scale consists of a total of 13 items to determine breast cancer awareness, including symptoms (11 items), frequency of breast examination (1 item) and breast cancer age (1 item). The scale has no cut-off point. Answering 5 of the symptoms correctly is coded as 1 point, a 70-year-old woman is coded as 1 point, and breast examination once a month is coded as 1. Incorrect answers are worth 0 points. Scoring is between 0-3. Cronbach's alpha value of the scale was found to be 0.89. As the score obtained from the scale increases, breast cancer awareness increases., 10 minutes
Comprehensive Breast Cancer Knowledge Test, The scale, developed by Stager in 1993, consists of 20 knowledge questions. The Turkish adaptation of the scale was carried out by Başak and Tosun in 2015. The scale is answered in a true-false manner, and there are 8 correct and 12 incorrect answers among the questions. After the test application is carried out; According to the answer key of the scale, "correct" answers are given 1; "Incorrect" and blank answers were given 0 points. GKMKBT includes two dimensions: general knowledge and treatability. Questions from 1 to 12; general knowledge about breast cancer; Questions 13 to 20 contain information about the treatability of breast cancer. The reliability of the scale was found to be 0.71., 10 minutes|Breast Cancer Fear Scale, It was developed by Champion in 2004 to examine women's breast cancer fears by determining their emotional responses to breast cancer and screening. The Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Seçginli in 2012. The scale contains eight items and is scored on a 5-point Likert type. According to this scoring, the lowest possible score is 8 and the highest score is 40. A higher score from the scale indicates a higher level of breast cancer fear. On scale; Scoring between 8 and 15 indicates a low level of fear of breast cancer, scoring between 16 and 23 indicates a moderate level of fear of breast cancer, and scoring between 24 and 40 indicates a high level of fear of breast cancer. Cronbach's Alpha value of the scale was found to be 0.90., 10 minutes|Breast Cancer Awareness Scale, The scale was developed in 2010 by the UK cancer research center, "King's College London" and "University College London" to determine breast cancer awareness. In our country, the Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Baş and Ursavaş (2022). The scale consists of a total of 13 items to determine breast cancer awareness, including symptoms (11 items), frequency of breast examination (1 item) and breast cancer age (1 item). The scale has no cut-off point. Answering 5 of the symptoms correctly is coded as 1 point, a 70-year-old woman is coded as 1 point, and breast examination once a month is coded as 1. Incorrect answers are worth 0 points. Scoring is between 0-3. Cronbach's alpha value of the scale was found to be 0.89. As the score obtained from the scale increases, breast cancer awareness increases., 10 minutes
It was planned to determine the effect of simple simulation-based breast cancer awareness training on women's breast cancer knowledge and fear levels. The research population will consist of female service personnel working in institutions within the University of Health Sciences (SBÜ) (N: 670). In order to determine the sample size in this research, which was planned as a quasi-experimental with a pre- and post-test design and a control group; The data showed a normal distribution, the standard deviation of the population was estimated to be 1, and the effect size (difference) was estimated to be 0.8. It was calculated that if two independent n₁=40, n₂=40 samples were taken for the analysis to be carried out, at a 5% significance level, the maximum power value of the research would be 0.942182. Both groups will be given theoretical training about breast cancer awareness, and women in the intervention group will practice breast cancer awareness with a simple valid simulator. All groups will be informed before the applications. The training content will be supported by distributing a 5-page training booklet created from breast health and cancer awareness content to the participants. "Comprehensive Breast Cancer Knowledge Test", "Breast Cancer Fear Scale" and "Breast Cancer Awareness Scale" will be applied as a pre-test after the information.