Ripretinib Used for Resectable Metastatic GIST After Failure of Imatinib Therapy
To explore the efficacy and safety of preoperative treatment of potentially resectable locally advanced or recurrent metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) after failure of treatment.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
DRUG: Ripretinib treatment
No Evidence of Disease Rate (NED Rate), The primary study endpoint is to investigate the disease-free status rate of ripretinib for the preoperative treatment of potentially resectable locally advanced or recurrent metastatic GIST (NED Rate defined as patients who achieve R0 resection or complete response or macroscopic complete ablation of all known tumor lesions based on imaging assessment, with known tumor lesions assessed by CT or MRI at baseline and within 14 days after surgery, respectively)., baseline|No Evidence of Disease Rate (NED Rate), The primary study endpoint is to investigate the disease-free status rate of ripretinib for the preoperative treatment of potentially resectable locally advanced or recurrent metastatic GIST (NED Rate defined as patients who achieve R0 resection or complete response or macroscopic complete ablation of all known tumor lesions based on imaging assessment, with known tumor lesions assessed by CT or MRI at baseline and within 14 days after surgery, respectively)., within 14 days after surgery
R0/R1 resection rate, R0 is the proportion of patients with no microscopic residual after resection/R1 is the proportion of patients with microscopic residual., 1 days after surgery|Surgery rate, The proportion of patients who can undergo surgery., up to 6 months|Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients who achieve complete response and partial response., up to 24 months
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), The recurrence-free survival (RFS, defined as the time from initial surgery to the earliest evidence of recurrence) of potentially resectable locally advanced or recurrent metastatic GIST treated with preoperative therapy failure., until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS, defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause), until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months
This study is a single-arm, single-center, exploratory study. A total of 20 patients were enrolled. The patient was orally administered with 150 mg of ripretinib daily. The study is expected to enroll the first patient in August 2021, last patient before March 30, 2023 and end the trial in November 2023. Subjects will receive up to 6 cycles of treatment before surgery, which will occur 1 week after the last dose of study drug. The subject requires discontinuation of study treatment or withdrawal from the study due to disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or Investigator's judgment.

The study will be divided into 3 periods: screening period, treatment period (visit period) and follow-up period. All subjects in the study were required to meet all inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria.

In this study, the screening period did not exceed 28 days, and eligible subjects who completed the screening tests and assessments entered the treatment period for study treatment and visits as specified in the protocol. Thereafter, participants entered the follow-up period. The safety follow-up period begins with 30 days of study treatment until 90 days after dosing, and subjects should receive telephone assessments every 30 days. After the safety follow-up period, subjects entered the survival follow-up period. Survival follow-up will be performed every 3 months until 1 year after treatment. Survival information and subsequent treatment information can be collected by effective means such as telephone follow-up. For subjects without radiographic evidence of disease progression, radiographic assessments should continue to be performed at the frequency of efficacy evaluations specified for this study.