Curcumin for the Prevention of Radiation-induced Dermatitis in Breast Cancer Patients
Ionizing radiation is a toxic agent and widely accepted form of treatment for various types of cancer. Despite advances in medical technology, radiation therapy still causes severe early and late skin effects. Radiation-induced dermatitis occurs in approximately 80% of patients. Important consequences of radiation-induced dermatitis include impairment of the quality of a patient's life due to pain and premature interruption of radiation treatment, which in turn, may be impair good local control of disease. The biological pathways responsible for acute radiation-induced dermatitis remain unclear. Currently, there is no standard treatment for the prevention of radiation-induced dermatitis with demonstrated effectiveness. The aim of this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study is to assess the effectiveness of curcumin for the prevention of acute radiation-induced dermatitis during postoperative radiotherapy for breast cancer. We hypothesize that curcumin, a natural phenolic compound found in both turmeric and curry powders, can prevent or alleviate radiation-induced skin reactions in breast cancer patients receiving radiotherapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Curcumin C3 Complex|DRUG: Placebo
Severity of Dermatitis in Radiation Treatment Site in Breast Cancer Patients, The severity of radiation dermatitis was measured using the Radiation Dermatitis Severity (RDS)Scale which ranges from 0.0 to 4.0 with increments of 0.5. The RDS scale is a revised form of the NIH Common Toxicity Criteria to account for color and subtle texture changes in the skin. The worst dermatitis (i.e., highest RDS score) at the end of treatment was used for the primary analysis of severity of radiation dermatitis in each treatment group. Additionally, we performed repeated measure analyses to examine the severity of dermatitis over time in each arm., 4-7 weeks (prescribed course of radiation)
Moist Desquamation at Radiation Treatment Site, The presence of moist desquamation at the end of radiation treatment was examined between curcumin and placebo treatment groups. We compared the number of participants (or percentage) with moist desquamation between each treatment group., 4-7 weeks (prescribed course of radiation)|Redness at Radiation Treatment Site, Redness at radiation treatment site was measured using a CR-400 Colorimeter (Konica Minolta). The colorimeter uses the L\*a\*b\* color scale. We used a\* values (redness) which range from 0.0 to 20.0. The lower the number value, the lower amount of redness. Therefore, high number values represent large amounts of redness., 4-7 weeks (prescribed course of radiation)|Pain at Radiation Treatment Site, The McGill Pain Questionnaire-Short Form (MPQ-SF) was used to determine the participants pain at treatment site. The MPQ-SF contains three subscales: affective pain, sensory pain, and perceived pain. This outcome measure compared the total pain score (range 0 to 50)and subscale scores (sensory subscale range 0 to 33; affective subscale range 0 to 12; perceived pain subscale 0 to 5) at the end of radiation therapy between the two treatment arms., 4-7 weeks (prescribed course of radiation)
Specifically, this clinical pilot study will develop data necessary to calculate a sample size for a larger study to be conducted through the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP) mechanism. Specifically, this pilot project will investigate: 1) if curcumin can prevent or alleviate radiation-induced skin reactions in cancer patients receiving radiotherapy and 2) if skin pigmentation, as well as pain and psychophysiological factors, can predict the severity of radiation-induced dermatitis. Potential future research studies may be conducted to identify the biological mechanisms involved in radiation-induced dermatitis and the radioprotective function of curcumin.