Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Antibodies Plus Anti-VEGF Antibody Treatment in Patients With Advanced-Stage HCC
This study is being done to analyze the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of treatment using combination of anti-VEGF and anti-PD-1/PDL1 antibodies for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies|DRUG: Anti-VEGF
Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be monitored by addressing and recording all adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and specific laboratory abnormalities (worst grade). Toxicities will be graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Safety will be monitored by addressing and recording all adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and specific laboratory abnormalities (worst grade). Toxicities will be graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 30 days after last treatment dose
Objective response rate(ORR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 5 years|Progression free survival(PFS), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 5 years|To the relief time (TOR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 5 years|Duration of relief(DOR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 5 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 5 years|6-month survival rate, Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 6-month|12-month survival rate, Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 12-month
This is a study of combination anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies and anti-VEGF for adult patients (≥18) with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.

Anti-VEGF (including Avastin, IBI305 etc.) is designed to block a protein called vascular endothelial growth factor, therefore blocking the blood supply that feeds the tumor. Also, Anti-VEGF has recently been shown to play a key role regulating cancer cell proliferation trough epigenetic pathway.

Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies (including pembrolizumeb, nivolumab, sintilimab, toripalimab, camrelizumeb, tislelizumab and atezolizumab etc.) are given intravenously at assigned dose. Treatment may continue until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or consent withdrawal.

This study is aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of anti-VEGF and PD-1/PD-L1 mAb in unresectable late-stage HCC patients.