Compression Anastomosis Using the Compression Anastomotic Ring-locking Procedure (CARP)
The intestinal ends must be rejoined after colonic resection. Conventional methods include sutured and stapled anastomoses, which is associated with 3-6% leakage after colonic surgery. The leakage of an anastomosis can cause serious consequences, such as abdominal infections and/or sepsis. Early detection of anastomotic leakage is the best way to avoid serious abdominal infections. The methods that are used today to detect leaks are unfortunately not very accurate. These methods include monitoring symptoms, temperature, and CRP-levels, and performing abdominal examinations and tomography scans. Because of the difficulties in objectively assessing these parameters, the anastomotic leaks are often diagnosed late. When reoperation is required, a permanent stoma may be made at the level of the sigmoid colon. The CARP system has been developed to achieve a safe anastomosis. The CARP is designed to providing an improved contact surface between the two intestinal ends and the ability to precisely investigate the anastomosis during and after surgery using the catheters of the CARP system. Standardized use of the CARP to anastomose the large intestine may provide significant advantages in the field of colorectal surgery.
Cancer|Polyp
DEVICE: Compression anastomotic ring-locking procedure (CARP)
Complications, including anastomotic leakage, problems with ring evacuation, Up to 14 days after operation
Time to evacuation of the CARP device, 1-2 week after operation
The intestinal ends must be rejoined after colonic resection. Conventional methods include sutured and stapled anastomoses, which is associated with 3-6% leakage after colonic surgery. The leakage of an anastomosis can cause serious consequences, such as abdominal infections and/or sepsis. Early detection of anastomotic leakage is the best way to avoid serious abdominal infections. The methods that are used today to detect leaks are unfortunately not very accurate. These methods include monitoring symptoms, temperature, and CRP-levels, and performing abdominal examinations and tomography scans. Because of the difficulties in objectively assessing these parameters, the anastomotic leaks are often diagnosed late. When reoperation is required, a permanent stoma may be made at the level of the sigmoid colon. The CARP system has been developed to achieve a safe anastomosis. The CARP is designed to providing an improved contact surface between the two intestinal ends and the ability to precisely investigate the anastomosis during and after surgery using the catheters of the CARP system. Standardized use of the CARP to anastomose the large intestine may provide significant advantages in the field of colorectal surgery.