SRS Study in Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) can help to control NSCLC. The safety of SBRT will also be studied.

Objectives:

To assess therapeutic efficacy and toxicities of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for patients with medically inoperable stage I (T1-2, N0,M0), selective stage II (chest wall T3, N0M0) or isolated peripheral lung recurrent non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Primary goal: Improve 2 years progression free survival at the treated primary tumor site.

Secondary goals:

1. Improve disease free survival, disease specific survival and overall survival at 2 years.
2. Decrease grade 3 and above acute and/or chronic toxicities.
3. Collect blood for future biomarkers study
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)
Progression Free Survival (PFS) at Treated Primary Tumor Site, Progression free survival at the primary site evaluated by series CT of chest with contrast for every follow up (except 6 weeks after radiotherapy) for two years. PET information considered for calculation of PFS particularly for distant metastasis and/or additional lesions.

Population proportion for two-year PFS estimated using Clopper-Pearson 95% confidence intervals., 2 Years
Stereotactic body radiotherapy is designed to provide an image guided, more focused, dose escalated radiotherapy over a shorter time frame (1 week rather than 7 weeks) than conventional radiation therapy. The goal of SBRT is to improve tumor control while reducing the side effects.

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive daily SBRT for 4 days in a row over a 45 minute time period. During the treatment, you will lie still on a table for about 45 minutes per day in the same position. The machine will deliver the dose according to the plan developed by the doctor and the dose will be controlled by a computer.

During the treatment, you will be seen by a doctor and research nurse once a week to evaluate possible side effects. A physical exam and a medical history will be done at these visits.

You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

You will have a follow-up visit 6 weeks after completion of radiotherapy to check for side effects. You will continue to have follow-up visits that will decrease in frequency over time. You will have imaging tests (chest CT or positron emission computed tomography (PET) scan) and routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) at these follow-up visits.

This is an investigational study. SBRT is FDA approved for the treatment of lung cancer. About 138 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.