Combination of Paclitaxel-bevacizumab ± Atezolizumab in Patients with Advanced NSCLC Progressing After Immunotherapy & Chemotherapy
This is an open-label, randomized, non-comparative, multicentre, phase II study in which NSCLC patients who have progressed following chemotherapy and immunoptherapy are randomized to receive treatment with either paclitaxel and bevacizumab (Arm A), or paclitaxel, bevacizumab and atezolizumab (Arm B). An estimated 156 patients (52 in Arm A, 104 in Arm B) will be enrolled at approximately 40 centres. Patients will be treated until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or another discontinuation criterion is met. For patients in Arm B, continuation of atezolizumab beyond progression is permitted, at the investigator's discretion, if there is evidence of continued clinical benefit. The null hypothesis is progression free survival at 6 months ≤ 50% for Arm B, which is considered not sufficiently clinically meaningful to warrant further study. The alternative hypothesis is that 66% or more of patients in Arm B would achieve progression free survival at 6 months.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Progression Free Survival at 6 months determined by independent reviewer, PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first date of documented progression, as determined by independent review, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 6 months after randomization
Progression Free Survival, PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first date of documented progression, as determined by investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., At progression, after an average of 15 months.|Objective Response Rate, ORR is defined as the proportion of patients who have achieved a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by investigator review of radiographic disease assessments per RECIST v1.1., At progression, after an average of 15 months.|Overall Survival, OS is defined as the time from date of inclusion to the date of death due to any cause. If a death has not been observed by the date of the analysis cut-off, OS will be censored at the date of last contact., About 39 months|Time until definitive health related quality of life score deterioration, The time until definitive health related quality of life score deterioration will be analysed using the EORTC Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30)., From enrollment to score deterioration, after an average of 15 months.|Incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events, Graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 5.0 (NCI CTCAE v5.0)., From time of informed consent through treatment period and up to 30 days post last dose of study treatment (average of 15 months)]|Overall health status, Overall health status will also be assessed using the EuroQol 5-dimension 5-level (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire., At progression, after an average of 15 months.
This is an open-label, randomized, non-comparative, multicentre, phase II study in which NSCLC patients who have progressed following chemotherapy and immunoptherapy are randomized to receive treatment with either paclitaxel and bevacizumab (Arm A), or paclitaxel, bevacizumab and atezolizumab (Arm B). An estimated 156 patients (52 in Arm A, 104 in Arm B) will be enrolled at approximately 40 centres. Patients will be treated until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or another discontinuation criterion is met. For patients in Arm B, continuation of atezolizumab beyond progression is permitted, at the investigator's discretion, if there is evidence of continued clinical benefit. The null hypothesis is progression free survival at 6 months ≤ 50% for Arm B, which is considered not sufficiently clinically meaningful to warrant further study. The alternative hypothesis is that 66% or more of patients in Arm B would achieve progression free survival at 6 months.