A Trial of Pembrolizumab and Metformin Versus Pembrolizumab Alone in Advanced Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the combination of Pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA速) and the investigational drug, Metformin.
Advanced Melanoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab Injection [Keytruda]|DRUG: Metformin
Ki-67 proliferation index in T cell, determine the cell cycle status, up to 4 years
Number of participants experiencing adverse events, Number of participants that received a combination of Pembrolizumab and Metformin who experience treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, up to 4 years|Hypoxia in the primary tumor by IHC Staining, up to 4 years|Mitochondrial functional restoration in Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes by mitochondrial mass, patients treated with metformin and pembrolizumab compared to pembrolizumab alone, up to 4 years|Cell cycle status of peripheral blood T lymphocytes by Flow Cytometry, patients treated with pembrolizumab and metformin compared to patients treated with pembrolizumab alone, up to 4 years|overall tumor response rate, patients treated with metformin and pembrolizumab compared to pembrolizumab alone, as measured by clinical tumor measurement and radiological tumor measurement on PET/CT scans., up to 4 years|Mitochondrial functional restoration in Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes by Seahorse metabolic profiling, patients treated with metformin and pembrolizumab compared to pembrolizumab alone, up to 4 years
Functional restoration of peripheral blood T lymphocytes, up to 4 years|Progression free survival, up to 5 years|Correlating hypoxia measurements in the tumor with FDG avidity on PET., up to 4 years|MDSC in the tumor microenvironment and peripheral blood by flow cytometry., up to 4 years|Melanoma tumor antigen specific T cell responses by flow cytometry., up to 4 years|Overall survival, up to 5 years|Treg levels in the tumor microenvironment by flow cytometry, up to 4 years|Degree of mitochondrial functional restoration in TIL of patients treated with metformin and pembrolizumab compared to pembrolizumab alone, flow cytometry will be used to measure mitochondrial mass and glucose uptake in T cells, up to 4 years
Patients are being asked to take part in this clinical research study because they have advanced, un-resectable stage III or IV Melanoma. If they participate they will be randomized to receive Pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA速) or the combination of Pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA速) plus Metformin.

This research study will evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the combination of Pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA速) and the investigational drug, Metformin.

Patients will be randomized into one of two groups - either Arm A or Arm B. In Arm A, patients will receive pembrolizumab alone. In Arm B, patients will receive both pembrolizumab and metformin.

If patients are randomized to Arm A, they will be administered pembrolizumab (200 mg), by IV, every three weeks. After the first three doses, pembrolizumab dosing can be changed to 400mg IV every 6 weeks, at the treating physician's discretion. Pembrolizumab can be administered up to two years, if disease does not progress or have unacceptable toxicity. However, if the disease progresses the patient may continue on the study if they are clinically stable or clinically improved.

If patients are randomized to Arm B, they will be administered pembrolizumab (200 mg), by IV, every three weeks, plus metformin (500 mg), twice a day for nine weeks. Metformin will be taken in the morning and evening, 12hrs apart, with food. After the first three doses, pembrolizumab dosing can be changed to 400mg IV every 6 weeks, at the treating physician's discretion.

Discontinuation of treatment may be considered for patients who have attained a confirmed complete response that have been treated for at least 24 weeks with pembrolizumab and had at least two treatments with pembrolizumab beyond the date when the initial complete response was declared.

Patients will be followed for 5 years after removal from study or until death, whichever occurs first, through standard of care visits, phone call or by medical records review.