Assessment of Periodontal Therapy and Biofilm Management in Breast Cancer
Objective: To evaluate the impact of chemotherapy on periodontal conditions, hematology, and salivary flow in patients with breast cancer and gingivitis, after basic periodontal therapy (BPT).

Methods: They were divided into patients with breast cancer and gingivitis (BC/G =20); and patients without cancer with gingivitis (G=20). Clinical parameters \[Plaque Index (PI), bleeding on probing (BOP), Probing Depth (PS), Clinical Attachment Level (CAL)\], hematological parameters (complete blood count), and salivary flow were evaluated at baseline, 6, 12 and 24 weeks.
Breast Cancer|Gingivitis|Periodontal
OTHER: Basic Periodontal Therapy
Periodontal conditions, The plaque index (PI) was determined by analyzing the presence or absence of biofilm on the gingival margin, expressed as a percentage of surfaces with biofilm Bleeding on probing (BOP) was determined by detecting the presence or absence of bleeding, expressed as the percentage of bleeding surfaces.

The probing depth (PD/mm) was expressed in millimeters, measured from the gingival margin to the bottom of the gingival sulcus.

The clinical attachment level (CAL/mm) was expressed in millimeters, measured from the cementoenamel junction to the most apical portion of the gingival sulcus.

Both BOP, PD, CAL were evaluated at six locations per tooth, i.e., three on the buccal surface and three on the lingual or palatal surface.

Periodontal parameters (BOP, PD, CAL and PI ) are evaluated together or combined to perform periodontal diagnosis, before and after post treatment (baseline, 6 weeks, 12 and 24 weeks)
Salivary Flow, The salivary flow rate was expressed in milliliters per minute (mL/min). Periodontal parameters and salivary flow will be combined to assess oral health., before and after post treatment (baseline, 6 weeks, 12 and 24 weeks)
Objective: To evaluate the impact of chemotherapy on periodontal conditions, hematology, and salivary flow in patients with breast cancer and gingivitis, after basic periodontal therapy (BPT).

Methods: They were divided into patients with breast cancer and gingivitis (BC/G =20); and patients without cancer with gingivitis (G=20). Clinical parameters \[Plaque Index (PI), bleeding on probing (BOP), Probing Depth (PS), Clinical Attachment Level (CAL)\], hematological parameters (complete blood count), and salivary flow were evaluated at baseline, 6, 12 and 24 weeks.