Dasatinib in Treating Patients With Advanced Liver Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial is studying how well dasatinib works in treating patients with advanced liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Dasatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer
DRUG: dasatinib
Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Response = CR + PR, 4 months|Four Month Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival calculated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 4 months
Median Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Until disease progression or death, up to 4 years|Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 4 years|Safety and Tolerability, Summarize observed grade 3 and higher toxicities related to dasatanib. The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 were used for reporting., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the progression-free survival (PFS) rate and response rate (complete and partial response) at 4 months in patients with unresectable advanced hepatocellular carcinoma treated with dasatinib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the median PFS and overall survival of patients treated with this drug.

II. Assess the toxicity and tolerability of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral dasatinib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3-6 months thereafter.