Robotic Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction Surgery Versus Robotic Transabdominal Specimen Extraction Surgery for Early-Stage Rectal Cancer
A retrospective cohort study, conducted nationwide（China） and across multiple centers, aimed to compare the surgical quality and short-term outcomes of R-NOSES （robotic natural orifice specimen extraction surgery）with R-TSES （robotic transabdominal specimen extraction surgery） for early-stage rectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer|Robotic Surgery|Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction Surgery
PROCEDURE: R-NOSES group|PROCEDURE: R-TSES group
Complication rate, Complication rate within 1 month postoperatively.All complications of surgery will be documented and graded by the Clavien-Dindo classification system,generally including anastomotic leakage, abdominal infection, bleeding, incision infection, incision implantation, intestinal obstruction, and rectovaginal fistula., Up to 30 days postoperatively
Operative time, Intraoperative|Estimated blood loss, Intraoperative|Postoperative recovery composite, Including the time to first flatus (record the patient's first self induced exhaust time after operation, accurate to hours) and time to first oral feeding., Up to 2 weeks|Postoperative hospital stay, From surgery to discharge, Up to 4 weeks|Pain assessment, Visual analogue scale (VAS) will be used to evaluate the postoperative pain. If analgesics were needed, the type and dose of analgesics after operation should be recorded., 1, 3, 5 days postoperatively|C-reactive protein (CRP), Detection of serum CRP levels (mg/L) to evaluate surgical stress response and immune function., 1, 3, 5 days postoperatively|Postoperative white blood, Detection of serum CRP levels (mg/L) to evaluate surgical stress response and immune function., 1, 3, 5 days postoperatively|EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes functional score, symptom score, and Global Health Status. All project scores range from 0 to 100. The Functional score includes physical functioning, role functioning, emotion functioning, social functioning and cognitive functioning. The higher the functional score, the better the functional status of the patient. Symptom score includes nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnoea, insomnia, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea, financial impact. A higher symptom score is associated with more severe symptoms and worse outcomes. The higher the Global Health Status, the better the health of the patient., Three months after surgery|BIQ, The BIQ is an eight-item questionnaire incorporating body image and cosmetic subscales, The body image scale measures patients' perception and satisfaction with their bodies after surgery. it ranges from 5 to 20 with a higher number representing greater body image perception. The cosmetic scale assesses satisfaction with surgical scars for a score range of 3-24, with a higher score indicating greater cosmetic satisfaction., Three months after surgery
In this retrospective cohort study, data from 1086 patients who underwent R-NOSES or R-TSES for early-stage rectal cancer between October 2015 and November 2023 were collected from a prospectively maintained database of 8 experienced surgeons from 8 high-volume centers in china. The study was aimed to compare the surgical quality and short-term outcomes of R-NOSES with R-TSES for early-stage rectal cancer.