Beta-agonist Efficacy and Tolerability as Adjuvant Therapy in Myasthenia Gravis
This study examines the effect of adjuvant therapy with the oral beta-agonist Salbutamol in patients with generalized myasthenia gravis on stable standard of care having residual symptoms.
Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: Salbutamol 4Mg Tablet|DRUG: Placebo oral capsule
Myasthenia Gravis Quality of Life 15-items (MG-QOL15), Validated patient reported outcome-questionnaire consisting of 15 items and their impact on quality of life. Results are reported as change from baseline to 8 weeks of treatment in both treatment periods (Visit 4 compared to Visit 2, and Visit 7 compared to Visit 5)., 8 weeks (Treatment Period 1), 8 weeks (Treatment Period 2)|Treatment Tolerability, Tolerability assessed by rate of adverse events and drug discontinuation in both treatment periods., 8 weeks (Treatment Period 1), 8 weeks (Treatment Period 2)
Myasthenia Gravis Activity of Daily Living (MG-ADL), Validated patient-reported outcome scale consisting of 8 disease-related items and their impact on activity of daily living. Results are reported as change from baseline to 8 weeks of treatment in both treatment periods (Visit 4 compared to Visit 2, and Visit 7 compared to Visit 5)., 8 weeks (Treatment Period 1), 8 weeks (Treatment Period 2)|Neuro QOL, Patient reported fatigue-questionnaire used to rate fatigue and impact on quality of life. Results are reported as change from baseline to 8 weeks of treatment in both treatment periods (Visit 4 compared to Visit 2, and Visit 7 compared to Visit 5)., 8 weeks (Treatment Period 1), 8 weeks (Treatment Period 2)|Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG), Validated rating scale consisting of 13 items measuring muscle function and endurance. Results are reported as change from baseline to 8 weeks of treatment in both treatment periods (Visit 4 compared to Visit 2, and Visit 7 compared to Visit 5)., 8 weeks (Treatment Period 1), 8 weeks (Treatment Period 2)|Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MG-Composite), Validated scale consisting of 10 items with different weighting assessing severity of symptoms in MG. Results are reported as change from baseline to 8 weeks of treatment in both treatment periods (Visit 4 compared to Visit 2, and Visit 7 compared to Visit 5)., 8 weeks (Treatment Period 1), 8 weeks (Treatment Period 2)
Myasthenia Gravis (MG) causes various degrees of increased muscular fatigue and ocular, bulbar, respiratory and extremity symptoms.

Residual symptoms often remain despite treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and immunosuppressive agents. Escalation of immunosuppressive treatment may provide additional benefit but is associated with potentially severe side effects, and high economic costs.

Treatment with beta-agonists has been investigated in animal models of MG, and in small, randomized pilot studies of generalized MG. Adjuvant therapy with oral beta-agonists in MG may be safe and cheap and may improve symptoms.

The trial will examine the tolerability and efficacy of adjuvant therapy with the oral beta-agonist Salbutamol in patients with generalized myasthenia gravis on stable standard of care having residual symptoms.

Present study is an investigator-initiated, randomized, placebo-controlled, rater and subject-blinded crossover study.

Study consists of Screening Period (4 weeks), Treatment Period 1 (8 weeks), Washout Period (4 weeks), Treatment Period 2 (8 weeks).