Radiotherapy of the Prostate and the Pelvic Lymph Nodes After Neoadjuvant Antihormonal Treatment
For patients with prostate cancer and a high risk of lymph node involvement or confirmed pelvic lymph node metastases, radiotherapy of the whole pelvis is a treatment option. However, conventional radiotherapy of the pelvis has limited by gastrointestinal and urogenital side effects. The PLATIN trial investigates an intensity-modulated radiotherapy of the pelvic lymphatic drainage that spares small bowel, bladder and rectum. A higher dose is given during each session to the prostate or the prostate bed and to confirmed lymph node metastases. Prior to radiotherapy, two months of neoadjuvant antihormonal treatment are required, and continuation during radiotherapy and for a further two years are strongly recommended.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Intensity-modulated radiotherapy of the pelvic lymph nodes using SIB
Rate of safe feasibility (SDR), Proportion of treatments begun as planned without grade 3-4 NCI common toxicity criteria adverse events (CTC AE) or treatment disruption among all patients that fulfill inclusion criteria and have been treated according to trial protocol for at least a week., 2 years
Biochemical recurrence free survival, 2 years|Quality of Life, Measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30, 2 years
The PLATIN trial is designed as a prospective, non-randomized, five-arm trial. Arm 1: Definitive radiotherapy of the pelvic lymphatic drainage with integrated boost to the prostate.

Arm 2: As arm 1, with additional boost to macroscopic lymph node metastases. Arm 3: Postoperative radiotherapy of the pelvic lymphatic drainage with integrated boost to the prostate bed.

Arm 4: As arm 3, additional boost to macroscopic lymph node metastases. Arm 5: Patients with previous radiotherapy to the prostate bed. Radiotherapy of the pelvic lymphatic drainage above the previous treatment fields with integrated boost to macroscopic lymph node metastases.