Improving Competency and Metrics for PoLypectomy Skills Using Evaluation Tools and VidEo Feedback (COMPLETE)
I plan to investigate the value of video-based feedback in endoscopic training - specifically, the role of terminal video feedback as compared to usual concurrent feedback on cold snare polypectomy technique in trainees, using Direct Observation of Polypectomy Skills (DOPyS) competency score. I have focused the study on the competency of cold snare polypectomy for subcentimeter polyps. The majority (\>75%) of colon polyps are smaller than one centimeter. Cold snare polypectomy has been shown, and recommended by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE), to be an effective removal technique. However, its widespread use and moreover, its teaching to trainees is lacking. It takes time and resources to learn and teach endoscopic techniques. Our study will hope to identify a mechanism through video-based feedback that could help to improve the translation of the training of polypectomy skills to its actual performance, and to accelerate the learning curve.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Video-based terminal feedback
Number of polypectomies for gastroenterology trainees to achieve competency, Observing cold snare polypectomy of polyps \<1cm as assessed by DOPyS (score greater or equal to 3), 2 years
I plan to investigate the value of video-based feedback in endoscopic training - specifically, the role of terminal video feedback as compared to usual concurrent feedback on cold snare polypectomy technique in trainees, using Direct Observation of Polypectomy Skills (DOPyS) competency score. I have focused the study on the competency of cold snare polypectomy for subcentimeter polyps. The majority (\>75%) of colon polyps are smaller than one centimeter. Cold snare polypectomy has been shown, and recommended by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE), to be an effective removal technique. However, its widespread use and moreover, its teaching to trainees is lacking. It takes time and resources to learn and teach endoscopic techniques. Our study will hope to identify a mechanism through video-based feedback that could help to improve the translation of the training of polypectomy skills to its actual performance, and to accelerate the learning curve.