3D Analysis of Cemento-Osseous Lesions
COD lesions effect a wide range of different anatomical areas, show different volume and morphometric characteristics.
Bone Diseases|Cone-beam Computed Tomography|Florid Cemento-osseous Dysplasia
OTHER: The data of patients who had applied to the clinic for various reasons and were diagnosed with fibro-osseous lesions
the correlation between presence of cemento osseous dysplasia and gender/ age, It usually affects female and black patients. Most of the patients are initially diagnosed between the ages of 30 and 50, and the diagnosis is almost never made in individuals younger than 20, for three months from the beginning of the study|cemento osseous dysplasia lesion's location and relationship with the anatomical structures, If the lesions were in association with the teeth, the teeth numbers were recorded. The periphery of the lesions was divided into two sections: well-defined (corticated, sclerotic, non-corticated and partially corticated) and ill-defined (perforating, diffuse and invasive). The shape of the lesion was classified as circular, oval or irregular. The presence of a hypodense capsule was assessed as present, absent or partially present. The involvement with the adjacent structures - cortical bone (lingual and buccal), mandibular canal, mental foramen, nasopalatinal canal, incisive foramen, maxillary sinus, nasal fossa and anterior mandibular canal - was assessed and recorded. The effects on the cortical bone were assessed as intact, thinning, expansion and thinning, thinning and perforation, expansion, thinning and perforation or perforation. The internal calcified parts of the lesions., for three months from the beginning of the study|cemento osseous dysplasia lesions dimensional measurement of the lesions, The internal calcified parts of the lesions and the total volume of the lesions were also assessed.

The greatest linear dimension of the buccolingual, buccopalatinal and mesiodistal positions was measured on the axial plane, while the supero-inferior dimension was measured on sagittal or cross-sectional images., for three months from the beginning of the study|cemento osseous dysplasia lesions volume of the lesions, The internal calcified parts of the lesions and the total volume of the lesions were also assessed., for three months from the beginning of the study
Fibro-osseous lesions of the jaws are one of the important lesion groups for which identification and diagnosis create clinical difficulties. In previous studies, the features of the lesions and the effects of COD on anatomical structures were analysed via CBCT images by measuring the lesion's dimensions linearly for the first time in the Brazilian population. However, 3D measurements of the volume need to be taken to assess the actual spread over adjacent anatomical structures. The purpose of this retrospective study is to measure the volume of the lesions that have been diagnosed as COD in the Turkish population by using 3D images. This will contribute to an advanced study conducted on the global population to observe a change in these morphologies with respect to different geographical and ethnic origins.