Encorafenib and Binimetinib Before Local Treatment in Patients With BRAF Mutant Melanoma Metastatic to the Brain
Phase II clinical trial, with two cohorts of patients included in parallel, all with melanoma BRAF mutated and brain metastases without previous local treatment in the brain. Cohort 1 will include patients with asymptomatic brain metastases and cohort 2 will include patients with symptomatic brain metastasis.
Metastatic Melanoma|Brain Metastases
DRUG: encorafenib|DRUG: binimetinib|RADIATION: Whole brain radiation therapy|RADIATION: Radiosurgery/stereotactic radiosurgery
Intracranial Objective Response (iORR) by Modified RECIST 1.1 Before Local Radiotherapy Treatment in Full Dataset, iORR calculated as the proportion of patient with a best overall intracranial response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) before local treatment according to modified RECIST 1.1.

Modified RECIST 1.1 consists of:

Up to 5 intracranial lesions could be selected as target lesions Target lesions might have a longest diameter ≥ 5 mm when evaluated by contrast-enhanced MRI

This endpoint was also independently reported in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic brain metastasis., 24 months after start of treatment
Duration of Intracranial Response, Calculated as the time from the date of first documented CR or PR to the first documented intracranial progression or death due to underlying cancer accoridng to modified RECIST 1.1, in patients with documented intracranial CR or PR before local treatment., Throughout the study period, up to approximately 24 months|Intracranial Progression-free Survival (iPFS) by RECIST 1.1, Defined as the time from the date of inclusion to the date of the first documented intracranial disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS was determined based on tumor assessment (modified RECIST version 1.1 criteria). The local Investigator's assessments was used for analyses. Those patients who were alive and had not progressed at the last follow-up, date of progression was censored at the date of the last follow-up. Patients with no additional image test other than baseline were censored the day after inclusion., Throughout the study period, up to approximately 24 months|Extracranial Progression-free Survival (ePFS) in Both Cohorts, Defined as the time from the date of inclusion to the date of the first documented extracranial disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS was determined based on tumor assessment (RECIST version 1.1 criteria). The local Investigator's assessments was used for analyses. Those patients who were alive and had not progressed at the last follow-up, date of progression was censored at the date of the last follow-up. Patients with no additional image test other than baseline were censored the day after inclusion., Throughout the study period, up to approximately 24 months|Intracranial Progression-free Rates, Proportion of patients free of intracranial progression assessed by modified RECIST at 6 months (week 24), 12 months (week 48) and 24-month (week 96) considering date of inclusion estimated through Kaplan-Meier method, at 6 months (week 24), 12 months (week 48) and 24-month (week 96)|Overall Survival, Calculated as the time from date of inclusion to date of death due to any cause., Throughout the study period, up to approximately 24 months|Overall Survival Rates, Proportion of of patients alive at 6 months, 12 month and 24-month considering date of inclusion estimated using Kaplan-Meier.

Patients alive at the moment of the analysis were censored on the date of their last follow-up., at 6 months, 12 month and 24-month|Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Number of patients experiencing treatment related adverse events. These events were graded accrding to CTCAE, a scale that ranges from 0 (less intense; no event) to 5 (death) .

Here we report the number of patients experiencing any grade toxicities and the number of patients experiencing high grade (grade 3-5) toxicities., Throughout the study period, up to approximately 24 months|Change on Quality of Life at Week 8 in Both Cohorts Based on the EORTC QLQ 30 Scale, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire is validated for cancer. It is composed of 30 questions or items that assess QoL. The questionnaire is structured in 5 functional scales physical functioning, daily activities, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning and social functioning), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea, vomiting), 1 global health status scale, and 6 independent items (dyspnea, insomnia, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea and economic impact). Values between 1 and 4 (1: not at all, 2: a little, 3: quite, 4: a lot) are assigned according to the patient's responses to the item, only in items 29 and 30 are they evaluated with a score of 1 to 7 (1: dreadful, 7: excellent).

The scores obtained are standardized and a score between 0 and 100 is obtained, which determines the level of impact of the cancer on the patient on each of the scales. Higher values indicate better performance, 8 weeks|Change on Quality of Life at Week 24 in Both Cohorts Based on the EORTC QLQ 30 Scale, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire is validated for cancer. It is composed of 30 questions or items that assess QoL. The questionnaire is structured in 5 functional scales physical functioning, daily activities, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning and social functioning), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea, vomiting), 1 global health status scale, and 6 independent items (dyspnea, insomnia, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea and economic impact). Values between 1 and 4 (1: not at all, 2: a little, 3: quite, 4: a lot) are assigned according to the patient's responses to the item, only in items 29 and 30 are they evaluated with a score of 1 to 7 (1: dreadful, 7: excellent).

The scores obtained are standardized and a score between 0 and 100 is obtained, which determines the level of impact of the cancer on the patient on each of the scales. Higher values indicate better performance, 24 weeks|Extracranial Progression-free Rates, Proportion of patients free of extracranial progression assessed by modified RECIST at 6 months (week 24), 12 months (week 48) and 24-month (week 96) considering date of inclusion estimated through Kaplan-Meier method, at 6 months (week 24), 12 months (week 48) and 24-month (week 96)
Phase II clinical trial, with two cohorts of patients included in parallel, all with melanoma BRAF mutated and brain metastases without previous local treatment in the brain. Cohort 1 will include patients with asymptomatic brain metastases and cohort 2 will include patients with symptomatic brain metastasis.