Sintilimab Plus FOLFIRI as Salvage Therapy for Patients With Advanced Gastric Cancer
The combination of immune checkpoint inhibitors and platinum containing dual drugs are more used as a first-line therapeutic approach for patients diagnosed with advanced gastric cancer for its superior efficacy. However, there are no standard recommendations for subsequent treatment after progression on first-line therapy. Here, the investigators conduct this open-label, monocenter, single arm phase II study to evaluate whether sintilimab in combination with irinotecan, leucovorin folinate and fluorouracil can be the salvage therapy for patients diagnosed with unresectable or metastatic gastric cancer progression on first-line therapy. Patients participated in this study will receive sintilimab 3mg/kg for patients with body weight\<60kg or 200mg for patients with body weight ≥ 60kg, plus irinotecan 180mg/m2 intravenous infusion, leucovorin folinate 400mg/m2 intravenous infusion and fluorouracil 400mg/m2 intravenous injection followed by 2400mg/m2 intravenous infusion for 48 hours, repeated every two weeks. The primary endpoint is progression-free survival (PFS). The investigators estimated that 40 patients were necessary. Secondary endpoints include overall survival, objective response rate, disease control rate and safety for unresectable or metastatic gastric cancer.
Unresectable/Metastatic Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Sintilimab+irinotecan+leucovorin folinate+fluorouracil
Progression-free survival, PFS is defined as the time from study enrollment to first disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, Undergo imaging examination to evaluate efficacy every 8 weeks ±7 days
Overall survival, OS is defined as the time from study enrollment to the date of death due to any cause, From the date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause|Objective response rate, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients relative to the total of enrolled subjects who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on CT or MRI scan images, Undergo imaging examination to evaluate efficacy every 8 weeks ±7 days|Disease control rate, DCR is defined as the percentage of patients relative to the total of enrolled subjects who achieve a complete response (CR) , partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) based on CT or MRI scan images, Undergo imaging examination to evaluate efficacy every 8 weeks ±7 days|Adverse Events, Assessment of Safety and tolerance for sintilimab plus FOLFIRI as salvage therapy in patients with unresectable/metastatic gastric cancer, including incidence, severity and outcomes of adverse events (AEs) and categorized by severity in accordance with the NCI CTC AE Version 5.0., from the date of the first medicine to 28±7 days after the last medicine
The combination of immune checkpoint inhibitors and platinum containing dual drugs are more used as a first-line therapeutic approach for patients diagnosed with advanced gastric cancer for its superior efficacy. However, there are no standard recommendations for subsequent treatment after progression on first-line therapy. Here, the investigators conduct this open-label, monocenter, single arm phase II study to evaluate whether sintilimab in combination with irinotecan, leucovorin folinate and fluorouracil can be the salvage therapy for patients diagnosed with unresectable or metastatic gastric cancer progression on first-line therapy. Patients participated in this study will receive sintilimab 3mg/kg for patients with body weight\<60kg or 200mg for patients with body weight ≥ 60kg, plus irinotecan 180mg/m2 intravenous infusion, leucovorin folinate 400mg/m2 intravenous infusion and fluorouracil 400mg/m2 intravenous injection followed by 2400mg/m2 intravenous infusion for 48 hours, repeated every two weeks. The primary endpoint is progression-free survival (PFS). The investigators estimated that 40 patients were necessary. Secondary endpoints include overall survival, objective response rate, disease control rate and safety for unresectable or metastatic gastric cancer.