Osteosarcoma Maintenance Therapy With OST31-164
Up to 45 Patients aged 12 to 39 with osteosarcoma (bone cancer) that had recurred in the lungs and has recently been surgically removed will be enrolled. Patients will receive OST31-164 infusions every 3 weeks over 48 weeks and be followed after that for 3 years.
Bone Cancer
DRUG: OST31-164
Event-Free Survival, The relative proportion of patients experiencing event-free (recurrence-free) survival at 12 months, compared to historical controls. Patients will be e valuated for recurrence every 3 months, consistent with the standard of care., Every 3 months, up to one year
Overall Survival, Overall survival of patients for three years will be compared to the 3-year overall survival of historical controls. Patients will be followed every 3 months for overall survival for 3 years., Every 3 months, up to 3 years
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events as assessed by NCI CTCAE 5.0. Safety will be assessed throughout the treatment period of 48 weeks. Assessments of potential persistence of the vector every 3 months, will continue for an additional 3 years after treatment., Throughout the treatment period of 48 weeks, then every 3 months for 3 years
This is a Phase 2, open-label, multicenter, single-arm study in patients (12-39 years) with a recent history of pulmonary recurrent osteosarcoma that has been completely resected. Planned enrollment is a maximum of 45 patients who will receive OST31-164 as a single agent every 3 weeks for 48 weeks with 4 doses constituting 1 treatment cycle (12 weeks per cycle). Each patient will receive treatment at a dose of 1x109 CFU until week 48 or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or the patient meets any other treatment discontinuation criteria. Following treatment discontinuation, all patients will enter a 3-year survival follow-up period. Exploratory evaluation of immune response will be conducted. If available, tissue from the recent resection will be sent to the COG Biobank for future genomic and pathologic analysis by the COG.