Anakinra in Preventing Severe Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Related Encephalopathy Syndrome in Patients with Recurrent or Refractory Large B-cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well anakinra works in preventing severe chimeric antigen receptor T-cell-related encephalopathy syndrome after chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy in patients with large B-cell lymphoma that has come back or has not responded to treatment. Immunosuppressive therapy, such as anakinra, is used to decrease the body?s immune response, which may prevent severe chimeric antigen receptor T-cell-related encephalopathy syndrome.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Progressive Disease|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Anakinra|BIOLOGICAL: Axicabtagene Ciloleucel|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate
Number of patients who met the eligibility criteria to receive and did receive anakinra, The study will be considered feasible if 8 study participants are enrolled over 12 months at University of California, Los Angeles., Up to 12 months|Rate of severe chimeric antigen receptor T-cell-related encephalopathy syndrome (ICANS), Will be defined as grade \>= 3 neurotoxicity by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03. The proportion of patients developing severe ICANS and the corresponding 90% binomial exact confidence interval (CI) will be reported., Up to 30 days
Objective response rate (ORR), Will be defined as a complete response or partial response per the International Working Group criteria malignancy lymphoma based on positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan. To account for the adaptive nature of Simon?s two-stage design, final analysis of the objective response rate will report the uniformly minimum variance unbiased estimator and the corresponding p-value and 95% CI for the ORR., Up to 90 days|Proportion of patients who received anakinra and develop ICAN, The proportion of patients who received anakinra in the absence of ICANS and then develop ICANS of any grade out of the total number of participants who received anakinra in the absence of ICANS will be evaluated. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics such as proportion, mean, standard deviation, median, as appropriate., Up to 30 days|Duration of neurotoxicity, Defined as number of days that elapse from first day of ICANS of any grade to complete resolution of ICANS. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics such as proportion, mean, standard deviation, median, as appropriate., From first day of CRES of any grade to complete resolution of CRES, assessed up to 100 days|Duration of neurotoxicity, Defined as number of days that elapse from first day of ICANS of \>= grade 3 to improvement of ICANS to \< grade 3 based on CTCAE v4.03. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics such as proportion, mean, standard deviation, median, as appropriate., From first day of ICANS of >= grade 3 to improvement of ICANS to < grade 3, assessed up to 100 days|Persistent hepatotoxicity, Will be defined as grade \> 2 aspartate aminotransferase (AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased for at least 4 weeks duration according to CTCAE v4.03. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics such as proportion, mean, standard deviation, median, as appropriate., Up to 100 days|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be based on CTCAE v4.03. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics such as proportion, mean, standard deviation, median, as appropriate. All AEs will be listed, documenting the course, outcome, severity, and relationship to the study treatment. Incidence rates of AEs and the proportion of subjects prematurely withdrawn from the study due to AEs will be shown., Up to 100 days
ICANS grade, Will evaluate ICANS grade by using the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation 2018 consensus grading for adults., up to 30 days|Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) grade, Will evaluate CRS grade by using the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation 2018 consensus grading for adults., Up to 30 days|Changes in inflammatory markers, Peak median serum blood and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) levels of IL-1 and IL-6 will be summarized using descriptive statistics or contingency tables, as appropriate., Baseline up to 6 days following initiation of anakinra|Changes in Electroencephalogram (EEG) that characterize ICANS: Slowing of EEG activity., Slowing of EEG activity including waveform, spectrum, spectrogram, and power in the slow (0.1-1 Hz), delta (1 to 4 Hz), theta (4 to 8 Hz) bands., Baseline up to 100 days|Changes in Electroencephalogram (EEG) that characterize ICANS: focal slowing, Changes in Electroencephalogram (EEG) that characterize ICANS: Focal regional slowing of the EEG activity within the frontal, temporal, parietal, or occipital region in the delta (\<4Hz) and/ or theta (4-8 Hz) band., Baseline up to 100 days|Changes in Electroencephalogram (EEG) that characterize ICANS: periodic discharge, Generalized or lateralized or bilateral independent or multifocal periodic discharges (repetitive discharges with similar morphology and recurring at regular or near-regular inter-discharge intervals), Baseline up to 100 days|Changes in Electroencephalogram (EEG) that characterize ICANS: rhythmic activity, Generalized or lateralized or bilateral independent or multifocal Rhythmic delta activity (\</= 4 Hz)., Baseline up to 100 days|Changes in Electroencephalogram (EEG) that characterize ICANS: Generalized or lateralized or bilateral independent or multifocal spike, Generalized or lateralized or bilateral independent or multifocal spike (duration of the wave \<70ms) or sharp (duration of the wave 70-200ms) discharges., Baseline up to 100 days|Changes in Electroencephalogram (EEG) that characterize ICANS: seizures, Electrographic seizure occurrence: Percentage of subjects who experience electrographic seizure while undergoing continuous-EEG monitoring., Baseline up to 100 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if it is feasible to accrue a sufficient number of study participants at one site, in order to justify expanding the trial to three additional sites (pilot study).

II. To estimate the efficacy of anakinra in prevention of severe immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome. syndrome (ICANS) (full study).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the impact that anakinra has on the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy for relapsed/refractory lymphoma.

II. To estimate the rate of subsequent ICANS development in patients who receive anakinra for grade \>= 3 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) in the absence of ICANS.

III. To estimate the duration of neurotoxicity in patients who receive anakinra.

IV. To estimate the duration of severe neurotoxicity in patients who receive anakinra.

V. To determine if anakinra causes persistent hepatotoxicity in patients receiving CAR T-cell for refractory lymphoma.

VI. to evaluate the overall toxicity of anakinra in patients receiving CAR T-cell therapy for refractory lymphoma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate CRS and ICANS grade by using the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (ASBMT) 2018 consensus grading for adults.

II. To investigate changes in inflammatory markers including IL-1 and IL-6 in the peripheral blood during episodes of ICANS.

III. To describe the electroencephalogram (EEG) changes that characterize ICANS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive standard lymphodepleting therapy including fludarabine and cyclophosphamide on days -5 to -3, then receive axicabtagene ciloleucel CAR T-cell infusion. Patients with clinical evidence of ICANS of any grade, or CRS \>= grade 3 receive anakinra subcutaneously (SC) every 6-12 hours for 12-36 doses over 9 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 30, 90, and 100 days, then at 6 months.