Daratumumab With DCEP for Multiple Myeloma With Plasmacytoma
This trial aimed to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of daratumumnab plus chemitherapy in multiple myeloma with plasmacytoma.
Multiple Myeloma in Relapse|Plasmacytoma|Daratumumab
DRUG: Drug Combinations
Complete response rate in terms of plasmacytoma, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \< 5% plasma cells in bone marrow, within 4 weeks after the 3 cycles of combination therapy (daratumumab plus DCEP)
Response rate (Complete response + Partial Response) by IMWG criteria, Complete response rate in terms of plasmacytoma plus partial response rate by IMWG criteria, within 4 weeks after the 3 cycles of combination therapy (daratumumab plus DCEP)|CR rate by IMWG criteria, Negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \< 5% plasma cells in bone marrow, within 4 weeks after the 3 cycles of combination therapy (daratumumab plus DCEP)|Progression free survival, from the last administration date of daratumumab to the date of disease progression or date from any cause, 3,6,12,24 months after the last administration of daratumuamb|Overall Survival, from the last administration date of daratumumab to death from any cause, 3,6,12,24 months after the last administration of daratumuamb|Safety and toxicity profile, according to CTCAE version 4.03, 3,6,12,24 months the first administration of daratumumab
Multiple myeloma with plasmacytoma is a disease with significantly short overall survival. Cancer cells in plasmacytoma has inferior response compared to cancer cells in bone marrow in multiple myeloma. It is revealed that genetic difference such as CCND1 overexpression and RAS mutation exists between plasmacytoma and intramedullary plasma cell myeloma, implying different treatment strategy should be applied to overcome poor prognosis of this distinct disorder.

Even in the era of potent IMiDs and proteasome inhibitors, median overall survival of multiple myeloma patients with plasmacytoma is less than 5 years. Moreover, relapse in a form of soft tissue plasmacytoma is frequently observed after triplet combination treatment in multiple myeloma. Hence, multiple myeloma with plasmacytoma is a disease where unmet medical need still exists.

Biologically, plasmacytoma is characterized by high plasma cell proliferation, angiogenesis gene profile, and adhesion molecule changes mimicking solid tumor . Responsiveness to chemotherapy used in myeloma including IMIds5 and proteasome inhibitor6 is obtuse in plasmacytoma. Only small fraction of young patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation may overcome adverse prognostic impact of plasmacytomas . Even it is recommended that VTD-PACE would be used as the first line treatment for plasmacytomas.

In summary, cancer cells in plasmacytoma bear biologic characteristics of solid tumor cells and do respond to high-dose chemotherapy. And this phenomenon is very similar to lymphoma for the following reasons. Like lymphoma, 1) plasmacytoma express tumor antigen strongly (CD38 or CD138), 2) they form a solid mass, and 3) respond to cytotoxic chemotherapy in a dose-response manner.

Considering the success story of rituximab in lymphoma, we conjecture that daratumumab may work excellently to control plasmacytoma. Hence, we propose a treatment regimen consists of DCEP chemotherapy and daratumumab.