Observing Patients With Palliative Asymptomatic Centrally Located Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Carcinoma (NSCLC)
The aim of the study is to assess current practice within PROP \& lung teams, for treating asymptomatic patients with centrally located non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and to observe outcomes for those patients receiving immediate or deferred RT. This is a prospective cohort trial. Patients will be managed by immediate radiotherapy (RT) or a deferred approach according to physicians' individual current clinical practice. Baseline and follow-up data collection will be structured to focus on patient-reported measures to describe clinical outcomes in the two management groups. Indications for prescribing RT and dose fractionation schedules will also be collected. A new intervention will not be introduced during this trial. Instead, a follow-up regimen will be offered to both groups of patients, so that RT can be offered to the deferred group of patients if/when symptoms develop, and we can monitor symptoms/toxicities and QoL in both groups of patients.
Non-small Cell Lung Carcinoma
OTHER: None: Questionnaire Study
To determine the pattern of practice for management (immediate radiotherapy, deferred radiotherapy) of patients with ACLA-NSCLC, including reasons, timing and dose fractionation of lung/mediastinal RT, 6 years
To describe the patient reported outcomes (symptoms, toxicities and quality of life measures) in patients with ACLA-NSCLC at 4 and 12 months, 6 years|To explore the relationship between utility and initial treatment decision (immediate versus deferred), 6 years|To describe the disease status (as per CT imaging) at 4 months, 6 years|To describe the overall survival in patients with ACLA-NSCLC, 6 years
The aim of the study is to assess current practice within PROP \& lung teams, for treating asymptomatic patients with centrally located non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and to observe outcomes for those patients receiving immediate or deferred RT. This is a prospective cohort trial. Patients will be managed by immediate radiotherapy (RT) or a deferred approach according to physicians' individual current clinical practice. Baseline and follow-up data collection will be structured to focus on patient-reported measures to describe clinical outcomes in the two management groups. Indications for prescribing RT and dose fractionation schedules will also be collected. A new intervention will not be introduced during this trial. Instead, a follow-up regimen will be offered to both groups of patients, so that RT can be offered to the deferred group of patients if/when symptoms develop, and we can monitor symptoms/toxicities and QoL in both groups of patients.