Phase II Study of Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy in Combination With Immunotherapy for Patients With Merkel Cell Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects an immunotherapy drug, called pembrolizumab, combined with a radioactive drug, called lutetium Lu 177 dotatate (Lutathera®) have on patients with Merkel cell carcinoma. Pembrolizumab works by helping patient's immune system to fight cancer. Lutathera works by killing cancer cells. Pembrolizumab is approved by the FDA to treat Merkel cell cancer and has caused some Merkel cell cancers to shrink and/or resolve. Lutathera is FDA-approved to treat some neuroendocrine tumors and has caused some patient's neuroendocrine tumors to shrink and allowed them to live longer, but it is not approved by the FDA to treat Merkel cell cancer. The combination of Lutathera and pembrolizumab to treat Merkel cell cancer is investigational, which means this combination is not approved by the FDA to treat Merkel cell cancer.
Merkel Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lutetium Lu 177 dotatate
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate is the proportion of all subjects with confirmed Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR) according to RECIST 1.1., 2 years
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the start of study treatment until the criteria for disease progression is met as defined by RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause occurs. Subjects who are alive and have not progressed by the analysis cutoff will be censored at the date of the last disease evaluation., 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of study treatment to death due to any cause. Subjects still alive by the analysis cutoff will be censored at their last date known to be alive., 2 years
The study design will be a single arm phase 2 study in patients who have progressed on immunotherapy and who are candidates to continue pembrolizumab. Prior to enrollment in the Phase II portion, a run-in study will be performed to ensure safety and tolerability of the combination of pembrolizumab and lutetium Lu 177 dotatate. Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) will be given every 2 months for 4 doses. Pembrolizumab will be given every 6 weeks at 400mg fixed dosing for up to 2 years, until disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity.