Sequential Melphalan for Use With Hepatic Delivery System Treatment Followed by Sorafenib in Patients With Unresectable HCC
This is a single arm, open label, multi-center, phase 2 study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of sequential treatment with Melphalan/HDS followed by sorafenib in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) confined to the liver.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
DEVICE: Melphalan/HDS|DRUG: Sorafenib
Number of patients with adverse events after treatment with Melphalan/HDS., 2 years|Number of patients with adverse events after treatment with Sorafenib following treatment with Melphalan/HDS., 2 years|Objective response rate in percentage of Melphalan/HDS treatment, 2 years|Progression free survival in months of patients receiving Melphalan/HDS treatment followed by Sorafenib, 2 years
AUC of melphalan after Melphalan/HDS treatment, Pharmacokinetic study, Baseline - prior to infusion. Infusion period - 10 min, 20 min, End of infusion. Washout period - 10 min, 20 min, 30 min. Post-procedure period - 5 min, 10 min, 15 min, 30 min, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3.5 hours, 5 hours.|Quality of life questionnaires, Baseline, Week 6 of each PHP cycle, Day 1 of every Sorafenib cycle, End of treatment, every 12 weeks in follow-up.
This is a single arm, open label, multi-center, phase 2 study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of sequential treatment with Melphalan/HDS followed by sorafenib in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) confined to the liver.

Eligible patients will receive up to 3 Melphalan/HDS treatments. Each treatment cycle consists of 6 weeks with an acceptable delay for another 2 weeks before next planned treatment. The Melphalan/HDS treatment will be terminated in patients with progressive disease (PD), complete response (CR), and \> 8 weeks delay of recovery from toxicity after last PHP treatment.

With the exception of patients with PD, all patients will be treated with sorafenib after completing the Melphalan/HDS treatment. Patients with PD will be managed with standard of care off-study by their treating physician.