Intracavitary Injection of hUMSCs in Acute Basal Ganglia Hematoma After Stereotactic Aspiration
A study to examine the safety and potential effectiveness of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUMSCs) in adults who have suffered spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage in basal ganglia. The hypothesis is that hUMSCs will be safe and can improve neurological function after intracerebral hemorrhage so that improve the prognosis of patients.
Basal Ganglia Hematoma
PROCEDURE: stereotactic surgery|BIOLOGICAL: hUMSCs|BIOLOGICAL: placebo
Frequency of dose limiting adverse events, 3 days|Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) to measure the prognosis, The Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) measures independence rather than performance of specific tasks. Scale consists of six grades from 0 to 5; 0 denotes no symptoms and 5 indicates severe disability. For clinical purpose, mild disability range is from 0 to 2; moderate disability ranges from 3 to 4 and 5 indicates severe disability., 3 months|National institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) to measure stroke recovery, The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) is a 15-item impairment scale used to measure stroke severity. The NIHSS includes the following domains: level of consciousness, eye movements, integrity of visual fields, facial movements, arm and leg muscle strength, sensation, coordination, language, speech and neglect. Each impairment is scored on an ordinal scale ranging from 0 to 2, 0 to 3, or 0 to 4. Item scores are summed to a total score ranging from 0 to 42 (the higher the score, the more severe the stroke)., 3 months|Barthel Index (BI) to evaluate the self-care ability, The Barthel index (BI) is an ordinal scale used to measure performance in activities of daily living (ADL). It uses ten variables describing ADL and mobility including: help needed with grooming, toilet use, feeding, transfers, walking, dressing, climbing stairs, bathing, presence of absence of fecal incontinence and urinary incontinence. Each performance item is rated on this scale with a given number of points from 0 to 10 or 0 to 15. Item scores are summed to a total score ranging from 0 to 100. A higher number is associated with a greater likelihood of being able to live at home with a degree of independence. Totally dependent ranges from 0 to 20, severe dependent ranges from 21 to 60, moderate dependent ranges from 61 to 90, mild dependent ranges from 91 to 99, and 100 indicates completely independent., 3 months|Rate of muscle strength level of the hemiplegic limb, 3 months
Mortality rate, 12 months|Change in Glasgow coma scale (GCS) score, The Glasgow coma scale (GCS) is based on a 15-point scale for estimating and categorizing the consciousness. The test measures the motor response (1 to 6), verbal response (1 to 5) and eye opening response (1 to 4). The score is determined by the sum of the score in each of the 3 categories, with a maximum score of 15 and a minimum score of 3. A lower number indicating a more severe injury and a poorer prognosis., 1 month|Change in Glasgow outcome scale (GOS) score, The Glasgow outcome score (GOS) applies to patients with brain damage allowing the objective assessment of their recovery. This allows a prediction of the long-term course of rehabilitation to return to work and everyday life. Scale consists of five grades from 1 to 5. 1 denotes death. 2 denotes persistent vegetative state.3 denotes severe disability. 4 denotes moderate disability and 5 denotes low disability., 12 months|MRI (T1, T2, Flair, DWI) scanning, 12 months
A study to examine the safety and potential effectiveness of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUMSCs) in adults who have suffered spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage in basal ganglia. The hypothesis is that hUMSCs will be safe and can improve neurological function after intracerebral hemorrhage so that improve the prognosis of patients.