Targeting Fear of Cancer Recurrence in Cancer Survivors: Evaluation of Internet-Based Emotional Freedom Techniques and Internet-Based Mindfulness Meditation as Intervention Strategies
In this trial, the investigators introduce two internet-based psychological methods to meet the currently unmet medical need to cope with Fear of Cancer Recurrence (FCR) beyond the acute phase of cancer treatment: internet-based emotional freedom techniques (iEFT) and internet-based mindfulness intervention (iMMI). The primary aim of this trial is to examine the efficacy of Internet-Based Emotional Freedom Techniques (iEFT) and Internet-Based Mindfulness Meditation Intervention (iMMI) to alleviate Fear of Cancer Recurrence (FCR) in cancer survivors, as determined through the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI) in cancer survivors. To translate a statistically significant effect on FCR into a clinically significant change, the investigators would need to detect a between-group difference in mean FCRI at T1 of 10 points using an independent samples t-test (two experimental groups are compared against a single wait-list control). When the application of iEFT and/or iMMI appears effective to reduce FCR, these self-help methods could be implemented in clinical settings. The use of these low cost interventions with a low threshold, by an internet-based approach, will facilitate a potential implementation in clinical practice.
Fear of Cancer Recurrence
BEHAVIORAL: Emotional Freedom Techniques|BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Meditation
Fear of Cancer Recurrence, The primary endpoint will be reached after the first period of performing iEFT or iMMI during 6 weeks or be at the waiting list for 6 weeks (T1) where we will look at the efficacy of iEFT and iMMI to alleviate of Fear of Cancer Recurrence (FCR) based on the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI). FCRI has a minimum value of 0 and maximum value of 168, with a higher score pointing out to a worse outcome., 6 weeks (T1)
Follow-up of Fear of Cancer Recurrence, Efficacy of iEFT and iMMI to reduce FCR (Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory; FCRI). FCRI has a minimum value of 0 and maximum value of 168, with a higher score pointing out to a worse outcome., T0 (baseline), T1 (6 weeks), T2 (12 weeks) and T3 (24 weeks)|Psychological Distresss, Efficacy of iEFT and iMMI to reduce psychological distress (Distress Thermometer). Distress thermometer has a minimum value of 0 and maximum value of 10, with a higher score pointing out to a worse outcome., T0 (baseline), T1 (6 weeks), T2 (12 weeks) and T3 (24 weeks)|Psychological Distresss, Efficacy of iEFT and iMMI to reduce psychological distress (38-item Problem list). The Distress Thermometer includes 36 problems answered with "no" or "yes" clustered into five domains: practical problems, family problems, emotional problems, spiritual problems, and physical problems., T0 (baseline), T1 (6 weeks), T2 (12 weeks) and T3 (24 weeks)|Fear of Cancer Recurrence, Efficacy of iEFT and iMMI to enhance Quality of Life (EORTC QOL Cancer Survivorship Core Questionnaire (QLQ-SURV100), amended with items from the EORTC Core QOL questionnaire QLQ-C30). EORTC QLQ-SURV 100 has a minimum value of 100 and maximum value of 406, with a higher score pointing out to a better outcome. EORTC QLQ-C30 has a minimum value of 30 and maximum value of 126, with a higher score pointing out to a better outcome., T0 (baseline), T1 (6 weeks), T2 (12 weeks) and T3 (24 weeks)|Fear of Cancer Recurrence, Efficacy of iEFT and iMMI to enhance health status (EuroQol EQ-5D-5L). The visual analogue scale of the EuroQol EQ-5D-5L has a minimum value of 0 and maximum value of 100, with a higher score pointing out to a better outcome., T0 (baseline), T1 (6 weeks), T2 (12 weeks) and T3 (24 weeks)|Number of participants continuing the intervention after T1, To identify the continuous application of iEFT or iMMI, participants will need to answer the questionnaire about whether they cotinue the application of EFT or mindfulness meditation, and the frequency of application, post-intervention period., T2 (12 weeks) and T3 (24 weeks)
Biomarker endpoint, • Effect of iEFT and iMMI on chronic biological stress measure as hair cortisol concentration, T0 (baseline), T1 (6 weeks), but this endpoint will be completed only when the primary objective would be positive at T1
Despite our adequate medical care and financial support systems, the mental wellbeing and quality of life after cancer diagnosis and treatment is often poorly addressed in clinical settings. Previous research showed that Fear of Cancer Recurrence (FCR) is one of the most common psychological burdens faced by 39%-97% of cancer survivors. In this phase III randomized multicentre trial, patients will be allocated to either the iEFT group, iMMI group or wait-list control (WLC) group for a study trajectory of 6 weeks. 339 cancer survivors, between 6 months and 5 years since diagnosis, and who have completed their primary cancer treatment (i.e. surgery, radiation, and/or chemotherapy) will be enrolled and randomized 1:1:1 to one of the two intervention groups or the WLC group. Participants will complete evaluation questionnaires at baseline (T0), after 6 weeks (T1) and 12 weeks (T2) of intervention or waiting list, and 24 weeks (T3). A biomarker endpoint includes the measurement of chronic biologic stress in hair cortisol concentration. Therefore, optional hair collection may take place before (T0) and after the 6-week intervention (T1). Primary objective is to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of iEFT and iMMI as an intervention strategy to reduce FCR in cancer survivors. The investigators hypothesize that an intervention with iEFT or iMMI will be superior compared to the WLC group at T1. Secondary objectives include the following: