Olanzapine for Managing Anorexia in Head and Neck Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemoradiation, MACRO Trial
This phase II trial compares the effect of adding olanzapine to standard of care symptom management for nausea to standard of care alone in managing an abnormal loss of the appetite for food (anorexia) in patients treated with chemoradiation therapy (CRT) for head and neck cancer. Patients undergoing CRT may experience treatment-related side effects, including pain, nausea, and a discomfort in the ability to speak, swallow and eat. These side effects have been shown to increase weight loss, opiate use and hospitalization. Olanzapine is a drug used to treat certain mental disorders. It is also being studied in the treatment of nausea and vomiting caused by some cancer treatments. It is a type of anti-psychotic and a type of monoamine antagonist. Adding olanzapine to standard of care symptom management to limit nausea may be more effective than standard of care alone in managing anorexia in head and neck cancer patients during CRT.
Cancer-Associated Anorexia|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Unknown Primary
OTHER: Best Practice|DRUG: Olanzapine|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Average change in weight, Will be summarized by study arm using the mean and standard deviation. A two-sample t-test will be used. All test assumptions will be verified graphically, and transformations or non-parametric approaches will be considered, as appropriate., From baseline to patient lowest weight during chemoradiation therapy (CRT) treatment, assessed up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment
Proportion of patients with severe weight loss, Will be defined as \>= 10% body weight loss. Will be summarized by study arm and compared by the Fisher exact test or chi-squared test as appropriate., At baseline up to any time point during CRT treatment, assessed up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Will be summarized by attribution and grade using frequencies and relative frequencies. Differences in CTCAE rates (grade 2 or higher) will be compared between groups using the Fisher exact Test or chi-Squared test as appropriate., Up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Change in quality of life (QOL) scores, Will be assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) . The Oral Mucositis Weekly Questionnaire-Head and Neck Cancer will be used to describe the short-term effects of radiation on QOL during treatment. Scores will be assessed by comparing the within-patient change. The treatment effect will be estimated with a generalized linear mixed model, describing the continuous EORTC quality of life outcomes as a function of a random patient effect, and fixed effects for treatment assignment, time, the stratification factor, the treatment assignment and the treatment/time interaction. The magnitude, direction and 95% confidence interval for the adjusted interaction term estimate will be used to describe the effect of olanzapine in improving different QOL domains. An interaction p-value \< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Baseline up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Change in Quality of Life, Will be assessed using the EORTC QLQ-H\&N43 module questionnaire. Mean change from, Up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Changes in sleep, Will be assessed using the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) score and the ISI category. Differences between treatment arms for categorical or binary end points will be compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Differences between treatment arms for continuous variables will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Differences between treatment arms for time-to-event end points will be compared using Kaplan-Meier estimates and the log-rank test., Baseline up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Opiate use, Will be defined as proportion of patients requiring opiate prescription during CRT, time to first opiate in days, and total opiate use in morphine milligram equivalents. Differences between treatment arms for categorical or binary end points will be compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Differences between treatment arms for continuous variables will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Differences between treatment arms for time-to-event end points will be compared using Kaplan-Meier estimates and the log-rank test., Up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Hospitalization rate, Will be defined as proportion of patients requiring inpatient hospital admission for any reason during CRT. Differences between treatment arms for categorical or binary end points will be compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Differences between treatment arms for continuous variables will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Differences between treatment arms for time-to-event end points will be compared using Kaplan-Meier estimates and the log-rank test., Up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Feeding tube use, Will be defined as the proportion of patients requiring feeding tube insertion during CRT. Differences between treatment arms for categorical or binary end points will be compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Differences between treatment arms for continuous variables will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Differences between treatment arms for time-to-event end points will be compared using Kaplan-Meier estimates and the log-rank test., Up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Chemotherapy delays, Will be defined as the proportion of patients requiring delays in chemotherapy during CRT. Differences between treatment arms for categorical or binary end points will be compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Differences between treatment arms for continuous variables will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Differences between treatment arms for time-to-event end points will be compared using Kaplan-Meier estimates and the log-rank test., Up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Additional olanzapine prescriptions, Will be defined as the proportion of patients prescribed olanzapine for intractable nausea during CRT., Up to 5 weeks after last dose of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the effect of adding olanzapine to standard symptom management on preventing weight loss during chemoradiation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of olanzapine on:

Ia. Preventing severe weight loss; Ib. The rate of toxicities possibly- or probably- related to the symptom management regimen;

Ic. Quality of Life (QOL) scores:

Ici. With particular attention to nausea, vomiting, appetite, loss, swallowing, pain; and Icii. Special attention to sleep; Id. Opiate use, hospitalization rate, feeding tube use, chemotherapy delays, and additional olanzapine prescriptions.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard of care symptom management on study per the discretion of the treating institution.

ARM II: Starting day 1 of CRT, patients receive olanzapine PO QD for up to 10 weeks after completion of CRT in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive standard of care symptom management on study per the discretion of the treating institution.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 5 weeks.