A Pilot Study of Dronabinol for Adult Patients With Primary Gliomas
This study seeks to define the tolerability and safety associated with the administration of Dronabinol in the treatment of adults with nausea, vomiting and appetite loss in patients with primary gliomas who are undergoing chemotherapy treatment. The study will also describe the effect of Dronabinol on the quality of life in terms of nausea, vomiting and anorexia in this patient group.
Brain Neoplasms|Nausea|Vomiting
DRUG: Dronabinol
Tolerability Rate, Percentage of participants where the 2 cycles of Dronabinol is tolerable. The treatment regimen is considered intolerable if (1) at least two adverse events of the following types that are attributed to Dronabinol during the 2 cycles of treatment occur: ≥Grade 3 non-hematologic, ≥Grade 2 hepatic/metabolic or ≥Grade 4 neuro toxicities, or (2) Dronabinol treatment is terminated early due to adverse events, Two months|Unacceptable Toxicity Rate, Percentage of participants who experience one or more adverse events attributable to Dronabinol of the following types or grades: ≥Grade 3 non-hematologic, ≥Grade 2 hepatic/metabolic or ≥Grade 4 neuro toxicities, 2 months
Mean Change From Baseline in Quality of Life -- FACT-Br, The mean change between baseline and post-treatment in quality of life as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br), where change is computed as quality of life at 2 months minus quality of life at baseline. The FACT-Br instrument consists of 54 items to assess physical(PWB), social and family (SWB), emotional (EWB), functional well-being (FWB), and additional brain cancer specific concerns (AC). Using a 5-point Likert type scale, responses to individual items range from 0 (not at all) to 4 (Very Much) with higher scores indicating better quality of life. PWB, SWB, and FWB are the sum of 7 items and have a possible range between 0 and 28. EWB ranges between 0 and 24, and is the sum of 6 items. AC is the sum of 19 items, and ranges between 0 and 76., baseline and 2 months|Mean Change From Baseline in Quality of Life -- FLIE, The mean change from baseline in quality of life as measured by the Functional Living Index Emesis (FLIE) scale during the first 24 and 72 hours of cycle 1. Change at 24 hours was computed as the 24 hour FLIE assessment minus the baseline assessment; whereas, change at 72 hours was computed as the 72 hour FLIE assessment minus the baseline assessment. The FLIE consists of 18 items for nausea and appetite on a 7-point scale. The effect of nausea and vomiting is measured by physical activity, social, and emotional function. Higher scores indicate less difficulty and interference with nausea and vomiting. Scores for the two subscales (nausea and vomiting) range between 0 and 54., baseline, 24 hours, and 72 hours|Mean Change From Baseline in Quality of Life -- MMSE, The mean change between baseline and post-treatment in quality of life as measured by the Mini Mental Status Exam (MMSE). Change is computed as the MMSE level at month 2 minus MMSE level at baseline. MMSE is an 11-item questionnaire used to measure global cognitive status with scores ranging from 0 to 30; higher scores are an indication of greater cognitive function., baseline and 2 months
Symptoms identified as impacting quality of life include nausea and vomiting, appetite changes, pain, fatigue, mobility, insomnia, mood, bowel patterns, concentration and appearance (Donaldson and Fields, 1998). There has been little information published on the impact of these symptoms in the glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) population. More specifically, to date, there has not been an investigation that demonstrates the efficacy of an intervention on improving appetite, and decreasing nausea and vomiting in patients with GBM. This need serves as the basis for the current proposed investigation utilizing Dronabinol, a cannabinoid known to decrease incidence of nausea and vomiting, as well as controlling appetite changes for terminally ill patients receiving chemotherapy. In addition, there is no published research on the use of Dronabinol and dose limited toxicity for the brain tumor population.

In this study, patients will receive daily Dronabinol therapy through their chemotherapy cycle. Patients will complete daily appetite and nausea/vomiting logs, as well as receive telephone follow-up from the research coordinator to assess impact of treatment. This will be assessed through two consecutive cycles of chemotherapy.