A Study Evaluating the Feasibility and Compliance of Manual Lymphatic Drainage Comparing Indocyanine-Green (ICG) Guided vs. Traditional Guided in Patients Undergoing Axillary Node Dissection for the Treatment of Breast Cancer
Breast cancer is estimated to affect approximately 300,000 women in the US in 2023. Studies demonstrate that 1 in 5 will develop breast cancer related lymphedema secondary to the treatments that they receive. BCRL at this time has no cure, however early detection can prevent the progression to late stage BCRL. At this time a technique of arm massage, manual lymphatic drainage (MLD), is used for treatment. This study investigates a new method of MLD, which is guided by the individual patients' lymphatic anatomy through use of ICG-lymphography.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: ICG-guided manual lymphatic drainage|PROCEDURE: Traditional manual lymphatic drainage|DRUG: Indocyanine green
Subject compliance, Determine subject compliance rate with daily manual lymphatic drainage regimen. A subject is considered to be compliant if they perform manual lymphatic drainage at least 3 days/week., 2 years
Relative volume change, Determine if patients undergoing ICG-guided MLD as compared to patients undergoing traditional MLD demonstrate reduced relative volume changes of the affected limb. The volume of the affected limb will be measured by circumferential limb measurements. These limb measurements will then be calculated into volume using conic geometry., 2 years|Bioimpedance, Determine if patients undergoing ICG-guided MLD as compared to patients undergoing traditional MLD demonstrate lower rates of increased bioimpedance. Bioimpedance will be measured using both the sozo and in-body device methods., 2 years|Breast cancer related lymphedema symptoms, Determine if patients undergoing ICG-guided MLD as compared to patients undergoing traditional MLD demonstrate lower rates of breast cancer related lymphedema symptoms. Breast cancer related lymphedema symptoms will be assessed by the Lymphedema Life Impact Scale questionnaire., 2 years|Incidence of progression to late stage breast cancer related lymphedema, Compare the incidence of progression to late stage breast cancer related lymphedema in both arms, 2 years|Health-related quality of life, Compare health-related quality of life, as measured by the Lymphedema Life Impact Scale questionnaire, in both arms., 2 years
Breast cancer is estimated to affect approximately 300,000 women in the US in 2023. Studies demonstrate that 1 in 5 will develop breast cancer related lymphedema secondary to the treatments that they receive. BCRL at this time has no cure, however early detection can prevent the progression to late stage BCRL. At this time a technique of arm massage, manual lymphatic drainage (MLD), is used for treatment. This study investigates a new method of MLD, which is guided by the individual patients' lymphatic anatomy through use of ICG-lymphography.