Estimating Jaw, Neck, and Shoulder Range of Motion Using an AI Model
This observational study aims to develop an AI-based system for tracking mandibular and shoulder movements using deep learning techniques. It will compare AI-generated pose estimations with gold standard measurements to assess accuracy, particularly in patients with functional impairments from oral cancer treatment, such as trismus, spinal accessory nerve dysfunction, neck dystonia, and radiation fibrosis.
Oral Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: observation alone
maximal mouth opening, maximal mouth opening, The date of enrollment|maximal lateral excursion of mandible, maximal lateral excursion of mandible, The date of enrollment|range of motion of shoulder abduction, range of motion of shoulder abduction, The date of enrollment|range of motion of neck, lateral side bending and rotation of the neck, The date of enrollment
Due to the involvement of various structures, patients with oral cancer may experience functional impairments after treatment, such as trismus, spinal accessory nerve dysfunction, neck dystonia, radiation fibrosis, and fatigue. This observational study aims to develop an AI-based system for tracking mandibular and shoulder movements using deep learning techniques. AI-generated pose estimations will be compared with gold standard measurements: maximal mouth opening will be compared with caliper measurements, and Therabilte scale, while shoulder abduction range of motion will be compared with universal goniometer measurements. We will recruit 20 healthy adults and 20 oral cancer patients. Data on maximal mouth opening and shoulder abduction will be collected through video recordings, calipers, Therabilte scale, and universal goniometers. The videos will be analyzed using deep learning to estimate mouth opening and shoulder abduction angles. These estimates will then be compared with the gold standard measurements. The Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and Coefficient of Variation (CV) will be used as performance indicators to assess and compare the reliability, accuracy, and consistency of the models.