Determining The Impact Of Distance Reiki On Patient Reported QOL And Immunity Among Multiple Myeloma Patients
This research study is being done to determine if Distance Reiki therapy offers a quality of life benefit, and improves immunity compared to patients receiving Sham Distance Reiki therapy or no additional Reiki intervention.
Multiple Myeloma|Autologous Stem Cell Transplant
OTHER: Distance Reiki|OTHER: Sham distance Reiki
Change in patient-reported quality of life, Measured using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-29 survey. PROMIS measures are scored on the T-score metric. High scores mean more of the concept being measured (eg. more Fatigue, more Physical Function), Baseline, approximately 5 weeks|Change in patient-reported overall quality of life, Measured using the single item Linear Analogue Self-Assessment (LASA) that uses a 10-point Likert scale, where 0=as bad as it can be and 10=as good as it can be, Baseline, approximately 5 weeks|Acceptability of Distance Reiki among multiple myeloma (MM) outpatients., Measured by using the "Was it worth it" (WIWI) questionnaire which patients will complete upon study completion. This is a 3 item questionnaire which assesses patient satisfaction. Higher scores indicate greater acceptability of the Reiki intervention., Approximately 5 weeks
Phenotypic characterization of circulating immune cells, Measured using mass cytometry by time of flight (CyTOF) to phenotypically characterize the immune cells in peripheral blood, Baseline, approximately 5 weeks|Assessment of T-cell receptor repertoire and T-cell clonal diversity, Analyzed using multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) RNA-sequencing to define T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) repertoire., Baseline, approximately 5 weeks
Reiki is a popular complementary medicine modality sought after by patients. This non- intrusive Japanese based therapy centers on the guiding of energy through a Reiki practitioner to the patient which facilitates innate healing by modulation of energy fields. Reiki is formally classified as biofield therapy by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM).

Current research indicates that Reiki shows promise as a noninvasive healing tool for mind and body, particularly among patients with cancer. However, the data validating the effectiveness of Reiki integrated within a structured medical paradigm and the effect on cancer immunity remains unknown.

Given the clear demand for Reiki among cancer patients but skepticism within the medical community, this trial will aim to determine an objective patient reported quality of life (PRQoL) benefit by utilizing validated tools, in order to effectively implement Reiki into traditional medical practice.

Multiple myeloma patients are at high risk of serious illness from the COVID-19 virus during this pandemic, and so distance Reiki will be carried out via video conferencing platform.