Erlotinib Versus Pemetrexed as Second-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma
Both pemetrexed and erlotinib are second-line treatment options for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. It is controversial that whether it is necessary to detect epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status for the EGFR-targeted therapy after the failure of standard chemotherapy. The role of EGFR gene copy number as a predictive marker remains controversial. Therefore, we investigate the efficacy of erlotinib and pemetrexed as second-line therapy in treating in patients with EGFR wild-type and EGFR FISH-positive advanced lung adenocarcinoma.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Progression-Free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From the date of randomization to the date of tumour progression or death from any cause, assessed until at least 12 months after randomization.
Best Tumor Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., From the date of randomization, assessed every 6 weeks, until at least 12 months after randomization.|Overall Survival, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed until at least 12 months after randomization.
Standard first-line treatment for advanced-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) usually consists of platinum-based doublet chemotherapy, but progression ultimately occurs for most patients. Second-line treatment options available to patients who suffer failure of first-line treatment include further chemotherapy (docetaxel and pemetrexed) or targeted therapy. Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) show great efficacy in patients with advanced NSCLC with EGFR mutation. High EGFR gene copy number was associated with great sensitivity and prolonged progression-free survival of NSCLC from EGFR-TKIs. This phase II study was designed to assess the efficacy and safety of erlotinib compared with pemetrexed as second-line treatment for EGFR wild-type and EGFR FISH-positive lung adenocarcinoma.