Genetic Testing in Screening Patients With Stage IB-IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer That Has Been or Will Be Removed by Surgery (The ALCHEMIST Screening Trial)
This ALCHEMIST trial studies genetic testing in screening patients with stage IB-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer that has been or will be removed by surgery. Studying the genes in a patient's tumor cells may help doctors select the best treatment for patients that have certain genetic changes.
Stage IB Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage II Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|OTHER: Clinical Observation|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Crizotinib|OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Pemetrexed Disodium|OTHER: Placebo Administration|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Central and local clinical genotyping to facilitate accrual to the adjuvant Intergroup studies, E4512 and A081105, Central and local clinical genotyping to facilitate accrual to the adjuvant Intergroup studies, E4512 and A081105, will be measured by the rate of accrual., Up to 4 years|Feasibility of research grade formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue collection for Center for Cancer Genomics (CCG) analysis, Research grade formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue collection for Center for CCG analysis, will be measured by adequate specimens collected per month., Up to 4 years
Disease free survival (DFS) rate for lung cancers which are wild-type for EGFR and ALK, Using genomics performed at CCG, DFS rate will be calculated for each genotype-defined population constituting greater than 1% of the study cohort., Time from resection to the earliest of documented disease recurrence confirmed by biopsy, development of a new lung cancer confirmed by biopsy, or death from any cause, assessed at 2 years|Agreement of local genotyping methods (direct sequencing of EGFR, ALK fluorescence in situ hybridization [FISH]) with central Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments genotyping, For each locally used assay, agreement will be defined as the proportion of patients deemed mutant (or wild-type) by local and central assessment divided by the number of evaluable patients, where an evaluable patient is one who has a local assessment result and has submitted tissue for central assessment. An agreement rate of 90% or higher between the local assay and the central assessment will be deemed acceptable., Up to 5 years
Spectrum of new mutations identified at recurrence, Genomic analysis will be performed on tissue collected at time of recurrence and compared to baseline genomics. New mutations in key oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes (phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha and phosphatase and tensin homolog, etc) will be quantified., Up to 5 years|Proportions of patients who decline to enroll, Reasons behind why potentially eligible ALK-rearranged/EGFR mutant patients decline to enroll onto the adjuvant trials will be summarized. Concern with randomization, or not needing further therapy versus those who become otherwise ineligible due to recurrent disease or missing the enrollment window will be catalogued., Up to 5 years|Variability in the levels of baseline cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) based on the timing of collection of these samples, The levels of cfDNA (stratified by the timing of collection) will be correlated with clinical outcomes of overall survival and disease-free survival using Kaplan-Meier approach as well as exploratory Cox proportional Hazards models adjusted for baseline smoking, patient, and tumor characteristics as well as treatment information., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To centrally test resected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for genetic mutations to facilitate accrual to randomized adjuvant studies.

II. To obtain clinically annotated tumor tissue and patient-matched non-malignant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from peripheral blood, as well as detailed epidemiologic and clinical follow-up data, to allow clinically annotated advanced genomic analyses in concert with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Center for Cancer Genomics (CCG).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the natural history of molecularly characterized NSCLC to allow subsequent development of targeted therapies against genotype-defined subpopulations in the adjuvant and recurrent settings.

II. To cross-validate local genotyping assays for EGFR and ALK and PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) with a central reference standard, when available.

EXPLORATORY/OTHER OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the genomic evolution of lung cancers by comparing genomic characteristics at resection and at recurrence.

II. To understand reasons behind lack of enrollment to adjuvant targeted therapy studies for potentially eligible patients.

III. To study the clinical significance of circulating tumor DNA within the plasma cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from early stage lung cancer patients.

IV. To perform proteomic analyses on lung cancer specimens obtained at the time of resection (to identify prognostic biomarkers).

OUTLINE:

STEP 1 (SCREENING): Patients undergo collection of blood and tissue samples for EGFR, ALK, and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1)/cytotoxic t-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) testing via direct sequencing, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Patients that have had surgery prior to pre-registration will submit samples from the previous surgery for testing.

STEP 2 (TREATMENT): Patients with a mutation targeted by one or more of the investigational drugs used in this study or those without mutations are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment subprotocols.

A081105: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

ARM A (BLINDED ERLOTINIB- CLOSED 06/14/17): Blinded patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B (PLACEBO- CLOSED 06/14/17): Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C (UNBLINDED ERLOTINIB): Unblinded patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM D (OBSERVATION): Patients (including patients previously randomized to placebo) undergo observation at least every 6 months for 2 years.

E4512: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive crizotinib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients undergo observation.

EA5142: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and/or positron emission tomography (PET)/CT throughout the trial and blood sample collection during screening and follow-up. Patients may undergo an echocardiography (ECHO) as clinically indicated on study.

ARM II: Patients are followed serially with CT and/or PET/CT imaging for up to 1 year and then during follow-up. Patients also undergo blood sample collection during screening and follow-up. Patients may undergo an ECHO as clinically indicated on study.

A081801: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM A:

INITIAL THERAPY: Patients receive 1 of 4 platinum doublet regimens\* based on the treating physician's choice. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONTINUANCE THERAPY: Patients then undergo observation.

ARM B:

INITIAL THERAPY: Patients receive 1 of 4 platinum doublet regimens\* based on the treating physician's choice. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONTINUANCE THERAPY: Patients then receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 25-40 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C:

INITIAL THERAPY: Patients receive 1 of 4 platinum doublet regimens\* based on the treating physician's choice and pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONTINUANCE THERAPY: Patients then receive pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

\*ACCEPTABLE REGIMENS: DOUBLET I: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours and pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes on day 1 of each cycle.

DOUBLET II: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes and pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes on day 1 of each cycle.

DOUBLET III: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1 of each cycle and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle.

DOUBLET IV: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 of each cycle.

After completion of study, patients that are not enrolled on either A081105, E4512, EA5142, or A081801 are followed up every 6 months for 5 years.