Circulating Tumor DNA in Patients Summoned for Colonoscopy; - a Liquid Biopsy for Detection, Characterization, Individualized Treatment and Follow-up of Colorectal Cancer
CoLiQ is a clinical study designed to evaluate the clinical usefulness of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) markers found in blood, as a liquid biopsy for diagnosis, prognosis and follow-up of colorectal cancer. The main questions it aims to answer are: 1) Can a panel of ctDNA markers identify CRC patients among the other patients summoned for colonoscopy? and 2) Does the type, number and level of ctDNA markers vary with the subtype and clinical course of CRC? Participants will be asked to answer a questionnaire and give a blood sample at inclusion. In addition, patients with CRC will be asked to give an extra test tube at their routine treatment and follow-up blood sampling.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Adenoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: liquid biopsy
Colorectal cancer, Number of patients with colorectal cancer at histology following colonoscopy, evaluated within 3 months after colonoscopy|Colorectal adenoma, Number of patients with colorectal adenoma at histology following colonoscopy, evaluated within 3 months after colonoscopy|Inflammatory bowel disease, Number of patients with inflammatory bowel disease at histology following colonoscopy, evaluated within 3 months after colonoscopy
Recurrence, Recurrence of colorectal cancer among patients treated curatively., Within 5 years following treatment with curative intent for colorectal cancer|Death, Death among patients with colorectal cancer, Within 5 years following diagnosis of colorectal cancer|Treatment response, Treatment response among colorectal cancer patients as measured by todays standards of follow-up (CEA, CT-scans, colonoscopy), Within the 5 years following diagnosis of colorectal cancer
CoLiQ is a clinical study designed to evaluate the clinical usefulness of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) markers found in blood, as a liquid biopsy for diagnosis, prognosis and follow-up of colorectal cancer. The main questions it aims to answer are: 1) Can a panel of ctDNA markers identify CRC patients among the other patients summoned for colonoscopy? and 2) Does the type, number and level of ctDNA markers vary with the subtype and clinical course of CRC? Participants will be asked to answer a questionnaire and give a blood sample at inclusion. In addition, patients with CRC will be asked to give an extra test tube at their routine treatment and follow-up blood sampling.