Clinical Trial Assessing the Safety of Neoadjuvant Palbociclib in Combination With Endocrine Therapy
Patients with estrogen receptor positive (ER+) and/or progesterone receptor positive (PR+) breast cancer do not achieve good responses with pre-operative chemotherapy. The sensitivity of breast cancer to chemotherapy is often determined by the underlying gene expression pattern and the molecular subtype of the tumor. In addition, not all patients tolerate chemotherapy well. Pre-operative endocrine therapy has emerged as an effective strategy to improve outcomes in patients with early-stage hormone receptor positive breast cancer. This study will assess the role of neo-adjuvant palbociclib (CDK 4/6 inhibitor) in combination with letrozole (aromatase inhibitor) +/-Goserelin (GnRH analogue) to improve overall response and surgical feasibility in post and pre-menopausal hormone receptor positive and Her-2 negative subjects with stage IIA-IIIC breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Palbociclib 125mg
Overall response rate (CR+PR) with neoadjuvant palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy, To determine the overall response rate (CR+PR) with neoadjuvant palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy in subjects with hormone receptor positive and Her-2/neu negative breast cancer, 6 Months|Rate of reduction of Ki67 index, To determine the rate of reduction of Ki67 index after 4 weeks of neoadjuvant Palbociclib and endocrine therapy, 4 Weeks
Rate of grade 3 or higher neutropenia, To determine the rate of grade 3 or higher neutropenia in cycle 1 and all cycles, 6 Months|Clinical benefit rate with neoadjuvant palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy, To determine the clinical benefit rate (CR+PR+SD) with neoadjuvant palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy in subjects with hormone receptor positive and Her-2/neu negative breast cancer, 6 Months|Tumor down staging rate, To determine the tumor down staging rate as measured by number of positive lymph nodes with neoadjuvant palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy in subjects with hormone receptor positive and Her-2/neu negative breast cancer, 6 Months
Patients with estrogen receptor positive (ER+) and/or progesterone receptor positive (PR+) breast cancer do not achieve good responses with neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. The sensitivity of breast cancer to chemotherapy is often determined by the underlying gene expression pattern and the molecular subtype of the tumor. The luminal subtype (A/B) which includes most of the ER+ tumors are less sensitive to chemotherapy with lower pathologic complete responses compared to ER- tumors. In addition, not all patients tolerate chemotherapy well. Due to these factors, pre-operative endocrine therapy emerged as an effective strategy to improve outcomes in patients with early stage hormone receptor positive breast cancer. Palbociclib, an oral CDK 4/6 inhibitor in combination with anastrazole was recently shown to achieve cell cycle arrest (defined as Ki-67 \<2.7%) at cycle 1, day 15 in 85% of the studied population. This supports the evaluation of this combination further in the neo-adjuvant and adjuvant settings. Hence, this study proposes to assess the role of neo-adjuvant palbociclib (CDK 4/6 inhibitor) in combination with letrozole (aromatase inhibitor) +/-Goserelin (GnRH analogue) to improve overall response and surgical feasibility in post and pre-menopausal hormone receptor positive and Her-2 negative subjects with stage IIA-IIIC breast cancer.