Evaluation of Immunogenicity and Safety of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine Co-administered With Another Vaccine in Healthy Female Subjects
Infection with human papillomavirus (HPV) has been clearly established as the necessary cause of cervical cancer. Vaccination of pre-teens and adolescents, ideally before sexual debut and thus before exposure to oncogenic HPV, is a rational strategy for prevention of cervical cancer. Thus, HPV vaccination could complement the existing pre-adolescent/adolescent vaccination programs. This Phase IIIb study is designed to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of co-administering a commercially available vaccine with GSK Biologicals' HPV-16/18 L1 VLP AS04 (Cervarix TM) vaccine as compared to the administration of either vaccine alone.
Infections, Papillomavirus
BIOLOGICAL: HPV Vaccine (GSK580299) Cervarix TM|BIOLOGICAL: Engerix B
Number of Subjects With Anti-Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (Anti-HBs) Antibody Concentrations Above the Cut-off Value for Seroprotection, Only groups which had received the HBV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HBs (antibody titer \< 3.3 milli International Units per milliliter (mIU/mL)) prior to vaccination.

Anti-HBs antibody cut-off value for seroprotection assessed included 10 mIU/mL., Month 7|Number of Subjects With Anti-human Papillomavirus 16 and 18 (Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18) Antibody Concentrations Above the Cut-off Value for Seroconversion, Only groups which had received the HPV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Anti-HPV-16 antibody cut-off value assessed included 8 Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL) and anti-HPV-18 antibody cut-off value assessed included 7 EL.U/mL.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HPV-16 (antibody titer \< 8 EL.U/mL) and anti-HPV-18 (antibody titer \< 7 EL.U/mL) prior to vaccination., Month 7|Anti-HPV-16/18 Antibody Titres, Antibody titers for Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 are expressed as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs).

Only groups which had received the HPV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HPV-16 (antibody titer \< 8 EL.U/mL) and anti-HPV-18 (antibody titer \< 7 EL.U/mL) prior to vaccination., Month 7
Number of Subjects With Anti-HBs Antibody Concentrations Above the Cut-off Value for Seroconversion, Only groups which had received the HBV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HBs (antibody titer \< 3.3 mIU/mL) prior to vaccination.

Anti-HBs antibody cut-off value for seroconversion assessed included 3.3 mIU/mL., Month 7|Anti-HBs Antibody Titres, Antibody titers for anti-HBs are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) in mIU/mL.

Only groups which had received the HBV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HBs (antibody titer \< 3.3 mIU/mL) prior to vaccination., Month 7|Number of Subjects With Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 Antibody Concentrations Above the Cut-off Value for Seroconversion, Only groups which had received the HPV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Anti-HPV-16 antibody cut-off value assessed included 8 Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) units per milliliter (EL.U/mL) and anti-HPV-18 antibody cut-off value assessed included 7 EL.U/mL.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HPV-16 (antibody titer \< 8 EL.U/mL) and anti-HPV-18 (antibody titer \< 7 EL.U/mL) prior to vaccination., Month 2|Anti-HPV-16/18 Antibody Titres, Antibody titers for Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 are expressed as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs).

Only groups which had received the HPV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HPV-16 (antibody titer \< 8 EL.U/mL) and anti-HPV-18 (antibody titer \< 7 EL.U/mL) prior to vaccination., Month 2|Number of Subjects With Anti-Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (Anti-HBs) Antibody Concentrations Above the Cut-off Value for Seroconversion, Only groups which had received the HBV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HBs (antibody titer \< 3.3 mIU/mL) prior to vaccination.

Anti-HBs antibody cut-off value for seroconversion assessed included 3.3 mIU/mL., Month 2|Number of Subjects With Anti-Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (Anti-HBs) Antibody Concentrations Above the Cut-off Value for Seroprotection, Only groups which had received the HBV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HBs (antibody titer \< 3.3 milli International Units per milliliter (mIU/mL)) prior to vaccination vaccination.

Anti-HBs antibody cut-off value for seroprotection assessed included 10 mIU/mL., Month 2|Anti-HBs Antibody Titers, Anti-HBs antibody titers are given as GMTs in mIU/mL.

Only groups which had received the HBV vaccine were included in the analysis.

Subjects included were seronegative for anti-HBs (antibody titer \< 3.3 mIU/mL) prior to vaccination., Month 2|Number of Subjects Reporting Any Solicited Local Symptoms, Solicited local symptoms included injection site pain, redness and swelling.

Any solicited local symptom is occurence of a symptom regardless of its intensity., During the 7-day period (Days 0 - 6) following vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Grade 3 Solicited Local Symptoms, Solicited local symptoms include injection site pain, redness and swelling.

Grade 3 pain is pain that prevented normal everyday activities. Grade 3 redness is redness that was \> 50 mm. Grade 3 swelling is swelling that was \> 50 mm., During the 7-day period (Days 0-6) following vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Any Solicited General Symptoms, Solicited general symptoms included arthralgia, fatigue, gastrointestinal, headache, myalgia, rash, temperature in degrees celsius (axillary) and urticaria.

Any solicited general symptom is the occurence of the symptom regardless of its intensity or relationship to study vaccination., During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period following vaccination.|Number of Subjects Reporting Grade 3 Solicited General Symptoms, Solicited general symptoms included arthralgia, fatigue, gastrointestinal, headache, myalgia, rash, temperature in degrees celsius (axillary) and urticaria.

Grade 3 arthralgia, fatigue, gastrointestinal, headache, myalgia and rash were symptoms that prevented normal activity.

Grade 3 temperature was temperature \> 39 degrees Celsius. Grade 3 urticaria was urticaria distributed on at least 4 body areas., During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period following vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Related Solicited General Symptoms, Solicited general symptoms included arthralgia, fatigue, gastrointestinal, headache, myalgia, rash, temperature in degrees celsius (axillary) and urticaria.

Related solicited general symptoms were those symptoms assessed by the investigators as related to the study vaccination., During the 7-day period (Days 0 - 6) following vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Any, Grade 3 and Causally Related to Vaccination Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs), Unsolicited AE covers any AE reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms.

Grade 3 AE was an AE that prevented normal activities. Related AE was an AE that was assessed by the investigator as related to the study vaccination., During the 30-day period (Days 0 - 29) following any vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Any and Causally Related to Vaccination Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject.

Related SAEs were SAEs assessed by the investigators as related to the vaccination.

\* Grade 3 SAEs were not assessed., Throughout the active phase of the study (up to Month 7).|Number of Subjects Reporting Any and Causally Related to Vaccination SAEs, SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject.

\* Grade 3 SAEs were not assessed., Throughout the safety follow-up (month 7 up to Month 12).|Number of Subjects Reporting Medically Significant Conditions, Medically significant conditions (i.e., AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not (1) related to common diseases or (2) routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or SAEs that are not related to common diseases)., Throughout the active phase of the study (up to Month 7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Medically Significant Conditions, Medically significant conditions (i.e., AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not (1) related to common diseases or (2) routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or SAEs that are not related to common diseases)., Throughout the safety follow-up (month 7 up to Month 12)
Infection with human papillomavirus (HPV) has been clearly established as the necessary cause of cervical cancer. Vaccination of pre-teens and adolescents, ideally before sexual debut and thus before exposure to oncogenic HPV, is a rational strategy for prevention of cervical cancer. Thus, HPV vaccination could complement the existing pre-adolescent/adolescent vaccination programs. This Phase IIIb study is designed to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of co-administering a commercially available vaccine with GSK Biologicals' HPV-16/18 L1 VLP AS04 (Cervarix TM) vaccine as compared to the administration of either vaccine alone.