Telephone-Based Cancer Education With or Without Telephone-Based Counseling in Young Participants
RATIONALE: Telephone-based cancer education and counseling may help participants learn about ways of preventing cancer and choose a lifestyle that will help them stay healthy as they grow older.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying telephone-based cancer education and telephone-based counseling to see how well they work compared with telephone-based cancer education alone in young participants.
Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
OTHER: counseling intervention|OTHER: educational intervention
Multiple risk factor index, 6 months|Knowledge, 6 months|Health history taking, 3 months|Nutrition, 6 months|Physical activity, 6 months|Tobacco use intentions and behavior, 6 months|Alcohol use intentions and behavior, 6 months|Screening intentions, 6 months|Self-efficacy, 6 months|Perceived benefits, 6 months|Perceived barriers, 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Compare the efficacy of telephone-based cancer education with vs without counseling in younger participants.

Secondary

* Determine the mechanisms by which education with counseling may impact cancer-relevant cognitive and behavioral outcomes.
* Identify teens who may be most and least likely to benefit from education with counseling.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot, controlled, randomized study. Participants are stratified according to age (13-14 years vs 15 years vs 16 years vs 17 years vs 18-21 years), gender, race (white vs black vs other), and health status (chronic disease vs no chronic disease). Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 education arms.

* Arm I: Participants undergo cancer education sessions via telephone over 45 minutes once a week for 8 weeks.
* Arm II: Participants under cancer education sessions as in arm I and counseling techniques during the same telephone sessions.

In both arms, participants receive an intervention kit by mail before the first telephone call. The intervention kit includes age-appropriate self-help materials.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 300 participants will be accrued for this study.