A Study on the Potential Benefit of Neoadjuvant Therapy for AGC Patients
Early gastric cancer（AGC）has no effective characteristic symptoms and signs according to clinical statistics. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) significantly reduces the size of AGC tumors so that it has become the recommended treatment for AGC in major guidelines. However, Some patients miss the best time for surgical treatment and may have irreversible chemotherapy side effects due to NAC lacks the guidance of new indicators for precise treatment such as molecular biomarkers. Tumor organoids are highly consistent with the clinical drug sensitivities of patients which could be used as clinical treatment prediction models thus providing guidance for individualized medicine. Therefore, the project is the first to carry out the prospective study by screening the potential benefit populations of NAC based on tumor organoids drug susceptibility experiment. The following hypothesis are put forward：the potential benefit population of NAC screened by tumor organoid drugs susceptibility technology will have better clinical efficacy, better treatment tolerance and higher adverse reaction rate.
Early Gastric Cancer|Tumor Organoids
Objective Response Rate, time before the surgery|Tumor Regression Grading, time before the surgery
Early gastric cancer（AGC）has no effective characteristic symptoms and signs according to clinical statistics. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) significantly reduces the size of AGC tumors so that it has become the recommended treatment for AGC in major guidelines. However, Some patients miss the best time for surgical treatment and may have irreversible chemotherapy side effects due to NAC lacks the guidance of new indicators for precise treatment such as molecular biomarkers. Tumor organoids are highly consistent with the clinical drug sensitivities of patients which could be used as clinical treatment prediction models thus providing guidance for individualized medicine. Therefore, the project is the first to carry out the prospective study by screening the potential benefit populations of NAC based on tumor organoids drug susceptibility experiment. The following hypothesis are put forward：the potential benefit population of NAC screened by tumor organoid drugs susceptibility technology will have better clinical efficacy, better treatment tolerance and higher adverse reaction rate.