iCare3: Monitoring Circulating Cancer DNA After Chemotherapy in MDS and AML
This study will use droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) method to quantify and track peripheral blood plasma mutant allele frequency (MAF) in MDS and AML patients before, during and after chemotherapy treatment. Quantification of MAF from fingersticks and saliva samples will also be performed to determine feasibility of obtaining adequate circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) for ddPCR.
Acute Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|AML|MDS
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: droplet digital PCR
Number of Myeloid Mutations, To count the number of myeloid mutations with the use of a droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) method which will quantify and track peripheral blood plasma, finger stick blood sample, and saliva mutant allele frequency (MAF) in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients before, during and after chemotherapy treatment., 1 year
Number of Myeloid Mutations in circulating DNA tumor (ctDNA) mutations, To count the number myeloid mutations in ctDNA through the collection of serial samples from AML and MDS patients to determine minimal residual disease (MRD) or relapse free survival., 1 year|Mutant Allele Frequency (MAF) Ratio, To count the overall number of finger stick and saliva ctDNA MAF and compare it to the overall number of peripheral blood and bone marrow MAF., 1 year
The greatest challenge in cancer is relapsed disease. Despite best available therapies, approximately 20% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients and 80% of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients die of relapsed disease. Minimal residual disease (MRD) is the main predictor of refractory disease following chemotherapy. In AML and MDS patients, mutant allele frequency (MAF) associates with future occurrence of relapse. Current oncology practice relies on painful bone marrow biopsies and light microscopy to monitor disease progression, remission, and relapse. Because of the bias in disease sampling and low sensitivity testing, there is an urgent need for a higher sensitivity test to monitor the tumor burden in these patients. The Investigator developed a rapid and ultrahigh sensitivity method to detect cancer-associated mutant alleles. This study will use our droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) method to quantify and track peripheral blood plasma MAF in MDS and AML patients before, during and after chemotherapy treatment. Quantification of MAF from fingersticks and saliva samples will also be performed to determine feasibility of obtaining adequate circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) for ddPCR. Results from this project will generate a non-invasive means to monitor cancer response and progression months before current clinical methods, and provide an opportunity to intervene before the patient relapses. Furthermore, establishing a quantitative method to measure cancer burden will empower clinical researchers to measure biological activity in phase II and III clinical trials of new therapeutic agents.