Pevonedistat With VXLD Chemotherapy for Adolescent/Young Adults With Relapsed/Refractory ALL or Lymphoblastic NHL
The investigators postulate that Pevonedistat will be effective in patients with relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) when combined with a standard backbone ALL chemotherapy regimen.
Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Relapsed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: Pevonedistat|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: PEG-asparaginase|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Hydrocortisone
Rate of Toxicity in Study Participants Receiving Protocol Therapy, Rate of study participants receiving Pevonedistat/VXLD therapy who experience dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and and grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs). Toxicities will be assessed in terms of nature, grade and attribution to protocol therapy using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), Version 4.03., From Cycle 1 Day 1 to up to 30 days post last dose of protocol therapy, about 90 days|Determination of the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) in Study Participants Receiving Protocol Therapy, Determination of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Pevonedistat/VXLD therapy for the purpose of obtaining a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) regimen, From Cycle 1 Day 1 to up to 30 days post last dose of protocol therapy, about 90 days
Rate of Clinical Response in Study Participants Receiving Protocol Therapy, Rate of overall response (complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)) in study participants receiving Pevonedistat/VXLD therapy. Responses will be documented according to International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria. Morphologic complete remission (CR), cytogenetic CR, and molecular CR will be assessed by blood counts and simultaneous examination of the bone marrow for percentage of bone marrow blasts, as well as cytogenetics and molecular studies of bone marrow mononuclear cells., Up to two cycles, about 60 days|Pharmacodynamics (PD): Expression Levels of Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) Stress Response and Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) in Primary ALL Cells to Pevonedistat Therapy, Primary acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells will be obtained from peripheral blood and/or bone marrow of study participants. Primary cells will be assayed for cell death and cell cycle using standard methodology. Expression levels of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress/unfolded protein response (UPR) will be analyzed. A total of 6 samples will be analyzed to establish the PD of pevonedistat, the first three at the time it is given as a single agent (day 1 window) and the following 3 when given in combination with chemotherapy. A sample will be collected from peripheral blood in Cycle 1 on Day 1 pre-dose (immediately before the administration of pevonedistat), 6 and 24 hours post-dose; and on Day 3 pre-dose, 4, 6 and 24 hours post-dose., Cycle 1 Days 1 to 4|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum (Peak) Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Pevonedistat, Cmax is the maximum (or peak) plasma concentration that a drug achieves in a specified compartment or test area of the body after the drug has been administrated and before the administration of a second dose. Serial blood samples for the determination of plasma concentrations of pevonedistat will be collected at pre-specified time points during Cycle 1 to characterize the PK of pevonedistat in combination with VXLD therapy. Plasma for measuring pevonedistat concentrations will be collected pre-dose on day 3, at the end of infusion (EOI), 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 24, 48 and 72 hours post pevonedistat dose (10 PK blood draws in total)., Cycle 1 Days 3 to 6|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Single-dose time to reach maximum (peak) concentration (Tmax) of Pevonedistat, Tmax is the time it takes a drug or other substance to reach the maximum concentration (Cmax). Serial blood samples for the determination of plasma concentrations of pevonedistat will be collected at pre-specified time points during Cycle 1 to characterize the PK of pevonedistat in combination with VXLD therapy. Plasma for measuring pevonedistat concentrations will be collected pre-dose on day 3, at the end of infusion (EOI), 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 24, 48 and 72 hours post pevonedistat dose (10 PK blood draws in total)., Cycle 1 Days 3 to 6|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Plasma Concentration of Pevonedistat, The area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to 24 hours post-dose (AUC24hr), and AUC extrapolated to infinity (AUCinf) will be assessed. Serial blood samples for the determination of plasma concentrations of pevonedistat will be collected at pre-specified time points during Cycle 1 to characterize the PK of pevonedistat in combination with VXLD therapy. Plasma for measuring pevonedistat concentrations will be collected pre-dose on day 3, at the end of infusion (EOI), 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 24, 48 and 72 hours post pevonedistat dose (10 PK blood draws in total)., Cycle 1 Days 3 to 6|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Terminal disposition phase half-life (t1/2) of Plasma Concentration of Pevonedistat, Terminal disposition phase half-life (t1/2) will be assessed. Half-life (t1/2) is the amount of time it takes for the drug concentration in the plasma to decline by half. Serial blood samples for the determination of plasma concentrations of pevonedistat will be collected at pre-specified time points during Cycle 1 to characterize the PK of pevonedistat in combination with VXLD therapy. Plasma for measuring pevonedistat concentrations will be collected pre-dose on day 3, at the end of infusion (EOI), 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 24, 48 and 72 hours post pevonedistat dose (10 PK blood draws in total)., Cycle 1 Days 3 to 6
This is a phase I study of the addition of pevonedistat to induction chemotherapy for AYA patients (16-39 years of age) with relapsed/refractory ALL utilizing a traditional 3+3 design with dose expansion cohort of 6 patients. Starting dose level for pevonedistat is 15 mg/m2. If the number of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) is greater than 1 out of 3 patients in the starting dose level, next dose level is 10 mg/m2 (dose level -1). Chemotherapy will consist of pevonedistat in combination with a standard VXLD regimen. The duration of each cycle will be 29 days.