Objective to Evaluate the Safety and Effectiveness of LED Light Source System for Endoscopy in Ureteral Radiography
This clinical trial is a prospective, multi-center, single-blind, parallel, randomized controlled superiority clinical trial. The trial will be carried out in 5 centers, involving 120 subjects as estimated who will be divided into the test group or control group randomly on an equal basis (each group includes 60 subjects).

This trial will be carried out in 4 stages, including the screening period, random grouping, operation date and follow-up period. In the screening period, the informed consent forms are collected and candidates are screened; after screening, the accepted subjects will be randomly divided into the control group or test group; on the operation date, the operation is carried out using the device tested; safety follow-up visit is carried out during the follow-up period.
Lower Abdominal Surgery|Pelvic Surgery
DEVICE: LED light source system for endoscope|DEVICE: Ureteral stent (Cook Ireland Ltd.)
Resolution of the ureter in the whole operation., On the operation date, the investigators will score the performance using a scale (1 very good - 10 worst outcome) to evaluate the resolution of the ureter in the whole process of operation., in the whole process of operation
The prospective, multi-center, single-blind, parallel, randomized controlled superiority trial design is adopted to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the LED light source system for endoscope during ureter transillumination. The trial will be carried out in 5 centers, with the competitive grouping mode adopted. This trial will be carried out in the General Surgery Department and the Gynecology Department. Totally 120 subjects with rectal cancer, endometriosis, cervical cancer, adenomyosis and pelvic adhesion requiring operation (60 subjects for each of the test group and control group) are involved. The subjects, after signing the informed consent form approved by the Ethics Committee, will be screened by the investigators. Qualified subjects who meet all the inclusion criteria and do not meet any of the exclusion criteria will be randomly divided into the control group or the test group. The subjects in the control group will accept the ureteral stent (manufacturer: Cook Ireland Ltd.) during operation. The subjects in the test group will undergo surgery using the LED light source system for endoscope and the supporting IRIS ureter kit. On the operation date, the investigators will score the performance using a scale to evaluate the resolution of the ureter in the whole process of operation. During the follow-up period, the investigators will evaluate the safety of the device based on the results of vital signs, physical examination, blood routine examination, routine urine examination, blood biochemistry, 12-lead ECG and B-mode ultrasonography of urinary system.