A Study of SKLB1028 Versus Salvage Chemotherapy in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory (R/R) AML With FLT3-Mutated
This is a randomized，multicenter, open-label Phase III, clinical study to confirm the efficacy and safety of SKLB1028 in patients with relapsed or refractory(R/R) FLT3-Mutated Acute Myeloid Leukemia（AML）compared to salvage chemotherapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
DRUG: SKLB1028|DRUG: Salvage Chemotherapy
Interim analysis: CR/CRh rate in the experimental group., The complete remission and complete remission with partial hematological recovery (CR/CRh) rate was defined as the number of subjects who achieved either CR or CRh divided by the number of subjects in the response analysis set (RAS)., up to 4 years.|The final analysis: Overall Survival(OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause., up to 4 years.
Key secondary end point: Event-Free Survival (EFS)., EFS was defined as the time from randomization until treatment failure (Composite complete remission (CRc) or partial remission (PR) were not reached within 4 cycles), relapse (excluding relapse after PR), or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., up to 4 years.|Duration of remission (DOR)., Duration of remission included duration of composite complete remission (CRc), duration of complete remission (CR)/ complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh), duration of CRh, duration of CR and duration of response (CRc + partial remission (PR)., up to 4 years.|Duration of Leukemia-Free Survival (LFS), The LFS was defined as the time from the date of first CR until the date of documented relapse (excluding relapse from PR) or death for participants who achieved CR (relapse date or death date - first CR disease assessment date + 1)., up to 4 years.|Composite complete remission rate, CR rate was defined as the number of participants who achieved the best response of CR divided by the number of participants in the analysis population., up to 4 years.|Time to CR(TTR), Time to CR(TTR) is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of CR, up to 4 years.|Transplantation rate, Transplantation rate is defined as the percentage of participants undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT)., up to 4 years.|Transfusion conversion rate and transfusion-Independence rate., Transfusion conversion rate is defined as subjects whose baseline transfusion-dependent (TD, received red blood cell or platelet transfusion within 28 days prior to C1D1) to non-transfusion-dependent (Transfusion-Independence, TI, ≥56 days without red blood cell or platelet transfusion) Proportion; non-transfusion dependent maintenance rate is defined as the proportion of subjects who maintain TI status during the trial period of baseline non-transfusion dependent (TI) subjects., up to 4 years.|Safety assessed by adverse events., An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study drug or has undergone study procedures and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment., up to 4 years.|Population pharmacokinetic of SKLB1028, Observed trough concentration (Ctrough), Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 15, Cycle 2 Day 1 and Cycle 3 Day 1: predose. A cycle is 28 days.
Eligible subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive SKLB1028 or salvage chemotherapy. Subjects will enter the screening period up to 14 days before the start of treatment. Prior to randomization, a salvage chemotherapy regimen will be pre-selected for each subject. Options will include low-dose cytarabine (LoDAC), azacitidine, homoharringtonine (HHT), cytarabine and aclarubicin (HAA) or fludarabine, cytarabine and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (FLAG). The randomization will be stratified by indications and intensity of pre-selected salvage chemotherapy.

Subjects will be orally administrated SKLB1028 twice daily over continuous 28-day cycles . Subjects in the salvage chemotherapy group will receive chemotherapy as required by the guidelines. Subjects receiving SKLB1028, LoDAC, or azacytidine will continue to receive the treatment until a treatment discontinuation criterion is met. Subjects receiving HAA or FLAG will take 1 cycle of therapy and will be assessed for response after the 1st cycle. After the efficacy evaluation, the subject may receive a second cycle of chemotherapy at the investigator's discretion. will receive the second cycle of chemotherapy.

Subjects who have a donor identified and with complete remission after treatment may undergo hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) without leaving the study. Subjects in the salvage chemotherapy group who withdrew due to non-response to treatment or disease progression, could switch to SKLB1028 if SKLB1028 will likely benefit the patient at the investigator's discretion.