Confocal Endomicroscopy for Barrett's Esophagus
The purpose of this study is to determine if confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) can improve detection of Barrett's esophagus, dysplasia, and early esophageal cancer.
Barrett's Esophagus|Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE)|DEVICE: standard endoscopy (EGD)
Diagnostic Yield for Neoplasia in High Risk Patients(Suspected Neoplasia), The yield for neoplasia is calculated by the number of biopsies showing neoplasia over the total number of biopsies taken (normal + neoplastic biopsies), 6 weeks
Mean Number of Biopsies With Neoplasia in High Risk Patients (Suspected Neoplasia), The number of biopsies from each procedure (i.e. biopsies taken during CLE, or biopsies taken during standard EGD) that showed neoplasia. Neoplasia is high grade dysplasia or cancer. This analysis looks at patients with Barrett's suspected (but not known) neoplasia., 6 weeks|Mean Number of Biopsies Taken in High Risk Patients (Suspected Neoplasia), The number of biopsies taken during each procedure (i.e. the number of biopsies taken during CLE, or the number of biopsies taken during standard EGD). Biopsies are taken during CLE only if CLE shows that the esophageal mucosa is abnormal. Esophageal biopsies are taken during standard EGD using a standard Barrett's esophagus protocol (4 quadrants, every 1-2 cm of the Barrett's esophagus). This analysis looks at the Barrett's patients with suspected (but not known) neoplasia., 6 weeks|Diagnostic Yield for Neoplasia in Barrett's Surveillance Patients, Our hypothesis was that the yield for neoplasia would be higher using confocal laser endomicroscopy compared to standard endoscopy. The null hypothesis would be that there is no difference in yield for neoplasia when CLE is used compared to standard endoscopy. This analysis looks specifically at patients who were referred for surveillance of Barrett's esophagus (no suspected neoplasia)., 6 weeks|Mean Number of Biopsies With Neoplasia in Barrett's Surveillance Patients, The number of biopsies from each procedure (i.e. biopsies taken during CLE, or biopsies taken during standard EGD) that showed neoplasia. Neoplasia is high grade dysplasia or cancer. This analysis looks at patients undergoing surveillance EGD for Barrett's esophagus (no suspected neoplasia)., 6 weeks|Mean Number of Biopsies Taken in Barrett's Surveillance Patients, The number of biopsies taken during each procedure (i.e. the number of biopsies taken during CLE, or the number of biopsies taken during standard EGD). Biopsies are taken during CLE only if CLE shows that the esophageal mucosa is abnormal. Esophageal biopsies are taken during standard EGD using a standard Barrett's esophagus protocol (4 quadrants, every 1-2 cm of the Barrett's esophagus). This analysis looks at the patients with Barrett's esophagus in the study who were undergoing surveillance EGD (no suspected neoplasia)., 6 weeks
Barrett's esophagus is a leading cause of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Detection of dysplasia and early cancers in Barrett's esophagus can be challenging, time-consuming and expensive. Small lesions may be difficult to detect with standard endoscopy protocols. Confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) is a new type of endoscopy where a small confocal microscope is built into the tip of a standard endoscope. For this study, we are comparing confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) with targeted biopsies with standard endoscopy (EGD)and biopsy for Barrett's esophagus to determine if CLE is more effective for detecting dysplasia and cancer.

Participants with Barrett's esophagus in this study undergo 1) CLE with targeted mucosal biopsies (biopsy only taken if CLE shows abnormal tissue) and 2) standard EGD with biopsies. The order of procedures is randomized (some patients have CLE first while others have standard EGD first).