Study of Azacitidine Combined With Homoharringtonie Based Regimens in AML
Rencent years have witnessed great progress of the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, most patients have poor outcomes following the currently first-line DA(daunorubicin, cytarabine)/IA(Idarubicin, cytarabine) chemotherapy, espiecially for the older patients and those not eligiable for receiving allo-HSCT. Azacitidine (AZA)，a hypomethylating agent, targets epigenetic gene silencing by inhibiting gene expression against malignant phenotypes and is currently approved to treat AML based on the NCCN guidelines. The homoharringtonie (HHT) could induce AML cell lines and primary myeloid leukemia cell apoptosis, and the effect was dose dependent. While, HHT could also induce leukemia cells to differentiate into normal state, eventually achieve the goal of treatment, and control the disease. The investigators conducted a clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the AZA plus HAG(homoharringtonie, cytarabine, G-CSF), HIA(homoharringtonie, Idarubicin, cytarabine)/HDA(homoharringtonie, daunorubicin, cytarabine). This study is aimed to demonstrate the efficacy and safety advantages of the regimens that cotain homoharringtonie and azacitidine.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Homoharringtonine|DRUG: Azacitidine
CR, CR in months, in present of complete remission rate of all participants., From date of randomization or initial treatment until the date of first documented disease relapse from any cause，assessed up to 100 weeks.
Adverse events rates, Adverse events rates in percetage., From date of randomization or initial treatment until the end date of the study, assessed up to 100 weeks.|RFS, RFS in months, in present of relapse free survival period of all participants, From date of randomization or complete remission until the date of first documented disease relapse from any cause，assessed up to 100weeks.|OS, OS in months, in present of overall survival period of all participants, From date of randomization until the date of first documented death from any cause or end of this study, whichever come first，assessed up to 100weeks.
Currently, the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) still remains a therapeutic challenge. Patients received traditional chemotherapy have a low remission rate, poor prognosis and short survival for patients. New treatment strategies are needed in find out a better chemotherapy regimen.

Azacitidine (AZA), a hypomethylating agent, targets epigenetic gene silencing by inhibiting gene expression against malignant phenotypes. Azacitidine is currently approved to treat AML based on the NCCN guidelines. Novel combinations based on the azacitidine are currently undergoing, and the preliminary results brought promising hope to the treatment of AML.

The homoharringtonie (HHT) is a plant cytotoxic alkaloid derived from the trees of the genus Cephalotaxus. As a protein synthesis inhibitor, homoharringtonie plays a major role in the G1 / G2 phase in cells. In addition, it could induce AML cell lines and primary myeloid leukemia cell apoptosis, and the effect was dose dependent. Meanwhile it could also induce leukemia cells to differentiate into normal state, eventually controlled the progression of the disease.

Combination with azacitidine may become a new option.This study intends to apply azacitidine in combination with homoharringtonie for treating AML patients, aiming to improve the efficacy, reduce adverse events and improve the living qualities of patients.

Patients of de novo or relapsed AML(age≥60y or ineligibility to receive intensive chemotherapy) will receive AZA+HAG (homoharringtonie, cytarabine, G-CSF) regiment as induction therapy. After complete remission(CR), the AZA+HAG regimen was further given 4-6 cycles and followed by azacitidine maintenance or until the disease progresses.

Patients of de novo or relapsed AML(age\<60y or eligible for intensive chemotherapy) will receive AZA +HIA(homoharringtonie, Idarubicin, cytarabine) or AZA+HDA(homoharringtonie, daunorubicin, cytarabine) regiments as introduction therapy. After CR, post-remission therapy will follow with NCCN guidelines.

The investigators choose historical AML patients receiving tranditional chemotherapy as a control group, to evaluate the efficacy and safety profiles.