Sorafenib In Egyptian Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma.
This study aims to determine the predictive effect of ATG10 and IL6 genetic polymorphisms in safety and efficacy of sorafenib used for the treatment of Egyptian HCC patients. Moreover, this study will determine the association between genetic polymorphisms of ATG10 and IL6 with HCC severity.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Sorafenib Tablets
ATG10 genotyping, Gene polymorphism, 6 months|IL6 genotyping, Gene polymorphism, 6 months|Safety Outcomes, Incidence of side effects such as (diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, 6 months
A prospective pharmcogentic study for Egyptian HCC patients treating with oral sorafenib.

1. Approval will be obtained from Research Ethics Committee of Faculty of Pharmacy, Damanhour University.
2. 100 patients diagnosed with HCC for whom Sorafenib therapy is prescribed (400 mg twice daily) or (200mg twice daily),. will be recruited from Mansoura University Hospital, Mansoura, Egypt.
3. At baseline and follow up visits after Sorafenib, all patients will be assessed for complete blood count (CBC), kidney function, liver function, liver enzymes, alpha fetoprotein (AFP) and viral markers. Moreover, triphasic pelviabdominal CT will be performed .
4. Blood samples will be collected for ATG10 AND IL6 genotyping.
5. Genetic polymorphisms of ATG10 AND IL6 will be detected by real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).

   * Five mls of whole blood will be collected
   * Extraction of genomic DNA from blood samples by DNA extraction kit.
   * DNA qualification will be performed by Nano drop.
   * Genotyping will be done by allelic discrimination using Taqman assays specific for each polymorphism.
   * Assays will be done according to manufacturer protocol using real time PCR machine.
6. Appropriate statistical tests will be conducted to evaluate the significance of the results.
7. Results, conclusion, discussion and recommendations will be given. Ethical Issue

   * Informed consent will be signed by all eligible patients before enrolling in the study.
   * All patients' data will be confidential.

Efficacy and Safety outcomes:

1. Target lesions response will be measured according to modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST) Complete response, Partial response, Progressive disease and Stable disease.
2. The appropriate dose of sorafenib will be determined individually based on the patient tolerability.
3. Follow up will be performed for detection of tumor size using triphasic CT scan as a measure of efficacy. Moreover, all patients will be reevaluated for CBC,AFP, liver and kidney functions, in the follow up visit, to detect incidence of any adverse effects.
4. Patients will be asked for any side effects such as (diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, vomiting).
5. Patients will be followed for progression-free survival after receiving soarfenib.