Evaluation of the Safety and Tolerability of Niraparib With Everolimus in Advanced Gynecologic Malignancies and Breast
Open-label, cohort study to determine the feasibility and tolerability of the combination of daily niraparib and daily or thrice weekly everolimus for one 28-day cycle in patients with advanced ovarian and breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: niraparib|DRUG: everolimus
Number of Patients Who Developed Does-limiting Toxicity (DLT), The DLT criteria for adverse events occurring in Cycle 1 while determining the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) are described in the protocol. The number of patients who experience DLT from the trial treatment is recorded., From the start of treatment to 30 days after the first dose of study drug
Number of Patients With Beneficial Clinical Response, Tumor objective response is evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 response criteria. Number of patients with beneficial clinical response (SD, PR and CR) are recorded in each group., From beginning of study to the end of the 2nd cycle, and then at 16 weeks if the patient has stable disease or better.|Number of Patients With Tumor Objective Response, Tumor objective response is evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 response criteria. Number of patients with beneficial clinical response (PR and CR) are recorded in each group., From beginning of study to the end of the 2nd cycle, and then at 16 weeks if the patient has stable disease or better.
Progression Free Survival (in Months), Tumor assessment according to RECIST 1.1 was performed at the end of the second cycle, and then again at 16 weeks if the patient has stable disease or better. Scans may be performed every 8-12 weeks thereafter at the discretion of the investigators., From beginning of study to the end of the 2nd cycle, and then at 16 weeks if the patient has stable disease or better|Overall Survival, Survival status was monitored every 8 weeks for 2 years following the last dose, From the end of treatment till 2 years following the last dose
The goal of this study is to determine a maximum tolerated dose of the combination of niraparib and everolimus. To do this, investigators will estimate the maximum tolerated dose that is defined as the dose level at which less than one-third of patients will experience a dose-limiting toxicity. A traditional dose escalation design will be used, beginning with the lowest dose level and escalating to the maximum allowable dose level as specified in the protocol. One of the following outcomes will determine the treatment of subsequent patients:

* If none of the three patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , the next group of patients will be entered in the next higher dose cohort. All patients within a cohort must have completed at least one cycle (28 days) prior to initiation of the next cohort of patients.
* If one of the three patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , three more patients will be accrued at the current dose level. Subsequently, if only one of the six patients treated at this level experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , the dose will be escalated to the next higher dose in the next group of patients. If two or more of the six patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity , the maximum tolerated dose has been exceeded and is defined as the previous dose at which no more than 1/3 experienced a dose-limiting toxicity .
* If at least two of the three experience a dose-limiting toxicity , the maximum tolerated dose has been exceeded and is defined as the previous dose at which no more than 1/3 experienced a dose-limiting toxicity .

If the lowest allowable dose level exceeds the maximum tolerated dose, the study will be terminated and the combination will not be deemed safe for use in this population. Additionally, the highest dose level will not be exceeded, even if no dose-limiting toxicities are experienced at that dose.

Investigators will summarize the adverse events overall and by individual adverse event categories. Serious adverse events will be summarized in a similar manner. These summaries will be performed overall and for each dose cohort. Investigators will summarize all events as well as the highest grade for a given subject. Investigators will summarize the number of subjects that exhibit a dose-limiting toxicity at each dose cohort and describe the dose-limiting toxicity for each subject, if applicable.