Neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI Chemotherapy in Patients With Locally Advanced Colon Cancer
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy (irinotecan, oxaliplatin and fluorouracil) in the patients with locally advanced colon cancer.
Colonic Neoplasms|Drug Therapy
DRUG: FOLFOXIRI
The ratio of tumor downstaging to stage 0 and stage I, Tumor downstaging from stage II or III to pathologic complete response (stage 0) and stage I, 2 years
Tumor regression grade (TRG), The level of tumor regression under pathological examination, 2 years|Disease free survival, Estimated from the date of surgery to the date of recurrence, 3 years|Overall survival time, Estimated from the date of enrollment to death from any cause, 3 years|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], The grade of toxicity will be assessed using the NCI-CTCAE version 4.0, 3 years|ctDNA change, The relationship between ctDNA and survival will be evaluated, 3 years|SUVmax changes, Tumor metabolic response through FDG-PET examination before and after 4 cycles of neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy, At the begin of Cycle 1 and the end of Cycle 4 (each cycle is 14 days)|Quality of life (QLQ C30), Scores according to EORTC QLQ-C30 scoring manual, Every 2 weeks after the first treatment until 3 years
For the patients with locally advanced colon cancer, adjuvant FOLFOX and XELOX chemotherapy have become standard treatment. However, 30% - 40% patients suffered from local recurrence or distant metastasis after this standard treatment. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy could shrink tumors, eliminate micrometastasis, reduce surgical trauma and accelerate recovery. Hence, we evaluate the efficacy and safety of FOLFOXIRI as neoadjuvant chemotherapy in treating patients with locally advanced colon cancer.

In this prospective study, 30 patients with locally advanced colon cancer will be treated with 4 cycles of neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy followed by surgical resection. PET-CT scanning will be performed before and after the neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy to assess SUVmax changes. The ctDNA in peripheral blood before and after each cycle of neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy will be detected. In the course of treatment, safety evaluation will be carried out according to adverse reaction classification (CTCAE) 4. 0.