Study of Alisertib (MLN8237) in Adults With Aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the anti-tumor activity of alisertib (MLN8237) in participants with relapsed or refractory non-hodgkin's lymphoma.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Burkitt's Lymphoma|T-cell Lymphoma, Excluding Primary Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma|Transformed Follicular Lymphoma With ≥ 50% Diffuse Large Cell Component
DRUG: Alisertib
Best Overall Response Rate Based on Investigator's Assessment (Applying the IWG 2007 Response Criteria), Best overall response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the Investigator using International Working Group (IWG) Criteria. CR is defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease and PR is defined as regression of measurable disease and no new sites (as specified in the Cheson 2007, IWG response criteria)., Baseline and every 2 cycles up to Month 12 (approximately 16 cycles), from Cycle 16 every 4 cycles until disease progression, after end of treatment every 12 weeks for up to 12 Months from last dose (Up to 4 years)
Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression (TTP) is defined as the time in days from the date of first study drug administration to the date of first documentation of Progressive Disease (PD) according to IWG criteria (Cheson 2007). PD is defined as any new lesion or increase by \>50% of previously involved sites from nadir., Baseline and every 2 cycles up to Month 12, from Cycle 16 every 4 cycles until disease progression, after end of treatment every 12 weeks for up to 12 Months (Up to 4 years)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time in days from the date of first study drug administration to the date of first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death., Baseline and every 2 cycles up to Month 12, from Cycle 16 every 4 cycles until disease progression, after end of treatment every 12 weeks for up to 12 Months (Up to 4 years)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a CR, or partial response (PR) to the date of first documentation of PD according to IWG criteria. CR definition includes the complete disappearance of all evidence of disease, the definition of PR includes at least a 50% decrease in sum of the product of the diameters (SPD) of up to six of the largest dominant nodes or nodal masses, and PD is defined as any new lesion or increase by \>50% of previously involved sites from nadir, as described in the IWG response criteria (Cheson 2007)., Baseline and every 2 cycles up to Month 12, from Cycle 16 every 4 cycles until disease progression, after end of treatment every 12 weeks for up to 12 Months (Up to 4 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug and includes all-causality (ie, treatment-related and not treatment-related as assessed by the investigator)., First dose of study drug to 30 days after last dose (Up to 25 months)|Number of Participants With Abnormal Vital Signs Reported as Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, and oral temperature) measurements were obtained throughout the study. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., First dose of study drug to 30 days after last dose (Up to 25 months)|Number of Participants With Abnormal Laboratory Values Reported as Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Abnormal laboratory values for chemistry or hematology tests that were assessed by the investigator using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE V4). A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., First dose of study drug to 30 days after last dose (Up to 25 months)
The drug being tested in this study is called alisertib (MLN8237). Alisertib is being tested to treat people who have relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). The study looked at anti-tumor activity in participants who received alisertib.

The study enrolled 48 patients. Participants were categorized as per disease subtypes into five subtypes: Large B-Cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, transformed follicular lymphoma, Burkitts lymphoma and aggressive T-Cell lymphoma (Note: There were no participants enrolled with Precursor B-lymphoblastic Leukemia/Lymphoma). Participants received:

• Alisertib 50 mg BID on Days 1 to 7

All participants took alisertib capsules approximately every 12 hours each day for 7 days followed by a 14-day rest period in a 21-days cycle. MLN8237 was supplied in capsules of 5 or 25 mg strength.

This multi-center trial was conducted in United States. The overall time to participate in this study was until there is evidence of disease progression or unacceptable treatment-related toxicity. If the participant would derive benefit from continued alisertib treatment beyond 24 months, the Sponsor was consulted for approval of further treatment. Participants made multiple visits to the clinic, with imaging assessments every 12 weeks. Participants discontinuing treatment prior to disease progression continue with clinic visits, chemistry and hematology lab testing, and tumor assessments every 12 weeks up to 12 months after last dose of study drug for follow-up assessments.