Akt/ERK Inhibitor ONC201 in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and the best dose of v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog (Akt)/mitogen-activated protein kinase 1(ERK) inhibitor ONC201 and to see how well it works in treating patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that has returned after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Akt/ERK inhibitor ONC201 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Gastric Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Splenic Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Akt/ERK Inhibitor ONC201|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) (Phase I), 21 days|Number of Participants With Overall Response Rate (Phase 1 and 2), Defined as either progressive disease or stable disease observed assessed by the Revised International Workshop Standardization Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphoma., Up to 63 days (first 3 courses)
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is the time in months from start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause., every 3 months for 1 year, then every 6 months, up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS)- (Phase 2), Progression free survival is defined as time in weeks from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression or up to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., every 3 months for 1 year, then every 6 months, up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine recommended phase II dose for oral ONC201 (Akt/ERK inhibitor ONC201) in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphomas. (Phase I) II. To identify toxicities associated with oral ONC201 in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphomas. (Phase I) III. To determine the objective response rate to ONC201 in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphomas. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of oral ONC201 following administration. (Phase I) II. To observe the anti-tumor effects of oral ONC201, if any occur, in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphomas. (Phase I) III. Confirm tolerability of recommended phase II dose. (Phase II) IV. Assess clinical outcomes associated with ONC201 treatment in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphomas. (Phase II) V. Correlate clinical outcome with tumor and serum biomarkers. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive Akt/ERK inhibitor ONC201 orally (PO) on day 1 of every cycle or day 1 of every week. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.