Efficacy and Safety Study of Fostamatinib Tablets to Treat B-cell Lymphoma
Patients: B-cell lymphoma, refractory, diffuse, nodular, mantle, other Phase I : Two groups of 6 patients, escalating dose tolerability- 28 days Phase II: Three groups of 16 patients (nodular, diffuse large cell, mantle cell plus others). Oral bid dosing with highest tolerable dose until toxicity, progression, or withdrawal
Lymphoma
DRUG: fostamatinib
Overall Response Rate as Assessed According to the"Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma" (Cheson 2007)., Proportion of patients with Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR). Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma categorises the response of the treatment of a patient's tumour to; CR: the disappearance of all evidence of disease; PR: ≥ 50% decrease in the sum of the perpendicular diameters (SPD) of the six largest dominant nodes plus no increase in the size of other nodes and no new sites of disease; Stable Disease (SD): less than a PR but not progressive disease; Relapsed Disease or PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir. Primary efficacy is based on Phase II patients only., Serial tumor assessments were taken at baseline (within 28 days of the start of treatment), and re-evaluated at Day 57, and every 12 weeks thereafter or to confirm response . (Maximum duration of treatment 511 days, Maximum duration of follow-up 812 Days)|Clinical Benefit Rate as Assessed According to the "Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma" (Cheson 2007)., Proportion of patients with Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD), Serial tumor assessments were taken at baseline (within 28 days of the start of treatment), and re-evaluated at Day 57, and every 12 weeks thereafter or to confirm response (Maximum duration of treatment 511 days, Maximum duration of follow-up 812 Days)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS: Time from date of first study drug administration to the date of progressive disease as assessed according to the "Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma"(Cheson 2007) or the date of death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., Serial tumor assessments were taken at baseline (within 28 days of the start of treatment), and re-evaluated at Day 57, and every 12 weeks thereafter or to confirm response (Maximum duration of treatment 511 days, Maximum duration of follow-up 812 Days)|Overall Survival (OS), OS: Time from date of first study drug administration to the date of death., Overall survival is measured from the time of first administration of study drug to death. (Maximum duration of treatment 511days, Maximum duration of follow-up 812 Days)
This multicenter, open-label study of fostamatinib will take place in two phases.

Phase I Two cohorts, of 6 patients each, will be sequentially assigned to receive 200 mg (Cohort 1) and 250 mg (Cohort 2) PO bid of R788. Patients will be enrolled at 250 mg bid in Cohort 2 only if \< 1/6 patients in Cohort 1 experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the initial 28-day treatment period. If 2 or more patients in Cohort 1 experience DLT during the initial 28-day treatment period, patients in Cohort 2 will receive 150 mg PO bid.

Patients who do not experience DLT or disease progression may continue treatment at the assigned dose level until disease progression, toxicity or withdrawal. Patients who experience DLT may resume treatment at a lower dose level (dose will be decreased by 50 mg) when the toxicity grade has decreased to ≤ 1. Once all patients in Phase I have completed 28 days of treatment, the optimal dose of fostamatinib, based on safety and anti-tumor activity, will be determined.

Phase II 48 additional patients, 3 groups of 16 patients each, will receive fostamatinib at the optimal biologic dose PO bid until tumor progression, limiting toxicity or withdrawal. Group 1 will consist of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), Group 2 will consist of patients with follicular lymphoma, and Group 3 will consist of patients with mantle cell lymphoma, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma, marginal zone lymphomas, small lymphocytic lymphomas (SLL), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).