Progressive Muscle Relaxation Exercises on Sleep, Fatigue, Pain in Lymphoma Patients
With regular practice, relaxation has been found to have many benefits such as reducing sensitivity to pain and fatigue, facilitating the transition to sleep, and improving quality of life. Therefore, this study was planned to examine the effects of progressive muscle relaxation exercises applied to lymphoma patients on sleep, fatigue, and pain.
Lymphoma Patients
OTHER: Progressive muscle relaxation exercises
Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line. In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. GAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm., Baseline, pre-intervention (Before progressive muscle relaxation exercises applied)|Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line. In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. GAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm., After the intervention (After progressive muscle relaxation exercises applied in week 6)|The Piper Fatigue Scale, It is a 22-item scale that measures four subscales: behavior (6 items), affect (5 items), sensory (5 items), and cognition/mood (6 items). Each item has 11 response categories on a 0-10 metric with verbal descriptors anchoring the endpoints. Each subscale is scored individually and then aggregated together for an overall score, with higher scores reflecting more fatigue., Baseline, pre-intervention (Before progressive muscle relaxation exercises applied)|The Piper Fatigue Scale, It is a 22-item scale that measures four subscales: behavior (6 items), affect (5 items), sensory (5 items), and cognition/mood (6 items). Each item has 11 response categories on a 0-10 metric with verbal descriptors anchoring the endpoints. Each subscale is scored individually and then aggregated together for an overall score, with higher scores reflecting more fatigue., After the intervention (After progressive muscle relaxation exercises applied in week 6)
Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a valid and consistent survey comprising 19 questions to assess the quality and amount of sleep and the existence of a sleep disorder and its level in the previous month. The scale was adapted into the Turkish language by Agargün et al. (1996). The scale consists of seven components that assess patients' subjective sleep quality, sleep delay, use of sleeping medication and dysfunction in daily activities. Each item scores in the range 0-3 points and the total score of the seven components gives the total PSQI score. The total score has a value between 0-21 and a high total score demonstrates a poor quality of sleep. A total PSQI score of ≤5 indicates "good sleep", and a score of\>5 indicates "poor sleep", Baseline, pre-intervention (Before progressive muscle relaxation exercises applied)|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a valid and consistent survey comprising 19 questions to assess the quality and amount of sleep and the existence of a sleep disorder and its level in the previous month. The scale was adapted into the Turkish language by Agargün et al. (1996). The scale consists of seven components that assess patients' subjective sleep quality, sleep delay, use of sleeping medication and dysfunction in daily activities. Each item scores in the range 0-3 points and the total score of the seven components gives the total PSQI score. The total score has a value between 0-21 and a high total score demonstrates a poor quality of sleep. A total PSQI score of ≤5 indicates "good sleep", and a score of\>5 indicates "poor sleep", After the intervention (After progressive muscle relaxation exercises applied in week 6)
A total of 18 sessions of progressive relaxation were performed, 3 days a week for 6 weeks.