Edoxaban for the Treatment of Coagulopathy in Patients With Active Cancer and Acute Ischemic Stroke: a Pilot Study. (ENCHASE Study)
Purpose: Cancer-related hypercoagulability plays an important role in the development of cancer-related stroke. With rapidly aging population and increasing cancer prevalence, cancer related stroke has become an important stroke subtype. Recent studies suggest that hypercoagulability is associated with poor prognosis and effective correction of coagulopathy maybe protective for survival in cancer related stroke patients. Optimal strategies to correct coagulopathy in cancer stroke patient remains to be determined. Currently, the use of low molecular-weighted heparin is recommended in these patients, but non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants (NOACs) could be safe alternative without the need for injection subcutaneously. Furthermore, NOACs could be an optimal treatment strategy for cancer-related stroke in terms of correcting coagulopathy with less injection related complication (ex. pain and infection) compared to Enoxaparin.
Correction of Cancer-related Coagulopathy With Novel Oral Anticoagulant (Edoxaban)
DRUG: Edoxaban|DRUG: Enoxaparin
D-dimer change, interval change of serum D-dimer level between day 0 and 7, 7 days after treatment
Surrogate endpoint, number of micro-embolic signal detected by transcranial doppler, 7 days after treatment|Functional outcome, modified Rankin scale at 90 days, from 0 to 6, higher is worse, 90 days after enrollment|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage], symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage major bleeding all-cause death, 90 days after enrollment
Purpose: Cancer-related hypercoagulability plays an important role in the development of cancer-related stroke. With rapidly aging population and increasing cancer prevalence, cancer related stroke has become an important stroke subtype. Recent studies suggest that hypercoagulability is associated with poor prognosis and effective correction of coagulopathy maybe protective for survival in cancer related stroke patients. Optimal strategies to correct coagulopathy in cancer stroke patient remains to be determined. Currently, the use of low molecular-weighted heparin is recommended in these patients, but non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants (NOACs) could be safe alternative without the need for injection subcutaneously. Furthermore, NOACs could be an optimal treatment strategy for cancer-related stroke in terms of correcting coagulopathy with less injection related complication (ex. pain and infection) compared to Enoxaparin.