Clinical Study of Anti-CD1a CAR-T in the Treatment of R/R Acute T-lymphoblastic Leukemia/Lymphoblastic Lymphoma
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-CD1a CAR-T in the treatment of relapsed refractory acute T-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoblastic lymphoma.
Acute T-lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute T-lymphoblastic Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: CAR-T Cell Infusion
Objective response rate, CR+PR, From 2 weeks to 1 year.|Progression-free survival, The time between treatment and observation of disease progression or death from any cause., From 2 weeks to 1 year.|overall survival, The time interval between patient infusion of CAR-T and death from any cause or the end of follow-up., From 2 weeks to 1 year.|Event-free survival, The time from the start of CAR-T infusion to the occurrence of any event., From 2 weeks to 1 year.
Characterization of the level of CAR T cell expansion in subjects over time, Characterization of the level of CAR T cell expansion in subjects over time., From 2 weeks to 1 year.|Duration of CAR T cells in subjects, Duration of CAR T cells in subjects, From 2 weeks to 1 year.|Characteristics of lymphocyte reduction in subjects, Characteristics of lymphocyte reduction in subjects, From 2 weeks to 1 year.
Acute T-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-ALL/LBL) is a highly heterogeneous hematological malignancy usually associated with genetic alterations/mutations in transcription factors that are major regulators of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell homeostasis and T cell development. 70% of patients develop mass with myeloid invasion and other leukemia symptoms.

CD1a, a transfer membrane glycoprotein, is a cell surface antigen present on cortical T-ALL cells. It is present in 40% of T-ALL cases. Specific expression of this antigen has also been observed in developing cortical thymus cells. It was also slightly expressed in langerhans cells, digital dendritic cells, B lymphocytes and gastrointestinal epithelial cells. CD1a4 was not expressed in CD34+ progenitor cells or T cells during ontogeny. This property of CD1a makes it a suitable target antigen whose targeting minimizes the possibility of non-tumor toxicity.

This study intends to treat r/r CD1a+T-ALL/LBL with CD1a CAR-T to observe its safety and efficacy.