Lenalidomide and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Stage II, Stage III, or Stage IV Follicular Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well lenalidomide and rituximab work in treating patients with previously untreated stage II, stage III, or stage IV follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate or suppress the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving lenalidomide together with rituximab may kill more cancer cells.
Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 1 Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 1 Non-Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 2 Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 2 Non-Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 3 Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 3 Non-Contiguous Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Number of Participants Who Achieved a Complete Response, Response is assessed by investigator according to International Working Group (IWG) criteria. Complete response requires disappearance of all evidence of disease., At 12 months
Toxicity of Study Treatment, Assessed by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, Data will be summarized using frequency tables., Up to 5 years|Disease Progression, Kaplan-Meier method will be used. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 5 years|Best Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate (overall and complete) to lenalidomide + rituximab in follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) patients who have received no prior systemic therapy.

II. To determine the time to progression after lenalidomide + rituximab in previously untreated patients with cluster of differentiation (CD)20+ follicular NHL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity profile of lenalidomide + rituximab therapy in previously untreated patients with CD20+ follicular NHL.

II. To establish whether the therapeutic effects of lenalidomide + rituximab combination are sufficiently promising to warrant evaluation in a subsequent randomized trial (in comparison to rituximab alone).

III. To correlate fragment crystallizable gamma (Fcg) receptor polymorphism profiling with response to lenalidomide + rituximab in previously untreated patients with follicular NHL.

IV. To determine the impact of lenalidomide on immune parameters in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma.

V. To determine the impact of lenalidomide on angiogenic parameters in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma.

VI. To correlate lymphoma-associated macrophages (LAM) and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), granzyme B (GzB), CD10, multiple myeloma oncogene 1 (MUM1), and B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2) expression with response to rituximab + lenalidomide in previously untreated patients with follicular lymphoma.

VII. Determine whether immune gene signatures previously identified as prognostic factors in follicular lymphoma (FL) can be applied to paraffin-embedded tissues in rituximab treated patients; evaluate micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with these gene signatures and outcome; to validate immunohistochemical markers associated with outcome in FL (CD68 LAMs, FOXP3, CD10, BCL6, FOXP1, MUM1); and investigate whether markers of angiogenesis may be of value in prognosis of FL.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment with lenalidomide repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and on weeks 13, 21, 29, and 37 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for up to 8 years.