Radiofrequency Ablation Accompanied With Spontaneous Sorafenib in Early to Intermediate Stage HCC
Radiofrequency ablation (RFA)can be curative with small localized HCCs up to 5 cm in diameter. However, the long-term prognosis is not satisfactory due to the high incidence of recurrence.Multimodality treatments are needed to prevent recurrences，but only useful with locoregional disease. Sorafenib is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor and the only systemic drug associated with improved overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced HCC. Retrospective and randomized studies have suggested that the combined use of Sorafenib may be useful in patients with unresectable HCC. Based on these information and the multiple actions of Sorafenib, we hypothesized that Sorafenib plus RFA may be useful in patients with early to Mid term HCC. In this investigation, we evaluated the safety and efficacy of a combination Sorafenib and RFA therapy in patients with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Stage 0 -B1 HCC in a multicenter prospective cohort study.
HCC
PROCEDURE: radiofrequency ablation plus Sorafenib|PROCEDURE: Radiofrequency ablation
2-year incidence of tumor recurrence, to calculate the incidence of tumor recurrence of experiment and control group at two year after complete treatment., 2 year
Overall survival, Overall survival, 5 years|1-year incidence of recurrence, 1-year incidence of recurrence, 1-year|3-year incidence of recurrence, 3-year incidence of recurrence, 3 year|5-year incidence of recurrence, 5-year incidence of recurrence, 5 year|Time to progression, Time to progression, average 2 years|Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate, average 2 years|complications and adverse effect, to sum all the complications and adverse effect for all the eligible enrolled patients during 1 year of a complete treatment., 1 year
Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been used as a minimally invasive option to eradicate tumors and preserve liver function in patients with impaired function or with a postoperative tumor recurrence. RFA can be curative with small localized HCCs up to 5 cm in diameter. However, the long-term prognosis for HCC patients treated with RFA is not satisfactory due to the high incidence of recurrence including local tumor recurrence and multicentric carcinogenesis.

Multimodality treatments are needed to prevent recurrences. Although there is a potential benefit with this strategy, it is only useful with locoregional disease. Sorafenib is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor and the only systemic drug associated with improved overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced HCC.

Retrospective and randomized studies have suggested that the combined use of Sorafenib, TACE, and RFA may be useful in patients with unresectable HCC. Based on these information and the multiple actions of Sorafenib, we hypothesized that Sorafenib plus RFA may be useful in patients with early HCC or recurrent HCC. Although no supportive data from clinical trials is available, this hypothesis is supported by recent animal studies. Inadequate RFA has been shown to promote rapid progression of residual tumors. Adjuvant Sorafenib postponed time to recurrence by inhibition of hypoxia inducible factor-1and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA). In a multifocal tumor model of HCC, RFA and Sorafenib alone resulted in a significant volume reduction of non-RFA-targeted tumors, but this effect was enhanced when both modalities were combined. This phenomenon was also demonstrated by more recent study on human subject.

Besides the advantages, Sorafenib initially promoted necrosis, delayed tissue repair after RFA and adversely affected normal liver parenchyma, which could result in increased RFA toxicity and limit its use in patients with HCC who have undergone RFA. Thus, the overall advantages of RFA plus Sorafenib need to be weighed against its adverse effects. In this investigation, we evaluated the safety and efficacy of a combination Sorafenib and RFA therapy in patients with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Stage 0 -B1 HCC in a multicenter prospective cohort study.

Outcome measures: Post-RFA tumor recurrence