Vorinostat and Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This phase II trial is studying how well giving vorinostat together with bortezomib works in treating patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma. Vorinostat and bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving vorinostat together with bortezomib may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: bortezomib
Confirmed Tumor Responses, The number of confirmed tumor responses is defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) on two consecutive evaluations at least six weeks apart.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimension (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 2 years
Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to the time of progression or death, whichever comes first. The distribution and median of progression-free survival times will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate in patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma treated with vorinostat and bortezomib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. II. Evaluate the progression-free survival and median overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily on days 1-14. Patients also receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 2 years. (As of Addendum 7, patient follow-up no longer required.)