TACE Combined With Methylcantharidimide Tablets in the Treatment of Large and Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) combined with methylcantharidimide tablets in the treatment of patients with large and unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: methylcantharidimide tablets
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD). CR was defined as disappearance of any intratumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of viable (enhancement of arterial phase) target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of the diameters of target lesions. SD was when a case does not qualify for either PR or progressive disease (PD) and was new non-target lesions. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters of target lesions., 18 months
Time to progression (TTP), TTP was defined as the time from the date of treatment to the date of first documentation of disease progression based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST). Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters of target lesions., 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), From the date of treatment until the date of death from any cause, 18 months|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL), HRQoL assessed using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) .The EORTC QLQ-C30 included 30 questions comprising 9 multi-item scales: 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social) and 9 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting, dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea and financial difficulties) and a single global health and quality of life status score. Most questions used a 4-point scale (1=Not at all to 4=Very much); 2 questions used a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). All domain scores were calculated as an average of item scores and transformed to 0 to 100 score range. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status/quality of life (QoL) represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology/problem., 18 months|clinical symptoms, A questionnaire about the clinical symptoms, appetite，pain and sleep., 18 months|Adverse Events, Postoperative adverse events were graded based on CTCAE v4.03, 18 months
Most guidelines recommend transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), as the standard of care for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC ) at Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage A-B. While a number of studies demonstrate poor effect of TACE for patients with large hepatocellular carcinoma. The efficacy of TACE on large (≥ 10 cm) stage A-B HCC is far from satisfactory. The median overall survival was only 6.5-9.1 months. Methylcantharidimide is a single molecule drug used for the treatment of primary liver cancer.

Thus, the investigators carried out this prospective trial to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of TACE combined with methylcantharidimide tablets in patients with large and unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.