Nivolumab (BMS-936558; MDX-1106) in Combination With Sunitinib, Pazopanib, or Ipilimumab in Subjects With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) (CheckMate 016)
The purpose is to determine the safety, effectiveness and best dose to use when giving Nivolumab in combination with Sunitinib, Pazopanib, or Ipilimumab for the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Clear-cell Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pazopanib|DRUG: Sunitinib|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab
Number of Participants With AEs, SAEs, and AEs Leading to Discontinuation, Safety assessments by treatment arm and dose level were based on incidence of AEs, and the incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs). AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Treatment-related=having certain, probable, possible, or missing relationship to study drug. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4= Potentially Life-threatening or disabling., From date of first dose to date of last dose plus 100 days (assessed up to March 2016, approximately 49 months)
Best Overall Response Rate (BOR), BOR was defined as the best response designation over the study as a whole, recorded between the date of first dose of study medication and the date of objectively documented progression per RECIST 1.1 criteria or the date of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurred first.

CR = Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD = At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression. SD = Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., From date of first dose to date of disease progression or subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurred first (assessed up to March 2016, approximately 49 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the proportion of participants who achieved a BOR of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) in the population of interest.

CR = Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From date of first dose to interim analysis (Assessed up to March 2016, approximately 49 months)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was computed for participants with BOR of CR or PR only, and defined as the time between the date of first documented objective response and the date of the first subsequent disease progression or death. Participants who remained alive and had not progressed were censored on the last tumor assessment date (prior to subsequent cancer therapy)., From date of first dose to date of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed up to March 2016, approximately 49 months)|Rate of Progression-free Survival (PFS) at Week 24, Rate of PFS at week 24 was defined as the proportion of participants remaining progression free or surviving at 24 weeks, calculated by the product-limit method (Kaplan-Meier estimate) which took into account censored data. Participants who did not have any on-study tumor assessment and did not die were censored on the date of first dose of study medication., 24 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study medication to the date of first disease progression or death. Participants who did not have any on-study tumor assessment and did not die were censored on the date of first dose of study medication., From date of first dose to date of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (assessed up to March 2016, approximately 49 months)
The purpose is to determine the safety, effectiveness and best dose to use when giving Nivolumab in combination with Sunitinib, Pazopanib, or Ipilimumab for the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma.