Convection-Enhanced Delivery (CED) of MDNA55 in Adults With Recurrent or Progressive Glioblastoma
This is a single-arm, open-label, multicenter study in approximately 52 adults with primary (de novo) GB that has recurred or progressed (first or second recurrence, including this recurrence) after treatment(s) including surgery and radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy and following discontinuation of any previous standard or investigational lines of therapy.
Glioblastoma|Grade IV Astrocytoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme|Grade IV Glioma
DRUG: MDNA55
Overall Survival (OS), Primary endpoint analysis was based on the ITT population. The null hypothesis was mOS of 8.0 months, based on a clinically-weighted average of published studies of FDA-approved therapies versus the alternative hypothesis of 11.5 months., From start of treatment until date of death from any cause. Subjects who were not known to have died at the time of the analysis were to be censored at the date of last contact.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR, determined by independent central review (per RANO-based criteria) Complete Response - Disappearance of all enhancing measurable and non-measurable disease sustained for at least 4 weeks.

Partial Response - ≥50% decrease in sum of products of perpendicular diameters or ≥65% decrease in total volume of all measurable enhancing lesions compared with baseline, sustained for at least 4 weeks Progressive Disease - At least two sequential scans separated by at ≥4 weeks both exhibiting ≥25% increase in sum of products of perpendicular diameters or ≥40% increase in total volume of enhancing lesions.

Stable Disease - Does not qualify for CR, PR, or PD as defined above, 12 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS, time from treatment until disease progression (per RANO-based criteria) or death Progressive Disease per RANO - At least two sequential scans separated by at ≥4 weeks both exhibiting ≥25% increase in sum of products of perpendicular diameters or ≥40% increase in total volume of enhancing lesions, 12 months
Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events, Number of Subjects with Serious adverse events with Frequency \>=5%, 12 months|Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent adverse events, 12 months|Level of MDNA55 in Peripheral Plasma, Systemic exposure to MDNA55 is not expected following intratumoral infusion and circulating MDNA55 has not been detected in previous clinical studies. To continue to evaluate the potential of systemic exposure, plasma collected at screening (baseline), within 1 hour following infusion end time, \~3 hours following completion of infusion and then (after the \~3 hour sample collection) every 6 hours ± 2 hours until 24 hours and at Day 14. PK data will be presented for the PK population in listing format by subject and sample collection time point. PK parameters would only be analyzed if MDNA55 levels above LLOQ (0.37 ng/mL) were detected., 14 days|ADA Titer / Neutralizing Antibody Analysis, Number of participants that were ADA Positive and had Neutralizing Antibody, 12 months
The study drug, MDNA55, is a fusion protein comprising a genetically engineered Interleukin-4 (IL-4) linked to a modified version of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A (PE). MDNA55 binds to the IL-4 receptor (IL4R), over-expressed by cancer cells and non-malignant immunosuppressive cells of the tumor microenvironment (TME), and delivers a potent cell-killing agent, PE.

The study will be conducted at up to 10 clinical sites following institutional review board approval and completed informed consent.

Subjects that meet the study eligibility criteria will undergo surgery associated with study drug administration. MDNA55 will be administered locally by convection-enhanced delivery (CED).

Post-treatment follow-up assessment of safety and efficacy will be performed monthly for the first 6 months and bimonthly thereafter for approximately 1 year after study drug administrations. Subjects will continued to be followed for survival and post-study treatment(s) of GB after study completion or withdrawal.