Breast Cancer Implementation Science Study With Educational Intervention
A study uniquely focused on system-based practice change, measuring the impact of educational interventions on both patients and clinicians for the recognition and management of treatment-related adverse effects for HER2+/HER2 low breast cancer patients on or about to start on HER2 targeted antibody drug conjugates (fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki or ado-trastuzumab emtansine) and shared decision-making methodologies to improve adverse event (AE) management and patient-clinician communications.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Educational Intervention
Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) Score, 16-item assessment of a person's uncertainty in making a healthcare choice. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 (strongly agree) to 4 (strongly disagree). The total score is the sum of responses and ranges from 0-64; lower scores indicate less uncertainty. Assessed among patients only., Baseline|Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) Score, 16-item assessment of a person's uncertainty in making a healthcare choice. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 (strongly agree) to 4 (strongly disagree). The total score is the sum of responses and ranges from 0-64; lower scores indicate less uncertainty. Assessed among patients only., Month 3|Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) Score, 16-item assessment of a person's uncertainty in making a healthcare choice. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 (strongly agree) to 4 (strongly disagree). The total score is the sum of responses and ranges from 0-64; lower scores indicate less uncertainty. Assessed among patients only., Month 6|Patient HER2-Targeted ADC Related Side Effect Pre-Test Score, 6 questions assessing ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed. 4 items are multiple choice questions with (1) correct answer. The final 2 items are rated on a Likert scale from 5 (Always) to 1 (Never). The score is calculated as the sum of (a) total correct answers to items 1-4 and (b) responses to items 5-6. The total score ranges from 2-14; higher scores indicate greater ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed., Baseline|Patient HER2-Targeted ADC Related Side Effect Post-Test Score, 6 questions assessing ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed. 4 items are multiple choice questions with (1) correct answer. The final 2 items are rated on a Likert scale from 5 (Always) to 1 (Never). The score is calculated as the sum of (a) total correct answers to items 1-4 and (b) responses to items 5-6. The total score ranges from 2-14; higher scores indicate greater ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed., Month 3|Patient HER2-Targeted ADC Related Side Effect Post-Test Score, 6 questions assessing ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed. 4 items are multiple choice questions with (1) correct answer. The final 2 items are rated on a Likert scale from 5 (Always) to 1 (Never). The score is calculated as the sum of (a) total correct answers to items 1-4 and (b) responses to items 5-6. The total score ranges from 2-14; higher scores indicate greater ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed., Month 6|Clinician HER2-Targeted ADC Related Side Effect Pre-Test Score, 7 questions assessing ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed. 5 items are multiple choice questions with (1) correct answer. The final 2 items are rated on a Likert scale from 5 (Always) to 1 (Never). The score is calculated as the sum of (a) total correct answers to items 1-5 and (b) responses to items 6-7. The total score ranges from 2-15; higher scores indicate greater ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed., Baseline|Clinician HER2-Targeted ADC Related Side Effect Post-Test Score, 7 questions assessing ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed. 5 items are multiple choice questions with (1) correct answer. The final 2 items are rated on a Likert scale from 5 (Always) to 1 (Never). The score is calculated as the sum of (a) total correct answers to items 1-5 and (b) responses to items 6-7. The total score ranges from 2-15; higher scores indicate greater ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed., Month 3|Clinician HER2-Targeted ADC Related Side Effect Post-Test Score, 7 questions assessing ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed. 5 items are multiple choice questions with (1) correct answer. The final 2 items are rated on a Likert scale from 5 (Always) to 1 (Never). The score is calculated as the sum of (a) total correct answers to items 1-5 and (b) responses to items 6-7. The total score ranges from 2-15; higher scores indicate greater ability to recognize HER2-targeted ADC-related AEs and how they are managed., Month 6
Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease Score, 6-item assessment of a person's confidence in performing different tasks with a chronic disease. Each item is rated on a Likert scale from 1 (not at all confident) to 10 (completely confident). The score is calculated as the average of responses; the total score ranges from 1-10; higher scores indicate greater self-efficacy in managing chronic disease. Assessed among patients only., Baseline|Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease Score, 6-item assessment of a person's confidence in performing different tasks with a chronic disease. Each item is rated on a Likert scale from 1 (not at all confident) to 10 (completely confident). The score is calculated as the average of responses; the total score ranges from 1-10; higher scores indicate greater self-efficacy in managing chronic disease. Assessed among patients only., Month 3|Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease Score, 6-item assessment of a person's confidence in performing different tasks with a chronic disease. Each item is rated on a Likert scale from 1 (not at all confident) to 10 (completely confident). The score is calculated as the average of responses; the total score ranges from 1-10; higher scores indicate greater self-efficacy in managing chronic disease. Assessed among patients only., Month 6|Patient Satisfaction Assessment Score, 4-item assessment of patient satisfaction with the program. Each item is rated on a scale from 0-100; the total score is the average of responses and ranges from 0-100; higher scores indicate greater patient satisfaction., Month 3|Patient Satisfaction Assessment Score, 4-item assessment of patient satisfaction with the program. Each item is rated on a scale from 0-100; the total score is the average of responses and ranges from 0-100; higher scores indicate greater patient satisfaction., Month 6|Clinician Satisfaction Assessment Score, 1-item assessment of clinician satisfaction with the program. The item is rated on a scale from 0-100; the total score is the item response and ranges from 0-100; higher scores indicate greater clinician satisfaction., Month 3|Clinician Satisfaction Assessment Score, 1-item assessment of clinician satisfaction with the program. The item is rated on a scale from 0-100; the total score is the item response and ranges from 0-100; higher scores indicate greater clinician satisfaction., Month 6
A study uniquely focused on system-based practice change, measuring the impact of educational interventions on both patients and clinicians for the recognition and management of treatment-related adverse effects for HER2+/HER2 low breast cancer patients on or about to start on HER2 targeted antibody drug conjugates (fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki or ado-trastuzumab emtansine) and shared decision-making methodologies to improve adverse event (AE) management and patient-clinician communications.