Treatment of Heavy Menstrual Bleeding in Women With Uterine Fibroids
This is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the comparative effectiveness of Levonorgestrel Intrauterine System (LNG-IUS) to Tranexamic Acid (TA) for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) in women with clinically-significant fibroids.
Heavy Menstrual Bleeding|Menorrhagia|Uterine Fibroids
DRUG: Levonorgestrel IUS|DRUG: Tranexamic Acid
Change in Self-Reported Menorrhagia Scores, The Menorrhagia Multi-Attribute Scale (MMAS) questionnaire captures the subjective consequences of menorrhagia on six domains: practical difficulties; social life; psychological wellbeing; physical health; work routine; and family life. Each of the six domains has four statements that represent four levels of response. Respondents indicate the statement that best matches their feelings for each domain. The statement scores derive from a weighting of the domains and a weighting of the statements in level of severity by women in the original study. Scores range from 0 (worst possible state in all domains) to 100 (best possible state in all domains)., Baseline, 3 months|Number of Participants to Complete Study, Total number of study participants to complete assigned treatment., 9 months
Change in Pain Score, Pain will be measured by a 10 cm visual analog scale (VAS) which uses a 100 point score, with 0 indicating no pain and 100 indicating worst pain ever. Change was determine by subtracting the 3 month score from baseline, a negative score indicates a decrease in pain., Baseline, 3 months|Change in Quality of Life, Measured by the RAND 36-Item Health Survey (Version 1.0). Physical function and mental well-being on scale range from 0-100. A high score defines a more favorable health state., Baseline, 3 months|Change in Quality of Life, as Measured by the Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire (UFS-QOL), The Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) Questionnaire consists of an 8-item symptom severity scale and 29 HRQL items comprising 6 domains: Concern, Activities, Energy/Mood, Control, Self-consciousness, and Sexual Function. All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from "not at all" to "a very great deal" for symptom severity items and "none of the time" to "all of the time" for the HRQL items. Symptom severity and HRQL subscale scores are summed and transformed into a 0-100 point scale. Higher HRQL subscale scores indicate better HRQL., Baseline, 3 months|Change in Symptoms, as Measured by the Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire (UFS-QOL), The Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) Questionnaire consists of an 8-item symptom severity scale and 29 HRQL items comprising 6 domains: Concern, Activities, Energy/Mood, Control, Self-consciousness, and Sexual Function. All items are scored on a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from "not at all" to "a very great deal" for symptom severity items and "none of the time" to "all of the time" for the HRQL items. Symptom severity and HRQL subscale scores are summed and transformed into a 0-100 point scale. Higher Symptom Severity scores indicating greater symptoms., Baseline, 3 months|Change in Fibroid Size, Fibroid size will be reported as millimeters (mm)., 9 months
Uterine fibroids are common and debilitating problem for some women. Nearly 60% of women with fibroids report that symptoms affect their quality of life and impede physical activity, and 24% report that fibroid symptoms prevent them from reaching their true potential at work. Heavy menstrual bleeding, the most common symptom of uterine fibroids, affects approximately 1.4 million women per year.

Medical therapy is the first line treatment for heavy menstrual bleeding, but further studies need to be done to prove the effectiveness of these treatments.

The goal of this study is to determine the effectiveness of non-estrogenic medical therapy in women with a range of fibroid sizes, locations, and number.

Two effective medical treatments for heavy menstrual bleeding have limited data in women with fibroids. The Levonorgestrel intrauterine system was FDA approved for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding in 2009 and is highly effective for decreasing menstrual bleeding, treating anemia and improving quality of life. Moreover, it can be used continuously for 5 years. Tranexamic Acid is widely used outside the U.S. and was also FDA approved for heavy menstrual bleeding in 2009. Tranexamic Acid reduces menstrual blood loss in 40% of women and improves quality of life. In women with fibroids, Tranexamic Acid has been shown to decrease heavy menstrual bleeding and cause necrosis of the fibroids, especially larger fibroids, which should improve its efficacy for women with fibroids.

This randomized controlled trial will assess the comparative effectiveness of Levonorgestrel intrauterine system to Tranexamic Acid for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding in women with uterine fibroids