The Effect of Mobile Lymphedema Self-Care Support Program on Self-Care in Women With Breast Cancer-related Lymphedema
The aim of this randomized controlled study is to evaluate the effect of the mobile lymphedema self-care support program on self-care, quality of life and symptoms related to lymphedema in women with breast cancer-related lymphedema.

H1: There is a difference between the Lymphedema Self-Care Scale mean score in women who develop lymphedema due to breast cancer, according to the use of the mobile lymphedema self-care support program.

H2: There is a difference between the Lymphedema Quality of Life Scale average score in women who develop lymphedema due to breast cancer according to the status of using the mobile lymphedema self-care support program.

H4: There is a difference between lymphedema arm circumference measurements according to the use of the mobile lymphedema self-care support program in women who develop lymphedema due to breast cancer.

H5: In women who develop lymphedema due to breast cancer, there is a difference in the situation of experiencing symptoms related to lymphedema according to the use of the mobile lymphedema self-care support program.
Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema
OTHER: Mobile Lymphedema Self-Care Support Program|OTHER: standart lymphedema education
Change in Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema Self-Care Scale Score, The Breast Related Lymphedema Self-Care Scale is valid and reliable tool. The lowest score is 31, the highest score is 124. Higher scores indicate better self-care., baseline, 1 month, 3 month|Change in Quality of Life Measure for Limb Lymphedema-Arm Scale Score, The Quality of Life Measure for Limb Lymphedema-Arm Scale was translated and cross-culturally adapted to Turkish. The highest score of the scale is 80 and the lowest score is 20. A high score indicates poor quality of life., baseline, 1 month, 3 month|Change in Lymphedema Symptom Intensity and Distress Survey Score, The Turkish version of Lymphedema Symptom Intensity and Distress Survey is valid and reliable. The highest score of the scale is 30 and the lowest score is zero. A high score means experiencing too many symptoms., baseline, 1 month, 3 month
Change in Arm circumferences, Circumferential measurements are taken at the metacarpal joint, wrist, elbow, 10 cm below and 10 cm above the elbow., baseline, 1 month, 3 month
The content of the mobile program was developed by the researchers. The mobile lymphedema self-care support program content was reviewed by an expert group consisting of doctors, physiotherapists and nurses working with patients with lymphedema. Patients will be contacted via telephone and will be informed about the study, and the experimental and control groups will be selected through the randomization program among the patients who agree to participate in the study and meet the sampling inclusion criteria. Patients were blinded, and blindness will be achieved in the data analysing stage. All measurements will be made to the experimental and control groups at the same time. The standard lymphedema self-care training will be given to the experimental and the control group. And the experimental group will be educated on how to use the mobile program. When the study is completed, the control group will also be allowed to use the mobile program.