Bortezomib and Gemcitabine in Treating Older Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Bortezomib may stop the growth of solid tumors by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib together with gemcitabine may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bortezomib and gemcitabine in treating older patients with advanced solid tumors.
Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Kidney Cancer|Lung Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Sarcoma
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride
Maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib and gemcitabine, A minimum of a 3 week period (1 cycle) must be completed by all patients within a dose level before dose escalation to the next level may occur. A cycle is defined as treatment day 1 and 8 with follow-up through day 21., Day 21 (Week 3 - Cycle 1)
Toxicity, Toxicity will be graded using the NCI's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 3.0), 30 Days after Last Treatment|Disease response as measured by RECIST criteria, The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence, taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment began., Week 4|Characterization of gemcitabine and metabolite pharmacokinetics (as part of co-enrollment in Population Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacogenetics of Gemcitabine in Adult Patients with Solid Tumors"), Pharmacokinetics will be done in conjunction with the dosing day 1 of cycle 1 whenever possible., Pre-Dose
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose of weekly bortezomib and gemcitabine in treating elderly patients with advanced solid tumors.

Secondary

* To characterize the quantitative and qualitative toxicities of bortezomib and gemcitabine in these patients.
* To obtain preliminary information about the anti-tumor activity of bortezomib and gemcitabine.
* To characterize gemcitabine and metabolite pharmacokinetics in patients receiving concurrent bortezomib therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose escalation study of bortezomib and gemcitabine.

Patients receive gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes followed 1 hour later by bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine and bortezomib until the maximum tolerated dose of the combination is determined.

Blood is collected periodically for pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenetic studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 1 year.