Problem Solving Skills Training in Adult Cancer Survivors: Bright IDEAS-AC
The aim of this 2-year study will assess the acceptability and feasibility of offering Problem Solving Skills Therapy (PSST) to cancer survivors and their caregivers focusing on the highest risk patients with distress.
Colo-rectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Problem solving Skills Training
Mean Physical Health of Patient at Enrollment, From all patients in the intervention and control arms, we will collect patient on physical health using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - disease specific.

FACT-G is a 27-item questionnaire designed to measure four domains of health-related quality of life in cancer patients based on the past 7 days: physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being (score range is 1-108; higher scores indicate better quality of life). The scale's ability to discriminate patients on the basis of performance status and hospitalization status supports its sensitivity. It has also demonstrated sensitivity to change over time. Differences of 5-7 points are considered clinically significant., At enrollment|Behavioral Health of Patient, From all patients in the intervention and control arms, we will collect patient self-report data on problem solving skills,using the Social Problem-Solving Inventory-Revised (SPSI-R)

SPSI-R is a 25-item self-report tool linked to a multidimensional model of problem-solving skills. SPSI-R:S has been demonstrated to have strong reliability and validity estimates. The scale includes 5 sub-scales grouped into two decision-making styles: constructive (Positive Problem Orientation and Rational Problem Solving) and dysfunctional (Negative Problem Orientation, Impulsivity/ Carelessness, and Avoidance). Each subscale and the total SPSI-R:S scores are expressed on a 0-20 scale; higher scores indicate better skills., At time of enrollment|Mean Change in Physical Health From Baseline to 3-months, From all patients in the intervention and control arms, we will collect patient on physical health using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Disease Specific (FACT)

FACT-G is a 27-item questionnaire designed to measure four domains of health-related quality of life in cancer patients based on the past 7 days: physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being (score range is 1-108; higher scores indicate better quality of life). The scale's ability to discriminate patients on the basis of performance status and hospitalization status supports its sensitivity. It has also demonstrated sensitivity to change over time. Differences of 5-7 points are considered clinically significant.

The mean change was calculated as the difference between the 3-month measurement and the baseline measurement., At 3 months|Mean Change Physical Health of Patient at 12 Months, From all patients in the intervention and control arms, we will collect patient on physical health using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)

FACT-G is a 27-item questionnaire designed to measure four domains of health-related quality of life in cancer patients based on the past 7 days: physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being (score range is 1-108; higher scores indicate better quality of life). The scale's ability to discriminate patients on the basis of performance status and hospitalization status supports its sensitivity. It has also demonstrated sensitivity to change over time. Differences of 5-7 points are considered clinically significant., At 12 months|Mean Change in Behavioral Health of Patient at 3 Months, From all patients in the intervention and control arms, we will collect patient self-report data on problem solving skills,using the Social Problem-Solving Inventory-Revised (SPSI-R)

SPSI-R is a 25-item self-report tool linked to a multidimensional model of problem-solving skills. SPSI-R:S has been demonstrated to have strong reliability and validity estimates. The scale includes 5 sub-scales grouped into two decision-making styles: constructive (Positive Problem Orientation and Rational Problem Solving) and dysfunctional (Negative Problem Orientation, Impulsivity/ Carelessness, and Avoidance). Each subscale and the total SPSI-R:S scores are expressed on a 0-20 scale; higher scores indicate better skills., At 3 months|Mean Change in Behavioral Health of Patient at 12 Months, From all patients in the intervention and control arms, we will collect patient self-report data on problem solving skills,using the Social Problem-Solving Inventory-Revised (SPSI-R)

SPSI-R is a 25-item self-report tool linked to a multidimensional model of problem-solving skills. SPSI-R:S has been demonstrated to have strong reliability and validity estimates. The scale includes 5 sub-scales grouped into two decision-making styles: constructive (Positive Problem Orientation and Rational Problem Solving) and dysfunctional (Negative Problem Orientation, Impulsivity/ Carelessness, and Avoidance). Each subscale and the total SPSI-R:S scores are expressed on a 0-20 scale; higher scores indicate better skills., At 12 months|Healthcare Utilization of Patients, From all patients in the intervention and control arms, we will collect patient self-report data by asking the patients about their healthcare utilization since the last study assessment including primary care, specialist and ED visits, use of supportive services and any hospital stays., At 12 months
At Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center, in collaboration with the University at Buffalo School of Public Health and Health Professions and the University of Rochester, we are looking for adult cancer patients to participate in our new project designed to facilitate recovery from cancer and help cancer survivors lead better, more productive lives. The ideal subjects are individuals who have completed treatment for stage I-III cancer and speak English. Participants will be randomized into two groups: 8 weekly 1-hour long sessions of problem solving skills therapy delivered by a trained therapist vs. care as usual. Bright IDEAS Adult Cancer (Bright IDEAS-AC) therapy will be delivered in the most patient-friendly way. Sessions will be face-to-face at the location of patient choice (hospital, clinic, or participant's home) or over the phone. A supportive other or caregiver is also invited to participate in this study. This project does not involve any experimental drugs and does not affect the regular care or patient relationship with doctor(s).

At the time of enrollment, after 3 months and after 6 months, all participants in the intervention and control arms, as well as any participating supportive others/caregivers will be asked about their healthcare utilization since the last assessment including primary care, specialist and emergency department visits and any hospital stays. During the same three time points, both patients and supportive others/caregivers will be asked to fill in 4 short questionnaires assessing their problem solving skills, health status, mood and function