Neo-adjuvant Treatment With Temozolomide and Bevacizumab Previous to Temozolomide Plus Radiation Plus Bevacizumab Therapy in Unresectable Glioblastoma
In the last 20 years, only temozolomide has obtained indication for the treatment of High-grade glioma (HGG). Temozolomide during and later radiation therapy has doubled one year survival and is the standard treatment for glioblastoma. But 30% of glioblastomas receive only a biopsy as they can't be resected and don't get benefit from this treatment. They and should be treated immediately after the biopsy to prevent neurological deterioration but in spite of this approach they often deteriorate neurologically during radiotherapy. . An effective pre-radiation treatment should improve their prognosis and allow them to complete concomitant radiotherapy and temozolomide treatment. Bevacizumab in recurrent HGG displays 63% of objective responses when combined with irinotecan. But irinotecan is not the most active treatment in this disease.

We propose a phase II, two arms, open label, randomized, multicentric study with 2 cycles of temozolomide before radiation therapy and concomitant temozolomide, in patients with glioblastoma and 'biopsy-only'. Bevacizumab will be added to one arm.
Glioblastomas
DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Bevacizumab|RADIATION: Standard radiation therapy
Response Rate, To determine differences in clinical activity in terms of objective response after 2 cycles of 4 weeks in both treatment arms in inoperable patients with glioblastoma (RANO criteria), Until the first 9 weeks of treatment
Percentage of patients who finish treatment, 41 weeks|Progression-free survival, the participants will be followed until disease progression by RANO criteria|Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Assess the toxicity of the combination of the treatment.

Temozolamide+bevacizumab+radiation Temozolamide+radiation

After the inclusion of the first 10 patients treated with bevacizumab arm (arm 2)the inclusion will be temporarily interrupted until the last of these patients completed concomitant treatment (radiation, temozolomide, bevacizumab) to check the safety of treatment with analysis of adverse effects and toxicity.

following the NCIC 3.0 criteria., 21 weeks|Percentage of patients without neurological deterioration before radiation therapy., 8 weeks|Overall survival, Until death
In the last 20 years, only temozolomide has obtained indication for the treatment of High-grade glioma (HGG). Temozolomide during and later radiation therapy has doubled one year survival and is the standard treatment for glioblastoma. But 30% of glioblastomas receive only a biopsy as they can't be resected and don't get benefit from this treatment. They and should be treated immediately after the biopsy to prevent neurological deterioration but in spite of this approach they often deteriorate neurologically during radiotherapy. . An effective pre-radiation treatment should improve their prognosis and allow them to complete concomitant radiotherapy and temozolomide treatment. Bevacizumab in recurrent HGG displays 63% of objective responses when combined with irinotecan. But irinotecan is not the most active treatment in this disease.

We propose a phase II, two arms, open label, randomized, multicentric study with 2 cycles of temozolomide before radiation therapy and concomitant temozolomide, in patients with glioblastoma and 'biopsy-only'. Bevacizumab will be added to one arm.