Pre-operative Targeted Treatments in Molecularly Selected Resectable Colorectal Cancer (UNICORN)
This is a window-of-opportunity umbrella platform trial enrolling non-metastatic resectable colorectal patients selected for the presence of a specific targetable molecular alteration. The study aims to test the activity of specific targeted agents/combinations given as a short-course pre-operative strategy, matched with the specific alteration detected, followed by standard of care surgery.
Colorectal Cancer|Resectable Colorectal Carcinoma
DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Panitumumab|DRUG: Botensilimab|DRUG: Balstilimab|DRUG: Sotorasib
major pathological response rate, percentage of patients, relative to the total of enrolled subjects in the intention-to-treat population for each cohort, who will achieve a pathological complete response (pCR), defined as 0 or less residual viable tumor in both the primary tumor bed and lymphnodes, or major response (pMR), defined as 10% or less residual viable tumor, as per central pathological review in each Cohort., 5 weeks
Treatment safety, incidence of AE (including SAEs) in each cohort during the short-course pre-operative treatment, assessed according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 5.0 (NCI-CTCAE v5.0)., 5 weeks|Overall Toxicity Rate, percentage of patients, relative to the total of enrolled subjects of each cohort, experiencing any grade AE, according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, during the short-course pre-operative treatment, 5 weeks|G3/4 Toxicity Rate, percentage of patients, relative to the total of enrolled subjects in each cohort, experiencing any specific adverse event of grade 3/4, according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, during the short-course pre-operative treatment., 5 weeks|Surgical mortality, the incidence of death occurring within 30 days after surgery in each cohort, 10 weeks|Surgical morbidity, the incidence of a new onset temporary or permanent disability observed within 30 days after surgery in each cohort, 10 weeks|Surgical complications, Surgical complications graded according to the Clavien-Dindo Classification of Surgical Complications and evaluated up to 90 days after surgery, 18 weeks|Quality of life - PRO EORTC-QLQ-C30, Quality of life will be assessed through Patient reported outcomes (PRO) instrument. EORTC QLQ-C30 For questions 1-28 of EORTC QLQ-C30 a 4-point scale is used. It scores from 1 to 4: 1 ("Not at all"), 2 ("A little"), 3 ("Quite a bit")and 4 ("Very much"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 3. For the raw score, less points are considered to have a better outcome. For the questions 29 and 30 of EORTC QLQ-C30 a 7-points scale is used. It scores from 1 to 7: 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 6. First of all, raw score has to be calculated with mean values. Afterwards linear transformation is performed to be comparable. More points are considered to have a better outcome., 5 weeks|Quality of life - PRO EORTC-QLQ-CR29, Quality of life will be assessed through Patient reported outcomes (PRO) instrument. EORTC QLQ-CR29.

For questions 31-59 of EORTC QLQ-CR29 a 4-point scale is used. It scores from 1 to 4: 1 ("Not at all"), 2 ("A little"),3 ("Quite a bit") and 4 ("Very much"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 3. For the raw score, less points are considered to have a better outcome., 5 weeks|Quality of life - PRO EuroQol EQ-5D-5L, Quality of life will be assessed through Patient reported outcomes (PRO) instrument. EuroQol EQ-5D-5L. The EQ-5D-5L uses for first 5 questions qualitative multiple choice answers with NO SCALE. For the last questions, a score from 0 to 100 indicates from the worst to the best outcome., 5 weeks|changes in systemic immunity, defined by the longitudinal analysis of the peripheral blood subpopulations including myeloid cells (including myeloid-derived suppressor cells), CD8+ and CD4+ T lymphocytes (including T regulatory and Th17 cells), their proliferation and activation/exhaustion state collected at different time points performed by multiparametric cytometry, 5 weeks|correlation of pCR/pMR with ctDNA mutational profiles, The correlation of pCR/pMR with ctDNA mutational profiles and its clearance after the specific short-course preoperative targeted treatment will be assessed by using ultra-deep whole-exome sequencing with Unique Molecular Identifiers to evaluate with high accuracy the presence of ctDNA in longitudinally collected liquid biopsies., 5 weeks|radiogenomic or radiomic signatures, To investigate the prognostic and/or predictive impact of radiogenomic or radiomic signatures in specific molecular subgroups, the baseline imaging will be analyzed to predict specific molecular profiles in all pre-screened patients, while the matched pre- and post-treatment imaging will be analyzed to predict tumor heterogeneity and pathological response in each cohort., 5 weeks|microbiota, The prognostic and/or predictive value of microbiota in specific molecular subgroups will be defined by investigating the composition of the gut microbiome in stool samples collected at pre-screening and at the end of short-course pre-operative treatment, its impact on outcomes of populations of molecular interest and its influence on the local and systemic immune responses to specific short-course preoperative treatments in each cohort., 5 weeks
Disease-free survival, time from enrollment to the first documentation of disease recurrence or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. DFS will be censored on the date of the last follow-up visit documenting absence of disease for patients who are alive, on study and disease free at the time of the analysis., 36 months|Overall survival, Overall survival will be defined as the time from enrollment to the date of death due to any cause. For patients still alive at the time of analysis, the OS time will be censored on the last date the patients were known to be alive., 36 months
Patients with histologically confirmed non metastatic, radiologically staged as cT3-4 colorectal cancer eligible for radical surgery will be centrally molecularly prescreened by means of next-generation sequencing, HER2 IHC +/- HER2 silver-in situ hybridization and MMR proteins IHC with the aim to identify the presence of selected targetable molecular profiles/alterations. Whenever a pre-specified molecular profile/alteration is identified, the patient will be eligible for the matching Cohort and, after enrollment, will receive a specific short-course preoperative targeted treatment.

A total of 14 patients will be enrolled in each pre-specified molecularly-identified Cohort, according to the review of a Molecular Tumor Board established by the Sponsor, that will specifically evaluate the occurring and co-occurring molecular alterations.

Cohort 1 - patients with pMMR/MSS status and HER2 overexpression/amplification will receive the HER2 directed ADC trastuzumab deruxtecan 5.4 mg/kg IV on day 1.

Cohort 2 - patients with POLE/D1 mutation with ultra-mutated status (\>100Mut/Megabase) will receive the anti-PDL-1 monoclonal antibody durvalumab 1500 mg IV on day 1.

Cohort 3 - COMPLETED - patients with EGFR-dependent tumor (pMMR/MSS status, RAS and BRAF wild type status, PRESSING negative status and left-sided primary cancer) will receive the anti-EGFR agent panitumumab 6 mg/kg IV on days 1 and 15.

Cohort 4 - COMPLETED - patients with pMMR/MSS status and absence of HER2 overexpression/amplification, absence of POLE/D1 proof-read domain pathogenic mutation associated with ultra-mutated status will receive the anti-CTLA4 antibody botensilimab 1 mg/kg on day 1.

Cohort 5 (opened sequentially, after completion of Cohort 4) -COMPLETED - patients with pMMR/MSS status and absence of HER2 overexpression/amplification, absence of POLE/D1 proof-read domain pathogenic mutation associated with ultra-mutated status will receive the anti-CTLA4 antibody botensilimab 1 mg/kg on day 1 plus the anti-PD-1 balstilimab 3 mg/Kg on days 1 and 15.

Cohort 6 - COMPLETED - patients with dMMR/MSI-H status and absence of POLE/D1 proof-read domain pathogenic mutation associated with ultra-mutated status will receive the anti-CTLA4 antibody botensilimab 1 mg/kg on day 1.

Cohort 7 (opened sequentially, after completion of Cohort 6) - COMPLETED - patients with dMMR/MSI-H status and absence of POLE/D1 proof-read domain pathogenic mutation associated with ultra-mutated status will receive the anti-CTLA4 antibody botensilimab 1 mg/kg on day 1 plus the anti-PD-1 balstilimab 3 mg/Kg on days 1 and 15.

Cohort 8 - patients with pMMR/MSS status and KRAS G12C mutation will receive the KRAS G12C inhibitor sotorasib 960 mg orally once daily from day 1 to 28 plus the anti-EGFR inhibitor panitumumab 6 mg/kg IV on days 1 and 15.

Cohort 9 - patients selected for the presence of pMMR/MSS status and absence of HER-2 overexpression/amplification, absence of POLE/D1 proof-read domain pathogenic mutation associated with ultra-mutated status, absence of KRAS G12C mutated status, will receive a short-course preoperative treatment with the anti-EP4 oral agent vorbipiprant 90 mg bid from day 1 to day 28.

Cohort 10 - Patients selected for the presence of pMMR/MSS status and absence of HER-2 overexpression/amplification, absence of POLE/D1 proof-read domain pathogenic mutation associated with ultra-mutated status, absence of KRAS G12C mutated status, will receive a short-course preoperative treatment with the anti-EP4 oral agent vorbipiprant 90 mg bid from day 1 to day 28 plus the anti PD-1 antibody nivolumab 240 mg on days 1 and 15.

After receiving the pre-specified study treatment, patients will be submitted to radical surgery at day 35 +/- 5 days. After surgery, patients will receive standard adjuvant chemotherapy as per national and international guidelines and according to the suggestion of a central multidisciplinary team. Then, standard follow up will be started as per local guidelines. Baseline assessments include radiological imaging (chest-abdomen-pelvis CT scan with contrast or abdomen MRI with contrast plus thorax CT without contrast if indicated, pelvis MRI mandatory for rectal cancer, and 18-FDG-PET scan if clinically indicated). Tumor re-assessments will be performed immediately prior to surgery at week 4-5. Safety assessments include monitoring of adverse events, clinical laboratory tests (chemistry, hematology, coagulation and urinalysis), vital signs, physical examinations and ECG as applicable.

Health-care related quality of life analysis will be done thanks to the administration of patient-reported outcomes questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-CR29, Euro QoL EQ-5D-5L) at baseline, during pre-operative treatment and at restaging.