Targeted Treatment for RET Fusion-Positive Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (A LUNG-MAP Treatment Trial)
This phase II LUNG-MAP treatment trial studies how well selpercatinib works in treating patients with RET fusion-positive non-small cell lung cancer that is stage IV or has come back (recurrent). Selpercatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Selpercatinib
Response rate by blinded independent centralized review (BICR), A response will be confirmed by a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Proportions and associated confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 3 years from date of sub-study registration
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event version 5.0., Up to 3 years from date of sub-study registration|BICR-progression-free survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. The Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to estimate confidence intervals for the median using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function for landmark times, From date of sub-study registration to date of first documentation of progression assessed by BICR or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years from date of sub-study registration|Investigator-assessed (IA) PFS, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. The Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to estimate confidence intervals for the median using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function for landmark times, From date of sub-study registration to date of first documentation of progression assessed by local review or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years from date of sub-study registration|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. The Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to estimate confidence intervals for the median using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function for landmark times, Up to 3 years from date of sub-study registration|BICR-duration of response (DOR), Will be evaluated among patients who achieve a confirmed response. Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. The Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to estimate confidence intervals for the median using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function for landmark times. The median DOR and percentage with DOR at landmark times at 6 and 12 months after documentation of confirmed response will be estimated., From date of first documentation of confirmed response (CR or PR) to date of first documentation of progression assessed by BICR or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause among patients who achieve, assessed at 6 and 12 months|Central nervous system (CNS) response rate, Will be assessed among patients with brain metastases. Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. The Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to estimate confidence intervals for the median using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function for landmark times, Baseline|Duration of intracranial response among patients with a CNS response, Will be assessed among patients with brain metastases. Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. The Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to estimate confidence intervals for the median using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function for landmark times, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) (confirmed complete or partial response) by blinded independent centralized review (BICR) associated with selpercatinib (LOXO-292) in patients with previously-treated stage IV or recurrent RET fusion-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the duration of BICR-assessed response among BICR responders. II. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities. III. To evaluate the investigator-assessed objective response rate (confirmed complete or partial response).

IV. To evaluate duration of investigator-assessed response among patients with a response as determined by the local investigator.

V. To evaluate investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS). VI. To evaluate BICR-assessed PFS. VII. To evaluate overall survival (OS).

VIII. Among patients with brain metastases at baseline:

VIIIa. To evaluate the central nervous system (CNS) response rate (confirmed complete response \[CR\]).

VIIIb. To evaluate the duration of intracranial response among patients with a CNS response.

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect, process, and bank cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) at baseline, progression, and end of treatment for future development of a proposal to evaluate comprehensive next-generation sequencing of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA).

II. To establish a tissue/blood repository from patients with refractory non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive selpercatinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and then at the end of 3 years from date of sub-study registration.