Safety and Efficacy of APX005M With Gemcitabine and Nab-Paclitaxel With or Without Nivolumab in Patients With Previously Untreated Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
The main purposes of this study are to learn how effective the study drug combinations are in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The drug combinations are APX005M+Nivolumab+Gemcitabine+nab-Paclitaxel, or APX005M+Gemcitabine+nab-Paclitaxel.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: APX005M|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Nab-Paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Phase 1b Primary Safety Outcome, Number and percentage of subjects with adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), Initiation of study drug (or informed consent for SAEs) through 100 days after the last dose of study drug or initiation of a new systemic anti-cancer therapy with a maximum exposure of 34.3 months.|1-year Overall Survival Rate, The primary endpoint was the 1-year OS rate of each treatment arm, compared to the historical rate of 35% for gemcitabine and nab-Paclitaxel. OS was defined as the time from treatment initiation until death from any cause. Patients who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the most recent contact date. OS and the 1-year OS rate were estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method for each treatment arm. The 1-year OS rate and corresponding one-sided, 95% CI were calculated to determine whether the lower bound of the CI excluded the assumed historical value of 35%. P values were calculated using a one-sided, one-sample z-test of the Kaplan-Meier estimate of the 1-year OS rate (and its standard error) against the historical rate of 35%. This study was not powered for statistical comparison between arms., 1 year from initiation of study therapy
Objective Response Rate (ORR): DLT-Evaluable Population, Phase 1b DLT-Evaluable Population. Overall Response Rate is defined as the proportion of participants who had a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as defined by RECIST v1.1. Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy with a maximum exposure of 34.3 months.|Duration of Response (DOR): DLT-Evaluable Population, DOR was the time from the first tumor assessment demonstrating response until the date of radiographic disease progression. DOR and the CIs were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy with a maximum exposure of 34.3 months.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Phase 2 Secondary Efficacy Outcome. Disease Control Rate is defined as the proportion of participants who had a best overall response of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) as defined by RECIST v1.1., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy with a maximum exposure of 24.2 months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from treatment initiation until radiographic disease progression or death (whichever occurred first). PFS and the CIs were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or death with a maximum exposure of 24.2 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR): Efficacy Population, Phase 2 Secondary Efficacy Outcome. Overall Response Rate is defined as the proportion of participants who had a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as defined by RECIST v1.1. Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy with a maximum exposure of 24.2 months.|Duration of Response (DOR): Efficacy Population, DOR was the time from the first tumor assessment demonstrating response until the date of radiographic disease progression. DOR and the CIs were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy with a maximum exposure of 24.2 months.
The main purposes of this study are to learn how effective the study drug combinations are in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The drug combinations are APX005M+Nivolumab+Gemcitabine+nab-Paclitaxel, or APX005M+Gemcitabine+nab-Paclitaxel.