Phase I Study of Tolododekin Alfa (ANK-101) in Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a Phase 1, multicenter, open-label dose escalation study to determine the safety and tolerability of intratumoral (IT) injection of tolododekin alfa (ANK-101) in participants with advanced solid tumors who have progressed during or after receiving standard of care (SOC) therapy or who will not benefit from such therapy. The study will be conducted in three parts; in Part 1, participants with superficial lesions will receive ANK-101 as a single agent; in Part 2, participants with visceral lesions will receive ANK-101 as a single agent; and in Part 3, participants with cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) will receive ANK-101 in combination with cemiplimab.
Advanced Solid Tumor|Cutaneous Tumor|Subcutaneous Tumor|Malignant Solid Tumor|Solid Tumor|Metastatic Solid Tumor|Metastasis to Soft Tissue|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: tolododekin alfa|DRUG: Cemiplimab
Incidence and characteristics of DLTs and TEAEs, Number and percentage of participants reporting each DLT or TEAE., From Day 1 to 90 days after last injection of ANK-101|RDE of ANK-101, Defined based on the rate of DLTs and TEAEs, Approximately 12 months|Incidence and characteristics of TEAEs of ANK-101 in combination with Cemiplimab according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, Number and percentage of participants reporting each TEAE., From Day 1 to 90 days after last injection of ANK-101 in combination with Cemiplimab.
PK: Cmax of IL-12-ABP, PK of IL-12-ABP as assessed by maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), Up to 2 years|PK: AUC of IL-12-ABP, PK of IL-12-ABP as assessed by area under the time-concentration curve (AUC), Up to 2 years|PK: t ½ of IL-12-ABP, PK of IL-12-ABP as assessed by terminal half-life (t ½), Up to 2 years|PK: CL/F of IL-12-ABP, PK of IL-12-ABP as assessed by apparent clearance (CL/F), Up to 2 years|PK: Vss/F of IL-12-ABP, PK of IL-12-ABP as assessed by apparent volume of distribution at steady state (Vss/F), Up to 2 years|Levels of ADA in serum, Number and percentage of participants with serum levels of anti drug antibodies (ADA) after treatment, Up to 2 years|ORR by RECIST v1.1, Number of participants with a best overall RECIST response (BOR) of CR or PR based on RECIST v1.1, Up to 2 years|DCR by RECIST v1.1, Number of participants with SD, CR and PR., Up to 2 years|DOR by RECIST v1.1, Time from when the criteria for RECIST v1.1 CR or PR (whichever is recorded first) was first met until the date when PD is documented, Up to 2 years|PFS by RECIST v1.1, Time from C1D1 to PD or death from any cause, UP to 2 years
This Phase 1 first-in-human (FIH) study will: 1) evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects and preliminary clinical activity of tolododekin alfa (ANK-101) administered as an intratumoral (IT) injection in participants with superficial or visceral lesions; 2) determine the recommended dose for expansion (RDE) of ANK-101; and 3) to determine the safety and tolerability of ANK-101 in combination with cemiplimab.

For parts 1 and 2, the study design consists of six sequential dose-escalation cohorts and an expansion cohort at the RDE. Part 1 will enroll participants with advanced solid tumors, with cutaneous, subcutaneous or nodal disease (accessible by clinical palpation or ultrasound guidance). Part 2 will start once the DLT period of dose level 1 in Part 1 is completed and dose level 2 is opened. Part 2 will enroll participants with visceral disease (accessible by interventional radiology or endoscopic techniques). Participants in Part 2 may also have superficial lesions that can be injected if in the Investigator's opinion this is clinically indicated.

Ten participants will be dosed in a Part 1 dose expansion cohort at the RDE, and in Part 2, the dose expansion cohort at the RDE will include 10 participants with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Part 3 will start once dose escalation for Part 1 is complete and the RDE is identified. Part 3 will consist of ANK-101 in combination with cemiplimab in 15 participants with high-risk locally advanced or metastatic CSCC that have superficial lesions for injection. Participants will be treated with ANK-101 given as IT injections once every three weeks at the RDE in combination with cemiplimab.

Enrollment in Part 3 will include a safety run-in of 5 participants. Following the first dose of the 5th participant, enrollment will pause for 21 days before opening enrollment to the remaining 10 participants or stopping further enrollment.