De-intensification of Radiation and Chemotherapy for Low-Risk HPV-related Oropharyngeal SCC: Follow-up Study
The purpose of this research study is to learn about the effectiveness of using lower-intensity radiation and chemotherapy to treat human papillomavirus (HPV) associated low-risk oropharyngeal and/or unknown primary squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. The cure rate for this type of cancer is estimated to be high, \> 90%. The standard treatment for this cancer is 7 weeks of radiation with 3 high doses of cisplatin. Sometimes surgery is performed afterwards. This standard regimen causes a lot of side effects and long term complications. This study is evaluating whether a lower dose of radiation and chemotherapy may provide a similar cure rate as the longer, more intensive standard regimen. Patients in this study will receive 1 less week of radiation and a lower weekly dose of chemotherapy.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell|Head and Neck Neoplasms|Oropharyngeal Neoplasms
RADIATION: Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT)|DRUG: Cisplatin (or alternative)|PROCEDURE: Assessment for surgical evaluation
2 Year Progression Free Survival After De-intensified Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Positive and/or p16 Positive Low-risk Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC), Progression Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the beginning of treatment to cancer progression or death. The outcome measure will be reported as the proportion of patients with PFS at 2 years post-treatment., Two years after completion of CRT on last enrolled patient (Note: CRT duration is 6 weeks)
2 Year Local Control (LC) Rate After De-intensified Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Positive and/or p16 Positive Low-risk Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC), The outcome measure will be reported as the proportion of patients with LC at 2 years post-treatment., Two years after completion of CRT on last enrolled patient (Note: CRT duration is 6 weeks).|2 Year Regional Control (RC) Rate After De-intensified Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Positive and/or p16 Positive Low-risk Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC), The outcome measure will be reported as the proportion of patients with RC at 2 years post-treatment., Two years after completion of CRT on last enrolled patient (Note: CRT duration is 6 weeks).|2 Year Local-regional Control (LRC) Rate After De-intensified Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Positive and/or p16 Positive Low-risk Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC), The outcome measure will be reported as the proportion of patients with LRC at 2 years post-treatment., Two years after completion of CRT on last enrolled patient (Note: CRT duration is 6 weeks).|2 Year Distant Metastasis Free Survival (DMFS) Rate After De-intensified Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Positive and/or p16 Positive Low-risk Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC), The outcome measure will be reported as the proportion of patients with DMFS at 2 years post-treatment., Two years after completion of CRT on last enrolled patient (Note: CRT duration is 6 weeks).|2 Year Overall Survival (OS) Rate After De-intensified Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Positive and/or p16 Positive Low-risk Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC), The outcome measure will be reported as the proportion of patients who are still alive (overall survival) at 2 years post-treatment., Two years after completion of CRT on last enrolled patient (Note: CRT duration is 6 weeks).
The proposed study is a follow-up study to NCT01530997. In NCT01530997, patients with HPV positive and/or p16 positive low-risk oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) received de-intensified chemoradiotherapy (CRT) followed by a limited surgical evaluation. The primary endpoint of NCT01530997 was the rate of pathological complete response (pCR) after CRT. Power computations were performed for N=40 and were based on the null hypothesis (H0) that the pCR for de-intensified chemoradiotherapy is at least 87%, the historical rate. The type 1 error for this calculation was 14.2%. 43 patients enrolled and 38 were evaluable for the primary endpoint. The observed pCR rate was 89% (34/38). Since the observed pCR rate was excellent in NCT01530997 and was in concordance with the expected rate, in the proposed study we will not mandate a post-CRT surgical evaluation. Instead a PET/CT 10 to 16 weeks post-CRT will be used to determine whether a surgical evaluation is needed.