A Study of Diffusing Alpha Radiation Therapy for Target Treatments of Malignant Tumors
This study is a Compassionate clinical study for the treatment of Malignant Tumors. The primary endpoint of the study is to assess the frequency, severity and causality of acute adverse events related to the DaRT treatment. Adverse events will be assessed and graded according to Common Terminology and Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The secondary endpoint is to assess the tumor response to DaRT treatment assessed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Version 1.1) 3 months after DaRT seed insertion.
Malignant Tumor
DEVICE: Experimental: DaRT seeds
To assess the frequency, severity and causality of acute adverse events., The primary endpoint of the study is to assess the frequency, severity and causality of acute adverse events related to the DaRT treatment. Adverse events will be assessed and graded according to Common Terminology and Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., From Day 0 (DaRT insertion )
To assess the tumor response to DaRT treatment, The secondary endpoint is to assess the tumor response to DaRT treatment assessed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Version 1.1), 3 months after DaRT seed insertion
This is an Open label, one arm, prospective study for Compassionate use for the treatment of malignant tumors. The study objectives are to collect data on the safety and efficacy of DaRT among patients who do not fit the entry of existing investigational trials.

The primary endpoint of the study is to assess the frequency, severity and causality of acute adverse events related to the DaRT treatment. Adverse events will be assessed and graded according to Common Terminology and Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The secondary endpoint is to assess the tumor response to DaRT treatment assessed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Version 1.1) 3 months after DaRT seed insertion.