Erlotinib Hydrochloride With or Without Celecoxib in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB-IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Erlotinib hydrochloride and celecoxib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Celecoxib may also stop the growth of lung cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving erlotinib hydrochloride together with celecoxib may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving erlotinib hydrochloride together with celecoxib works compared with erlotinib hydrochloride alone in treating patients with stage IIIB-IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|DRUG: celecoxib|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|GENETIC: fluorescence in situ hybridization|GENETIC: mutation analysis|GENETIC: protein expression analysis|GENETIC: gene expression analysis
Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier.Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Until disease progression, up to 5 years.
Number of Participants With Overall Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 16 weeks post start of treatment|Progression-free Survival - Elevated PGEM, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier.Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Until disease progression, up to 5 years.|Progression-free Survival - EGRF, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier.Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Until disease progression, up to 5 years.|Progression-free Survival - Low PGEM, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier.Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Until disease progression, up to 5 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Comparison of progression-free survival (PFS) in patients receiving erlotinib + celecoxib vs. erlotinib + placebo for advanced NSCLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Objective tumor response rate as defined by RECIST Criteria for subjects receiving erlotinib/celecoxib treatment arms.

II. Categorize the change in e-cadherin expression from baseline to week 8 in a subset of subjects.

III. Evaluation of overall survival (OS). IV. Measurement of COX-2, EGFR by immunohistochemistry and EGFR amplification by FISH, and EGFR mutation status to correlate with clinical response.

V. Measurement of change in urinary PGE-M and correlation with response.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily and oral placebo twice daily on days 1-28.

ARM II: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily and oral celecoxib twice daily on days 1-28.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.