Clofarabine or Daunorubicin Hydrochloride and Cytarabine Followed By Decitabine or Observation in Treating Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This randomized phase III trial studies clofarabine to see how well it works compared with daunorubicin hydrochloride and cytarabine when followed by decitabine or observation in treating older patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as clofarabine, daunorubicin hydrochloride, cytarabine, and decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells. It is not yet known which chemotherapy regimen is more effective in treating acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Multilineage Dysplasia Following Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Daunorubicin|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Clofarabine|DRUG: Decitabine|OTHER: Observation|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death or date last known alive., Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year
Proportion of Patients With Complete Remission, Patients are required to have all of the following to be considered as having a completion remission (CR).

* Peripheral Blood Counts

  1. Neutrophil count \> 1.0 x 10\^9 /L
  2. Platelet count ≥ 100 x 10\^9 /L
  3. Reduced hemoglobin concentration or hematocrit has no bearing on remission status
  4. Leukemic blasts must not be present in the peripheral blood
* Bone Marrow Aspirate and Biopsy

  1. Cellularity of bone marrow biopsy must be \> 20% with maturation of all cell lines
  2. \< 5% blasts by morphologic review
  3. Auer rods must not be detectable
* Extramedullary leukemia, such as CNS or soft tissue involvement, must not be present, Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year|Overall Survival by Donor Status, Overall survival is defined as time between achieving leukemia-free state after induction therapy to death from any cause or date last known alive. The association between overall survival and donor status was evaluated regardless of assigned treatment arms. Patients with transplant donor information (either had donor or did not have a donor) reported after achieving CR/Cri/leukemia-free state post induction therapy were included in this analysis., Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year|Disease-free Survival for Maintenance, DFS for maintenance comparison is defined as the time from maintenance randomization until relapse or death of any cause. The censored follow-up time for patients without relapse and death information is the date of last contact. Only patients who remained in CR or CRi after completion of consolidation therapy that were randomized to either observation or decitabine in the maintenance Step were included in this analysis., Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year
Expression and Methylation Profiling, DNA methylation profiling and gene expression are evaluated using peripheral blood samples collected at baseline of the maintenance treatment (prior to 2nd randomization). These are to be compared between patients with decitabine and patients on observation., Baseline of maintenance treatment|Relapse After Decitabine Maintenance by Epigenetic Signature of Normal Bone Marrow, To examine the epigenetic profiles of remission marrow among patients randomized to observation vs. decitabine to determine whether epigenetic signature of apparently morphologically normal bone marrow is predictive of relapse or response to decitabine maintenance.

Relapse following complete remission is defined as:

1. Peripheral Blood Counts

   * Reappearance of blasts in the blood
2. Bone Marrow Aspirate and Biopsy

   * Presence of \> 5% blasts, not attributable to another cause (e.g., bone marrow regeneration).
   * If there are no circulating blasts and the bone marrow contains 5% to 20% blasts, then a repeat bone marrow performed ≥ 1 week later documenting more than 5% blasts is necessary to meet the criteria for relapse., Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year|Complete Remission Rate by ABC-transporter P-glycoprotein (Pgp), Patients with all the following are considered as having a complete remission.

* Peripheral Blood Counts

  1. Neutrophil count \> 1.0 x 109 /L
  2. Platelet count ≥ 100 x 109 /L
  3. Reduced hemoglobin concentration or hematocrit has no bearing on remission status
  4. Leukemic blasts must not be present in the peripheral blood
* Bone Marrow Aspirate and Biopsy

  1. Cellularity of bone marrow biopsy must be \> 20% with maturation of all cell lines
  2. \< 5% blasts by morphologic review
  3. Auer rods must not be detectable
* Extramedullary leukemia, such as CNS or soft tissue involvement, must not be present

The proportion of patients with complete remission will be compared between patients who overexpress Pgp and patients who do not overexpress Pgp., Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year|To Assess the Intensity of Expression of CXCR4 on Diagnostic Leukemia Cells and to Correlate This Parameter With Other Established Prognostic Factors, Expression of CXCR4 will be assessed in this study by flow cytometric assay. The associations between the expression level and other prognostic factors in patients receiving induction treatment will be evaluated., Baseline|The Association Between Somatic Mutations and Relapse, Relapse following complete remission is defined as:

1. Peripheral Blood Counts

   * Reappearance of blasts in the blood
2. Bone Marrow Aspirate and Biopsy

   * Presence of \> 5% blasts, not attributable to another cause (e.g., bone marrow regeneration).
   * If there are no circulating blasts and the bone marrow contains 5% to 20% blasts, then a repeat bone marrow performed ≥ 1 week later documenting more than 5% blasts is necessary to meet the criteria for relapse., Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year|Overall Survival by Patient Characteristics and Lifestyle, Overall survival is defined as time from randomization to death or date last known alive. The associations between overall survival and smoking status, obesity, regular acetaminophen use, regular aspirin use, benzene exposure, living in a rural/farm environment and some other underlying exposures and lifestyle factors will be evaluated., Assessed every 3 months for 4 years and then every 6 months for 1 year|Copy Number Changes Using Array Comparative Genomic Hybridization (CGH) by Patient Characteristics, Copy number changes will be tested based on array CGH technology. The associations between copy number changes and acute myeloid leukemia patient characteristics will be evaluated., Baseline|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Leukemia (FACT-Leu), QOL will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Leukemia (FACT-Leu). This instrument combines the General version of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) with a leukemia-specific subscale. The total score of FACT-Leu ranges between 0 and 176. Higher score indicates better QOL., Assessed at baseline, 14 days after 1st induction treatment, prior to consolidation therapy (day 35-36), prior to maintenance treatment, end of maintenance treatment|Change in Health-related QOL Over Time, QOL will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Leukemia (FACT-Leu). This instrument combines the General version of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) with a leukemia-specific subscale. The total score of FACT-Leu ranges between 0 and 176. Higher score indicates better QOL.

Changes in QOL will be calculated by subtracting baseline QOL score from follow-up QOL score., Assessed at baseline, 14 days after 1st induction treatment, prior to consolidation therapy (day 35-36), prior to maintenance treatment, end of maintenance treatment|Patient Function Assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), QOL will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G). FACT-G includes 4 subscales, physical well-being (score range: 0-28), social/family well-being (score range: 0-28), emotional well-being (score range: 0-24), and functional well-being (score range: 0-28). The total score of FACT-G ranges between 0 and 108. Higher score indicates better QOL., Assessed at baseline|Change in QOL Post Transplant From Baseline, For those patients who go to allo transplant, the FACT-Leu and the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) instruments will be administered at the beginning of the conditioning regimen and 100 days (+14 days) post transplant.

FACT-Leu combines the General version of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) with a leukemia-specific subscale. The total score of FACT-Leu ranges between 0 and 176. Higher score indicates better QOL.

FACIT-Fatigue has 13 items and the total score ranges between 0 and 52. Higher score indicates better QOL.

Changes in QOL will be calculated by subtracting baseline QOL score from follow-up QOL score., Assessed prior to transplant and 100 days after transplant|Baseline QOL Scores by Treatment Completion Status, The associations between baseline QOL scores and the ability to finish treatment will be evaluated. Baseline QOL will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Leukemia (FACT-Leu) and the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue).

FACT-Leu combines the General version of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) with a leukemia-specific subscale. The total score of FACT-Leu ranges between 0 and 176. Higher score indicates better QOL.

FACIT-Fatigue has 13 items and the total score ranges between 0 and 52. Higher score indicates better QOL., Assessed at baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of clofarabine induction and consolidation therapy on overall survival in comparison with standard therapy (daunorubicin \[daunorubicin hydrochloride\] \& cytarabine) in newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients age \>= 60 years.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate complete remission (CR) rates, duration of remission, and toxicity/treatment-related mortality of clofarabine in comparison with standard therapy (daunorubicin \& cytarabine) in newly-diagnosed AML patients age \>= 60 years.

II. To evaluate the feasibility of consolidation with reduced-intensity conditioning and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-identical donors in patients who achieve a response to induction therapy, including the incidence of successful engraftment, acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease, transplant-related mortality, and its impact on overall survival in comparison to patients receiving chemotherapy.

III. To evaluate the duration of remission and disease-free survival of patients in complete remission following completion of consolidation therapy who are subsequently randomized to receive scheduled low-dose decitabine maintenance in comparison with observation.

IV. To perform expression and methylation profiling on all patients receiving decitabine and to correlate their integrated epigenetic signatures with response to decitabine.

V. To examine the epigenetic profiles of remission marrow in patients randomized to observation vs. decitabine to determine whether epigenetic signature of apparently morphologically normal bone marrow is predictive of relapse or response to decitabine maintenance.

VI. To explore the possible association of response to clofarabine with ABC-transporter P-glycoprotein (Pgp).

VII. To assess the intensity of expression of CXC chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) on diagnostic leukemia cells and to correlate this parameter with other established prognostic factors.

VIII. To assess the entire spectrum of somatic mutations and affected pathways at diagnosis of AML and elucidate the association between gene mutation and outcome.

IX. To examine the impact of smoking, obesity, regular acetaminophen use, regular aspirin use, benzene exposure, living in a rural/farm environment and some other underlying exposures and lifestyle factors associated with AML development on overall survival (OS).

X. To investigate potential correlative results between array comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) findings and acute myeloid leukemia patient characteristics.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare health-related quality of life (QOL) (physical, functional, leukemia-specific well-being) and fatigue in elderly AML patients receiving standard induction therapy with those receiving clofarabine.

II. To measure the change in health-related QOL that occurs over time (within treatment groups).

III. To comprehensively assess patient function at the time of study enrollment.

IV. To determine if components of a comprehensive geriatric assessment or QOL scales predict ability to complete AML treatment.

V. To describe the impact of transplant on QOL in AML patients above age 60.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A (STANDARD THERAPY): Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride at 60 mg/m\^2 intravenously (IV) over 10-15 minutes on days 1-3 and cytarabine at 100 mg/m\^2 IV continuously on days 1-7. Patients with residual disease or those who do not achieve an aplastic bone marrow on day 12-14 (i.e., \< 5% blasts and \< 20% cellularity or markedly/moderately hypocellular) may receive a second course of induction therapy beginning no sooner than day 14.

ARM B: Patients receive clofarabine at 30 mg/m\^2 IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Patients with residual disease or those who do not achieve an aplastic bone marrow on day 12-14 (i.e., \< 5% blasts and \< 20% cellularity or markedly/moderately hypocellular) may receive a second course of induction therapy beginning no sooner than day 21 and no later than day 56.

Patients who achieve a complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete marrow recovery (CRi) after induction therapy proceed to consolidation therapy (Arms C and D). Patients who are 60-69 years of age who achieve a "morphologic leukemia-free state" after induction therapy and who have an HLA-identical donor proceed to allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning within 60 days after documentation of CR or CRi, patients receive consolidation therapy in the same arm they were randomized to for induction therapy.

ARM C (STANDARD THERAPY): Patients receive cytarabine at 1500 mg/m\^2 IV over 1 hour once or twice daily on days 1-6. Treatment repeats every 4-6 weeks for 2 courses.

ARM D: Patients receive clofarabine at 20 mg/m\^2 IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 4-6 weeks for 2 courses.

Patients who remain in CR after completion of consolidation therapy are randomized to one of the two maintenance therapy arms (Arms E and F).

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning within 60 days after completion of consolidation therapy, patients receive maintenance therapy and are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Patients not eligible for randomization to decitabine maintenance after recovery from consolidation will be followed according to Arm E.

ARM E: Patients undergo observation monthly for 12 months.

ARM F: Patients receive decitabine at 20 mg/m\^2 IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 12 months the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

ALLOGENEIC STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION WITH REDUCED-INTENSITY CONDITIONING REGIMEN (Arm G): Patients begin reduced-intensity conditioning 30-90 days after the initiation of induction therapy.

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate at 30 mg/m\^2 IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -3, busulfan at 0.8 mg/kg IV over 2 hours every 6 hours on days -4 and -3 (for a total of 8 doses), and anti-thymocyte globulin at 2.5 mg/kg/day IV over 4-6 hours on days -4 to -2.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 4 years, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.