Avelumab in Third-Line Gastric Cancer (JAVELIN Gastric 300)
The purpose of this study was to demonstrate superiority of treatment with avelumab plus best supportive care (BSC) versus physician's choice (chosen from a pre-specified list of therapeutic options) plus BSC.
Unresectable, Recurrent, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Gastric or Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Gastric Cancer Third Line
DRUG: Avelumab|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Best Supportive Care (BSC)
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. For participants who were still alive at the time of data analysis or who were lost to follow-up, OS time was censored at the date of last contact. OS was measured using Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., From randomization up to 627 days
Progression Free Survival (PFS), The PFS time was defined as the time from date of randomization until date of the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause (whichever occurs first). PFS was assessed as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). PD was defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of longest diameter (SLD), taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. PFS was measured using Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., From randomization up to 627 days|Best Overall Response (BOR), BOR was determined by RECIST v1.1 and defined as best-confirmed response of any of following: complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and PD recorded from date of randomization until disease progression or recurrence. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in SLD of all lesions. SD: Neither sufficient increase to qualify for PD nor sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or appearance of 1 or more new lesions. PR or CR confirmed at a subsequent tumor assessment, not sooner than 5 weeks after initial documentation or at an assessment later than the next assessment after the initial documentation of PR or CR. SD confirmed at least 6 weeks after randomization. Confirmed PD equal to progression \<=2 weeks after date of randomization (and not qualifying for CR, PR or SD)., From randomization up to 627 days|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR defined as the percentage of all randomized participants with a confirmed best overall response (BOR) of partial response (PR),or complete response (CR) according to RECIST v1.1 and as adjudicated by the Independent Review Committee (IRC). CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30 percent (%) reduction from baseline in sum of longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions., From randomization up to 627 days|Change From Baseline in European Quality of Life 5-dimensions (EQ-5D-5L) Health Outcome Questionnaire Through Composite Index Score at End of Treatment (EOT), EQ-5D-5L is comprised of the following 5 participant-reported dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. The responses are used to derive overall composite health state index score, with scores ranging from -0.594 to 1. A higher score indicates better health state., Baseline, EOT (up to Week 66)|Change From Baseline in European Quality of Life 5-dimensions (EQ-5D-5L) Health Outcome Questionnaire Through Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) at End of Treatment (EOT), EQ-5D-5L is comprised of the following 5 participant-reported dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. The responses are used to derive overall score using a visual analog scale (VAS) that ranged from 0 to 100 millimeter (mm), where 0 is the worst health you can imagine and 100 is the best health you can imagine., Baseline, EOT (up to Week 66)|Change From Baseline in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status Scale Score at End of Treatment (EOT), EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-question tool used to assess the overall quality of life (QoL) in cancer participants. It consisted of 15 domains: 1 global health status (GHS) scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnoea, sleep disturbance, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, financial impact. The EORTC QLQ-C30 GHS/QoL score ranges from 0 to 100; High score indicates better GHS/QoL. Score 0 represents: very poor physical condition and QoL. Score 100 represents: excellent overall physical condition and QoL., Baseline, EOT (up to Week 66)|Change From Baseline in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Stomach Cancer Specific (EORTC QLQ-STO22) Questionnaire Scores at End of Treatment (EOT), The EORTC QLQ-STO22 supplements the EORTC QLQ-C30 to assess symptoms and treatment-related side effects commonly reported in participants. There are 22 questions which comprise 5 scales (dysphagia, pain, reflux symptom, dietary restrictions, and anxiety) and 4 single items (dry mouth, hair loss, taste, body image). Most questions use 4-point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 1 question was a yes or no answer). A linear transformation was used to standardize all scores and single-items to a scale of 0 to 100; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., Baseline, EOT (up to Week 66)
The purpose of this study was to demonstrate superiority of treatment with avelumab plus best supportive care (BSC) versus physician's choice (chosen from a pre-specified list of therapeutic options) plus BSC.