Phase I/II Study of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab Combined With Nintedanib in Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to see if the combination of nivolumab, ipilimumab and nintedanib is effective in people with non- small cell lung cancer. Researchers also want to find out if the combination of nivolumab, ipilimumab and nintedanib is safe and tolerable.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nintedanib
Phase 1 - Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Dose escalation to determine the MTD and Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of concurrent administration of nivolumab, ipilimumab, and nintedanib. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the dose with the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) rate of 30%. Phase 1 began with 100 mg nintedanib, 3 mg/kg IV nivolumab + 1 mg/kg ipilimumab. Dosing of nintedanib increased by 50 mg in each level until dose limiting toxicity., Up to 12 months|Phase 2 - Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Treatment Arm, Objective response is defined as confirmed CR or confirmed PR based on modified RECIST guidelines version 1.1. The ORR will be estimated by calculating the proportion of patients who achieve OR; the 80% Confidence Interval (CI) and 95% CI for the OR rate will be estimated using the exact binomial distribution. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 36 months
Phase 2: Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control is defined as CR, PR, or SD based on RECIST guidelines version 1.1 with modifications. The disease control rate (DCR) will be estimated by the proportion of patients who achieve DC, and its 80% CI and 95% CI will be estimated using the exact binomial distribution. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 36 months|Phase 2: Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival will be determined as the time from the start of treatment with nivolumab plus ipilimumab plus nintedanib until death due to any cause. For patients who are alive at the time of data cut-off, OS will be censored on the last date when patients are known to be alive. This result is provided as number of months of survival., Up to 36 months|Phase 2: Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions)., Up to 36 months
The main purpose of this study is to see if the combination of nivolumab, ipilimumab and nintedanib is effective in people with non- small cell lung cancer. Researchers also want to find out if the combination of nivolumab, ipilimumab and nintedanib is safe and tolerable.