Early Diagnosis of Oxaliplatin-induced Portal Hypertension
Oxaliplatin has been used as the first choice for the adjuvant chemotherapy of colorectal cancer and it has significantly improved the outcomes in patients with colorectal cancer. However, hepatotoxicity is the potentially problematic adverse effect of oxaliplatin. The pathological evaluation of non-tumoral liver from patients with advanced colorectal cancer undergoing neoadjuvant oxaliplatin-based treatment has provided histological evidence of hepatic sinusoidal injury. Oxaliplatin-induced sinusoidal injury can persist for more than 1 year after the completion of chemotherapy, and the increase in splenic volume may be a predictor of irreversible sinusoidal damage. In this current study, the investigators aim to evaluate the values of potential biomarkers in diagnosing patients with oxaliplatin-induced gastroesophageal varices after colorectal cancer surgery.
Gastroesophageal Varices|Colorectal Cancer|Received Oxaliplatin-based Chemotherapy
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: the level of vWF
the severity of portal hypertension, High portal pressure, 1 day (the same time as diagnosis)
Oxaliplatin has been used as the first choice for the adjuvant chemotherapy of colorectal cancer and it has significantly improved the outcomes in patients with colorectal cancer. However, hepatotoxicity is the potentially problematic adverse effect of oxaliplatin. The pathological evaluation of non-tumoral liver from patients with advanced colorectal cancer undergoing neoadjuvant oxaliplatin-based treatment has provided histological evidence of hepatic sinusoidal injury. Oxaliplatin-induced sinusoidal injury can persist for more than 1 year after the completion of chemotherapy, and the increase in splenic volume may be a predictor of irreversible sinusoidal damage. In this current study, the investigators aim to evaluate the values of potential biomarkers in diagnosing patients with oxaliplatin-induced gastroesophageal varices after colorectal cancer surgery.