Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation for Multiple Myeloma and Myelofibrosis
This phase II trial studies how well busulfan, fludarabine, donor stem cell transplant, and cyclophosphamide in treating participants with multiple myeloma or myelofibrosis. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as busulfan, fludarabine, and cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy before a donor stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cells in the bone marrow, including normal blood-forming cells (stem cells) and cancer cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the participant they may help the participant's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Giving busulfan and fludarabine before and cyclophosphamide after donor stem cell may work better in treating participants with multiple myeloma or myelofibrosis.
Anemia|ASXL1 Gene Mutation|EZH2 Gene Mutation|IDH1 Gene Mutation|IDH2 Gene Mutation|Plasma Cell Myeloma|Primary Myelofibrosis|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Secondary Myelofibrosis|Thrombocytopenia
DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Non-relapse Mortality (NRM) at Day 100, NRM is defined as death due to GVHD, infections, sepsis, organ (lung, liver, kidney) toxicity. Death from underlying disease (i.e. progression or relapse) is not considered NRM., Up to day 100
Non-relapse Mortality (NRM) at Day 365, NRM is defined as death due to GVHD, infections, sepsis, organ (lung, liver, kidney) toxicity. Death from underlying disease (i.e. progression or relapse) is not considered NRM., Up to day 365|Incidence of Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD), Cases of acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) will be diagnosed by the treating physician and will be reported as a count of participants with acute GVHD., Up to day 365|Incidence of Chronic GVHD, Chronic GVHD will be assessed based on criteria established by the National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Project in 2005, and recently updated in 2014. This will be reported as a count of participants diagnosed with chronic GVHD, Up to day 365|Overall Survival at One Year, Overall survival is defined as the number of participants remaining alive up to one year following stem cell transplant., Up to 1 year|Disease Free Survival at One Year, Disease free survival is defined as an absence of disease relapse or progression up to one year following stem cell transplant., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants With Different Clinical Responses, Clinical Responses were determined by disease-specific criteria taking into account multiple clinical and molecular markers. Multiple Myeloma (MM) response was determined using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) consensus criteria for response. Participants with MM had either Stringent Complete Response (sCR) or Very Good Partial Response (VGPR). Myelofibrosis (MF) response was determined using International Working Group-Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) and European LeukemiaNet (ELN) consensus criteria. Participants with MF had either Complete Response (CR) or Stable Disease (SD) (also referred to in the protocol as no response)., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants With Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Response, After bone marrow transplant, bone marrow was collected every 3-6 months (as clinically indicated per treating investigator) for up to one year after bone marrow transplant. Bone marrow was evaluated by a clinical pathologist for any evidence of multiple myeloma (MM) or myelofibrosis (MF). Evidence of MM or MF in the bone marrow is referred to as minimal residual disease (MRD). A participant with evidence of MRD is MRD-positive. A participant with no evidence of MRD is MRD-negative, which is considered an MRD response. This outcome reports the number participants with MRD responses any time between bone marrow transplant up to one year of follow-up., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate non-relapse mortality (NRM) up to day +100.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate non-relapse mortality (NRM) up to day +365. II. To evaluate the incidence of acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) and chronic GVHD up to day +365 post-transplant.

III. To evaluate the overall survival and disease free survival up to 1 year. IV. To evaluate clinical response and molecular response (complete response and partial response) up to 1 year.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive busulfan intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -5 to -2. Participants undergo hematopoietic cell transplantation (HSCT) on day 0. Participants then receive cyclophosphamide IV over 60 minutes on days 3 and 4.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 1 year.