Hypofractionated Radiotherapy Followed by Chemo-immunotherapy Induction Therapy
Radiotherapy can activate local and systemic immune responses through a variety of mechanisms, which can enhance anti-tumor immune effects. The dose fractionation pattern of radiotherapy has an important influence on the occurrence of immune-induced effects. Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) has obvious advantages in activating interferon effects and inducing abscopal effects. SBRT combined with immunity can enhance the abscopal effect induced by radiotherapy and play a synergistic role. The 8Gy×3 fractionation scheme is currently the most widely used stereotactic radiotherapy scheme. Because we conducted this study, the primary lesion received large-fraction partial tumor irradiation and then received adebrelimab combined with chemotherapy induction treatment for 2 cycles, followed by sequential chest radiotherapy for the treatment of limited-stage small cell lung cancer, to explore the effectiveness and safety.
Lung Cancer, Small Cell|Limited-stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (LS-SCLC)
DRUG: Adebrelimab|DRUG: EC/EP|RADIATION: SBRT|RADIATION: Chest radiotherapy
Progress Free Survival, 24months
Objective response rate, 24months|Overall survival, 24months|TRAEs, 24months
Radiotherapy can activate local and systemic immune responses through a variety of mechanisms, which can enhance anti-tumor immune effects. The dose fractionation pattern of radiotherapy has an important influence on the occurrence of immune-induced effects. Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) has obvious advantages in activating interferon effects and inducing abscopal effects. SBRT combined with immunity can enhance the abscopal effect induced by radiotherapy and play a synergistic role. The 8Gy×3 fractionation scheme is currently the most widely used stereotactic radiotherapy scheme. Because we conducted this study, the primary lesion received large-fraction partial tumor irradiation and then received adebrelimab combined with chemotherapy induction treatment for 2 cycles, followed by sequential chest radiotherapy for the treatment of limited-stage small cell lung cancer, to explore the effectiveness and safety.