Efficacy of Iontophoresis-assisted AFL-PDT in Actinic Keratosis
Iontophoresis is a transdermal drug-delivery technique that enhances the transport of ionic species across membranes and may have significant benefit for the treatment of actinic keratosis (AK) by ablative fractional laser-primed photodynamic therapy (AFL-PDT).
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: lidocaine/prilocaine (5%) application|DEVICE: 2940-nm Er:YAG AFL pretreatment|DRUG: MAL application|DEVICE: Iontophoresis application|DEVICE: irradiation with red light-emitting diode lamp
Differences of short-term complete response rates between three groups, The lesions were classified as either complete response (complete disappearance of the lesion) or incomplete response (incomplete disappearance of the lesion), Short-term complete response rates were evaluated at 3 months|Differences of long-term complete response rates between three groups, The lesions were classified as either complete response (complete disappearance of the lesion) or incomplete response (incomplete disappearance of the lesion), Long-term complete response rates were evaluated at 12 months|Differences of recurrence rates between three groups, In addition, the recurrence rate was evaluated 12 months after treatment. For the histopathologic evaluation of treatment response, at the 12-month follow-up visit, a 3-mm punch biopsy of the treated AK lesion was performed in all cases of clinically incomplete response., Recurrence rates were evaluated at 12 months
Differences of cosmetic outcomes between three groups, Cosmetic outcomes were graded as excellent (slight redness or pigmentation change), good (moderate redness or pigmentation change), fair (slight-to-moderate scarring, atrophy, or induration), or poor (extensive scarring, atrophy, or induration), The overall cosmetic outcome was assessed 12 months after treatment
Difference of adverse events (erythema, post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, edema, itching, oozing, bleeding) rates between groups, Adverse events reported by the patient were noted at each follow-up visit, including severity, duration and need for additional therapy. All events due to PDT were described as phototoxic reactions (i.e., erythema, post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, oedema, itching, oozing, bleeding and so forth)., Within 12 months after each treatment
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) with methyl-aminolevulinate (MAL) is effective in the treatment of actinic keratosis (AK). Many strategies have been studied to improve the production of protoporphyrin IX (PpIX), to improve efficacy of PDT. Pre-treatment of the skin with fractional laser resurfacing is a novel alternative technique to improve the efficacy of PDT for AK. Our previous studies showed that ablative fractional laser-primed PDT (AFL-PDT) offered higher efficacy than conventional MAL-PDT in the treatment of many diseases, such as AK, actinic cheilitis, Bowen's disease and basal cell carcinoma.1-4 Iontophoresis can be another method to improve efficacy of PDT. Iontophoresis is a transdermal drug-delivery technique which uses a mild electric current to enhance the transport of ionic species across membranes. Iontophoresis has been widely used to enhance drug delivery. Mizutani K et al.5 reported 5 AK patients successfully treated with direct-current pulsed iontophoresis-assisted 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA)-PDT. Boddé HE et al.6 studied iontophoretic transport of ALA quantitatively in vitro and demonstrated enhanced transport of ALA by iontophoresis.

Until now, appropriate incubation time for AFL-PDT has not been elucidated. In our previous study, we investigated the efficacy of AFL-PDT with a short incubation time.7 Although AFL-PDT with a short incubation time (2 h) showed enhanced efficacy than conventional MAL-PDT with the standard incubation time, standard AFL-PDT with 3-h incubation time showed significantly higher efficacy than AFL-PDT with a short incubation time.

The aim of our study was to evaluate efficacy of iontophoresis in AFL-PDT for AK treatment. Consequently, we compared efficacy, recurrence rate, cosmetic outcome and safety between iontophoresis-assisted AFL-PDT with 2-h incubation time and conventional AFL-PDT with 2-h and 3-h incubation times.