Efficacy and Safety of Prophylactic Cranial Irradiation Versus MRI Surveillance in Patients With Limited-stage Small Cell Lung Cancer Who Achieved Remission After First-line Chemoradiotherapy
This is a prospective, open,multicenter, randomized controlled phase III clinical trial. In patients with LS-SCLC who achieve remission after first-line chemoradiotherapy, the efficacy and safety of PCI or MRI surveillance is evaluated and analyzed. PCI is performed in hopes of preventing spread of cancer into the brain. The use of brain MRI alone may reduce side effects of receiving PCI and prolong patients' lifespan. MRI surveillance alone (delaying radiation until the actual brain metastasis) may be not inferior to PCI.
Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: MRI Surveillance|RADIATION: Prophylactic Cranial Irradiation
Overall survival (OS), To compare the efficacy of PCI and MRI surveillance in patients with LS-SCLC., From date of randomization until the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years.
1-year overall survival rate (1y-OS%), Rate of patients surviving at 1 year., 1-year|3-year overall survival rate (3y-OS%), Rate of patients surviving at 3 year., 3-year|Progression-free survival (PFS), From the date of randomization until the date of the first onset of disease progression or the time to die of any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years.|Brain metastasis rate, To compare brain metastasis rate between the two arms., From the date of randomization until the date of occurrence of brain metastasis, assessed up to 2 years.|Cumulative incidence of neurocognitive impairment, To compare the neurocognitive toxicities of PCI and MRI surveillance in patients with LS-SCLC., From the date of randomization until the date of occurrence of neurocognitive impairment , assessed up to 2 years.
This is a prospective, open,multicenter, randomized controlled phase III clinical trial. In patients with LS-SCLC who achieve remission after first-line chemoradiotherapy, the efficacy and safety of PCI or MRI surveillance is evaluated and analyzed. PCI is performed in hopes of preventing spread of cancer into the brain. The use of brain MRI alone may reduce side effects of receiving PCI and prolong patients' lifespan. MRI surveillance alone (delaying radiation until the actual brain metastasis) may be not inferior to PCI.