A Trial of Maintenance ADAPT Therapy With Capecitabine and Celecoxib in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well capecitabine and celecoxib with or without radiation therapy works in treating patients with colorectal cancer that is newly diagnosed or has been previously treated with fluorouracil, and has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Celecoxib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving capecitabine and celecoxib together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Colon Carcinoma|Recurrent Rectal Carcinoma|Stage IVA Colon Cancer|Stage IVA Rectal Cancer|Stage IVB Colon Cancer|Stage IVB Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Celecoxib|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Rate of CR, Assessed According to CEA and CA 19-9 Measurements and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level in response to ADAPT therapy., 3 years
Best Overall Response Rate Among All Patients Who Had RECIST Measurements at Baseline and at Least One Subsequent Occasion, RECIST 1.1 criteria will be used to measure changes in the size of a selected sentinel lesion for each patient. Computed tomographic images will be measured at baseline and at subsequent 9 week intervals. Changes will be measured as percentage of the baseline measure. Results will be reported as the largest negative change. For patients with no negative changes, results will be reported as the smallest positive change., Serial measures at 9 week intervals up to 5 years|Best Overall Response Rate Among All Patients Who Had RECIST Measurements at Baseline and at Least One Subsequent Occasion and Did Not Have Surgery or Radiation Therapy, RECIST 1.1 criteria will be used to measure changes in the size of a selected sentinel lesion for each patient. Computed tomographic images will be measured at baseline and at subsequent 9 week intervals. Changes will be measured as percentage of the baseline measure. Results will be reported as the largest negative change. For patients with no negative changes, results will be reported as the smallest positive change., Serial measures at 9 week intervals up to 5 years|K-ras Mutation Status, The relationship between K-ras mutation, resection, and radiation and response to ADAPT therapy will be evaluated using Chi-squared analysis and Cox regression analysis., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method based on the ITT population starting from the time of induction chemotherapy initiation until death or last reported survival., Until death or last reported survival, up to 5 years|Quality of Life (QOL), Assessed Using the M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI), Group differences in QOL will be estimated, with repeated measures used to improve precision of estimates., Up to 5 years|Relapse Free Survival in Patients Achieving CR, Relapse-free survival estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method based on the ITT population starting from the time of induction chemotherapy initiation., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of complete response 2 years following the initiation of first line 5-FU (fluorouracil) based chemotherapy in patients with initially unresected metastatic colorectal cancer who are then treated on the activating cancer stem cells (CSCs) from dormancy and priming them for subsequent targeting (ADAPT) protocol.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall survival, relapse free survival (if complete response \[CR\]) based on intent to treat (ITT) analysis.

II. To determine quality of life while on ADAPT therapy.

III. To determine the effects of v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (K-ras) mutation status, resection and radiation on response to ADAPT therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients proceed to surgery, radiation therapy with ADAPT therapy followed by maintenance ADAPT therapy, or ADAPT therapy. Eligible patients undergo surgical resection at baseline or upon achievement of resectable disease after radiation therapy.

RADIATION + ADAPT: Patients undergo radiation therapy 5 days per week and receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and celecoxib PO BID 5 days per week during radiation.

ADAPT: Patients receive capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14 and celecoxib PO BID on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 3 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 2 years.