ALERT: A Phase II Study of Alternating Eribulin and Hormonal Therapy in Pre-treated ER+ve Breast Cancer.
A single centre, single arm phase II study of alternating eribulin and hormonal therapy in 12 patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have received at least one hormonal therapy and at least one chemotherapy in the metastatic setting.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Eribulin
Estimated Kaplan-Meier Progression Free Survival as Assessed by RECIST v1.1, Estimated Kaplan-Meier Progression free survival (PFS) to be defined as time from study entry to first evidence of disease progression or death due to any cause, as assessed by RECIST v1.0., Fixed timepoints - 3, 6 and 9 months
Clinical Benefit Rate as Assessed by RECIST v1.1, Clinical benefit rate (CBR), defined as the proportion of patients whose best overall response according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST), v1.0 is either a complete response, partial response or stable disease for a least 6 months., To be assessed at 3, 6 and 9 months.|Safety and Tolerability, Safety and Tolerability were assessed by adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) according the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (NCI-CTCAE) v4.03., Collected form consent to follow-up
12 patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have received at least one hormonal therapy and at least one chemotherapy in the metastatic setting will be enrolled to receive treatment. Once patients are consented and have completed on study screening, eribulin and Aromatase Inhibitor (AI) treatment will be alternated for up to 9 months, until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities, whichever is sooner. Patients will then attend a safety follow-up visit 4 weeks after completing treatment.

Eribulin (Halaven®) is a non-taxane microtubule dynamics inhibitor. Eribulin inhibits the growth phase of microtubules without affecting the shortening phase and sequesters tubulin into non-productive aggregates. Eribulin exerts its effects via a tubulin-based antimitotic mechanism leading to G2/M cell-cycle block, disruption of mitotic spindles, and, ultimately, apoptotic cell death after prolonged mitotic blockage.

Eribulin is licenced for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have previously received at least one chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of advanced disease. Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline and a taxane in either the adjuvant or metastatic setting unless patients were not suitable for these treatments.

The aim of this study is to alternate eribulin and aromatase inhibitors, examining whether there may be breakthrough relapse during the AI therapy or on the other hand we can extend the duration that eribulin may be used for. Importantly, blood based biomarkers, the tumour derived fraction of circulating free DNA (cfDNA) termed circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), and circulating tumour cells will be measured. A major aim of this study is to test whether biomarkers fluctuate between chemotherapy and AI treatment in the setting of advanced breast cancer.