Cryoablation and Arterial Infusion of SD-101 in Combination with Durvalumab and Tremelimumab
The goal of this Phase 1b clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of cryoablation and hepatic arterial administration of SD-101 in participants with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. After this procedure, participants will be treated with tremelimumab and durvalumab every 4 weeks (STRIDE regimen).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: SD-101|DEVICE: Cryotherapy|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: Durvalumab
Adverse Events, The primary endpoint is the number and frequency of adverse events related to cryoablation and hepatic artery infusion of SD-101 in combination with durvalumab and tremelimumab.

Adverse events (AEs) during the 6 months following Cryo+SD-101 will be recorded. The NCI CTCAE version 5.0 will be used to grade adverse events. Incidence of AEs will be summarized by event type, grade and body system. Particularly, the rates of infusion reactions, major bleeding, major infection, and grade 3 or above non-infection adverse events will be reported. The proportion of patients having each type of adverse event will be summarized along with a corresponding 90% confidence interval calculated using the exact method. The rate and 90% exact CI of subjects who experience serious adverse events will also be reported., 6 months
This is a phase I, single site study to determine the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of cryoablation combined with hepatic arterial administration of SD-101 in participants with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). After this procedure, participants will be treated with tremelimumab and durvalumab every 4 weeks (STRIDE regimen).

SD-101 (also called nelitolimod) is a CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG-ODN). More specifically, SD-101 is a bacterial DNA fragment that functions as a toll-like-receptor 9 (TLR9) agonist on myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC), plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC), and other immune cells. TLR9 activation by SD-101 reprograms the tumor microenvironment (TME) and activates the immune system, rendering the tumor more susceptible to cancer immunotherapies, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI).

This study will administer SD-101 by pressure-enabled drug delivery (PEDD) directly into the hepatic artery during the tumor cryoablation procedure. This treatment will be followed by the STRIDE regimen, which consists of the administration of 2 immune checkpoint inhibitors: single dose of the anti-Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA4) antibody tremelimumab at 300 mg and once-monthly dose of the anti-Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PDL1) antibody durvalumab at 1500 mg.

The hypothesis of this phase I study is that treatment with SD-101 will improve the efficacy of tremelimumab plus durvalumab by stimulating a robust systemic antitumoral immune response.

Patients with advanced HCC eligible for ICI treatment will be enrolled. Seven to ten days before the first ICI dose, participants will undergo ultrasound- and/or CT-guided cryoablation of part of a single hepatic lesion and concurrent administration of SD-101. US-guided liver biopsy will also be performed immediately prior to cryoablation as well as 30 days (plus or minus 7 days) afterwards. Participants will continue on ICI therapy infusions per the STRIDE regimen and tumor response will be evaluated by contrast-enhanced multiphase MRI or CT every 8 weeks (plus or minus 7 days) for 1 year. After the first year, tumor assessment will be conducted every 12 weeks (plus or minus 14 days).