Breast Reconstruction Following Breast Cancer in Very High Risk Patients
The purpose of this study is to:

1. Evaluate whether immediate or delayed reconstruction should be offered for breast reconstruction candidates with higher risk for surgical complications by comparing complications, quality of life, and hospital costs
2. Determine the efficacy of risk reduction strategies for breast reconstruction patients with higher risk for surgical complications
Breast Cancer|Malignant Neoplasm of Breast
PROCEDURE: Immediate Breast Reconstruction|PROCEDURE: Delayed Breast Reconstruction|OTHER: Breast-Q questionnaire
optimal timing of reconstruction in patients at a higher risk for developing breast reconstruction surgical complications, Proportion of patients preferring delayed reconstruction., Until 1 year post breast reconstruction
Major complications, defined as the ones that required reoperation (infection, capsular contracture, hematoma, seroma, skin flap and flap necrosis, etc)., Until 1 year post breast reconstruction|Minor complications, defined as the ones that were office treated, not requiring a reoperation, Until 1 year post breast reconstruction|Number of revision surgeries, defined as surgeries not related to complications, indicated for symmetrization, aesthetic improvement, nipple reconstruction, or skin paddle removal, Until 1 year post breast reconstruction|Hospital cost of the complete reconstruction treatment, Cost of reconstruction including the cost of complications, Until 1 year post breast reconstruction|Change in patient satisfaction, Patient satisfaction using the pre-operative Breast-Q questionnaire to define the baseline compared to score on Breast-Q questionnaire during follow-up, Until 1 year post breast reconstruction
Aesthetic evaluation, Aesthetic evaluation using postoperative photos one year after the first surgery, and after the final reconstruction surgery, Until 1 year post breast reconstruction
Primary Endpoint(s)

1. Define the optimal timing of reconstruction in patients at a higher risk for developing breast reconstruction surgical complications through a randomized prospective cohort
2. Compare immediate and delayed reconstruction outcome metrics through retrospective review

Secondary Endpoint(s)

1. Evaluate Quality of life of patients at a higher risk for developing breast reconstruction surgical complications undergoing immediate versus delayed reconstruction.
2. Compare complications and reoperations between immediate versus delayed reconstruction.
3. Compare the hospital costs between immediate versus delayed reconstruction
4. Evaluate the effectiveness of risk reduction strategies