Randomized, Open-label Economic and Medical Study on the Lymph Node Management of Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity and Oropharynx Tumor Stage 1 or 2, Nodes 0 (T1-T2 N0) Operable
Currently, patients with cancer of oral cavity or oropharynx T1-T2N0 classified, are treated surgically with systematic lymph node dissection while in 70%, there is no lymph node metastasis. The technique of identifying the sentinel node (GS) is validated for these tumors because the status of the sentinel node is predictive of the other nodes status in the neck. This helps to diagnose the presence of metastases without lymph node dissection and thus select patients requiring a treatment node. However, the oncological and functional results of a therapeutic strategy based on identifying the GS is unknown.

This open-label randomized multicenter clinical trial aims to compare the oncologic and functional outcome of two strategies : the current management versus the management based on the sentinel lymph node.

The hypothesis is based on a nodal control difference at 2 years in both arms not exceeding 10%. The medico-economic analysis will be conducted in two stages : a classic stage on 2 years with estimated incremental cost-effectiveness and incremental cost-utility, then a step with log term modeling.

A reduction in morbidity and treatment costs in the sentinel node arm are expected in this study.
Head and Neck Tumors
OTHER: Surgery: GS strategy|OTHER: Surgery: Classic strategy
Nodal recurrence rate, The absence of recurrence at 2 years will be affirmed by the absence of clinical signs confirmed by a medical imaging exam., 24 months after the surgery
Evaluation of quality of life with Head and Neck 35 (H&N35), Evaluate quality of life on the two years of the follow up, At the inclusion, and at 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 months after the surgery|Evaluation of the costs, The costs will be collected Under usual forms as the direct, indirect and intangible costs, directly to the relevant services and patients themselves, At the inclusion, and at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 16, 20 and 24 months after the surgery|Evaluation of quality of life with Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30), Evaluate quality of life on the two years of the follow up, At the inclusion, and at 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 months after the surgery|Evaluation of quality of life with EuroQOL 5D (EQ 5D), Evaluate quality of life on the two years of the follow up, At the inclusion, and at 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 months after the surgery|Evaluation of quality of life with Short Form 36 (SF36)), Evaluate quality of life on the two years of the follow up, At the inclusion, and at 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 months after the surgery
This study schedules the screening visit (V0) and then 9 follow-up visits during 24 months.

At the screening, after verification of the eligibility criteria and signature of the informed consent form, the subject will be randomized in one of 2 arms. At the inclusion the following exams have to be done : clinical exam, panendoscopy, cytologic and histologic analysis and CT-Scan (or MRI). For each visit, the investigator will perform a clinical exam and the subjects should complete some questionnaires themselves from V0 to V3, V6 (12 months) and V9. At the last visit (24 months) the patients will have a CTC-Scan ou MRI.

At the end of the follow-up period (24 months), the data of subjects survival will be recorded during three years.