Study of Pembrolizumab With Maintenance Olaparib or Maintenance Pemetrexed in First-line (1L) Metastatic Nonsquamous Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) (MK-7339-006, KEYLYNK-006)
The current study will compare pembrolizumab (MK-3475) plus maintenance olaparib, versus (vs) pembrolizumab plus maintenance pemetrexed for the treatment of non-squamous NSCLC. The study's 2 primary hypotheses are: 1. Pembrolizumab plus maintenance olaparib is superior to pembrolizumab plus maintenance pemetrexed with respect to progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by blinded independent clinical review (BICR) and 2. Pembrolizumab plus maintenance olaparib is superior to pembrolizumab plus maintenance pemetrexed with respect to overall survival (OS).
Carcinoma, Nonsquamous Non-small-cell Lung
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Olaparib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) based on blinded independent central review (BICR) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. PFS was analyzed by the non-parametric Kaplan-Meier (K-M) method. The protocol specified final analysis of PFS is presented here for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Up to ~31 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS was analyzed by the non-parametric K-M method. Participants without documented death at the time of analyses were censored at the date of last known to be alive. The protocol specified final analysis of OS is presented here for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Up to ~51 months
Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who experience one or more AEs will be reported. The protocol specified final analysis will be presented for the first pembrolizumab course., Up to ~5 years|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be reported. The protocol specified final analysis will be presented for the first pembrolizumab course., Up to ~5 years|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Global Health Status / Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life (QoL) of cancer patients. Participant responses to questions regarding Global Health Status (GHS; "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?") and QoL ("How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). The combined score of GHS (Item 29) and QoL (Item 30) is computed by averaging the raw scores of the 2 items and then applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in GHS and QoL combined score is presented. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Baseline and Week 24|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Health Status / Quality of Life (Items 29 & 30) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to questions on GHS ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?") and QoL ("How would you rate your overall QoL during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). The combined score of GHS (Item 29) and QoL (Item 30) is computed by averaging raw scores of the 2 items and applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in GHS-QoL combined score. TTD estimated by non-parametric K-M method is presented here. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome was not done in the Induction Phase., Up to ~24 months|Change From Baseline in EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer Module 13 (QLQ-LC13) Cough (Item 1) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific questionnaire. Participant responses to the question regarding cough (Item 1): "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0-100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-LC13 cough (Item 1) score is presented. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Baseline and Week 24|TTD in EORTC QLQ-LC13 Cough (Item 1) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific questionnaire. Participant responses to the question regarding cough (Item 1): "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0-100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in cough (Item 1). TTD estimated by non-parametric K-M method is presented here. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Up to ~24 months|Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ-LC13 Chest Pain (Item 10) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific questionnaire. Participant responses to the question regarding chest pain (Item 10): "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-LC13 chest pain (Item 10) score is presented. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Baseline and Week 24|TTD in EORTC QLQ-LC13 Chest Pain (Item 10) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific questionnaire. Participant responses to the question regarding chest pain (Item 10): "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in chest pain (Item 10). TTD estimated by non-parametric K-M method is presented here. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Up to ~24 months|Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Dyspnea (Item 8) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question regarding dyspnea (Item 8): "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 dyspnea (Item 8) score is presented. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Baseline and Week 24|TTD in EORTC QLQ-C30 Dyspnea (Item 8) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question regarding dyspnea (Item 8): "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in dyspnea (Item 8). TTD estimated by non-parametric K-M method is presented here. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Up to ~24 months|Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1 to 5) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning (Items 1 to 5) are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). The combined score of items 1 to 5 is computed by averaging the raw scores of the 5 items and then applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 physical functioning (Items 1-5) combined score is presented. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Baseline and Week 24|TTD in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1 to 5) Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning (Items 1 to 5) are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). The combined score of items 1 to 5 is computed by averaging the raw scores of the 5 items and then applying a linear transformation to standardize the average score, so that the combined scores range from 0-100. A higher score indicates a better outcome. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to first onset of ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from baseline in physical functioning (Items 1 to 5). TTD estimated by non-parametric K-M method is presented here. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome. The protocol specified final analysis for the first pembrolizumab course in the Maintenance Phase is reported. Per protocol, analysis for this outcome measure was not planned or conducted in the Induction Phase., Up to ~24 months
This study has 2 phases: an Induction Phase of up to \~4 Cycles (up to \~12 weeks \[cycle =3 weeks\]) and a Maintenance Phase of up to \~31 cycles of pembrolizumab (cycle = 3 weeks\]); total pembrolizumab treatment duration will be up to \~35 cycles (up to \~2 years). In the Induction Phase, participants receive pembrolizumab plus pemetrexed plus platinum (carboplatin or cisplatin, at the investigator's discretion). In the Maintenance Phase, participants with a partial or complete disease response or with stable disease after completing four cycles of induction therapy and who meet eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned to receive pembrolizumab plus maintenance olaparib OR pembrolizumab plus maintenance pemetrexed. In the Maintenance Phase, participants receive pembrolizumab for up to 31 cycles (cycle = 3 weeks) plus maintenance olaparib OR maintenance pemetrexed until progressive disease (PD), intolerable toxicities, or physician decision.

Qualified participants in each study arm of the maintenance phase (Pembrolizumab plus Olaparib and Pembrolizumab plus Pemetrexed) who complete up to \~35 cycles of pembrolizumab (up to \~2 years \[cycle =3 weeks\]) may be eligible to receive a second course of pembrolizumab for up to \~17 cycles (up to \~1 additional year). Per protocol, response or progression during the second pembrolizumab course will not be counted towards patient reported outcomes (PROs) or efficacy outcome measures and adverse events during the second pembrolizumab course will not be counted towards safety outcome measures.