Evaluation of Women With Endocrine and Reproductive-Related Conditions
This study was designed to allow inpatient and outpatient evaluation of women with a variety of reproductive and endocrine-related disorders for purposes of research and physician education.

The evaluations may include ultrasound examinations, blood, saliva, and/or urine samples. In some cases, specific laboratory or X-ray studies will be performed to confirm the diagnosis or assist in the treatment of the patient. These additional tests will be conducted within the guidelines of current gynecologic practice. In some cases, the patient will receive medical or surgical treatment for their disorder.

The purpose of this study is to provide an opportunity for physicians to evaluate women with medical conditions of reproduction. These evaluations and treatments will support clinical training and research for the accredited training program in reproductive endocrinology at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD).\<TAB\>
Endocrine Disease|Infertility|Leiomyoma|Endometriosis|Fibroids
To provide a mechanism for reproductive endocrine fellows and staff to evaluate woman with medical conditions of interest for fellow training and clinical training and education., To provide a mechanism for reproductive endocrine fellows and staff to evaluate woman with medical conditions of interest for fellow training and clinical training and education., 11/30/2025
The specific objective of this protocol is to gain knowledge and collect data in order to allow for hypothesis generation in future research as well as give NICHD investigators and trainees hands on experience related to the diagnoses, management, treatment and follow-up of reproductive endocrine disorders. Such disorders include but are not limited to Polycystic ovarian syndrome, Endometriosis, Primary ovarian insufficiency, Recurrent pregnancy loss, Primary amenorrhea and Infertility. This information will be taken from standard medical care/procedures and follow up of patients and healthy volunteers. It allows investigation into the problems of these patients for the purpose of furthering general knowledge and teaching.