Effect of Preoperative Chemotherapy on Axillary Lymph Node Metastases in Stage II Breast Cancer: A Prospective Randomized Trial
Patients with untreated clinical stage II breast cancer are eligible. An excisional biopsy of the primary tumor is acceptable, but without definitive local therapy or prior chemotherapy. Histologic confirmation of invasive carcinoma is required. Patients are prospectively randomized to receive five 21-day cycles of dose-intense (5-fluorouracil, adriamycin, leucovorin, cytoxan, granuloctye-colony stimulating factor \[FLAC/G-CSF\]) chemotherapy either before (preoperative) or after (postoperative) local therapy. Chemotherapy is given as an outpatient. For patients receiving preoperative chemotherapy, local therapy (modified radical mastectomy, or breast segmentectomy/axillary dissection/breast radiotherapy according to patient preference) is performed 3-4 weeks after last chemotherapy. For patients receiving postoperative chemotherapy, chemotherapy will begin 2-3 weeks after local therapy. Immediate reconstruction for mastectomy is acceptable. Upon completion of local therapy and chemotherapy in either treatment group, all estrogen receptor positive patients receive tamoxifen for 5 years. Follow-up consists of history and physical examination each 3 months for first 3 years, each six months for years 4 and 5, and yearly thereafter. Mammogram, bone scan, chest x-ray and blood work are performed yearly.
Breast Neoplasm|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: preoperative dose intense chemotherapy (FLAC/G-CSF)
A prospective randomized trial evaluating the effect of preoperative dose intense chemotherapy (FLAC/G-CSF) on axillary lymph node metastases in women with clinical stage II (T1N1, T2N0, T2N1) breast cancer. Patients will be randomized to receive 5 cycles of combination chemotherapy (5-FU, adriamycin, leucovorin, cytoxan, G-CSF) either as initial therapy (preoperative) or postoperatively after local therapy (modified radical mastectomy or lumpectomy/axillary lymph node dissection/whole breast radiotherapy). Each chemotherapy cycle will be 21 days. At the time of local therapy the incidence of axillary metastases in the axillary dissection specimen will be determined and compared in the preoperative chemotherapy vs. postoperative chemotherapy treatment groups.