Buparlisib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This pilot clinical trial studies how well buparlisib works in treating patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has returned after a period of improvement or has not responded to previous treatment. Buparlisib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Transformed Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Buparlisib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Clinical benefit defined as a PR or CR as the objective status at any time or an objective status of SD for a duration of greater than 6 months from registration, The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety-five percent binomial confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., From 6 months from registration up to 1 year
Duration of response, If an adequate number of events are seen, the distribution of duration of response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Otherwise, duration of response will be summarized descriptively., From the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented, assessed up to 1 year|Overall response rate estimated by the number of confirmed responses (PR or CR) observed in the trial divided by the total number of evaluable patients, Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 1 year|Prognostic factors for aggressive lymphoma, Will be summarized and used to help characterize the types of patients accrued to this trial. These classifications will be correlated with clinical benefit using Fisher's exact or Wilcoxon rank sum tests., Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival time, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Survival time, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (complete response \[CR\], partial response \[PR\] or standard disease \[SD\] \>= 6 months) with BKM120 (buparlisib) in patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall response rate, overall survival, progression-free survival and duration of response.

II. To describe the toxicities associated with BKM120 in lymphoma. III. To evaluate prognostic factors for aggressive lymphoma and whether there's a correlation with clinical benefit.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess serum cytokines before and after BKM120 therapy. II. To assess phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway member expression on paraffin-embedded tumor samples pre-treatment.

III. To assess on paired fresh tumor tissue obtained from consenting patients pre- and post-therapy the change in activation of PI3K pathway members.

OUTLINE: Patients receive buparlisib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.