Radiolabeled Octreotide in Treating Children With Advanced or Refractory Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Radiolabeled octreotide can locate tumor cells and deliver radioactive tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is to study the safety and effectiveness of radiolabeled octreotide in treating children who have advanced or refractory solid tumors.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors|Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumor|Islet Cell Tumor|Neuroblastoma|Pheochromocytoma|Sarcoma|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
RADIATION: 90Y-DOTA-tyr3-OCTREOTIDE
Establish the three-cycle maximum-tolerated dose of 90Y-DOTA-tyr3-Octreotide, Establish the three-cycle maximum-tolerated dose of 90Y-DOTA-tyr3-Octreotide administered by intravenous infusion to children with refractory somatostatin-receptor positive tumors based upon the 6 week/cycle dose-limiting-toxicity profile., 6 weeks per cycle|Evaluate the short term and long term safety (mild/moderate/severe/life-threatening adverse events, premature discontinuations and serious adverse events), 2. Evaluate the short-term (6 weeks/cycle) and long term (4-6 months) safety (mild/moderate/severe/life-threatening adverse events, premature discontinuations and serious adverse events) serious adverse event profile of three-cycles of 90Y-DOTA-tyr3-Octreotide administered by intravenous infusion to children with refractory somatostatin-receptor positive tumors., short term (6 weeks/cycle); long term (4-6 mos./cycle)
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of yttrium Y 90-DOTA-tyr3-octreotide in children with advanced or refractory somatostatin receptor-positive tumors.
* Determine the short-term and long-term safety and the serious adverse-event profiles of this drug in these patients.
* Determine any potential antitumor effect of this drug in these patients.
* Correlate level of somatostatin receptor type 2 expression with response in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive yttrium Y 90-DOTA-tyr3-octreotide IV over 5-10 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of yttrium Y 90-DOTA-tyr3-octreotide until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Patients are followed weekly after each treatment course, 6 weeks after the last course, and then every 6 months thereafter for life.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 25-35 patients will be accrued for this study.