Safety and Efficacy of p53 Gene Therapy Combined With Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Solid Tumors.
This is a single arm Phase 2 study of the combination of adenoviral p53 (Ad-p53) gene therapy administered intra-tumorally with approved immune checkpoint inhibitors in patients with recurrent or metastatic cancers. Comparison will be made to historical data. General safety and efficacy using RECIST 1.1 and Immune-Related Response Criteria as well as ECOG performance will be utilized.
Solid Tumor|Lymphoma
DRUG: Ad-p53
The primary efficacy endpoint is objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate will be evaluated by RECIST 1.1, Change in tumor size at the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Safety assessments of adverse events per CTCAE, Safety evaluations will tabulate adverse events per CTCAE, Signed Informed Consent through 30 Days following the final treatment
Preliminary assessment of Duration of Response (DoR) by RECIST 1.1, RECIST 1.1 will be used to determine Duration of Response (DoR), Day 1 through end of study, approximately 2 years|Preliminary assessment of progression free survival (PFS) by RECIST 1.1, RECIST 1.1 will be used to determine progression free survival, Day 1 through end of study, approximately 2 years
This is a Phase 2 study of the combination of Ad-p53 administered intra-tumorally in combination with physician's choice of FDA approved immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy in patients with recurrent or metastatic cancers. This is a safety and efficacy study with a single cohort, consisting of the combination of Ad-p53 and infusions of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Immune checkpoint inhibitor treatments will be administered in accordance with FDA package inserts. Comparison will be made to historical data. General safety and preliminary efficacy will be determined using RECIST 1.1, ECOG status and Immune-Related Response Criteria. Biomarker testing of archival or fresh tissue is performed during the study. Enrollment will be up to 40 patients.