HD IL-2 + Ipilimumab in Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
Phase IV, open-label, randomized, two-arm, multi-center study in patients with metastatic melanoma who are treatment naïve or have previously received a single non-immunologic therapy.

Treatment Arm 1: "HD IL-2 first, then ipilimumab" Patients will receive two courses (four cycles) of High Dose Interleukin-2 (HD IL-2) followed by one course (four doses) of ipilimumab.

Treatment Arm 2: Ipilimumab first then HD IL-2 Patients will receive one course (four doses) of ipilimumab followed by two courses (four cycles) of HD IL-2.
Metastatic Melanoma
DRUG: High Dose Interleukin-2|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Estimated One-year OS in the Evaluable Population in Each Treatment Arm Separately, evaluable patients who received at least 50% of both research drugs and had their disease re-evaluated after baseline; defined in days for the start of the first treatment to death.

percent of patients alive at 1 year; estimates were assessed using Kaplan-Meier method for the entire subject population for each treatment arm separately., start of first treatment to date of death from any cause and patients alive at their last evaluation date were censored up to 1 year.
Progression-free Survival, duration of time (in Days) from start of the first treatment to the time of objective disease progression or death at one year. The immune-related response criteria (irRC) determined based on tumor burden calculated on the WHO method of multiplying the perpendicular dimensions of all lesions are summed to obtain the tumor burden. The total tumor burden + SPD (index lesions) + SPD (new measurable lesions) Based on CT scans and Physical exam at designated timepoints. CR- Disappearance of all known disease; PR\>/equal to decrease; SD Neither CR or PD; PD 25%increase; new lesion., 5-11 weeks, 13-19 Weeks, 24-30 weeks and 1 year
All patients will receive IL-2 at 600,000 international units per kilogram (kg) by intravenous bolus (IVB) every 8 hours for up to 14 planned doses with an additional cycle 14 days after the first.

Ipilimumab 3mg/kg IV infusion Q3 weeks up to 4 doses4 doses A 3-6 week interval been the administration of the two drugs to allow for resolution of treatment-related toxicities.

If corticosteroids were required during Ipilimumab administration, a 2-week period from discontinuation of steroid treatment to start of HD IL-2.