Study of Pralatrexate With Vitamin B12 and Folic Acid in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
Primary

• Determine the efficacy of pralatrexate with concurrent vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation when administered to patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL)

Secondary

* Determine the safety of pralatrexate with concurrent vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation when administered to patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL
* Determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of pralatrexate when administered with vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation
Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Pralatrexate Injection
Response Rate Per Independent Central Review, Patient response to treatment was determined by independent central review using International Workshop Criteria (IWC). Results present the best overall response. The initial response assessment was scheduled at week 7 (prior to Cycle 2) and then prior to every even-numbered cycle (every 14 weeks) for up to two years after first dose., Response was assessed at 7 weeks (prior to Cycle 2) and then prior to every other even-numbered cycle (every 14 weeks) until disease progression or death for up to 2 years after initial dose
Duration of Response Per Independent Central Review, Calculated only for those pts with an objective response. Pts receiving subsequent therapy (including transplant) before progressive disease (PD) was documented were censored at date of last response assessment obtained prior to subsequent therapy, with a note indicating censoring occurrence \& reason. Pts who withdrew consent to participate in the study prior to PD were censored at the date of their last evaluable assessment of response. Pts who withdrew from treatment prior to PD or initiation of subsequent therapy without withdrawing consent were followed for disease status when possible., Measured from the first day of documented response, assessed at prior to every other even-numbered cycle (every 14 weeks) until disease progression or death for up to 2 years after initial dose|Progression-free Survival Per Independent Central Review, Patients (pts) with subsequent therapy prior to PD were censored at date of last response assessment prior to subsequent therapy. Pts who were alive without PD were censored at the date of last assessment of first dose. Pts who withdrew consent to participate in the study prior to PD were censored at the date of their last disease assessment or treatment day 1. Pts who withdrew consent from treatment prior to PD without withdrawing consent for follow-up were followed for disease status \& survival. Pts who did not have response assessments after baseline were censored at treatment day 1., Calculated as the number of days from treatment day 1 to the date of disease progression or death, regardless of cause for up to 2 years after initial dose|Overall Survival Per Independent Central Review, Calculated as date of death - date of enrollment +1, estimated using the product-limit estimator. Pts who had not died (no record of death) or were lost to follow-up were censored at the date of last contact. Pts who withdrew consent to participate in the study including consent to be followed, were censored on the date of withdrawal. Pts who withdrew from treatment without withdrawing consent were followed for survival status whenever possible., Assessed every 14 weeks while on treatment, and after disease progression no less frequently than every 6 months for up to 2 years after first dose.
This is a Phase 2, single arm, non-randomized, open-label, multi-center study designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of pralatrexate when administered with vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation to patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL.

Pralatrexate will be given over 3-5 minutes intravenously (IV), which means through a vein. If pralatrexate is tolerated well, the patient will receive IV injections of pralatrexate every week for 6 weeks, followed by 1 week without receiving pralatrexate. These 7 week cycles will be repeated depending on response and tolerability.