A Phase 2 Study of RO7490677 In Participants With Myelofibrosis
RO7490677 is an investigational drug that is being developed for possible use in the treatment of myelofibrosis (MF), a disease in which the bone marrow, which is the organ in the body that makes blood cells, is replaced by fibrosis, or excess scar tissue.

The purpose of this study is to gather information on whether RO7490677 has an effect on the MF disease, whether it is safe in patients with MF, and how well it is tolerated.
Primary Myelofibrosis|Polycythemia Vera|Post-Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis
BIOLOGICAL: RO7490677|DRUG: Ruxolitinib
Stage 1 Main Phase: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percent of participants with a response according to the International Working Group-Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) criteria. This was defined as those participants who achieved clinical improvement (CI), partial remission (PR), or complete remission (CR) at a post-baseline assessment of treatment response OR had at least stable disease (SD) for three consecutive end-of-cycle response assessments (e.g. Day 1 of the subsequent cycle) in conjunction with improvement in the bone marrow fibrosis score relative to baseline by at least one grade at any time point during the period of stable disease., Up until and including completion of 6 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main Phase: Bone Marrow Response Rate (BMRR), Response rate was defined as the percent of participants with a reduction in bone marrow fibrosis by at least one grade according to World Health Organization (WHO) criteria from baseline to any time during the study. This was determined by a central adjudication panel of expert hematopathologists, blinded to participant, treatment, and time of biopsy., Up until and including completion of 9 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 1 Main + Open-Label Extension (OLE): ORR, ORR was defined as the percent of participants with a response according to the IWG-MRT criteria. This was defined as those participants who achieved CI, PR, or CR at a post-baseline assessment of treatment response OR had at least SD for three consecutive end-of-cycle response assessments (e.g. Day 1 of the subsequent cycle) in conjunction with improvement in the bone marrow fibrosis score relative to baseline by at least one grade at any time point during the period of stable disease. Participants who achieved a clinical benefit in the main phase had the opportunity to remain on treatment. The determination of ORR in the main phase is outlined in the arms description below. Participants who didn't achieve a benefit had the opportunity to switch to a different dosing schedule in the OLE phase. The determination of ORR in the OLE phase is outlined in the arms descriptions below., From cycle 1 day 1 up until cycle 6, day 29 (Main Phase). From cycle 7 day 1 up until study discontinuation or study termination, up to 83 cycles (OLE). Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main + Open-Label Extension (OLE): BMRR, Defined as the percent of participants with a reduction in bone marrow fibrosis score by at least one grade according to WHO criteria at any time during the study. As determined by a central adjudication panel of expert hematopathologists, blinded to participant, treatment, and time of biopsy. Participants in the main phase had the opportunity to remain on treatment (as outlined in the arms description below). Participants also had the option to switch to the OLE phase after completing 9 cycles of the originally assigned treatment and receive PRM-151 10 mg/kg/Q4W (as outlined in the arms description below)., From cycle 1 day 1 up until cycle 9 day 29 (main phase). From cycle 10 day 1 up until study discontinuation or study termination, up to 51 cycles (OLE). Each cycle is 28 days.
Stage 1 Main Phase: BMRR, Bone marrow response was defined as a reduction in bone marrow fibrosis score by at least one grade from baseline at anytime during the study., Baseline, Weeks 12 and 24|Stage 1 Main Phase: Modified Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Symptom Assessment Form Total Symptom Score (MPN-SAF TSS) Changes, The MPN-SAF TSS total symptom score was the sum of the following 10 items: Filling up quickly when you eat (early satiety), abdominal discomfort, inactivity, Problems with concentration, Worst fatigue, Night sweats, Itching, Bone pain, Fever and Unintentional weight loss last 6 months. The MPN-SAF Total Symptom Score had a possible range of 0 to 100, where a lower score was more favorable. The values reported are the change from baseline scores., Baseline, beginning of each cycle (Cycle 2 onward). Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main Phase: BMRR, Response rate was defined as the percent of participants with a reduction in bone marrow fibrosis by at least one grade according to World Health Organization (WHO) criteria at any time during the study. This was determined by a central adjudication panel of expert hematopathologists, blinded to participant, treatment, and time of biopsy., Up until and including completion of 9 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main Phase: BMRR - Reduction of Bone Marrow Fibrosis by Visit, Reduction in bone marrow fibrosis score: Reduction of at least one grade from baseline. Bone marrow fibrosis grades according to WHO criteria (as determined by central adjudication)., Day 1 on Cycles 4, 7, 10 and Cycle 9 Day 29. Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main Phase: Duration of Bone Marrow Improvement, Duration of response was defined as time from first decrease from baseline \>= 1 grade to time of return to baseline levels., From first decrease from baseline of one grade to time of return to baseline levels, up to cycle 9 of 28-day cycles.|Stage 2 Main Phase: Hemoglobin Improvement, Hemoglobin improvement was measured by the percent of participants with: Red cell transfusion independence (no transfusions for \>= 12 consecutive weeks) OR 50% reduction in red blood cell (RBC) transfusions for \>= 12 consecutive weeks OR percent of participants with \>= 10 g/L and \>= 20 g/L increase in hemoglobin for \>= 12 consecutive weeks without transfusions (outcome parameter assessed was dependent on baseline hemoglobin/transfusion status)., Up until and including completion of 9 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main Phase: Platelet Improvement, Platelet improvement was measured by the percent of participants with: Platelet transfusion independence (no transfusions for \>= 12 consecutive weeks) OR 50% reduction in platelets transfusions for \>= 12 consecutive weeks OR doubling of baseline platelet count for \>= 12 consecutive weeks without platelet transfusions OR platelet count \> 50 x 10e9/L for \>=12 consecutive weeks without platelet transfusions OR doubling of baseline platelet count for \>= 12 consecutive weeks without platelet transfusions OR platelet count \> 25 x 10e9/L for \>= 12 consecutive weeks without platelet transfusions (outcome parameter assessed is dependent on baseline platelet status)., Up until and including completion of 9 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main Phase: Symptom Improvement, Symptom improvement was assessed as the percent of participants with 50% reduction in MPN-SAF TSS from baseline over time. The MPN-SAF TSS total symptom score was the sum of the following 10 items: Filling up quickly when you eat (early satiety), abdominal discomfort, inactivity, Problems with concentration, Worst fatigue, Night sweats, Itching, Bone pain, Fever and Unintentional weight loss last 6 months. The MPN-SAF Total Symptom Score had a possible range of 0 to 100, where a lower score was more favorable., Up until and including completion of 9 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days.|Stage 2 Main Phase: Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Clinical Improvement (CI), Stable Disease (SD), and Progressive Disease (PD) According to IWG-MRT Criteria, Best Overall Response: (CR, PR, CI), SD and PD according to the IWG-MRT Criteria., Up until and including completion of 9 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days.
Stage 1 Main Phase: Maximum Drug Concentration (Cmax), Cmax is the maximum observed RO7490677 plasma concentration., Pre-dose on Cycles(C) 1, 2 and 6, Day(D) 1 and C1 D15. Each cycle is 28 days|Stage 1 Main Phase: Time to Maximum Concentration (Tmax), Time at which the maximum plasma concentration was observed., Pre-dose on Cycles(C) 1, 2 and 6, Day(D) 1 and C1 D15. Each cycle is 28 days|Stage 1 Main Phase: Area Under the Curve up to the Last Measurable Concentration (AUC0-last), Area under the plasma concentration time curve from time 0 to time of last measurable plasma concentration., Pre-dose on Cycles(C) 1, 2 and 6, Day(D) 1 and C1 D15. Each cycle is 28 days|Stage 1 Main Phase: Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve Extrapolated to Infinity (AUC0-inf), Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0-time extrapolated to infinity., Pre-dose on Cycles(C) 1, 2 and 6, Day(D) 1 and C1 D15. Each cycle is 28 days|Stage 1 Main Phase: Terminal Elimination Half-Life (T1/2), Apparent terminal elimination half-life of RO7490677., Pre-dose on Cycles(C) 1, 2 and 6, Day(D) 1 and C1 D15. Each cycle is 28 days|Stage 1 Main Phase: Clearance (CL), Pre-dose on Cycles(C) 1, 2 and 6, Day(D) 1 and C1 D15. Each cycle is 28 days|Stage 1 Main Phase: Volume of Distribution (Vd), Pre-dose on Cycles(C) 1, 2 and 6, Day(D) 1 and C1 D15. Each cycle is 28 days|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Infusion Related Reactions (IRRs), An AE was defined as any noxious, pathologic, or unintended change in anatomical, physiologic, or metabolic function as indicated by physical signs, symptoms, or laboratory changes occurring in any phase of a clinical study, whether or not considered investigational product-related. Pre-existing conditions which worsened during the study were also considered as adverse events. IRRs were considerd to be Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI). Grading was completed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE), version 4.0., Baseline up until 6.75 years|Percentage of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and AEs Leading to Study Drug Discontinuation, An SAE was defined as any AE that occurred at any dose the resulted in death; was life-threatening; required hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalizations; a persistent or significant incapacity or substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions; a congenital anomaly or birth defect. An AE was defined as any noxious, pathologic, or unintended change in anatomical, physiologic, or metabolic function as indicated by physical signs, symptoms, or laboratory changes occurring in any phase of a clinical study, whether or not considered investigational product-related. Pre-existing conditions which worsened during the study were also considered as adverse events. Grading was completed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE), version 4.0., Baseline up until 6.75 years
Stage 1 of this study has completed. Stage 1 was an open-label, Simon two stage, Phase 2 study to determine the efficacy and safety of two different dose schedules of RO7490677 in participants with PMF and post ET/PV MF. There were two treatment cohorts, each assigned to one of two dose schedules receiving either single-agent RO7490677 or RO7490677 in combination with ruxolitinib. Participants were assigned to a weekly or every four week dosing schedule by the investigator.

Stage 2 is a randomized, double-blind Phase 2 study to determine the efficacy and safety of three different doses of RO7490677 in participants with PMF and post ET/PV MF. Participants will be randomized to one of three doses: 0.3 mg/kg, 3.0 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg of RO7490677. This is the second stage of an adaptive design study as defined in FDA Draft Guidance for Industry: Adaptive Design Clinical Trials for Drugs and Biologics, February 2010. Modifications to dose levels, schedule, and regimen have been made in Stage 2 based on data from Stage 1.