Phase Ib/II Study Assessing the Neo-adjuvant Combination Therapy of Vinflunine With Cisplatin Followed by Radical Cystectomy in Patients With Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer (JaNEO)
Phase Ib/II study assessing the neo-adjuvant combination therapy of vinflunine with cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy in patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer (JaNEO).
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Vinflunine|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Radical cystectomy
Pathological Complete Response (pCR), Rate of pathological complete response (pCR) at cystectomy assessed by central pathological review (Prof. Hartmann, Erlangen), if the initial safety phase allows continuation of the trial with the phase II part, cystectomy
Overall radiological response rate before cystectomy, RECIST v1.1, prior cystectomy|Progression rate, RECIST v1.1, after 2 and 4 cycles (of 21 days length) of treatment|Safety of chemotherapy measured by adverse events and clavien-dindo grades, An evaluation of adverse events and serious adverse events will be done. Alle analyses of adverse events will be done using the CTCAE-classification v4.03. Events of grade 3-4 will be evaluated seperatly. Also, all events reported to be related to cystectomy will be evaluated using the clavien-dindo-grades., through study completion after 12 months-follow up|Rate of complications at cystectomy, at cystectomy|Perioperative morbidity/mortality, 30 days and 90 days post surgery|Cancer-specific survival, Evaluation will be done from date of study registration to death on disease or the last visit date (if not death at timepoint of evaluation). Patients that died due to other reasons than cancer will be evaluated with their last date known alive., one year after cystectomy|QoL - GIQLI, If Values for total or subscale scores are missing, no imputation will be applied. To summarize scored scales descriptive statistics will be used. Patients with an evaluable baseline score and at least one evaluable post baseline score will be included into analyses to evaluate changes from baseline., Cycle 1-4 Day 1+ cystectomy + 1,3 and 12 months after cystectomy|QoL - QLQ-C30, If Values for total or subscale scores are missing, no imputation will be applied. To summarize scored scales descriptive statistics will be used. Patients with an evaluable baseline score and at least one evaluable post baseline score will be included into analyses to evaluate changes from baseline., Cycle 1-4 Day 1+ cystectomy + 1,3 and 12 months after cystectomy
Relapse rate and location of relapse not RECIST-standardized, Evaluated will be the number of patients with relapse 1, 3 and 12 months after cystectomy. The same evaluation will be done seperately for different locations of relapse, e. g. local relapse, distant metastases (lung, liver, bone, extraregional lymp nodes), at 1 month, 3 months and 1 year after cystectomy|Biobanking, Blood, urine and tissue will be collected in a biobank for further evaluations that are not determined yet., Day 1 of cyle 1-4, Day 15 of cyle 1, at cystectomy, 1, 3 and 12 months follow up, and baseline for tumour tissue
Phase Ib/II study assessing the neo-adjuvant combination therapy of vinflunine with cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy in patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer (JaNEO).