Partial Breast Re-irradiation Using Ultra Hypofractionation (PRESERVE)
Breast-conserving surgery followed by re-irradiation with partial breast irradiation (rPBI) has recently been found to be a safe alternative to mastectomy for women who have undergone prior whole breast radiation. By reducing the volume of tissue receiving radiation, rPBI has been associated with less toxicity and improved cosmetic outcomes. For many women with early-stage breast cancer, shorter 1-week (5-fraction) courses of breast radiation (ultra-fractionation) have been found to be equivalent to longer fractionation schedules in the upfront treatment setting. These 1-week schedules are more convenient for patients, with fewer treatments and shorter overall treatment time. The investigators hypothesize that a 1-week ultra-hypofractionated rPBI regimen following breast-conserving surgery (BCS) for local recurrence or new primary breast cancer in the previously irradiated breast (LR) will be associated with acceptable toxicity at 1 year (\<13% grade \>3 toxicity).
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer Recurrent
RADIATION: rPBI
Grade ≥3 toxicity associated with treatment, TThe primary endpoint, grade ≥3 toxicity associated with treatment will be summarized using frequency and percentage with 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals by grade at each scheduled follow up., During accrual period, up to 3 years
Frequency radiation-associated toxicity (acute), Radiation-associated toxicities (acute) will be graded according to CTCAE v5.0 by physicians. Toxicity associated with treatment will be summarized using frequency with 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals by grade at each scheduled follow up., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Percentage radiation-associated toxicity (acute), Radiation-associated toxicities (acute) will be graded according to CTCAE v5.0 by physicians. Toxicity associated with treatment will be summarized using percentage with 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals by grade at each scheduled follow up., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Frequency radiation-associated toxicity (late), Radiation-associated toxicities (late) will be graded according to CTCAE v5.0 by physicians. Toxicity associated with treatment will be summarized using frequency with 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals by grade at each scheduled follow up., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Percentage radiation-associated toxicity (late), Radiation-associated toxicities (late) will be graded according to CTCAE v5.0 by physicians. Toxicity associated with treatment will be summarized using percentage with 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals by grade at each scheduled follow up., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Risk of local recurrence (invasive and DCIS), Cumulative incidence function will be used to estimate local recurrence with death as a competing risk., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Risk of distant recurrence (invasive and DCIS), Cumulative incidence function will be used to estimate distant recurrence and distance recurrence with death as a competing risk., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Location of local recurrence (in-field) (frequency), Location of recurrence will be summarized by frequency., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Location of local recurrence (in-field) (percentage), Location of recurrence will be summarized by percentage., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Location of local recurrence (out-of-field) (frequency), Location of recurrence will be summarized by frequency., 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Location of local recurrence (out-of-field) (percentage), Location of recurrence will be summarized by percentage, 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Risk of local recurrence after rPBI requiring mastectomy, Cumulative incidence function will be used to estimate local recurrence after rPBI requiring mastectomy with death as a competing risk, 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Invasive breast cancer free survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate invasive breast cancer free survival, 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate overall survival, 3 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years post rPBI|Satisfaction with breasts, Quality of life questionnaire will be used to obtain scores and will summarized using mean and standard deviation at baseline and follow up. Change in score compared to baseline will be summarized using mean and standard deviation, and assessed with paired t-test. Number and proportion of patients with a minimal clinically important difference will be calculated., Baseline, 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years post rPBI|Financial toxicity associated with treatment, Quality of life questionnaire will be used to obtain scores and will summarized using mean and standard deviation at baseline and follow up. Change in score compared to baseline will be summarized using mean and standard deviation, and assessed with paired t-test. Number and proportion of patients with a minimal clinically important difference will be calculated., Baseline, 3 months, 1 year, and 3 years post rPBI
Most women affected by breast cancer are treated with breast-conserving surgery to remove the tumour, followed by radiation to reduce the risk of recurrence. Unfortunately, some women will experience recurrence of the cancer in the previously treated breast. These recurrences have historically been treated by removing the whole breast or a second breast-conserving surgery followed by 3 to 5 weeks of radiation. These treatments can negatively impact mental health and quality of life or lead to harmful side effects that could impact the skin, breast, ribs, heart and lungs.

Breast-conserving surgery followed by re-irradiation with partial breast irradiation (rPBI) has recently been found to be a safe alternative to mastectomy for women who have undergone prior whole breast radiation. By reducing the volume of tissue receiving radiation, rPBI has been associated with less toxicity and improved cosmetic outcomes. For many women with early-stage breast cancer, shorter 1-week (5-fraction) courses of breast radiation (ultra-fractionation) have been found to be equivalent to longer fractionation schedules in the upfront treatment setting. These 1-week schedules are more convenient for patients, with fewer treatments and shorter overall treatment time. The investigators hypothesize that a 1-week ultra-hypofractionated rPBI regimen following breast-conserving surgery (BCS) for local recurrence or new primary breast cancer in the previously irradiated breast (LR) will be associated with acceptable toxicity at 1 year (\<13% grade \>3 toxicity).

The target population for this study is women with localized recurrent or new primary breast cancer in the previously irradiated breast. This is a prospective single arm phase 2 trial of external beam rPBI using 26Gy in 5 fractions delivered daily over 1-week after a second lumpectomy for LR following prior BCS and adjuvant whole or partial breast irradiation. Using a multi-institutional and international network of comprehensive cancer centers, this study will advance global knowledge of how to optimally treat women with this disease.