Selinexor in Combination With Ixazomib for the Treatment of Advanced Sarcoma
The main purpose of this study is to establish a safe and tolerable dose combination (the "maximum tolerated dose") of selinexor and ixazomib when used together for the treatment of patients with certain types of advanced sarcoma. The study will enroll patients with advanced dedifferentiated liposarcoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, alveolar soft part sarcoma and Ewing sarcoma. Future studies to further evaluate the safety and anti-cancer efficacy of this treatment for sarcoma will use the dose combination determined in this study.
Liposarcoma|Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumors|Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma|Ewing Sarcoma|Sarcoma
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Ixazomib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), To establish the maximum tolerated dose combination for selinexor and ixazomib when used as a combination treatment for patients with dedifferentiated liposarcoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, alveolar soft part sarcoma and Ewing sarcoma. The MTD is defined by the time to event continual reassessment method, a model-based dose finding study design., Up to 2 years
Adverse Event (AE) Rate, Adverse events will be collected from the day the patient receives the first dose of study treatment until 30 days after end-of-treatment. Adverse events will be reported by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE criteria), stratified by grade., Up to 2 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The percentage of patients who experience a partial or complete response to study therapy as assessed radiographically by RECIST version 1.1 criteria., Up to 2 years
Sarcoma is a rare form of cancer which originates from the soft tissues and bones of the body. There are more than 50 different types of sarcoma. The primary treatment approach for most types of advanced sarcoma involves chemotherapy, but newer treatment approaches are needed because chemotherapy is not curative, sometimes does not work well, and often has significant side effects.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate a new treatment for certain types of sarcoma. The new treatment involves two oral targeted drugs used in combination: selinexor and ixazomib. Selinexor inhibits the transport of certain proteins between the nucleus and the cytoplasm of the cell. Ixazomib is part of a class of drugs called proteasome inhibitors. Currently, neither of these drugs is approved for the treatment of sarcoma. The researchers believe this combination treatment may work effectively for certain types of sarcoma based on encouraging laboratory research results. The types of sarcoma in which the treatment will be tested are: dedifferentiated liposarcoma, alveolar soft part sarcoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, and Ewing sarcoma. The purpose of this study is to define doses of selinexor and ixazomib that are safe and tolerable for patients.