Exercise and Compression for Lymphedema
The purpose of this study is to investigate the benefit of combining resistance exercise with use of a compression sleeve on arm lymphedema. In the study, participants will be taught a resistance exercise that follows the decongestive exercise sequence. This program is called "decongestive progressive resistance exercise" (DPRE). To evaluate the benefit from use of a compression garment on the arm. Some participants will wear their usual compression sleeve during exercise and others will use an adjustable compression wrap. The investigators hope to see if this type of combined program is helpful for women with lymphedema. The investigators also want to see if there are benefits from the addition of use of an adjustable compression wrap during exercise over use of a regularly prescribed compression sleeve.
Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema
DEVICE: Compression sleeve, worn during exercise|DEVICE: Adjustable Compression (AC) garment, worn during exercise|DEVICE: Compression sleeve, daytime wear|BEHAVIORAL: Decongestive Progressive Resistance Exercise program|BEHAVIORAL: Home exercise program
Change in Lymphedema Arm Volume, Lymphedema will be objectively measured using the optoelectronic limb volumeter (perometer)., Up to 24 weeks
Change in Extracellular Fluid Volume, Bioimpedance analysis (BIA) is specially designed to estimate extracellular fluid volume in the limb. BIA measures the impedance ratio of the affected and unaffected limb and the resulting calculated index provides an estimate of extracellular fluid volume., Up to 24 weeks|Change in Muscle Strength, Muscle strength will be assessed with the one-repetition maximum (1-RM) method for bench press, leg press, and seated row. The 1-RM is the highest weight that can be lifted once using proper form, a smooth motion and without pain or other symptoms., Up to 24 weeks|Change in Grip Strength, The Jamar hydraulic hand dynamometer will be used to measure grip strength., Up to 24 weeks|Change in Shoulder Range of Motion, Shoulder range of motion (ROM) will be measured using plastic goniometer and each arm will be measured separately for flexion, abduction, internal, external rotation, and horizontal abduction., Up to 24 weeks|Health-Related Quality of Life (Lymph-ICF), The Lymphedema Functioning, Disability, and Health (Lymph-ICF) questionnaire consists of 29 questions related to functional impairments, activity limitations, and participation restrictions in patients with upper limb lymphedema.The total score of the Lymph-ICF on the five areas ranges from 0 to 100, with a score of 0 meaning no impact and higher scores indicative of worse function or negative impact., Up to 24 weeks|Health-Related Quality of Life (SF-36), The Rand Short Form-36 Version 2 (SF-36) questionnaire is comprised of 36 questions that aim to evaluate the following eight models of HRQOL: physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health, bodily pain, general health perceptions, vitality/energy, social functioning, role limitations due to emotional problems, and general mental health., Up to 24 weeks|Physical Activity Level, The Godin leisure-time exercise questionnaire (GLTEQ) will be used to assess the physical activity level. The Godin questionnaire is a self reported measure of the average duration and frequency of strenuous (heart beats rapidly), moderate (not exhausting), and mild activities (minimal effort), resistance training, and flexibility training exercise., Up to 24 weeks|Exercise and Compression Adherence, Participants will be asked to record their adherence to their assigned exercise and compression intervention program using a daily diary.The adherence diary will collect details on exercise sessions performed each day, including sets, repetitions, and resistance weight, as well as use of the assigned compression sleeve (i.e. use of the garment during exercises and number of hours per day and days per week the compression sleeve is worn)., Up to 24 weeks
The purpose of this study is to investigate the benefit of combining resistance exercise with use of a compression sleeve on arm lymphedema. In the study, participants will be taught a resistance exercise that follows the decongestive exercise sequence. This program is called "decongestive progressive resistance exercise" (DPRE). To evaluate the benefit from use of a compression garment on the arm. Some participants will wear their usual compression sleeve during exercise and others will use an adjustable compression wrap. The investigators hope to see if this type of combined program is helpful for women with lymphedema. The investigators also want to see if there are benefits from the addition of use of an adjustable compression wrap during exercise over use of a regularly prescribed compression sleeve.