Study of Pembrolizumab With REOLYSIN® and Chemotherapy in Patients With Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
The purpose of this Phase 1b study is to investigate whether intravenous administration of REOLYSIN® in combination with chemotherapy and pembrolizumab is effective and safe in the treatment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: REOLYSIN®|DRUG: Chemotherapy|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Determine the safety and DLTs of REOLYSIN® and chemotherapy (gemcitabine OR irinotecan OR 5FU) in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma who have progressed after (or did not tolerate) first line treatment, During the first cycle of treatment (3 week cycle)
Determine the overall response rate (ORR), and progression-free survival (PFS) by immune-related response criteria, as well as overall survival (OS), Assessed every 9 weeks until disease progression or death. Post treatment scans every 3 months, if applicable.|Determine the effects of REOLYSIN® and pembrolizumab when administered in combination as determined by analysis of pre- and post-treatment biopsies and blood based immune markers, Biopsies (or available archival tumor tissue) performed before treatment begins and post treatment between Cycle 2 Day 15 and Cycle 3 Day 1. Immune marker analysis performed at start of treatment, Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 8 and Cycle 2 Day 1
Reovirus Serotype 3 - Dearing Strain (REOLYSIN®) is a naturally occurring, ubiquitous, non-enveloped human reovirus. It's primary mode of activity is to infect and selectively target tumors with activating Ras pathway mutations. Up to 70% of pancreatic cancers have activating Ras pathway mutations and/ or over-expressions.

This is an open label, Phase 1b study of REOLYSIN® and chemotherapy in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) histologically confirmed pancreatic adenocarcinoma that progressed after (or did not tolerate) first-line therapy. It is thought that Reovirus when combined with chemotherapy would lead to increased viral replication and oncolysis preferentially in RAS activated tumors, with resulting immunogenic response than can be further enhanced by checkpoint inhibition using pembrolizumab. The study is designed to characterize the efficacy and safety of REOLYSIN® given intravenously in combination with one of the three chemotherapy backbone regimens, Gemcitabine, Irinotecan or Leucovorin/ 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and pembrolizumab, the treatment cycle of which will be repeated every 3 weeks. It will follow a 3+3 design with no dose escalations. 3 patients will be initially enrolled. If no dose limiting toxicities (DLT) are observed, the cohort will be expanded. Provided patients do not develop intolerable toxicity (that does not respond to either supportive care or dose reduction) or clinically meaningful disease progression, treatment with additional cycles may be continued so long as patients experience clinical benefit in the judgement of the Investigator.