A Single Arm Pilot Trial of a Social Network Intervention
The purpose of this study is to see if a social network support program (SOcial Networks to Activate Trust \& Adherence or SONATA) is helpful for older individuals receiving cancer treatment. The SONATA program will last for about 4 months. There are a total of 6 coaching sessions. The first 5 sessions will be held approximately every 1 to 2 weeks. Session 6 or the final session will be held approximately 1 to 2 months after session 5. Each session will last for about 1 to 2 hours.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: SONATA
Feasibility - SONATA Intervention, Number of patients approached who consent, 20 Weeks|Acceptability- SONATA Intervention, Average general acceptability score using the Theoretical Framework of Acceptability questionnaire. An eight item (range 1 to 5 for each item) psychometrically validated and theoretically informed tool which assesses the following constructs - affective attitude, burden, ethicality, perceived effectiveness, intervention coherence, self-efficacy, opportunity costs, and general acceptability., 20 Weeks
Estimate - Social Support, Assessed using the Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey. The Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey is a 19-item survey (range 1-5 for each item) to assess four domains of emotional/informational support, instrumental support, positive social interaction, and affection; higher scores indicate greater social support. Subjects will be asked about their perceptions of their own social support., 20 Weeks|Estimate - Trust in Healthcare Professionals, Assessed using the the Human Connection (THC) Scale. The THC scale is A 16-item scale (range 1 to 4 for each item); higher scores indicate greater trust., 20 Weeks|Estimate - Adherence to oral anticancer treatments, Assessed using the Domains of Subjective Extent of Nonadherence (DOSE-Nonadherence). The DOSE-Nonadherence scale is a three-item scale (range from none of the time to every time for each item) with eighteen additional items that assesses reasons for non-adherence., 20 Weeks
The objective of this study is to conduct a single arm pilot study to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the SONATA intervention among older patients with advanced cancer. We hypothesize that the SONATA intervention will be feasible \[≥70% enrolled patient subjects (excluding those who die during the study) will complete at least 3 of the SONATA sessions\] and acceptable \[average patient subject general acceptability score ≥4 (range one to five) using the Theoretical Framework of Acceptability questionnaire.\]