Reduced Toxicity Conditioning Prior to Unrelated Cord Cell Transplantation for High Risk Myeloid Malignancies
Allogeneic cord blood stem cell transplantation is a potentially curative therapy for patients with haematological malignancies. We have extensive experience with the use of Cord Blood Transplantation (CBT) in patients with advanced myeloid malignancies. In adults however, the 40% Non-Relapse Mortality (NRM) rate observed after CBT conditioned with a myeloablative conditioning has encouraged the development of CBT with Reduced Intensity Conditioning (RIC). Our previous national CBT protocol (the Minicord French protocol - NCT00797758) showed that RIC CBT can reduce NRM, but relapse remains the main post-transplant event (\>30% at one year). Thus, the development of reduced toxicity rather than RIC conditioning for CBT is warranted in order to improve the outcome of such transplants by limiting NRM and reducing relapse rate. The Fludarabine, ATG and intensified doses of IV Busulfan (9.6 mg/Kg total dose) regimen is a well-established preparative regimen for reduced-intensity/toxicity conditioning prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation using peripheral blood stem cells mobilized with G-CSF (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00841724). However, such regimen is likely not sufficient to allow for CB cell engraftment. Thiotepa is an alkylating and radio-mimetic agent with a large anti-tumor activity including leukemic cells, the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and to improve engraftment of hematopoietic stem cells. This drug has been combined to usual conditioning regimen without increasing the toxicity but improving the engraftment rate and potentially reducing the relapse rate. Thus, in the context of adult CBT for high risk myeloid malignancies, we propose to prospectively evaluate a reduced toxicity conditioning based on the association of Thiotepa, Fludarabine, IV Busulfan and ATG with the objective to achieve acceptable NRM rates, and to allow for improved anti-leukemic control based on the cytotoxic component of the conditioning regimen itself, while waiting for the long term immune-mediated disease control (GVL effect).
Leukemia, Myeloid
DRUG: IV Thiotepa|DRUG: IV Fludarabine|DRUG: IV Busulfan|DRUG: IV Anti-thymocyte globuline
Cumulative incidence of NRM at 12 months after transplantation, Cumulative incidence of NRM at 12 months after transplantation : Safety and efficacy of the pre-transplant reduced toxicity conditioning regimen, 12 months after transplantation
Incidence of engraftment after transplantation, Incidence of neutrophil engraftment (day and proportion of patients reaching neutrophils \>0.5x109/L); and platelets recovery (day and proportion of patients reaching platelets \> 20 x 109 / L without transfusion) after transplantation, 12 months after transplantation|Incidence and severity of acute GVHD, Incidence and severity of acute GVHD (diagnosed and graded as standard criteria), 6 months after transplantation|Incidence and severity of chronic GVHD, Incidence and severity of chronic GVHD (diagnosed and graded as standard criteria detailed ), 12 months after transplantation|Rate of disease relapse at one year after transplantation, Incidence of disease relapse at one year after transplantation (relapse is defined on the basis of morphologica evidence of leukemic cells in the bone marrow or other sites), 12 months after transplantation|Quality of life, Evaluation of the quality of life (using a french translation of the FACT-BMT (version 4.0), 12 months after transplantation
Allogeneic cord blood stem cell transplantation is a potentially curative therapy for patients with haematological malignancies. We have extensive experience with the use of Cord Blood Transplantation (CBT) in patients with advanced myeloid malignancies. In adults however, the 40% Non-Relapse Mortality (NRM) rate observed after CBT conditioned with a myeloablative conditioning has encouraged the development of CBT with Reduced Intensity Conditioning (RIC). Our previous national CBT protocol (the Minicord French protocol - NCT00797758) showed that RIC CBT can reduce NRM, but relapse remains the main post-transplant event (\>30% at one year). Thus, the development of reduced toxicity rather than RIC conditioning for CBT is warranted in order to improve the outcome of such transplants by limiting NRM and reducing relapse rate. The Fludarabine, ATG and intensified doses of IV Busulfan (9.6 mg/Kg total dose) regimen is a well-established preparative regimen for reduced-intensity/toxicity conditioning prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation using peripheral blood stem cells mobilized with G-CSF (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00841724). However, such regimen is likely not sufficient to allow for CB cell engraftment. Thiotepa is an alkylating and radio-mimetic agent with a large anti-tumor activity including leukemic cells, the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and to improve engraftment of hematopoietic stem cells. This drug has been combined to usual conditioning regimen without increasing the toxicity but improving the engraftment rate and potentially reducing the relapse rate. Thus, in the context of adult CBT for high risk myeloid malignancies, we propose to prospectively evaluate a reduced toxicity conditioning based on the association of Thiotepa, Fludarabine, IV Busulfan and ATG with the objective to achieve acceptable NRM rates, and to allow for improved anti-leukemic control based on the cytotoxic component of the conditioning regimen itself, while waiting for the long term immune-mediated disease control (GVL effect).