Carboplatin and Paclitaxel With or Without Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether giving carboplatin and paclitaxel together is more effective with or without vorinostat in treating non-small cell lung cancer.
Stage IIIA Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Carboplatin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Placebo Administration|DRUG: Vorinostat
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier.

PFS defined as time from randomization to progression or death due to any cause.

Progression defined as Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) (Phase I), DLT is defined as any grade III or higher non-hematological toxicity except nausea, vomiting or alopecia. Nausea or vomiting (\> grade 2) that last longer than 48 hours despite maximal medical therapy. Absolute neutrophil count \< 1000/uL lasting longer than 7 days. Grade 4 thrombocytopenia (platelet \< 25,000/uL). Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia associated with sepsis or fever \> 38 C. Delay in starting cycle 2 by more than 2 weeks due to toxicity.Abnormal non-hematological laboratory criteria (Grade 3 or higher) will be considered a DLT, if clinically significant and drug-related. If baseline value is elevated prior to drug therapy, an increase will not be considered a DLT unless there is an elevation by more than 2 grades, and it is of clinical significance. Dose escalation schedule for vorinostat: 600 mg QD; 800 mg QD., 4 weeks from start of treatment, up to 1 year|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Phase I), The highest dose tested in which fewer than 33% of patients experience an attributable DLT to the study drug, when at least 6 patients are treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. The MTD is one dose level below the lowest dose in which 33% or more of the patients experience a DLT. The MTD is based on the first cycle of therapy. The recommended Phase II dose is generally the MTD, although secondary considerations of toxicity and dose reductions on subsequent cycles and other secondary considerations may result in the recommended Phase II dose being below the MTD., 4 weeks from start of treatment, up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare progression-free survival associated with the combination of carboplatin, paclitaxel and vorinostat versus carboplatin, paclitaxel and placebo for patients with previously untreated, advanced NSCLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate, time to treatment failure, and overall survival for the two regimens.

II. To assess the safety profile of the regimen of vorinostat, carboplatin and paclitaxel for patients with advanced NSCLC.

III. To understand the mechanistic aspects of drug effect by conducting correlative science studies on peripheral blood and archived tumor tissue.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 0. Patients also receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily on days -2 to 2.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Patients also receive placebo PO once daily on days -2 to 2.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, quarterly for 1 year, and then twice a year thereafter.