Application of Auricular Point Sticking in Patients With Taste Alteration
To explore the intervention effect of auricular point sticking on chemotherapy-induced taste alterations in cancer patients, and analyze its relationship with quality of life, nutritional status and psychology of patients.
Dysgeusia|Acupressure|Chemotherapy Effect
BEHAVIORAL: auricular point sticking
Taste alterations, The Chinese version of the Chemotherapy-induced Taste Alteration Scale (CiTAS), was used to assess the patients' taste alterations. The scale has 18 items in three dimensions, namely taste alteration, unpleasant taste alteration, unpleasant symptoms and problems. The scale is a Like-5 scale with a minimum score of 18 and a maximum score of 90, with higher scores indicating more severe symptoms of taste alterations. The scale has been verified by research and has good reliability and validity., T1: Baseline. T2:2 weeks. T3: 4 weeks. T4:5 weeks.
Quality of life for cancer patients, With the use of the European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer, the most widely used guideline in clinical practice, The EORTC Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) was used to evaluate the quality of life of patients.A total of 30 items and 15 domains were included, including 5 functional domains, 9 symptom domains and 1 general health/quality of life domain. Among them, the general health status/quality of life domain was divided into 7 grades, which were calculated from 1 to 7 points according to the answer options. Other items were on a 4-point scale, and "never", "a little", "a lot" and "a lot" were scored from 1 to 4 respectively. The domain score was obtained by summing the item scores included in each domain and dividing by the number of items included, ranging from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better quality of life., T1: Baseline. T2:2 weeks. T3: 4 weeks. T4:5 weeks. T5:8 weeks.|Anxiety and depression, The Chinese version of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) was used to assess the anxiety and depression level of patients. There were 14 items in total, including 7 items for anxiety and 7 items for depression. Each item was scored from 0 to 3, with a minimum score of 0 and a maximum score of 42, and the higher the score, the more serious the level of anxiety and depression., T1: Baseline. T2:2 weeks. T3:4 weeks. T4:5 weeks. T5:8 weeks.|Nutritional status 1, The nutritional status of patients was evaluated according to their weight., T1: baseline(Data were collected before the intervention). T2: 4 weeks. T3:8 weeks.|Nutritional status 2, The nutritional status of patients was evaluated according to their BMI.BMI= weight (in kilograms) divided by the square of height (in meters). The standard of BMI for Chinese adult residents is about 18.4, less than or equal to 18.4 is thin, 18.5 to 23.9 is normal, 24 to 27.9 is overweight, and more than or equal to 28 is obese., T1: baseline(Data were collected before the intervention). T2: 4 weeks. T3:8 weeks.|Nutritional status 3, The nutritional status of patients was evaluated according weight loss rate., T1: baseline(Data were collected before the intervention). T2: 4 weeks. T3:8 weeks.|Nutritional status 4, The nutritional status of patients was evaluated according to their serum total protein and albumin index., T1: baseline(Data were collected before the intervention). T2: 4 weeks.
Taste alteration is a common adverse reaction in patients with chemotherapy. The incidence of taste alteration varies with chemotherapy drugs, ranging from 36% to 84%, among which platinum chemotherapeutic drugs are most likely to cause severe taste alteration. The taste alteration does not pose a serious threat to the life of patients, so it is often ignored by patients and medical staff. Dysgeusia is positively correlated with the loss of appetite, which can directly lead to the loss of appetite and insufficient intake of nutrients in patients, and even stimulate patients' anxiety, psychological pain and other negative emotions. In severe cases, it can cause malnutrition, reduce the chemotherapy compliance of cancer patients, and ultimately reduce the quality of life of patients. Therefore, for patients with platinum chemotherapy, it is necessary to pay close attention to the change of taste during chemotherapy, and apply effective nursing interventions to pay attention as soon as possible, so as to improve the quality of life of patients.