Dasatinib and Osimertinib (AZD9291) in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With EGFR Mutations
This is a study for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with changes to their cancer cells called EGFR mutations. Mutated EGFR is important in the growth of cancer cells. Medical studies have shown that patients with EGFR mutation-positive lung cancer gain more benefit from targeted therapy drugs such as EGFR inhibitors than with standard chemotherapy. However, a significant proportion of patients carrying these sensitizing mutations do not respond well to the first-generation EGFR-TKIs (erlotinib and gefitinib), indicating the existence of intrinsic resistance mechanisms. Moreover, despite initial response to EGFR-TKIs, acquired resistance is inevitable in all patients.

The investigators have recently shown that Cripto-1 overexpression in EGFR mutant NSCLC contributes to the intrinsic resistance to EGFR-TKIs through activation of the SRC oncogene. They have also shown that a combination of an EGFR-TKI (both erlotinib and osimertinib) and a Src inhibitor are synergistic in Cripto-1 overexpressing tumors in the laboratory.

This study will be testing a combination of two drugs, dasatinib and osimertinib, to overcome resistance to EGFR-TKIs. Osimertinib (AZD9291) is a third-generation EGFR-TKI, which selectively blocks the activity of EGFR mutants, but spares that of wild type. The advantage of using osimertinib is that it inhibits not only the sensitizing EGFR mutations, but also the T790M mutant, which is the most common mechanism of acquired resistance. Dasatinib is a potent, orally available ABL1/SRC TKI, approved for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in first-line and in patients with imatinib-resistant disease or intolerant, and is being actively studied in patients with advanced solid tumors.

The first part of the study will involve finding the highest dose of dasatinib that can be given with osimertinib without causing severe side effects, finding out the side effects seen by giving dasatinib at different dose levels with osimertinib, and measuring the levels of dasatinib and osimertinib in blood at different dose levels. The second part will determine the effects of the combination of dasatinib and osimertinib and determine if the amount of Cripto-1 protein in your tumor or blood makes you more likely to have a good response to the combination of dasatinib and osimertinib.
EGFR Gene Mutation|Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: Osimertinib
Phase I : Number of Patients With Drug-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAEv4.0, Number of patients with drug related adverse events (Dose Limiting Toxicities) on dasatinib when given in combination with osimertinib, Cycle 1 (28 day cycle)|Phase II : Number of Patients That do Not Progress According to RECIST v1.1, The rate of patients non-responding (progressive disease or stable disease lasting 4 months or less) to the combination of osimertinib and dasatinib, 9 months
Number of Patients With Treatment-related Adverse Events in the Phase II Study, Number of patients with treatment-related adverse events in the phase II study, who are treated at the same dose that has been selected based on the phase I part, 18 months|Concentration of Osimertinib in Blood (Cmax), To describe the concentration of osimertinib when administered with dasatinib. Blood is obtained from patients before each cycle and 4 hours after start of the first 2 cycles., 0 hour, 4 hours post dose|Progression-free Survival, Determination of the time between the start of the experimental treatment and progression of the tumor, 3 years|Overall Survival, From the date of start of the experimental treatment until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 47 months., 47 months|Duration of Response, Determination of the duration of the response to the treatment, calculated from start of treatment in case of partial response and from the declaration of complete response in case of complete response. The end of the response will be when the tumor progresses, 3 years
The treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer is unsatisfactory. The median survival is approximately 12 months with standard chemotherapy. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations are one of the most frequent genetic abnormalities observed in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), especially in adenocarcinoma subtype. The most predominant EGFR mutations are in-frame deletions in exon-19 and L858R missense mutation, and patients carrying these mutations are mostly sensitive to the EGFR-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). However, a significant proportion of patients carrying these sensitizing mutations do not respond well to the first generation EGFR-TKIs (erlotinib and gefitinib), indicating the existence of intrinsic resistance mechanisms. Moreover, despite initial response to EGFR-TKIs, acquired resistance is inevitable in all patients. Novel treatment strategies need to be developed to overcome resistance to EGFR-TKIs. The investigators have recently shown that Cripto-1 overexpression in EGFR mutant NSCLC contributes to the intrinsic resistance to EGFR-TKIs through SRC activation. They have also shown that a combination of an EGFR-TKI (both erlotinib and AZD9291) and a Src inhibitor are synergistic in vitro and in vivo in Cripto-1 overexpressing tumors. AZD9291 is a third-generation EGFR-TKI, which selectively blocks the activity of EGFR mutants but spares that of wild type. The advantage of using AZD9291 is that it inhibits not only the mutants of exon-19 deletion and L858R, but also the T790M mutant, which is the most common mechanism of acquired resistance. Dasatinib is a potent, orally available ABL1/SRC TKI, approved for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in first-line and in patients with imatinib-resistant disease or intolerant, and is being actively studied in patients with advanced solid tumors.

This is an open-label, non-randomized, prospective phase I/II trial. The phase I portion will follow a standard 3+3 design for the phase I portion and one-sample group sequential multiple testing procedure for the phase II portion.