Mezigdomide (CC-92480) Post Idecabtagene Vicleucel in Treating Patients With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the safety, side effects, best dose and effectiveness of mezigdomide (CC-92480) when given after idecabtagene vicleucel (Abecma chimeric antigen receptor \[CAR\] T-cell therapy) in patients with multiple myeloma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed). CC-92480 works by binding to a protein called CRBN that triggers the breakdown of proteins: Ikaros and Aiolos, leading to cell death in multiple myeloma cells. Giving mezigdomide after Abecma CAR T cell therapy may extending the amount of time that the CAR T cells persist in the body in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Mezigdomide|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI CTCAE v 5.0). Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 2 years
Overall response rate, Will be defined as the proportion of subjects with a best overall response of stringent complete response (sCR), CR, very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR), as determined by the investigator according to standard International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria., Up to 2 years|Complete response rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients meeting the criteria CR or sCR., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, From first day of treatment to time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Progression free survival, Will be determined by the investigator according to standard IMWG response criteria., From first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Time to progression, From first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to disease, assessed up to 2 years|Duration of response, Will be determined by the investigator according to standard IMWG response criteria., From first response documented until disease progression, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of mezigdomide (CC-92480) given post idecabtagene vicleucel when administered as a continued therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of mezigdomide (CC-92480) when administered post idecabtagene vicleucel.

II. To determine the persistence of CAR T cells at day 90 (D90), day 180 (D180), and day 365 (D365) after start of mezigdomide (CC-92480) therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess levels of serum BCMA monthly at day 1 of every cycle. II. To assess the effects of mezigdomide (CC-92480) on non-cancer immune cells in the peripheral blood and bone marrow samples.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of mezigdomide.

Starting between 30 and 90 days after infusion of idecabtagene vicleucel, patients receive mezigdomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 or days 1-14 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) during screening. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months within 1 year of start of treatment, and then every 6 months until progression or for up to 2 years.