Rituximab and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With Low-Grade Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well giving rituximab and dexamethasone together works in treating patients with low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving rituximab together with dexamethasone may kill more cancer cells
Contiguous Stage II Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Contiguous Stage II Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Contiguous Stage II Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Cutaneous B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Stage I Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage I Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage I Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Stage III Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage III Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage III Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Stage IV Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage IV Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage IV Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
OTHER: pharmacological study|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: dexamethasone|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival, Survival without measurable progression of lymphoma estimated according to the Kaplan-Meier method, At 3 and 6 months after enrollment
Survival, Percentage of patients remaining alive estimated according to the Kaplan-Meier method, At 6 months, 12 months and 24 months after enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate clinical response rate (RR) at 3 and 6 months. II. To estimate Grade 2-4 -infusion-related toxicity.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate laboratory parameters and correlate with clinical response including: antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity and effector cell phenotype analysis at baseline, 4 weeks and three months.

II. To evaluate laboratory parameters and correlate with clinical response including: soluble cluster of differentiation (CD)20 fragments or CD20-containing membrane fragments at baseline, 4 weeks, and 3 months.

III. To evaluate laboratory parameters and correlate with clinical response including: phenotype analysis of CD16 and CD32 on natural killer (NK) cells.

IV. To evaluate laboratory parameters and correlate with clinical response including: rituximab pharmacokinetic studies at baseline, 4 weeks and 3 months.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive dexamethasone intravenously (IV) and rituximab IV once weekly. Treatment continues for 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.