Safety Assessment of Repeated Administration of TK006 in Patients With Breast Cancer-related Bone Metastases
This is an open labelled study. It was designed to evaluate the safety of multiple-dosing of TK006 in patients with breast cancer-related bone metastases. This trial is the extension of a core study: Phase 1 Trial of a Fully Human Monoclonal Antibody of Receptor Activator for Nuclear Factor-κ B Ligand (RNAKL, TK006) Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics in Patients With Breast Cancer-related Bone Metastases (NCT 03239756).
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: TK006
Incidence of adverse events（AEs）which are related to TK006 treatment throughout the study, Adverse events refer to any treatment related abnormality with clinical significance identified by means of vital signs examination, physical check-up, twelve leads electrocardiogram inspection and laboratory tests throughout the study. Adverse events reported by subjects would also be recorded in the entire trial. All these abnormal cases described above would be reported as incidence of adverse events., 85 days
immunogenicity, Neutralization antibody of TK006 would be detected on the day 0 (before dosing), day 28 (before dosing) and day 84., 85 days
This trial is the extension of a core study: Phase 1 Trial of a Fully Human Monoclonal Antibody of Receptor Activator for Nuclear Factor-κ B Ligand (RNAKL, TK006) Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics in Patients With Breast Cancer-related Bone Metastases (NCT 03239756). It's an open labelled study, aimed at evaluating the safety of repeated administration of TK006 in patients with breast cancer-related bone metastases. The qualified subjects would be those completed the entire observation in either 60 mg, 120 mg or 180 mg single dose arm at the core study. Also, these patients should be well-tolerated with TK006 at the core study and are deemed to further benefit from this extension phase estimated by the researcher and sponsor. The subjects would receive 120 mg TK006 every 4-week over a period of 84 days.

Only safety profile and immunogenicity assessment would be assessed in this extension stage, and no further study on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics would be done.