Azenosertib in Uterine Serous Carcinoma: Biomarker Study
This research study is being done to investigate how Azenosertib affects tumor cells of persistent or recurrent uterine serous carcinoma.

The name of the study drug involved in this study is:

-Azenosertib (a type of Wee1 inhibitor)
Uterine Serous Carcinoma|Uterine Carcinoma|Uterine Cancer
DRUG: Azenosertib
Percentage Change in Replication Fork Speed in Overall Response, Replication fork speed assessed by DNA fiber assays in PDO models. Responder defined as participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECISTv1.1 criteria. Wilcoxon rank sum tests will be used to compare the percentage change in replication fork speed with exposure to WEE1 inhibition in co-clinical models between overall response responder and non-responder., Up to 7 months|Percentage Change in Replication Fork Speed in 6 Month Progression Free Survival (PFS6), Replication fork speed assessed by DNA fiber assays in PDO models. PFS6 is a binary endpoint where patients that are alive and progression free (per RECIST 1.1) at 6 months are considered responders. All other patients (those that died or progressed prior to 6 months or those with less than 6 months of follow-up for progression) are considered non-responders. Wilcoxon rank sum tests will be used to compare the percentage change in replication fork speed with exposure to WEE1 inhibition in co-clinical models between overall response responder and non-responder., At 6 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The overall response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECISTv1.1 criteria., Up to 7 months|6-month Progression-Free Survival (PFS6), 6-month PFS is a probability estimated using progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration between randomization and documented disease progression (PD) or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment., At 6 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR defined as proportion of participants with Partial Response (PR) + Complete Response (CR) + Stable Disease (SD) ≥6 months per RECIST 1.1, Up to 7 months|Median Duration of Overall Response (DOR), Duration of Overall Response (DOR), estimated using the Kaplan Meier method, is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) per RECISTv1.1, until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented. Participants without progressive disease are censored at the date of last disease assessment., Up to 7 months|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration between randomization and documented disease progression (PD) or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment., 2 years|Grade 3-5 Treatment-related Toxicity Rate, All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 that are not resolved in accordance with treatment guidelines were counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one of these adverse events as defined during the time of observation., Up to 7 months
This research study is being done to investigate how Azenosertib affects tumor cells of persistent or recurrent uterine serous carcinoma. Azenosertib has been tested as a treatment for other diseases and has shown to stop cancer cell growth.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Azenosertib as a treatment for recurrent uterine serous carcinoma.

This research study involves screening for eligibility, study treatment visits, X-rays, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, Positron Emission Tomography CT (PET-CT) scans, Meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scans, Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography), (FDG-PET) scans, Electrocardiograms (EKGs), tumor biopsies, and blood tests.

It is expected that about 25 people will take part in this research study.

Zentalis Pharmaceuticals is supporting this research study by providing the study drug Azenosertib.