Patient-Reported Outcomes Following Chemoradiotherapy for Locally Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate patient-reported outcomes during and after concurrent chemoradiotherapy for locally-advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Patients will be randomized to a standard 6-week radiotherapy course or a 4-week radiotherapy course using dose-painting based on pre-treatment PET findings.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: PET-based, dose-painted, accelerated chemoradiotherapy|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Standard chemoradiotherapy
PRO-CTCAE adverse events with score ≥ 3, observed 6 weeks after initiation of chemoradiotherapy, 6 Weeks after initiation of Chemoradiation
Locoregional progression-free survival, Lack of local disease progression based on repeat imaging, Weeks 19, 32 and 45 on study|Progression-free survival, Lack of any disease progression based on repeat imaging, Weeks 19, 32 and 45 on study|Overall survival, Follow ups will be maintained with study patients to determine survival status, From treatment start through 5 years post treatment|Grade 3-5 adverse events, scored using CTCAE v. 4, Evaluation of any side effects or toxicities using a standard grading system, From treatment start through study week 45|PRO-CTCAE adverse events with score ≥ 3 at any time, Evaluation of severe, patient reported side effects or toxicities, From treatment start through study week 45|PRO-CTCAE adverse events with any score, Evaluation of any patient reported side effects or toxicities, From treatment start through study week 45
This study is open for patients with non-small cell lung cancer. This study offers such patients the chance for a shorter and more personalized treatment course utilizing PET imaging.

Patients will be stratified based on performance status and tumor size and randomized to one of two treatment plans:

1. PET-based, dose-painted, accelerated chemoradiotherapy over 4 weeks (20 radiotherapy fractions)
2. Standard chemoradiotherapy over 6 weeks (30 radiotherapy fractions)

All patients will receive standard weekly doses of chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) during radiotherapy. This may be followed by adjuvant systemic therapy, at the discretion of the treating physicians.

All patients will undergo standard evaluations prior to enrollment, during treatment, and after treatment. Additionally, patient-reported outcomes will be assessed periodically using a PRO-CTCAE tool.