5-Azacytidine Prior to Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant in High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
The purpose of this study is to examine the feasibility and efficacy of using the demethylating agent 5-Azacytidine prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with high risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: 5-azacytidine
One Year Overall Survival of Allogeneic Transplant Recipients After Transplantation, Percentage of patients alive one year after their transplantation, as estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The estimated one year survival rate from this curve is 50%, while the estimated two year survival rate is 50%., 1 year|Two Year Overall Survival of Allogeneic Transplant Recipients After Transplantation, Percentage of patients alive two years after their transplantation, as estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The estimated two year survival rate is 50%, the same as one year survival rate., 2 years|One Year Event Free Survival (EFS) for Allogeneic Transplant Recipients After Transplantation, Percentage of participants that received allogeneic transplant and had event free survival, as estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The events analyzed are evidence of molecular, cytogenetic or histologic relapse or death from any cause. The estimated one-year event-free survival rate is the same as overall survival, 50%., 1 year|Two Year Event Free Survival (EFS) for Allogeneic Transplant Recipients After Transplantation, Percentage of participants that received allogeneic transplant and had event free survival. The percentage of patients was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The events analyzed are evidence of molecular, cytogenetic or histologic relapse or death from any cause. The estimated two-year event-free survival rate is the same as overall survival, 50%., 2 years
One-year Overall Survival From Time of Treatment Initiation With 5-Azacytidine for All Study Cohorts, Percentage of participants alive one year after their first treatment was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The events analyzed are evidence of molecular, cytogenetic or histologic relapse or death from any cause. Patients alive at the time of last observation will be censored. The estimated one year overall survival rate from this curve is 47%. The one year overall survival is the same as one year event free survival rate., 1 year|Two-year Overall Survival From Time of Treatment Initiation With 5-Azacytidine for All Study Cohorts., Percentage of participants alive two years after their first treatment was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The events analyzed are evidence of molecular, cytogenetic or histologic relapse or death from any cause. Patients alive at the time of last observation will be censored.The estimated two year survival rate is 37% .The estimated two-year overall survival rate is the same as two-year event free survival., 2 years|One-year Event-free Survival From Time of Treatment Initiation With 5-Azacytidine for All Study Cohorts, Percentage of participants with one year event free survival after their first treatment was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The events analyzed are evidence of molecular, cytogenetic or histologic relapse or death from any cause. Patients alive at the time of last observation will be censored.The estimated one-year event-free survival rate is the same as for overall survival, 47% (SE = 13.6%)., 1 year|Two-year Event-free Survival From Time of Treatment Initiation With 5-Azacytidine for All Study Cohorts, Percentage of participants with two year event free survival after their first treatment was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. The events analyzed are evidence of molecular, cytogenetic or histologic relapse or death from any cause. Patients alive at the time of last observation will be censored.The estimated two- year event-free survival rate is the same as for overall survival, 37% (SE = 14.3%)., 2 years
The study drug, 5-azacytidine, is given daily intravenously for 7 days. After every 2 cycles study participants will have a bone marrow test to evaluate the effect of the 5-azacytidine on the Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS). Participants continue to get cycles of 5-Azacytidine until 2 bone marrow tests show the MDS has stopped responding to the treatment. At that time they will undergo a transplant if a donor is available.