The Utility and Feasibility of Mt-sDNA as a Surveillance Procedure in Colorectal Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this research study is to determine whether testing of stool for a panel of markers will enable us to detect polyps and cancer compared to standard testing.
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Stage I Colorectal Cancer|Stage II Colorectal Cancer|Stage III Colorectal Cancer
Sensitivity of mt-sDNA compared to Colonoscopy, Compare the results between mt-sDNA (categorized as a single positive or negative result) with the findings at colonoscopy, the "gold standard". Colonoscopy will be considered positive if an adenoma or carcinoma is found and otherwise negative.

Sensitivity is defined as True Positive (TP)/(TP+ False Negative (FN)), at 1 and 4 years|Specificity of mt-sDNA compared to Colonoscopy, Compare the results between mt-sDNA (categorized as a single positive or negative result) with the findings at colonoscopy, the "gold standard". Colonoscopy will be considered positive if an adenoma or carcinoma is found and otherwise negative.

Specificity is defined as True Negative (TN)/(TN+ False Positive (FP)), at 1 and 4 years|Participant acceptance of mt-sDNA as a follow up strategy compared to colonoscopy as measured by the Stool Test Satisfaction Survey., Participant acceptance as measured by the Stool Test Satisfaction Survey, which includes 14 questions scored on a Likert scale. Possible scores ranging from 14 - 70, with higher scores indicating better outcomes.

Responses will be grouped based on the distribution, but most likely as 1-2 (neutral, unfavorable or least favorable ) versus 3-5 (most favorable or very favorable)., at 1 and 4 years
Participants who were diagnosed with Stage I-III colorectal cancer will undergo testing with mt-sDNA followed by a questionnaire about satisfaction with mt-sDNA (multitarget stool DNA panel), prior to their scheduled colonoscopies at years 1 and 4 after diagnosis.

Participants will be asked to provide a stool sample for mt-sDNA (Cologuard) testing that will be collected within 90 days before their scheduled colonoscopy. The kit will be given to the participant by study personnel and mailed back directly to Exact Science.