Effectiveness of Medical Taping Concept in Cancer Patients
Nausea and vomiting are two of the side effects associated with the most common antineoplastic chemotherapy treatments. The Medical Taping Concept (MTC) is an economical technique, easy to apply. This is a technique that may help reduce nausea and vomiting after application of chemotherapy in cancer patient.
Cancer-related Problem/Condition
DEVICE: Cure Tape™ covering T 7 and T 8 dermatomes|DEVICE: Cure Tape™ away from dermatomes T 7 and T 8
Difference between Number of times you have vomited during the first 24 hours after the first chemotherapy session and after the second chemotherapy session, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ........., 24 hours after the first chemotherapy session and 24 hours after the second chemotherapy session|Difference between nausea after the first chemotherapy session and after the second chemotherapy session, Nausea (Yes / No), 24 hours after the first chemotherapy session and 24 hours after the second chemotherapy session|Difference between Intensity of nausea in the experience of the participant after the first chemotherapy session and after the second chemotherapy sessionintervention and pre-intervention, numerical scale from 0 to 10 (0 = No / 10 = maximum), 24 hours after the first chemotherapy session and 24 hours after the second chemotherapy session
Difference between Quality of life post-intervention and pre-intervention, EQ-5D™ is a standardised instrument for use as a measure of health outcome, 24 hours after chemotherapy and 4 days after chemotherapy
Nausea and vomiting are two of the side effects associated with the most common antineoplastic chemotherapy treatments. There are some studies that support the use of physical measures such as TENS or acupuncture to lessen these effects.

The Medical Taping Concept (MTC) is an economical technique, easy to apply and few side effects. In some manuals on this technique the possibility that it may act to reduce nausea and vomiting described. Sim But after a comprehensive literature search have not found jobs to support these assumptions. With this work, the research team will attempt to obtain evidence on the effects of its application in the areas of influence of the dermatome T7 and T8. For this, two adhesive tapes of this type of bandage is placed on the front and back on a group of patients after receiving chemotherapy session and compared with a control group that will apply this technique outside the dermatome indicated . Both groups will receive antiemetics according to the service routine. If the hypothesis were positive it could extend the application of this simple technique to cancer patients from other centers in order to help reduce nausea and vomiting.