Ipilimumab With or Without Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving ipilimumab with or without sargramostim (GM-CSF) works in treating patients with stage III or stage IV melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Ipilimumab works by activating the patient's immune system to fight cancer. Colony-stimulating factors, such as sargramostim, may increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help the immune system recover from the side effects of treatment. It is not yet known whether giving ipilimumab together with sargramostim is more effective than ipilimumab alone in treating melanoma.
Advanced Melanoma|Metastatic Melanoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7|Unresectable Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Sargramostim
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Response and disease progression will be evaluated using the international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1). Disease progression is defined as \>= 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study) and the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions is also considered progression., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years|Proportion of Patients With Objective Response, Objective response was evaluated using RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST criteria, complete response (CR) = disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). Partial response (PR)= At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. To be assigned a status of partial response, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by a repeat assessment performed no less than four weeks after the criteria for response is met. Objective response = CR + PR., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall survival for the combination of sargramostim (GM-CSF) plus ipilimumab and ipilimumab alone in patients with advanced melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression-free survival, response rate, safety and tolerability for the combination of GM-CSF plus ipilimumab and ipilimumab alone in patients with advanced melanoma.

II. To explore the utility of immune related response criteria (irRC) prospectively in patients receiving ipilimumab.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive induction therapy comprising ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 and sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) once daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles. After 12 weeks of induction treatment, anti-tumor response is assessed and patients then receive maintenance therapy comprising ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and sargramostim SC once daily on days 1-14. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 12 weeks and treatment with sargramostim repeats every 21 days. After 12 weeks of maintenance therapy, anti-tumor response is reassessed and patients with responsive or stable disease then continue maintenance therapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive induction therapy comprising ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles. After 12 weeks of induction treatment, anti-tumor response is assessed and patients then receive maintenance therapy of ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 12 weeks. After 12 weeks of maintenance therapy, anti-tumor response is reassessed and cycles repeat every 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.