64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab PET for the Study of PD1 Expression
This phase I trial evaluates the best dose and side effects of copper (64Cu)-DOTA-pembrolizumab positron emission tomography (PET) for the study of PD1 expression. 64Cu is a radiotracer that binds to a molecule, PD1, that is found on immune cells that are found in the tumor. PD1 is short for 'programmed cell death protein 1'. When 64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab is injected into the patient's bloodstream, the 64Cu-pembrolizumab travels throughout the body and sticks to any tumor that has PD1 positive immune cells. Identifying the expression of PD1 in the tumor may help assess whether patients will respond to immunotherapy, and may detect clusters of immune cells when they are still too small to be detected by other Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved techniques.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
RADIATION: Copper Cu 64-DOTA-pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Observed toxicities will be summarized, for all dose levels, in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study agent(s) and reversibility or outcome., Up to 3 days|Dose limiting toxicity, During the first 3 days post the administration of radiolabeled pembrolizumab
Detection of lesions in the body by 64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab positron emission tomography, Up to 3 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess safety and tolerability of unlabeled pembrolizumab followed by 64Cu-tetraxetan (DOTA)-pembrolizumab positron emission tomography, at each dose level, by evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Generate initial estimates of the biodistribution of the 64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab and the preferred dose of cold antibody.

II. Determine the dose of pre-administered unlabeled pembrolizumab that improves image quality by qualitative assessment by the radiologist of 64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab.

III. Evaluate the performance of 64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab in detecting tumor lesions.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab.

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes, and within 6 hours also receive 64Cu-DOTA-pembrolizumab via slow IV push over \> 1 minute on day 0. Patients then undergo PET over 60 minutes on day 1.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 days.