Nivolumab and Pomalidomide in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Central Nervous System Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma or Primary Vitreoretinal Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
This phase I trials studies side effects and best dose of pomalidomide when given together with nivolumab in treating patients with primary central nervous system diffuse large B cell lymphoma or primary vitreoretinal diffuse large B cell lymphoma that has come back or that has not responded to treatment. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pomalidomide and nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Recurrent Nervous System Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Vitreoretinal DLBCL|Refractory Nervous System Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Vitreoretinal DLBCL
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Pomalidomide
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of pomalidomide, The MTD in this study will be defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients)., Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events, Will be evaluated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The number and severity of all adverse events will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population both overall and by dose level. The grade 3+ adverse events will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion., Up to 12 weeks following end of treatment.|Percentage of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events Considered At Least Possibly Related to Treatment, The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns within patient groups. In addition, we will review all adverse event data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The overall toxicity rates (percentages) for grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment are reported below., Up to 12 weeks following end of treatment
Overall response rate (ORR), Will be estimated by the number of patients with an objective status of complete response (CR), unconfirmed complete response (CRu), or partial response (PR) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. All evaluable patients will be used for this analysis. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 4 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to progression or death due to primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) or primary vitreoretinal lymphoma (PVRL), assessed up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by CTCAE version 5.0. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns., Up to 12 weeks following treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pomalidomide which can be safely combined with the fixed dose schedule of nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) and primary vitreoretinal lymphoma (PVRL). (Phase I)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) and progression free survival (PFS) of nivolumab and pomalidomide combination in patients with relapsed/refractory PCNSL and PVRL.

OUTLINE: This is dose-escalation study of pomalidomide.

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and pomalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 weeks, then every 3 months for 4 years.