A Study to Evaluate the Effectiveness and Safety of CG5503 (Tapentadol) in the Treatment of Chronic Tumor Related Pain Compared With Placebo and Morphine
The purpose of this study is to determine whether CG5503 (tapentadol) is effective and safe in the treatment of chronic tumor related pain compared to placebo.
Pain|Neoplasm|Cancer
DRUG: Tapentadol in the Titration Phase|DRUG: Morphine in the Maintenance Phase|DRUG: Matching Placebo in the Maintenance Phase after Tapentadol in the Titration Phase|DRUG: Tapentadol in the Maintenance Phase|DRUG: Morphine in the Titration Phase
Responder Rates in Maintenance Period, A "responder" is a participant in the study that:

1. completed 28 days of the maintenance phase
2. had a numeric rating scale score below 5 on the 11 point scale (where 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates worst possible pain. This twice daily current pain score was averaged over Day 18 to Day 43.
3. did not use more than 30 mg of rescue medication per day on average in the 28 day (excluding the first 3 days) maintenance period (from Day 18 to Day 43).

A participant that met all 3 of the above-mentioned criteria is counted as a responder, in other words the participant benefited from the assigned drug treatment. A participant that fails to meet at least 1 of the 3 criteria is not counted as a responder., End of the 4 week Maintenance Phase (Day 43)
Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC), The Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) is an instrument where the participant indicates their perceived change at the end of a treatment phase. The overall participant status assessed using Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) self-assessment questionnaire which was used by participants to report on 7 categories listed as follows; Very Much Improved, Much Improved, Minimally Improved, No Change, Minimally Worse, Much Worse and Very Much Worse in tapentadol and morphine at Day 15 (Start of Maintenance Phase) and repeated in participants completing the Maintenance Phase in the Matching Placebo, Tapentadol and Morphine (Day 43)., Day 15 corresponds with PGIC at end of titration phase; Day 43 corresponds with PGIC at end of maintenance phase
Normally chronic tumor related pain is controlled when subjects receive repeated doses of opioid analgesics. However, opioid therapy is commonly associated with side effects such as nausea, vomiting, sedation, constipation, addiction, tolerance, and respiratory depression. Tapentadol, a newly synthesized drug with an Prolonged Release (ER) formulation, also acts as a centrally acting pain reliever but has a dual mode of action.

The aim of this trial is to investigate the effectiveness (level of pain control) and safety (side effects) of Tapentadol Prolonged Release (ER) compared to a tablet with no active ingredient drug (placebo) and a corresponding dose of Morphine (an opioid commonly used to treat tumor related pain). This trial is a randomized, double-blind (neither investigator nor patient will know which treatment was received), active- and placebo-controlled, parallel-group, randomized-withdrawal, multicenter trial. To maintain the blind all subjects were re-randomized at the start of the maintenance period. To maintain the blind all tapentadol subjects were re-randomized at the start of the maintenance period. Subjects that received morphine in the titration period continued in the maintenance period on morphine.

The trial includes a 2 week titration phase starting with either 45 mg Morphine Sulfate Controlled Release (CR) twice daily or 100 mg tapentadol ER taken twice daily (bid). Based on effectiveness and side effects participants can up-titrate in steps of 50 mg Tapentadol ER or 15 mg Morphine Sulfate CR to a maximal dose of 250 mg Tapentadol ER bid or 90 mg Morphine Sulfate CR twice daily respectively. If subjects meet the stabilization criteria at the end of the titration phase they will be re-randomized to either placebo or active treatment and will continue 4 weeks at the last dose level in the maintenance phase.

Assessments of pain relief, defined as a responder include the pain intensity numeric rating scale (NRS). The Patient Global Impression of Change scale (PGIC) will also be used as a secondary efficacy endpoint. Safety evaluations include monitoring of adverse events, physical examinations, and clinical laboratory tests. Venous blood samples will be collected for the determination of serum concentrations of tapentadol.