Gemcitabine/Cisplatin +/-Cetuximab in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic EGFR-Positive Pancreatic Cancer
This is multicenter, open-label, randomized, phase II trial in patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Primary objective: objective response rate. Secondary objectives: safety, time to disease progression, median duration of response, time to treatment failure, overall survival time, correlation between bio-pathological characterization (EGFR, akt, MAPks) objective response and survival
Pancreatic Cancer
GENETIC: cetuximab
Overall survival, A subject's survival time will be defined as the time from randomization to the date of his or her death. If the subject has not died, survival will be censored on last date the subject was known to be alive.
response to treatment, and toxicity, the time from randomization until the date of discontinuation of treatment or progression or death
During the last years, the esocrine pancreatic carcinoma presented a slow but constant increase of incidence. Chemotherapy determined disappointing results. Gemcitabine determined a slight advantage in survival and clinical benefit in comparison with gemcitabine with cisplatin or oxaliplatin Elevated expression of EGFR or its ligand correlates with worse prognosis in a variety of human cancers including pancreatic cancer. Therefore, blockade of EGFR activity would provide a novel strategy for the treatment of cancer. Cetuximab (C225) is a human/murine chimeric monoclonal antibody directed to the EGFR binding site. In a preclinical setting, Cetuximab has demonstrated anticancer activity both in cell culture experiments and in "in vivo" tumor xenograft animal model Since the combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin seems to be the more effective treatment for advanced pancreatic cancer and Cetuximab may improve activity of this combination we designed this phase II randomised trial to assess the role of Cetuximab in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin in pancreatic cancer.