Augmentation of the Graft vs. Leukemia Effect Via Checkpoint Blockade With Pembrolizumab
This is a single arm, open-label, Phase 1b study of pembrolizumab for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) whose disease has relapsed after receiving allogeneic hematopoetic stem cell transplant.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
The Number of Patients That Demonstrate Clinical Benefit From Treatment, This study will assess if the study drug is promising for further study. The study drug will be considered promising if at least 4 patients receive a clinical benefit or if any complete response is seen. Clinical benefit is defined as either stable disease, partial remission or complete remission to treatment.

Complete remission (CR) will be defined as achieving a morphologic leukemia free state by achieving all of the following criteria: bone marrow myeloblasts \< 5% by morphologic assessment; AND absence of circulating blasts with phenotypic or morphologic features of leukemia (e.g. Auer rods) AND no evidence of extramedulary disease.

Partial remission (PR) will be defined as a ≥ 50% reduction in bone marrow blast percentage to 5-25% or marrow blasts \< 5% with persistent Auer rods, flow cytometric or cytogenetic disease.

SD will be defined as ≤ 5% increase in blasts or decreased blast percentage in the bone marrow that does not meet the criteria for PR., Day 77|The Number of Patients That Respond to Treatment, This study will assess the number of patients that respond to treatment by overall response rate (ORR). ORR is defined as the number of patients will complete remission and partial remission.

Complete remission (CR) will be defined as achieving a morphologic leukemia free state by achieving all of the following criteria: bone marrow myeloblasts \< 5% by morphologic assessment; AND absence of circulating blasts with phenotypic or morphologic features of leukemia (e.g. Auer rods) AND no evidence of extramedulary disease.

Partial remission (PR) will be defined as a ≥ 50% reduction in bone marrow blast percentage to 5-25% or marrow blasts \< 5% with persistent Auer rods, flow cytometric or cytogenetic disease., Day 77|Graft Versus Host Disease (GvHD) or Other Significant Immune Mediated Toxicities, The number of patients that experience Graft Versus Host Disease (GvHD) or other significant immune mediated toxicities, 30 Days Post Treatment
Overall Survival, The number of patients alive at 1 year, 1 Year|Event- Free Survival, The number of patients alive at 1 year without disease, 1 Year
This is a single arm, open-label, Phase 1b study of pembrolizumab for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) whose disease has relapsed after receiving allogeneic hematopoetic stem cell transplant.