Ruxolitinib and Enzalutamide for the Treatment of Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase I/II tests the safety, side effects and best dose of ruxolitinib in combination with enzalutamide and how well it works in treating patients with prostate cancer that remains despite blocking hormone production (castration-resistant) and that has spread from where it first started to other places in the body (metastatic). Ruxolitinib, a kinase inhibitor, slows down the growth of the tumor by blocking the proteins, JAK1 and JAK2, tumors use to grow. Enzalutamide, an androgen receptor inhibitor, works by blocking the effects of androgen (a male reproductive hormone). This may help stop the growth and spread of tumor cells that need testosterone to grow. Giving ruxolitinib in combination with enzalutamide may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Ruxolitinib
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), DLT will be defined based on the rate of drug-related grade 3-5 adverse events (AEs) experienced. AEs will be assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The proportion of patients at each dose level experiencing each grade level of toxicity will be described. To estimate the frequency and severity of AEs associated with treatment, the proportion of subjects encountering toxicity at each dose level will be reported with exact 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 28 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), MTD will be defined based on the rate of drug-related grade 3-5 adverse events (AEs) experienced. MTD will be the highest dose level at which the probability of a subject experiencing a DLT during cycle 1 falls between 0.23 and 0.33., Up to 28 days
Prostate specific antigen (PSA) reduction of 50% (PSA50) rate, PSA50 response will be defined by at least 50% decline in PSA level from baseline measured at least 3 weeks apart., Up to 6 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the proportion of subjects who experience radiographic response (complete response or partial response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria). Proportion of participants with ORR will be estimated along with corresponding 2-sided exact 95% Clopper-Pearson., Up to 6 months|Incidence of AEs, AEs will be assessed and graded according to CTCAE version 5.0. To estimate the frequency and severity of AEs associated with treatment, the proportion of subjects encountering toxicity at each dose level will be reported with exact 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Objective progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 criteria. Median PFS will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be derived., At start of treatment until clinical progression, death or radiographic progression, assessed up to 2 years
Pharmacokinetics (PK) Cmax, PK will be assessed via measurement in plasma at pre-specified timepoints. PK analysis will be performed on individual serum concentration data. Serum concentrations will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3) percentage, Pharmacodynamics will be assessed through measurement of pSTAT3 percentage in whole blood at pre-specified timepoints., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
This phase I/II tests the safety, side effects and best dose of ruxolitinib in combination with enzalutamide and how well it works in treating patients with prostate cancer that remains despite blocking hormone production (castration-resistant) and that has spread from where it first started to other places in the body (metastatic). Ruxolitinib, a kinase inhibitor, slows down the growth of the tumor by blocking the proteins, JAK1 and JAK2, tumors use to grow. Enzalutamide, an androgen receptor inhibitor, works by blocking the effects of androgen (a male reproductive hormone). This may help stop the growth and spread of tumor cells that need testosterone to grow. Giving ruxolitinib in combination with enzalutamide may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.