Blinatumomab and Auto-HSCT Sandwich Strategy as Consolidation Therapy for B-ALL
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is the main method potentially curing adult B-ALL, but the high treatment-related mortality (NRM) affects overall survival (OS). Autologous stem cell transplantation (auto-HSCT) can significantly reduce NRM but has a higher relapse rate. Studies have confirmed that achieving MRD negativity before Auto-HSCT can effectively reduce post-transplant relapse, achieving similar efficacy to allo-HSCT. The efficacy of blinatumomab in clearing MRD has been confirmed. Therefore, using blinatumomab combined with Auto-HSCT for B-ALL patients seems to make it possible to achieve benefits in leukemia free survival（LFS） and OS. The investigators first conducted blinatumomab and auto-HSCT "sandwich " strategy as consolidation therapy in patients with B-ALL. The main Purpose of this study was to observe the safety and efficacy of this new strategy.
B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: blinatumomab and auto-HSCT "sandwich " strategy
Overall survival（OS）, It is measured from the date of entry into this trial to the date of death from any cause; patients not known to have died at last follow-up are censored on the date they were last known to be alive., 4 years|leukemia free survival（LFS）, It is measured from the date of achievement of a remission until the date of relapse from CR, or CRi, or death from any cause; patients not known to have any of these events are censored on the date they were last examined., 4 years
Number of adverse events, Adverse events are evaluated with CTCAE V5.0 from the date of entry into this trial., 4 years
Enrolled patients received induction chemotherapy with the IVP regimen and two cycles of consolidation chemotherapy: high-dose cytarabine (Ara-c) + pegaspargase (± Tyrosine kinase inhibitors ,TKI) and methotrexate (MTX) + pegaspargase (± TKI). Sequential treatment with blinatumomab was then administered. After the first treatment with blinatumomab, autologous stem cell mobilization and collection were performed. Following successful stem cell collection, autologous stem cell transplantation was conducted. Starting from the third month after autologous stem cell transplantation, the second maintenance treatment with blinatumomab was administered, with one cycle every three months, for a total of four cycles. Long-term follow-up monitoring was then conducted. The follow-up period for this study was two years, and data on two-year LFS, OS, and NRM rates were collected.