A Pilot Study of Working Women and Breast Cancer
The purpose of this research is to better understand the relationship between employment and breast cancer. Research is being conducted to understand how workplace factors influence breast cancer patients' ability to adhere to recommended cancer treatment and effectively recover from cancer. Investigators hope to use the findings from the study to help working breast cancer survivors make informed decisions about treatment and employment in collaboration with their employers and healthcare providers.
Breast Cancer
Guideline concordant breast cancer treatment as defined by National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology and oncologist assessments., Differences in receipt of guideline-concordant breast cancer treatment between working poor and working non-poor survivors as explained by variations in occupation and work organization factors associated with each group of women. Guideline-concordant treatment will be informed by National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology and oncologist assessments., 6 months
Breast cancer treatment adherence, including completion of prescribed chemotherapy regimens, prescribed radiation treatment regimen, and/or surgical follow-up appointments., Differences in breast cancer treatment adherence rates between working poor and non-poor survivors as explained by variations in occupation and work organization factors associated with each group of women., 6 months|Satisfaction with breast cancer treatment decision-making, Differences in satisfaction with breast cancer treatment decision-making between working poor and working non-poor survivors as explained by variations in occupation and work organization factors associated with each group of women., 6 months|Quality of life, Differences in quality of life measures between working poor and working non-poor survivors explained by variations in occupation and work organization factors associated with each group of women., 6 months
Patients enrolled will be interviewed three times over a six month period. They will be asked questions about their experiences in managing their cancer while taking care of their job responsibilities. Patients will be asked to complete a survey that asks questions about their breast cancer treatment, their job, and how they manage their responsibilities while undergoing cancer treatment.

The first initial meeting will be conducted at a time and location that is convenient for the patient. This meeting should last about an hour to an hour and a half.

Three and six months after the initial interview, study participants will be asked to complete a follow-up survey by either telephone or Internet/Web, depending on their preference. These telephone surveys will last between 15-30 minutes.