Study of Intensity Modulated Total Marrow Irradiation (IM-TMI) in Addition to Fludarabine/Busulfan Conditioning for Allogeneic Transplantation in High Risk AML and Myelodysplastic Syndromes
The study is a Phase II clinical trial. Patients will receive intensity modulated total marrow irradiation (TMI) at a dose of 9 Gy with standard myeloablative fludarabine/ i.v. targeted busulfan (FluBu) conditioning prior to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT).
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: ATG|RADIATION: Total Marrow Irradiation|PROCEDURE: Stem Cell Product Infusion|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Methotrexate
Relapse free survival of approximately 30% in high-risk patients conditioned with the Fludarabine/ Busulfan regimen, Using a Simon 2 stage optimal design with α of 0.05 and power of 0.8, 15 patients will be enrolled in the first stage. If greater than 5 patients survive to 1 year without relapse the study will continue into stage 2. Recruitment will then continue to a total of 46 patients. In this expanded cohort, if a total of 18 or more patients survive to 1 year without relapse, the treatment will be judged efficacious and worthy of further study., Up to 1 year
Relapse free survival, It will be estimated and reported with 90% confidence intervals. The proportion of patients who are alive at 1-year will also be estimated with a 90% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 1 year|Overall survival, It will be estimated and reported with 90% confidence intervals. The proportion of patients who are alive at 1-year will also be estimated with a 90% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 1 year|Transplant related mortality rate, After accrual of 10 patients, analysis will be performed to ensure that the mortality rate does not exceed 30%. By calculation of confidence intervals to ensure the TRM not exceed 30%, accrual would be halted if n= 6 of 10 (lower bound of the exact, one-sided 90% CI is 35.4%)., Up to 1 year
Patients will receive the following conditioning regimen: fludarabine 40 mg/m2 IVBP daily for day -5 (5 days before stem cell infusion) through Day -2, IV busulfan targeting a 4800μM/min/ day from day -5 through day -2, and ATG (Thymoglobulin®) at 0.5 mg/kg IV on day -3, and 2 mg/kg on days -2 and day -1 (Only for recipients of stem cells from unrelated or mismatched donors). In addition to the above conditioning regimen all patients will receive TMI at a dose of 3Gy on days -3, -2 and -1. On day 0, the stem cell product will be infused according to BMT unit policy. Graft versus host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis will consist of administration of tacrolimus and methotrexate (see Section 8). Post-transplant evaluation will be done as per standard care with study data collected at day 30, 60, 90, 180, 365 and 2 years.