Tepotinib With Gefitinib in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic NSCLC (INSIGHT)
This is a multi-center, open-label, randomized, Phase 1b/2 study to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and to evaluate the efficacy in terms of progression free survival (PFS) of Tepotinib when used in combination with gefitinib in partcipants with T790M negative, MET positive locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation and having acquired resistance to Prior EGFR-Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) Therapy. This study has 2:1 randomization (Tepotinib/Gefitinib arm versus Chemotherapy arm).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Tepotinib|DRUG: Gefitinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Phase 1b: Number of Participants Experiencing at Least One Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 4.0 was defined as toxicities at any dose level and judged to be related to the study treatment by investigator and/or the sponsor. DLTs included Grade 4 neutropenia for more than 7 days; Grade greater than or equal to (\>=) 3 febrile neutropenia for more than 1 day; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia or Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with non-traumatic bleeding; Grade \>= 3 uncontrolled nausea/vomiting and/or diarrhea despite adequate and optimal treatment and Grade \>= 3 any non-hematological adverse event (AE), except the aforementioned gastrointestinal events and alopecia. Number of participants who experienced DLT during Phase 1b were reported., Day 1 to Day 21 of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious TEAEs, An AE was defined as any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A serious AE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. The term TEAE is defined as AEs starting or worsening after the first intake of the study drug. TEAEs include both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Number of Participants with TEAEs and serious TEAEs were reported., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 2 (Randomized Part Only): Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on Tumor Assessment by the Investigator, Progression-free survival (assessed by the Investigator) time was defined as the time in months from randomization to either first observation of radiologically confirmed progression disease (PD) by the investigator or occurrence of death due to any cause within 84 days of either randomization or the last tumor assessment. PD is defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study; and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter (mm). PFS was measured using Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., Up to 328 weeks
Phase 1b: Area Under the Plasma Concentration Versus Time Curve From Time Zero to the Last Sampling Time AUC (0-t) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time zero to the last sampling time t at which the concentration is at or above the lower limit of quantification (LLLQ). AUC(0-t) was calculated according to the mixed log-linear trapezoidal rule., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve Within 1 Dosing Interval (AUC 0-tau) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, AUC (0-tau) is the area under the plasma concentration time curve within 1 dosing interval., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Cmax is the maximum observed plasma concentration obtained directly from the concentration versus time curve., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Average Observed Plasma Concentration (Cavg) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Cavg is the average plasma concentration within 1 dosing interval obtained directly from the concentration versus time curve., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Minimum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmin) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Cmin is minimum observed plasma concentration obtained directly from the concentration versus time curve., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Time to Reach Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Tmax is time to reach maximum observed plasma concentration obtained directly from the concentration versus time curve., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve From Time Zero to Infinity (AUC 0-infinity) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, The AUC(0-inf) was estimated by determining the total area under the curve of the concentration versus time curve extrapolated to infinity., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Apparent Total Body Clearance From Plasma (CL/F) of Tepotinib and Gefitinib, The CL/f is a measure of the rate at which it was metabolized or eliminated by normal biological processes. Clearance obtained after oral dose was influenced by the fraction of the dose absorbed. The CL/F from plasma was calculated using the formula: Dose divided by area under the concentration time curve from time zero to infinity (AUC0-inf)., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Apparent Volume of Distribution (Vz/F) During the Terminal Phase of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, The Vz/f was defined as the theoretical volume in which the total amount of required to uniformly distribute to produce the desired plasma concentration. Apparent volume of distribution after oral dose (Vz/F) was influenced by the fraction absorbed. The Vz/f was calculated by dividing the dose with area under the concentration time curve from time zero to infinity multiplied with terminal elimination rate constant Lambda(z). Vz/f=Dose/AUC(0-inf) multiply Lambda(z)., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Apparent Volume of Distribution During the Steady State (Vss/F) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Volume of distribution was defined as the theoretical volume in which the total amount of drug would need to be uniformly distributed to produce the desired plasma concentration of a drug. Vss/f after oral dose was influenced by the fraction absorbed., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Apparent Terminal Elimination Rate Constant Lambda(z) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Lambda(z) was determined from the terminal slope of the log-transformed plasma concentration curve using linear regression method., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Apparent Terminal Half-Life (t1/2) of Tepotinib, Its Metabolites and Gefitinib, Apparent terminal half-life was defined as the time required for the plasma concentration of drug to decrease 50 percent in the final stage of its elimination., Pre dose, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 (each Cycle is 21 days)|Phase 1b: Percentage of Participants With Objective Response Based on Tumor Response Assessment According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) Criteria, Objective response (OR) was defined as the percentage of participants who had achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response according to local radiological assessments from randomization/the first administration of the study treatment to the first observation of disease progression (PD). CR: defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 1b: Percentage of Participants With Disease Control Based on Tumor Response Assessment According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) Criteria, Disease control defined as CR, PR, or stable disease(SD) as the best overall response according to local radiological assessments from the date of randomization/the first administration of the study treatment to the first observation of PD. CR:disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR:at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD:an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm. SD:as any cases that do not qualify for either PR or PD at minimum interval of 42 days after randomization/start of study treatment, Up to 328 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment-Related Serious TEAEs According to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.03, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A serious AE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. Term TEAE was defined as AEs starting/worsening after first intake of the study drug. TEAEs included both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Treatment-related AE was defined as having a "Possible" or "Related" relationship to study treatment, as assessed by the Investigator., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Grade 3/4 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Grade 3/4 Treatment-Related TEAEs According to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 4.03, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in participant which does not necessarily have casual relationship with treatment was any unfavorable and unintended sign(including abnormal laboratory finding), symptom/disease temporally associated with use of medicinal product, whether/not considered related to medicinal product. Term TEAE was defined as AEs starting/worsening after first intake of the study drug. TEAEs included both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Treatment-related TEAE was defined as having a "Possible" or "Related" relationship to study treatment, as assessed by the Investigator. As per NCI-CTCAE, Grade 3 is Severe, Grade 4 is Life-threatening and Grade 5 or Death. Number of participants with Grade 3/4 TEAEs and Grade 3/4 treatment-related TEAEs were reported., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Leading to Permanent Treatment Discontinuation, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A serious AE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. Term TEAE is defined as AEs starting/worsening after first intake of the study drug. TEAEs included both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Number of participants with TEAEs leading to permanent treatment discontinuation were reported., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Death and Reasons, Number of participants with death due to progressive disease (PD), adverse event (AE) related to study treatment, AE not related to study treatment were reported. An AE was defined as any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. PD defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Number of participants with deaths due to PD, AE related to study treatment, AE not related to study treatment were reported., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Laboratory Test Abnormalities of Grade 3 or Higher Severity Based on NCI-CTCAE Version 4.03 Reported as Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), The laboratory measurements included hematology and coagulation, biochemistry and urinalysis., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Vital Signs, Vital signs assessment included blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and body temperature. Number of Participants with any clinically significant abnormalities in vital signs were reported. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in 12-Lead Electrocardiograms (ECG) Findings, ECG parameters included heart rhythm, pulse rate intervals, QRS, QT intervals, RR intervals and corrected QT(QTc) intervals. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator. Number of participants with clinically significant abnormalities in 12-lead ECG were reported., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status Score of 2 or Higher Than 2, ECOG PS score is widely used by doctors and researchers to assess how a participants' disease is progressing, and is used to assess how the disease affects the daily living abilities of the participant, and determine appropriate treatment and prognosis. The score ranges from Grade 0 to Grade 5, where Grade 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction, Grade 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature (like light house work, office work), Grade 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities, Grade 3 = Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours and Grade 4 = Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair, Grade 5 = Death. Number of participants with ECOG performance status score of 2 or higher than 2 were reported., Up to 175 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious TEAEs, Treatment-Related TEAEs and Treatment-Related Serious TEAEs According to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.03, An AE was defined as any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A serious AE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. TEAEs was defined as AEs that started or worsened in severity within the first dosing day of study treatment after the last dose of study treatment. TEAEs include both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs Treatment related AE was defined as having a "Possible" or "Related" relationship to study treatment, as assessed by the Investigator., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Greater Than or Equal to (>=) Grade 3 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and >= Grade 3 Treatment-Related TEAEs According to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.03, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in participant which does not necessarily have casual relationship with treatment was any unfavorable and unintended sign(including abnormal laboratory finding), symptom/disease temporally associated with use of medicinal product, whether/not considered related to medicinal product. Term TEAE is defined as AEs starting/worsening after first intake of the study drug. TEAEs included both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Treatment-related AE was defined as having a "Possible" or "Related" relationship to study treatment, as assessed by the Investigator. As per NCI-CTCAE, Grade 3 is Severe, Grade 4 is Life-threatening and Grade 5 or Death. Number of Participants With \>= Grade 3 TEAEs and \>= Grade 3 treatment-related TEAEs were reported., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Leading to Permanent Treatment Discontinuation, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A serious AE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. Term TEAE is defined as AEs starting/worsening after first intake of the study drug. TEAEs included both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Number of participants with TEAEs leading to permanent treatment discontinuation were reported., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Death and Reasons, An AE was defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. PD defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Number of participants with deaths due to progression disease (PD), AE related to study treatment, unknown reason was reported., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Laboratory Test Abnormalities of Grade 3 or Higher Severity Based on NCI-CTCAE Version 4.03 Reported as Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), The laboratory measurements included hematology and coagulation, biochemistry and urinalysis., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Vital Signs, Vital signs assessment included blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and body temperature. Number of Participants with any clinically significant abnormalities in vital signs were reported. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in 12-Lead Electrocardiograms (ECG) Findings, ECG parameters included heart rhythm, pulse rate intervals, QRS, QT intervals, RR intervals and corrected QT(QTc) intervals. Clinical significance was determined by the investigator. Number of participants with clinically significant abnormalities in 12-lead ECG were reported., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status Score of 2 or Higher Than 2, ECOG PS score is widely used by doctors and researchers to assess how a participants' disease is progressing, and is used to assess how the disease affects the daily living abilities of the participant, and determine appropriate treatment and prognosis. The score ranges from Grade 0 to Grade 5, where Grade 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction, Grade 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature (like light house work, office work), Grade 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities, Grade 3 = Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours and Grade 4 = Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair, Grade 5 = Death. Number of participants with ECOG performance status score of 2 or higher than 2 were reported., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2 (Randomized Part Only): Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on Tumor Assessment by Independent Review Committee (IRC), Progression-free survival (assessed by Independent Review Committee) time was defined as the time in months from randomization to either first observation of radiologically confirmed progression disease (PD) by the IRC or occurrence of death due to any cause within 84 days of either randomization or the last tumor assessment. PD is defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study; and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PFS was measured using Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: (Randomized Part Only): Overall Survival (OS) Time, Overall survival time was measured as time in months between the date of randomization and the date of death., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2 (Randomized Part Only): Percentage of Participants With Objective Response Based on Tumor Response Assessment According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) Criteria, Objective response (OR) was defined as the percentage of participants who had achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response according to local radiological assessments from randomization/the first administration of the study treatment to the first observation of disease progression (PD). CR: defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2 (Randomized Part Only): Percentage of Participants With Disease Control Based on Tumor Response Assessment According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) Criteria, Disease control defined as CR, PR, or stable disease(SD) as the best overall response according to local radiological assessments from the date of randomization/the first administration of the study treatment to the first observation of PD. CR:disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR:at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD:an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm. SD:as any cases that do not qualify for either PR/PD at minimum interval of 42 days after randomization/start of study treatment., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2 (Non-Randomized Part Only): Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on Tumor Assessment by Investigator, Progression-free survival (assessed by Investigator) time was defined as the time in months from randomization to either first observation of radiologically confirmed progression disease by the Investigator or occurrence of death due to any cause within 84 days of either randomization or the last tumor assessment. PD is defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study; and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PFS was measured using Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2 (Non-Randomized Part Only): Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on Tumor Assessment by Independent Review Committee (IRC), Progression-free survival (assessed by Independent Review Committee) time was defined as the time in months from randomization to either first observation of radiologically confirmed progression disease by the IRC or occurrence of death due to any cause within 84 days of either randomization or the last tumor assessment. PD is defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study; and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. PFS was measured using Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: (Non-Randomized Part Only): Overall Survival (OS) Time, Overall survival time was measured as time in months between the date of randomization and the date of death., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2 (Non-Randomized Part Only): Percentage of Participants With Objective Response Based on Tumor Response Assessment According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) Criteria, Objective response (OR) was defined as the percentage of participants who had achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response according to local radiological assessments from randomization/the first administration of the study treatment to the first observation of disease progression (PD). CR: defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2 (Non-Randomized Part Only): Percentage of Participants With Disease Control Based on Tumor Response Assessment According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) Criteria, Disease control defined as CR, PR, or stable disease(SD) as the best overall response according to local radiological assessments from the date of randomization/the first administration of the study treatment to the first observation of PD. CR:disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR:at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD:an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or the presence of new lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm. SD:as any cases that do not qualify for either PR/PD at minimum interval of 42 days after randomization/start of study treatment., Up to 328 weeks|Phase 2: Change From Baseline in European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status Scale Score at End of Treatment (EOT), EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-question tool used to assess the overall quality of life (QoL) in cancer participants. It consisted of 15 domains: 1 global health status (GHS) scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnoea, sleep disturbance, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, financial impact. The EORTC QLQ-C30 GHS/QoL score ranges from 0 to 100; High score indicates better GHS/QoL. Score 0 represents: very poor physical condition and QoL. Score 100 represents: excellent overall physical condition and QoL., Baseline and EOT (up to 110 weeks)|Phase 2: Time-to-Symptom Progression (TTSP), TTSP was measured from randomization to symptomatic progression by lung cancer symptom scale (LCSS) used to measure symptom changes relevant to quality of life (QoL).It consisted of 9 items focused on cancer symptoms (loss of appetite, fatigue, cough, shortness of breath, blood in sputum, pain, symptoms of cancer, illness affecting normal activity, QoL).For each symptom score distance from left boundary to point where participant has marked line was measured in millimeters (mm).Total scale length was 100 mm. Symptomatic progression was defined as increase/worsening of average symptomatic burden index (ASBI) (mean of 6 major lung cancer specific symptom scores);Worsening defined as 10% increase of scale breadth from baseline. Score 0 indicate no/minimum symptoms;100 indicates maximum level of symptoms., Up to 328 weeks
This is a multi-center, open-label, randomized, Phase 1b/2 study to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and to evaluate the efficacy in terms of progression free survival (PFS) of Tepotinib when used in combination with gefitinib in partcipants with T790M negative, MET positive locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation and having acquired resistance to Prior EGFR-Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) Therapy. This study has 2:1 randomization (Tepotinib/Gefitinib arm versus Chemotherapy arm).