Study for Using Radiosurgery on Limited Metastases of Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether radiosurgery, along with standard chemotherapy, immunotherapy (the treatment of cancer by modulating the immune system and immune response), or hormonal therapy, affects the quality and length of life. The standard therapy is surgery, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy alone or in any combination. A second purpose of this study is to determine if the levels of a special type of protein (called cytokines) found in the blood are related to the quality of life while on this treatment.
Breast Cancer, Metastatic
PROCEDURE: Hypofractionated Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Overall Survival, The percent of patients that survived from date of enrollment until 2 year follow-up visit., 2 years|Overall Survival, The percent of patients that survived from date of enrollment until 4 year follow-up visit, 4 years|Overall Survival, The percent of patients that survived from date of enrollment until 6 year follow-up visit, 6 years
Percent of Patients With Lesion Local Control, Lesion local failure was scored as an event if any treated lesion increased by greater than or equal to 20% using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria or local failure was confirmed pathologically. Lesion control includes all participants that did not fall into the category of lesion failure., 6 years|Number of Participants Who Experienced a Grade 4 or 5 Toxicity, Number of participants who experienced a grade 4 or 5 toxicity, 6 years
Before treatment begins, you will have a physical exam and blood tests. Physical evaluations and blood tests will be done each week while you are receiving treatment, and at follow-up visits. You will be seen for follow-up evaluations 4 weeks after treatment is completed, and every three months thereafter. You will be asked to fill out a Quality of Life questionnaire, which should take 5-10 minutes to complete. This will be done prior to treatment and at your follow-up visits. You will receive high dose radiation therapy directed at the site of metastasis. This treatment will be given once a day, 5 times a week (Monday through Friday) for one to four weeks depending on the location and size of the disease to be treated.