Niclosamide and Enzalutamide in Treating Patients With Castration-Resistant, Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of niclosamide when given together with enzalutamide in treating patients with castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread from the primary site to other places in the body. Androgens such as testosterone can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Drugs like enzalutamide block androgens from driving tumor growth; however, when androgen receptor splice variants are present, these drugs may not be effective. Niclosamide may decrease the amount of androgen receptor splice variant present within tumor cells, thus promoting the anti-tumor effects of enzalutamide. Giving niclosamide together with enzalutamide may be a better treatment for prostate cancer.
Castration Levels of Testosterone|Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Enzalutamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Niclosamide|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities, graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Up to 28 days|Recommended phase 2 dose, Up to 28 days
Half-life of niclosamide, Mean niclosamide concentration versus time will be plotted for each dose cohort. Half-life will be reported as a mean for each dose cohort along with the observed ranges., 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 hours and 15 days after the first dose of niclosamide|Maximum concentration of niclosamide, Mean niclosamide concentration versus time will be plotted for each dose cohort. maximum concentration will be reported as a mean for each dose cohort along with the observed ranges., 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 hours and 15 days after the first dose of niclosamide|Minimum concentration of niclosamide, Mean niclosamide concentration versus time will be plotted for each dose cohort. Minimum concentration will be reported as a mean for each dose cohort along with the observed ranges., 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 hours and 15 days after the first dose of niclosamide|PSA response rate, The percent change in PSA will be presented as a waterfall plot, with the rate of PSA response (i.e. \>= 50% decline in PSA from baseline) reported as percentages with 95% confidence intervals., Baseline to up to 28 days|Steady state concentration of niclosamide, Mean niclosamide concentration versus time will be plotted for each dose cohort. Steady state concentration will be reported as means for each dose cohort along with the observed ranges., 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 hours and 15 days after the first dose of niclosamide
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of three-times-daily (TID) oral niclosamide combined with enzalutamide in men with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) that has progressed on abiraterone (abiraterone acetate).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effect of niclosamide plus enzalutamide on androgen receptor splice variant (AR-V) expression as determined by quantitative reverse-transcriptase-polymerase-chain-reaction (qRT-PCR).

II. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of three-times-daily (TID) oral niclosamide in men with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) that has progressed on abiraterone.

III. Determine the prostate specific antigen (PSA) response rate (i.e. proportion of subjects with \>= 50% decline in PSA from pre-study baseline) after 28-days of niclosamide plus enzalutamide.

IV. Determine the effect of niclosamide plus enzalutamide on protein expression and the transcriptional program of circulating tumor cells.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of niclosamide.

Patients receive niclosamide orally (PO) TID and enzalutamide PO daily. Treatment continues for 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 58 and 88.