Social Risk Factors and Discrimination in Cancer Survivorship
The objective of the proposed study is to scale social risk factor screening and referral for cancer survivors and to solidify information exchange between clinical and community settings in order to improve survivor health and well-being. This will be completed through three primary aims: 1) To ascertain workflow and map community resources needed to facilitate social risk factor screening and referral for breast and prostate cancer survivors in Washington, District of Columbia. 2) To determine impact of Community Health Worker (CHW) support on Black breast and prostate cancer survivor health and wellbeing as measured through quality of life (QOL) and social connection. 3) To determine impact of anti-racism training for staff and clinicians at three cancer centers on patient-reported discrimination.
Social Determinants of Health|Breast Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Health Equity|Disparities
BEHAVIORAL: Community Health Worker support
Patient Self-Efficacy, This study will use the following Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System® (PROMIS) self-efficacy for managing chronic conditions 4-item measures: managing daily activities, managing emotions, managing medications and treatments, and managing social interactions. The minimum score on these overall scales is a 16 and the maximum score is 80, in which a higher number represents a higher level of self-efficacy for managing chronic conditions. PROMIS raw scores are then transformed to a t-scale with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10., 6 months|Health-related quality of life (QOL), QOL will be measured using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System® (PROMIS) 29 computer adaptive test, a collection of 4-item adaptive forms assessing physical function, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbance, ability to participate in social roles and activities, pain interference, as well as a single global pain item. For the 4-item forms, the lowest score is 4 and the highest score is 16. Higher scores represent higher levels of physical function, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbance, ability to participate in social roles and activities, pain interference, respectively. The single pain item has a minimum score of 0 and a maximum score of 10, in which a higher score represents a higher level of pain. PROMIS raw scores are then transformed to a t-scale with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10., 6 months|Social connectedness, To measure social connectedness, this study will draw from the item banks for the following Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System® (PROMIS) 2.0 adult item measures: Social Isolation, Emotional Support, Informational Support, and Instrumental Support. Each scale is scored with a minimum score of 4 and a maximum score of 20, in which higher scores represent higher levels of social isolation, emotional support, instrumental support, and informational support, respectively. PROMIS raw scores are then transformed to a t-scale with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10., 6 months|Acceptability of the CHW intervention, A four-item Likert scale will be delivered to relevant clinicians to provide feedback on acceptability of the intervention, 12 months|Appropriateness of the CHW intervention, A four-item Likert scale will be delivered to relevant providers to provide feedback on appropriateness of the intervention, whereby higher scores indicate greater perceived appropriateness., 12 months|Feasibility of the CHW intervention, A four-item Likert scale will be delivered to relevant providers to provide feedback on feasibility of the intervention, whereby higher scores indicate greater perceived feasibility., 12 months|Sustainability Assessment, This study will use the Program Sustainability Assessment Tool annually to assess environmental support, funding stability, partnerships, organizational capacity, program evaluation, program adaptation, communications and strategic planning. The minimum score for this evaluation is 0 and the maximum score is 56. A higher score represents a higher level of program sustainability. Individual categories can also be assessed with a minimum score of 0 and a maximum score of 7 in each, in which a higher score represents higher sustainability in that category., 12 months
Social risk factors, Social risk factors screeners will be administered on the following domains: food insecurity, housing instability, utilities, paying for the basics, employment, transportation, and mental health. These scales are measured uniquely to the electronic health record systems in which they are implemented. Each need is assigned a single point and summed for an overall score., 3 months
Despite improvements in cancer outcomes over time, significant disparities remain between Black and White cancer survivors. It is estimated that clinical care, including access to care and quality of care, accounts for an estimated 20% of health outcomes, while other factors, including social determinants of health (SDoH) and an individual's social risk factors, explain 80% of health outcomes. The goal of this research is thus to simultaneously target unequitable health care systems and accelerate the evidence base for scalable social determinants of health screening and referral to reduce inequities in cancer survivor health and well-being. This project is intended to establish sustainable clinical-community linkages and improve survivor health and well-being. Understanding the burden of social needs in this population, the available community resources, and solidifying integrated, closed-loop referral systems to address those needs is critical to improving quality of life for cancer survivors. The long-term goal of this research is to develop scalable interventions to address social needs and support for cancer survivors.

The study aims to: 1) improve care coordination and information exchange through mapping available resources for cancer survivors across Washington DC and building a universal screening and referral process at three cancer centers in DC; 2) determine impact of Community Health Worker (CHWs) support on cancer survivor health and wellbeing as measured through social connection and quality of life; 3) determine impact of anti-racism (inclusive of SDOH) training for staff and clinicians at three cancer centers on provider cultural competency and patient reported perceived discrimination.

Furthermore, this work evaluates the implementation, impact, and causal mechanisms of SDOH collection and referral to reduce racial inequities among cancer survivors. The investigators include innovative approaches to linking clinics and communities drawing on systems engineering and social network analyses and supported by ongoing DC efforts to bolster health information exchange systems to address social needs. Our approach is also integrated with existing community resources including key community-based organizations in the Washington DC region.

Results from this study will provide the foundation for future research examining the intervention's generalizability to other marginalized cancer survivors and sustainability of the proposed screening and referral system. Findings will also provide a basis for further research on community health workers to support our target population, to improve shared resources in supporting cancer survivors, and to maintain relevance within the evolving health information exchange environment.