Compare Bevacizumab in Combination With Erlotinib Versus Erlotinib Alone in NSCLC Patients Activating EGFR Mutations
This is a randomized, open-label, controlled, multicenter, Phase III study. Patients will be randomly assigned to treatment group (1:1) through a dynamic randomization process with use of the following stratification factors: sex (female/male), disease stage (stage IIIb vs. stage IV vs. recurrence), and EGFR gene mutation (exon 19 deletion vs. exon 21 L858R).
NSCLC
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Erlotinib
Progression-free survival (PFS) by IRC, To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab combined with erlotinib compared with erlotinib alone in patients with NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations, as measured by independent review committee assessed progression-free survival using RECIST v1.1, The primary PFS analysis will be performed when approximately 224 PFS events (disease progression or death, whichever occurs first) have occurred, which is estimated to occur at approximately 18 months after enrollment of the last patient.
Progression-free survival (PFS) by investigator using RECIST v1.1, To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab combined with erlotinib compared with erlotinib alone in patients with NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations, as measured by investigators assessed progression-free survival using RECIST v1.1, The primary PFS analysis will be performed when approximately 224 PFS events (disease progression or death, whichever occurs first) have occurred, which is estimated to occur at approximately 18 months after enrollment of the last patient.|Objective response rate (ORR) by IRC using RECIST v1.1, To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab combined with erlotinib compared with erlotinib alone in patients with NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations, as measured by independent review committee assessed objective response rate using RECIST v1.1, baseline overall tumor assessment can be performed up to 28 days prior to randomization. Post-baseline assessment will be performed every six weeks until 1st disease progression, through study completion, an average of 2 years.|Objective response rate (ORR) by investigator using RECIST v1.1, To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab combined with erlotinib compared with erlotinib alone in patients with NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations, as measured by investigators assessed objective response rate using RECIST v1.1, baseline overall tumor assessment can be performed up to 28 days prior to randomization. Post-baseline assessment will be performed every six weeks until 1st disease progression, through study completion, an average of 2 years.|Disease control rate (DCR) by IRC using RECIST v1.1, Disease control rate (DCR) will be analyzed using similar method as objective response rate., That is expected to be approximately 57 months.|Disease control rate (DCR) by investigator using RECIST v1.1, Disease control rate (DCR) will be analyzed using similar method as objective response rate., That is expected to be approximately 57 months.|Duration of response(DOR) by IRC using RECIST v1.1, Duration of response(DOR) will be analyzed using similar method as objective response rate., That is expected to be approximately 57 months.|Duration of response(DOR) by investigator using RECIST v1.1, Duration of response(DOR) will be analyzed using similar method as objective response rate., That is expected to be approximately 57 months.|Overall survival(OS), To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab combined with erlotinib compared with erlotinib alone in patients with NSCLC harbouring activating EGFR mutations, as measured by investigators assessed overall survival ., That is expected to be approximately 57 months.
This is a randomized, open-label, controlled, multicenter, Phase III study. Patients will be randomly assigned to treatment group (1:1) through a dynamic randomization process with use of the following stratification factors: sex (female/male), disease stage (stage IIIb vs. stage IV vs. recurrence), and EGFR gene mutation (exon 19 deletion vs. exon 21 L858R).

An independent review committee (IRC) will be used to determine the response based study endpoints. IRC membership and procedures will be detailed in an IRC charter.

A data safety monitoring board (DSMB) will be used in this study. DSMB is an independent body and will be responsible for reviewing safety data of the study. DSMB membership and procedures will be detailed in a separate DSMB document.

Information regarding the nature and the duration of subsequent treatment will be collected.