Perifosine in Treating Patients With Recurrent Prostate Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of perifosine in treating patients who have recurrent prostate cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy such as perifosine use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: perifosine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
PSA Response, A PSA normalization (PSA-N) - was recorded on case report forms for any evaluation in which the PSA level was undetectable (\< 0.1 ng/mL). If the PSA-N response was confirmed by a second measurement ≥ 4 weeks later, the patient's best PSA response was considered PSA-N. PSA-PR was recorded if the PSA decreased by ≥ 50% from baseline (pretreatment) values and confirmed by a second measurement ≥ 4 weeks later. PSA-PD was recorded upon the appearance of ≥ 1 new lesion on radiographs consistent with metastatic disease, an absolute increase in PSA value of 5 ng/mL relative to the lowest postenrollment PSA value (including the baseline PSA value), or if the PSA doubling time was \< 2 months. PSA-SD constituted responses that did not qualify for PSA-N, PSA-PR, or PSA-PD. Response = PSA-N + PSA-PR., Up to 6 years
Time to Progression, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression was defined as the appearance of ≥ 1 new lesion on radiographs consistent with metastatic disease, an absolute increase in PSA value of 5 ng/mL relative to the lowest postenrollment PSA value (including the baseline PSA value), or if the PSA doubling time was \< 2 months., From the date of registration to the date of documented PSA progression, assessed up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the PSA response in prostate cancer patients with only biochemical recurrence after local curative therapy who are then treated with perifosine.

II. To assess the secondary endpoints of a) six-month increase in PSA levels compared to baseline, b) PSA doubling time and c) time to PSA progression in prostate cancer patients receiving perifosine.

III. To evaluate the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of this agent in this patient population.

IV. To investigate potential molecular markers predictive of decreased PSADT and possibly PSA response in prostate cancer patients receiving perifosine.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior therapy (surgery vs radiotherapy with or without brachytherapy vs surgery and radiotherapy) and original combined Gleason score (7 or less vs 8-10).

Patients receive oral perifosine once daily on days 1-28. On day 1 of course 1 only, patients receive 2 doses of oral perifosine. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with progressive disease by PSA alone may receive up to 3 additional courses of therapy after documentation of progression.