A Study of Durvalumab Plus Tremelimumab With Chemotherapy in Untreated ES-SCLC
This study is designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of durvalumab and tremelimumab in combination with intravenous (IV) carboplatin plus (+) etoposide in new patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC).
Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Durvalumab + Tremelimumab in combination with carboplatin and etoposide|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Durvalumab in combination with carboplatin and etoposide
Incidence of Treatment-related Adverse Events with a Severity of 3 or higher (Safety and tolerability), Evaluate the safety and tolerability profile of durvalumab + tremelimumab in combination with carboplatin and etoposide in ES-SCLC and PS2. Adverse events with a severity grade of 3 or higher per CTCAE guidelines will be used to assess this outcome., 3 months
This Phase I, multicenter, study is designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of durvalumab (anti-programmed death-ligand 1 \[PD-L1\] antibody) and tremelimumab (anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 \[CTLA-4\] antibody) in combination with intravenous (IV) carboplatin plus (+) etoposide in treatment naïve patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) and performance status 2 (PS2). Eighteen patients with untreated ES-SCLC and PS2 will be enrolled. Cohort 1, which includes the first 6 subjects, will receive IV carboplatin and etoposide Q 3 weeks x 4 cycles. Durvalumab 1500 mg IV Q 3 weeks will be given with chemotherapy during cycles 3 and 4. This will be followed by durvalumab 1500 mg IV Q 4 weeks until disease progression. If 2 out of 6 patients have dose-limiting toxicities, then the study will be closed. Cohort 2, which will include 12 additional subjects, will receive chemotherapy Q 3 weeks x 4 cycles. Durvalumab 1500 mg IV + tremelimumab 75 mg IV Q 3 weeks will be given with chemotherapy during cycles 3 and 4, then durvalumab 1500 mg + tremelimumab 75 mg will be administered Q 3 weeks during cycles 5 and 6. This will be followed by durvalumab 1500 mg IV Q 4 weeks until disease progression.