Surgical Site Infection With 0.05% Chlorhexidine (CHG) Compared to Triple Antibiotic Irrigation
The investigators intend to perform a prospective randomized study and compare the incidence of surgical wound infection between mastectomy wounds irrigated with triple antibiotic solution (one side) and 0.05% CHG (opposite side) in patients undergoing bilateral breast reconstruction. Each patient will receive triple antibiotic solution on one breast and the CHG on the other breast.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Chlorhexidine irrigation|DRUG: triple antibiotic irrigation
Number of Participants With Surgical Site Infection, At all postoperative visits with the reconstructive surgeon, patients were thoroughly examined for presence of SSI (cellulitis, purulent drainage). SSI was defined as any instance where antibiotics were restarted or where erythema, cellulitis, warmth, purulent drainage, or fever occurred. SSI was further classified in 3 categories: minor when requiring oral antibiotics, major when requiring inpatient intravenous antibiotics or operative washout, and finally, explantation., 6 months
Number of Participants With Flap Necrosis, Hematoma, and Seroma, At all postoperative visits with the reconstructive surgeon, patients were thoroughly examined for presence of necrosis, seroma, or hematoma., 6 months
Breast reconstruction with tissue expander (TE) remains the gold standard of breast restoration after mastectomy. During the first stage of reconstruction, a TE is placed under chest muscles and slowly inflated postoperatively over the period of several weeks. After desired volume of TE is achieved it is exchanged for permanent breast prosthesis during another surgery (second stage of reconstruction). Postoperative wound infection after placement of TE can lead to devastating consequences both for patients and a surgeon. Frequently, surgical site infection requires additional surgeries and resulting in the removal of TE and long term IV antibiotic therapy. Therefore, during breast reconstruction procedures all possible measures are implemented to reduce postoperative infection rate. Several studies demonstrated that intra-operative irrigation of surgical wounds with antibiotic containing solution before insertion of breast TE decreases postoperative infection rate. This approach is currently adopted as a standard of care within plastic surgery clinical community.

The investigators intend to perform a prospective randomized study and compare the incidence of surgical wound infection between mastectomy wounds irrigated with triple antibiotic solution (one side) and 0.05% CHG (opposite side) in patients undergoing bilateral breast reconstruction.