Cost Efficacy Evaluation of Robot Assisted Radical Prostatectomy
In this observational cost efficacy study, the investigator compare the Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy (LRP) versus Robotic-Assisted Laparoscopic Prostatectomy (RALP). Every cost of care that include hospitalization related or post operative medical consumption are obtained and recorded up to 5 years follow up. Functional results (continence, potency, quality of life) are obtained through standardised questionnaires. Carcinologic results are estimated by Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) relapse and salvage treatments. Economic evaluation will be made to estimate direct costs of the four postoperative year along with the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per successful surgical treatment (preserved urinary continence and erectile function and PSA \< 0.2).
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Robotic-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy
Erectile function, Proportion of patients with recovery of erectile function between T0 (before surgery) and 12 months after surgery. Recovery is defined as a maximum decrease of 5 points score of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) between pre and postoperative evaluations., 12 months after surgery
Surgical margins, During surgery|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), Before surgery (T0), 6 months (M6), 12 months (M12), 24 months (M24) and 60 months (M60) after surgery|Continence, Continence is assessed by the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), Before surgery (T0), 6 months (M6), 9 months (M9),12 months (M12), 24 months (M24) and 60 months (M60) after surgery|Tolerance, Adverse events related to the perioperative prostatectomy, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months afer surgery, Perioperative period, 6 months (M6), 12 months (M12) and 24 months (M24) afer surgery|Quality of life, Quality of life is assessed by EQ-5D, QLQ-C30 and QLQ-PR25 scores, Before surgery (T0), 6 months (M6), 9 months (M9),12 months (M12) and 24 months (M24) after surgery|Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, Economic evaluation will be made to estimate direct costs of the five postoperative years along with the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per successful surgical treatment, 60 months afet surgery
In this observational cost efficacy study, the investigator compare the Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy (LRP) versus Robotic-Assisted Laparoscopic Prostatectomy (RALP). Every cost of care that include hospitalization related or post operative medical consumption are obtained and recorded up to 5 years follow up. Functional results (continence, potency, quality of life) are obtained through standardised questionnaires. Carcinologic results are estimated by Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) relapse and salvage treatments. Economic evaluation will be made to estimate direct costs of the four postoperative year along with the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per successful surgical treatment (preserved urinary continence and erectile function and PSA \< 0.2).