Study for Patients With Hairy Cell Leukemia to Test the Targeted Agent Tovorafenib in Combination With Rituximab and Compare the Combination With Current Standard Treatment
This phase Ib/II trial tests the safety, side effects, and effectiveness of tovorafenib in combination with rituximab in patients with classical hairy cell leukemia (cHCL) that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory) and compares the effect of tovorafenib and rituximab to current standard treatment of cladribine and rituximab in cHCL patients that have not yet received treatment. Tovorafenib blocks certain proteins made by the mutated BRAF gene, which may help keep cancer cells from growing. It is a type of kinase inhibitor. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody. It binds to a protein called CD20, which is found on B cells (a type of white blood cell) and some types of cancer cells. This may help the immune system kill cancer cells. Cladribine damages the cell's deoxyribonucleic acid and may kill cancer cells. It is a type of antimetabolite. Giving tovorafenib in combination with rituximab may be safe and tolerable and more effective than cladribine with rituximab in treating patients with untreated, recurrent or refractory cHCL.
Hairy Cell Leukemia|Recurrent Hairy Cell Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Cladribine|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Tovorafenib
Incidence of adverse events (Safety Lead-in), Adverse events (AEs) will be documented and summarized by type, grade, severity, and attribution using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 criteria for non-hematologic toxicities and table of criteria for hematologic toxicities. In addition, the number of treatment cycles received and reasons for going off treatment will be summarized to assess treatment tolerability. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., During cycles 1-3 (cycle length = 28 days)|Minimal residual disease negative complete remission (MRD [-] CR) rate (Phase 2), Will be calculated as the proportion of patients who achieve MRD (-) CR to therapy divided by the total number of patients for each treatment arm. All randomized patients or evaluable patients will be included in calculating the rate of MRD (-) CR for the study along with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals (CIs) (assuming that the number of patients who respond is binomially distributed). The MRD (-) CR rate will be compared between the untreated classical hairy cell leukemia (cHCL) patients with tovorafenib plus rituximab treatment and the patients with cladribine plus rituximab using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test., At completion of tovorafenib plus rituximab treatment versus cladribine plus rituximab
MRD (-) CR rate (Safety Lead-in), Will be calculated along with corresponding 95% binomial CIs (assuming that the number of patients who respond is binomially distributed)., At completion of tovorafenib plus rituximab|Overall response rate (ORR) (Safety Lead-in), Will be calculated along with corresponding 95% binomial CIs (assuming that the number of patients who respond is binomially distributed). For the phase 2 portion, the ORR will be compared between the untreated cHCL patients with tovorafenib plus rituximab treatment and the patients with cladribine plus rituximab using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test., At completion of tovorafenib plus rituximab|Progression-free survival (Safety Lead-in), Will initially be modeled using Kaplan-Meier methods, resulting in median survival times with 95% CI, assuming sufficient events have occurred., From initiation of therapy to documented progression or death without progression, assessed up to 10 years|Overall survival (Safety Lead-in), Will initially be modeled using Kaplan-Meier methods, resulting in median survival times with 95% CI, assuming sufficient events have occurred., From initiation of therapy to death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Incidence of AEs (Phase 2), Will be documented and summarized by type, grade, severity, and attribution using the CTCAE v 5.0 criteria for non-hematologic toxicities and the table on Criteria for Hematologic Toxicities. Will review all AE data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The incidence of severe (grade 3+) AEs or toxicities will be described. The number of treatment cycles received and reasons for going off treatment will be summarized to assess treatment tolerability. Will assess tolerability of the regimens through assessing the number of patients who required dose modifications and/or dose delays. Tolerability measures will be assessed within each treatment arm, and will explore differences in these measures between the arms. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., From first dose of study treatment up to 30 days after the last dose of study medication, or until the start of subsequent antineoplastic therapy, whichever occurs first|Rate of durable complete remission (CR) (Phase 2), Will be defined as achieving a CR and not experiencing relapse at 12 months after completing treatment., Up to 12 months after completing treatment|Mutations or changes in transcription profile (Safety Lead-in), Will be assessed using whole exome and ribonucleic acid sequencing., At baseline and at time of relapse, assessed up to 10 years
Mitogen-activated protein kinase activation status (Safety Lead-in), Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships. All continuous measurements will be summarized using mean with standard deviations or median with range at each time point. Changes in these measurements from baseline to after treatment or baseline to progression will be assessed using paired t-tests or corresponding bob-parametric tests. The changes will also be compared between the treatment groups using two sample t-tests or Wilcoxon tests., During cycle 1 (cycle length = 28 days)|Changes in T and natural killer cell function (Safety Lead-in), Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships. All continuous measurements will be summarized using mean with standard deviations or median with range at each time point. Changes in these measurements from baseline to after treatment or baseline to progression will be assessed using paired t-tests or corresponding bob-parametric tests. The changes will also be compared between the treatment groups using two sample t-tests or Wilcoxon tests., Prior to and after tovorafenib and after tovorafenib plus rituximab, assessed up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of tovorafenib (DAY101) plus rituximab treatment in patients with relapsed or refractory classical hairy cell leukemia (cHCL). (Relapsed/Refractory Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) II. To determine the minimal residual disease negative complete remission (MRD \[-\] CR) rate at completion of tovorafenib (DAY101) plus rituximab treatment versus cladribine plus rituximab for untreated cHCL. (Front-line Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Relapsed/Refractory Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) and rate of minimal residual disease negative complete remission (MRD \[-\] CR) at completion of tovorafenib (DAY101) plus rituximab treatment for relapsed or refractory cHCL. (Relapsed/Refractory Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) III. To determine the complete remission (CR) rate at completion of tovorafenib (DAY101) plus rituximab treatment in patients with relapsed or refractory cHCL. (Relapsed/Refractory Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) IV. To estimate progression-free and overall survival after tovorafenib (DAY101) and rituximab treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory cHCL. (Relapsed/Refractory Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) V. To determine the rate of durable CR after combination tovorafenib (DAY101) plus rituximab treatment, where durable CR is defined as achieving a CR and not experiencing relapse at 12 months after completing treatment. (Front-line Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) VI. To determine the safety of the combination of tovorafenib (DAY101) plus rituximab. (Front-line Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) VII. To determine the clonal evolution of cHCL at the time of relapse by whole exome sequencing (WES) and ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq). (Front-line Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation status pre- and post-treatment in peripheral blood circulating cells (multiple timepoints during cycle 1: pre-dose \[cycle (C) 1 day (D) 1\], at 24 \[C1D2\] and 72 \[C1D4\] hours after first dose of tovorafenib \[DAY101\] and pre-dose on C1D8) to demonstrate that the drug did what it is expected to do and to assess the kinetics of phosphorylated-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) clearance. (Front-line Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) II. To describe changes in T- and natural killer (NK)-cell function prior to, after tovorafenib (DAY101) single agent treatment, and after tovorafenib (DAY101) plus rituximab combination treatment in patients with cHCL. (Front-line Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia) III. To identify mutations or changes in transcription profile through whole exome and RNA sequencing of leukemia cell samples at baseline and at time of relapse after combination treatment, which can be used to guide analysis in larger cohorts or with future functional studies to determine mechanisms of resistance (or sensitivity) to the therapy. (Front-line Classical Hairy Cell Leukemia)

OUTLINE:

PHASE 1B: Patients receive tovorafenib orally (PO) once weekly (QW) for up to 16 weeks and rituximab intravenously (IV) QW on weeks 5-9 and 11, 13, and 15 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection, computed tomography (CT) and bone marrow biopsy and aspiration throughout the study. Additionally, patients undergo buccal swab collection pre-study.

PHASE 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cladribine IV over 2 hours on days 1-5 of cycle 1 and rituximab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 2 and 3. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection, CT and bone marrow biopsy and aspiration throughout the study.

ARM B: Patients receive tovorafenib PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each cycle and rituximab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycle 2 and on days 1 and 15 of cycles 3 and 4. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection, CT and bone marrow biopsy and aspiration throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months.