Observational Trial of the Impact of Radiation Dose in Children With Brain and Skull Base Tumors.
This is a prospective, observational clinical trial investigating the morphological and volumetric changes in the brain following cranial Radiation Therapy in pediatric patients with brain or skull base tumors.
Brain Tumor|Brain Cancer|Skull Base Tumor
Measure temporal changes in brain volumes, Measure temporal changes in brain volumes after exposure to therapeutic RT and to correlate these changes with absorbed dose., Baseline, 6 Months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months and 3-5 years|Measure temporal changes in morphometry, Measure temporal changes in morphometry after exposure to therapeutic RT and to correlate these changes with absorbed dose., Baseline, 6 Months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months and 3-5 years
Morphometric changes in the brain, The secondary aims for this study are to correlate morphometric changes in the brain with the development of late treatment-related effects, including measurable neurocognitive, endocrine, and quality of life effects., Baseline, 6 Months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months and 3-5 years
Measure molecular biomarkers, Serum pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine levels will be measured at baseline and during follow-up as part of an exploratory hypothesis-generating correlate study to analyze potential associations with risk of radiation-induced toxicities and volumetric changes in the brain., Baseline, 6 Months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months and 3-5 years
Brain injury is a known complication of cranial RT, but little is known about the factors that predispose patients to such injury. The brain is a highly interconnected organ linked through neuronal connections, cellular migration, and vascular supply and is endowed with exquisitely radiosensitive stem cell niches responsible for neuro-regeneration. To date, the effects of brain radiation have been quantified in few brain substructures. The majority of publications on this topic have focused on regions receiving higher doses. Even low dose radiation exposure, however has global implications on brain development and function, and its effects are less well studied. It is increasingly recognized that radiation damage to one brain region can potentially affect brain development more broadly. This has important implications on RT planning and the potential for understanding its long-term effects.

In this protocol, the investigators aim to measure serum inflammatory cytokine levels and other molecular biomarkers at baseline and post-exposure in an exploratory manner to investigate potential associations with the risk of developing volumetric changes in the brain and radiation-induced toxicities.

This study will observe sixty (60) patients under the age of 21 with brain or base of skull tumor. The study team will observe the effect of radiation therapy per the study protocol versus standard of care.