Rapid Plasma Genotyping For Early Initiation Of Erlotinib In EGFR Mutant Lung Cancer
Patient with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) that might have a genetic change (mutation) in the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) are invited to take part in this study.

This research study is evaluating a new blood test that is capable of detecting an EGFR mutation in cancer without a biopsy.
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
Overall Response Rate, Number of participants who were alive with evidence of complete or partial response, evaluated using RECIST 1.1 criteria. Patients that underwent rapid plasma genotyping and had an EGFR mutation and who were treated with erlotinib were included in this calculation., From date of erlotinib initiation until the date of first documented disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first. ORR was assessed up to 21 months after erlotinib initiation.
Turnaround Time, The turnaround time from study registration to treatment initiation was recorded for the plasma genotyping strategy versus standard tumor genotyping. For rapid plasma genotyping, turnaround time is the time between ordering plasma genotyping and obtaining results; this time period was compared to the turnaround time of obtaining the tumor genotyping results., Maximum 38 days|Positive Predictive Value (PPV) And False Negative Rate Of Plasma Genotyping, Concordance between results of plasma genotyping and tumor genotyping, among patients with tissue available for standard genotyping, PPV and False Negative Rate can be assessed when plasma and tissue results are available for each patient; average plasma result turnaround time was 4 days, versus average of 20 days for tissue result turnaround time.
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. This research study will determine if a rapid blood test can be used to detect EGFR mutations in patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer and use that information to rapidly start patients on a pill-based therapy.

This blood test has not previously been used to select patients for treatment with Erlotinib without confirming this finding on a biopsy.