Wound Infiltration With Liposomal Bupivacaine vs. Standard Wound Infiltration With Bupivacaine in Patient's Undergoing Open Gynecologic Surgery on an Enhanced Recovery Pathway
Bupivacaine is a drug that is traditionally given as an injection to numb surgical sites. Liposomes are molecules that are similar to fats. Sometimes drugs are combined with liposomes to make them able to stay in the body for longer periods of time. This has been done with bupivacaine to create liposomal bupivacaine.

The goal of this clinical research study is to compare the effects of bupivacaine to those of liposomal bupivacaine when given to patients who are having gynecologic surgery. Researchers want to compare how long the drugs work to numb the wound and how long patients take to recover from surgery.
Malignant Neoplasms of Female Genital Organs|Gynecologic Cancer
DRUG: Bupivacaine|DRUG: Liposomal Bupivacaine|DRUG: Oxycodone|BEHAVIORAL: Pill Diary|BEHAVIORAL: Symptom Questionnaire
Participants Opioid-Free After Gynecologic Surgery for 48 Hours, Treatment arms compared with respect to the proportion of patients opioid-free at 48 hours using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by surgeon., 48 hours
Participants Opioid-Free After Gynecologic Surgery, Treatment arms compared with respect to the number of opioid-free days using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by surgeon., 8 weeks|Symptom Scores, Daily pain scores were ascertained by routine nursing care every 4 hours while awake, on a 0 to 10 scale. Descriptive statistics and graphical methods used to summarize MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) scores at each assessment time by treatment arm. For each symptom component, individuals were asked to rank symptom severity during the previous 24 hours on a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being "not present "and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine". Symptom interference was also assessed on a 0 to 10 scale, with 0 being "did not interfere" and 10 being "interfered completely". Higher values represent worst outcomes., Days 0, 2 and 4 postoperatively, up to 8 weeks
Study Arms and Drug Administration:

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study arms:

* If you are in Arm 1, you will receive bupivacaine only.
* If you are in Arm 2, you will receive a combination of liposomal bupivacaine and bupivacaine.

You will have an equal (50/50) chance of being assigned to either group. You will not know what you are receiving. However, the study staff will know what you are receiving.

In both cases, the drug(s) will be injected into your skin and tissue at the end of your surgery, right before the wound is closed.

Study Data Collection:

Every day while you are in the hospital recovering from surgery, you will be asked questions about pain, any side effects you may be having, symptoms, and opioid use.

Within 30 days after you leave the hospital, you may also be called and asked about side effects you may be having. If you are called, this call should last about 10-15 minutes. This information may also be collected during a routinely scheduled clinic visit and from the medical record.

Three (3) and 7 days after you leave the hospital, and then 1 time every week after that for a total of 8 weeks, you will be called or emailed and asked questions about any symptoms you may be having. If you are called, each call should last about 10-15 minutes.

If you are also enrolled on the study BS99-094 "Measuring the Symptom Distress of Cancer Patients: Development of a New Assessment System," information from your participation in this study may also be collected and used in that study.

Length of Study:

Your participation on this study will be over 8 weeks after you leave the hospital.

This is an investigational study. Both bupivacaine and liposomal bupivacaine are FDA approved and commercially available. It is investigational to compare the 2 drugs.

Up to 200 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.