Tivantinib in Treating Patients With Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well tivantinib works compared to placebo in treating patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Tivantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo|DRUG: Tivantinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on the RECIST Criteria, The progression-free survival distributions between the two arms will be compared using log-rank tests. Progression-free survival curves will be constructed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method, and additional analyses will be done using the Cox proportional hazards model., Time from study entry to the date of documented progression and/or death, assessed up to 6 months
Changes in PSA Levels, Evaluated and patterns graphically explored through waterfall plots., Baseline to 12 weeks|Proportion of Patients Who Respond, An assumed binomial distribution used. Summarized with their corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals and compared in an exploratory manner between the two treatment arms. Dichotomized outcomes of response will be descriptively summarized and graphically evaluated using bar graphs., At 12 weeks|PSA Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., up to 12 weeks|Incidence of Adverse Events Graded as 3, 4, or 5 Per NCI CTCAE Version 4.0, Fisher's exact tests will be used to quantitatively compare the incidence of severe as well as specific toxicities of interest between the treatment arms and graphically assessed differences in maximum grades observed for toxicities between the arms., Up to 1 year
Radiographic Response Rate Based on RECIST Criteria, Summarized with their corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals and compared in an exploratory manner between the two treatment arms. Dichotomized outcomes of response will be descriptively summarized and graphically evaluated using bar graphs., Up to 12 weeks|Change in Bone Specific Alkaline Phosphatase (BSAP) in Serum, BSAP will first be descriptively summarized by treatment group and also evaluated using graphical analyses to assess potential patterns over time and see if changes in bone resorption differ between those who are progression-free at 12 weeks vs. not after treatment with tivantinib. The potential impact of early changes in these markers on PFS using Cox regression models will be also explored., Baseline to up to 6 months|Change in Markers of Bone Turnover in Urine, NTx and CTX will first be descriptively summarized by treatment group and also evaluated using graphical analyses to assess potential patterns over time and see if changes in bone resorption differ between those who are progression-free at 12 weeks vs. not after treatment with tivantinib. The potential impact of early changes in these markers on PFS using Cox regression models will be also explored., Baseline to up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) in men with minimally symptomatic or asymptomatic metastatic, castrate-resistant, chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer treated with ARQ 197 (tivantinib).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate at 12 weeks in men with metastatic, castrate-resistant, chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer treated with ARQ 197.

II. To determine the radiographic response rate at 12 weeks based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria on computed tomography (CT) scans and stability of bone lesions on bone scan in castrate-resistant, chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer treated with ARQ 197.

III. To determine the proportion of patients who are progression-free at 12 weeks.

IV. To assess safety and tolerability in patients treated with ARQ 197 using the National Institute of Cancer (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 grading of toxicities.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate markers of bone turnover. (Exploratory)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive tivantinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Arm II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression may crossover to Arm I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 6 months.