Evaluation of the Biop Colposcopy System's Safety and Performance (Accuracy of Its Registration Procedure)
This is a multi-center, prospective, non-randomized, confirmatory study to evaluate the safety and performance of the Biop Digital Colposcope and the accuracy of the image registration procedure between the Biop Digital Colposcope unit and the Biop Micro Colposcope probe unit.
Cervical Cancer Screening
DEVICE: Biop Colposcopy System
Performance, The primary performance endpoint is the image registration success. Image registration success is defined by the registration error (distance between corresponding control points following registration). Average image registration error should be less than or equal to (≤) to 2mm., procedure day ± 1 day|frequency and incidence of all Adverse Events, Safety endpoints include frequency and incidence of all Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE) related and unrelated to the device use., procedure day ± 1 day
Exploratory Endpoint, Subject's comfort - as measured by a questionnaire, procedure day ± 1 day
This is a multi-center, prospective, non-randomized, confirmatory study to evaluate the safety and performance of the Biop Digital Colposcope and the accuracy of the image registration procedure between the Biop Digital Colposcope unit and the Biop Micro Colposcope probe unit.

The Biop Digital Colposcope is intended for magnified viewing of the tissues of the vagina, cervix and external genitalia in order to assist doctors in diagnosing abnormalities such as lesions or cancer, and selecting areas for biopsy. The images from the digital colposcope are to be viewed on a color display. The digital colposcope is intended for use in hospitals, clinics, and doctor's offices.

The Biop Micro Colposcope probe unit is an imaging tool intended to be placed in the vagina for acquisition of images of the cervix. It is intended as an adjunct to the Biop Digital Colposcope. It should NOT be used as a substitute for a thorough colposcopic evaluation. The Biop Micro Colposcope Probe unit is not intended for use on the vulva and vagina.

It is anticipated that it will take approximately 3 months to complete active enrollment. Study duration for each subject is 1-2 days, including screening, enrolment and procedure. The study will be completed when the final study subject has completed the procedure.

1. Performance - to confirm that average image registration error is less than or equal to (≤) 2mm.
2. Safety - to evaluate the safety of the Biop Digital Colposcope in women undergoing cervical colposcopy procedures.