Riluzole in Combination With mFOLFOX6 and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase I trial is to find out the best dose, possible benefits, and/or side effects of riluzole and how well it works in combination with standard of care mFOLFOX6 and bevacizumab in treating patients with colorectal cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Riluzole is a well-tolerated oral medication that has demonstrated it may make chemotherapy work better. Chemotherapy drugs, such as oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of \[cancer/tumor\] cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Bevacizumab is an antibody that targets the blood vessel by blocking the activity of a protein called vascular endothelial growth factor alpha (VEGF-A). It helps to make the mFOLFOX6 more effective. Giving riluzole, mFOLFOX6, and bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells compared to mFOLFOX6 and bevacizumab alone in treating patients with colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Riluzole
Dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Will be defined by treatment related grade \>= 4 adverse events or \>= grade 3 alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase elevation during the DLT period using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 4 weeks (2 cycles of treatment) (1 cycle = 14 days)
Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of riluzole (Cmax), K data analysis will utilize a nonlinear mixed effects approach whereby PK parameter estimates will be generated from the data, and 'dose day' will be evaluated as a covariate on clearance and volume of distribution. The PK parameters including Cmax. Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Day 1 on cycle 1 (each cycle is 14 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of riluzole (AUC), PK data analysis will utilize a nonlinear mixed effects approach whereby PK parameter estimates will be generated from the data, and 'dose day' will be evaluated as a covariate on clearance and volume of distribution. The PK parameters including AUC. Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), Day 1 on cycle 1 (each cycle is 14 days)
Objective response rate (complete response + partial response), Will be estimated along with exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 112 days|Change in phosphorylated (p)AKT and pCREB levels, Will be summarized using mean +/- standard error of mean, range, and median at each time point. Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships., Up to 42 days (each cycle is 14 days)|Change in FCGRT/FcRn expression, Will be assessed using peripheral blood and summarized using mean +/- standard error of mean, range, and median at each time point. Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships., Day 1 of cycle 1, 3, 5, 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|Change in bevacizumab clearance (Cmax), Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Day 1 of cycle 1, 3, 5, 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|Change in bevacizumab clearance (AUC), Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), Day 1 of cycle 1, 3, 5, 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|interleukin 6, Cytokines, Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|leukemia inhibitory factor, Cytokines, Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|Necrosis factor alpha, Cytokines, Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|Interferon gamma, Cytokines, Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|C-reactive protein, Cytokines, Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|ferritin, Cytokines, Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|metalloproteinases 1, Cytokines, Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|body weight, Will include body weight and summarized using mean +/- standard error of mean, range, and median at each time point. Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships., Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|skeletal muscle index, Will include skeletal muscle index and summarized using mean +/- standard error of mean, range, and median at each time point. Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships., Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|body serum albumin, Will include body serum albumin and summarized using mean +/- standard error of mean, range, and median at each time point. Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships., Day 1 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 7 (each cycle is 14 days)|Change in levels of circulating cytotoxic T cells, Will be assessed using peripheral blood mononuclear cells and summarized using mean +/- standard error of mean, range, and median at each time point. Graphical analyses will be largely used to assess potential patterns and relationships., Day 1 of Cycle 1,3,5,7 (each cycle is 14 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Characterize the safety and toxicity of riluzole in combination with modified (m) leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) 6/bevacizumab and determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of riluzole in combination with mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the pharmacokinetics of riluzole in patients with metastatic CRC.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the efficacy of the combination treatment. II. Determine the effect of riluzole in downstream GRM3 signaling by immunofluorescent staining of phosphorylated (p)AKT and pCREB in pre- and post-treatment tumor tissues.

III. Assess FCGRT/FcRn expression, bevacizumab pharmacokinetics, inflammatory cytokines, and cachexia associated factors as early biomarkers for resistance to therapy.

IV. Assess cytotoxic T cells in peripheral blood to evaluate the immunomodulatory effect of this therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of riluzole.

Patients receive riluzole orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Patients also receive oxaliplatin via intravenous piggyback (IVPB) over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IVPB over 2 hours, and bevacizumab IVPB over 30 minutes on day 1 and fluorouracil via intravenous (IV) push over 5 minutes and then IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.