Molecular Analysis in Tissue Samples From Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumors
This pilot research trial studies molecular analysis in tissue samples from patients with advanced or metastatic neuroendocrine tumors. Studying samples of tissue from patients with neuroendocrine tumors in the lab may help doctors identify mutations to classify disease and plan the best treatment.
Neuroendocrine Tumor
OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Feasibility, defined as the true proportion of patients whose CancerCode sequencing results in the identification of at least 1 actionable mutation, Up to 3 years
Response rate, defined as at least a 30% decrease in target lesions when measureable by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, The response rate (with 95% two-sided confidence intervals) will be computed for all Arm B patients and separately for pre-specified subgroups (e.g., molecular profile-based treatment vs. NCCN guideline recommended)., Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival time will be characterized for all Arm B patients and separately for pre-specified subgroups (e.g., molecular profile-based treatment vs. NCCN guideline recommended) using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Overall survival time will be characterized for all Arm B patients and separately for pre-specified subgroups (e.g., molecular profile-based treatment vs. NCCN guideline recommended) using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 3 years|Proportion of Arm B patients whose therapy is changed as a result of physician access to CancerCode results, Up to 3 years|Proportion of Arm B patients for whom a local protocol offers a potential therapeutic option based on CancerCode results, Up to 3 years
Mutations occurring in greater than or equal to 10% of patients, Log-rank test and Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to assess the relationships between progression free interval and common mutations (\>= 10%) or immunohistochemistry (IHC) test results in the entire population., Up to 3 years|Mutations in the mTOR pathway, Log-rank test and Fisher's exact tests will be used to assess the relationships between mutations in the mTOR pathway and progression free interval or response among Arm B patients treated with mTOR inhibitors., Up to 3 years|Prognostic value of MGMT status among patients on alkylating agents, Up to 3 years|Prognostic value of ERCC1 for patients on platinum-based regimens, Up to 3 years|Prognostic value of TP for patients on fluoropyrimidine-based regimens, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform gene panel sequencing of patients with neuroendocrine tumors under care at Fox Chase Cancer Center for the purpose of identifying therapeutic targets and prognostic markers.

II. To assess the feasibility of performing a clinical trial of molecularly matched therapy in patients with differing subtypes of neuroendocrine tumors (neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas \[PNETs\], non-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors \[NETs\], and poorly differentiated NETs), based upon the proportion of patients with actionable mutations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients whose therapy is altered based upon the results of molecular testing.

II. To evaluate the percent of patients for which a local protocol offers a potential therapeutic option.

III. To evaluate the number of patients who are treated based on therapy guided by molecular profiling.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the outcomes of patients treated with early therapy based on gene profiling with the outcomes of those treated via National Cancer National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guideline recommended therapies (systemic therapy, liver directed therapy, hepatic resection) or expectant observation via measurement of progression free survival (PFS), via radiographic response rates, and via biochemical response rate.

II. To evaluate the prognostic power of commonly (\>= 10%) detected mutations. III. To evaluate the impact of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway alterations (mutations of phosphatase and tensin homolog gene \[PTEN\], phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha \[PIK3CA\]) on efficacy of mTOR targeted therapeutics, as assessed by progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR).

IV. To evaluate the impact of o-6-methylguanine-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase (MGMT) status on the efficacy of an alkylating based chemotherapy regimen (Temodar, dacarbazine, streptozocin), as assessed by progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR).

V. To evaluate the impact of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) status on the efficacy of a fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy regimen (capecitabine, 5-fluorouracil), as assessed by progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR).

VI. To evaluate the impact of excision repair cross-complementing 1 (ERCC-1) status on the efficacy of a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen (carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin), as assessed by progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR).

OUTLINE:

Previously collected tissue samples are analyzed via mutational sequencing and immunohistochemistry.

After completion of study, patients are followed for up every 3-6 months for 3 years.