A Therapy Treatment Response Trial in Patients With Leptomeningeal Metastases ((LM) Using CNSide
The FORESEE Study is a multi-center, prospective clinical trial enrolling patients with Breast or Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) who have suspicious or confirmed Leptomeningeal Metastases (LM). Standard of Care methods to diagnose, or assess the treatment response of LM (Clinical Evaluation, MRI and Cytology) have limited sensitivity and specificity. This creates challenges for physicians to manage LM or determine the best course of treatment. CNSide, is a Laboratory Developed Test (LDT ) that is used commercially at the Physician's discretion in Biocept's CLIA certified, CAP accredited laboratory. CNSide can detect and quantify tumor cells in the CSF from patients with Breast Cancer or NSCLC having a suspicious or confirmed LM. The goal of the FORESEE Study is to evaluate the performance of CNSide in monitoring the LM's response to treatment and to assess the impact of CNSide on treatment decisions made by Physicians.
Leptomeningeal Metastasis|Leptomeningeal Disease|Leptomeningeal Neoplasms|Breast Cancer|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DEVICE: CNSide
Assess the impact of CNSide on treatment decisions, The proportion of decision points during LM treatment in which the physician indicated that CNSide aided in their decision making., 1 year
Evaluate CNSide as a treatment response monitoring device for LM tumors, The correlation of changes in tumor cell number throughout treatment with clinical evaluation, cytology, and radiographic results., 2 years|The performance of CNSide of tumor cell detection in the CSF compared to cytology, The comparison of the sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV of CNSide to cytology in detection of tumor cells in the CSF (Cytology being the reference standard), 2 years
The FORESEE Study is a multi-center, prospective clinical trial enrolling patients with breast or Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) who have suspicious or confirmed Leptomeningeal Metastases (LM). LM is a devastating complication of breast cancer and NSCLC and is diagnosed via clinical evaluation, MRI (with and without contrast of the brain and spine), and CSF Cytology. These methods have limited sensitivity and specificity. Furthermore, they lack the ability to quantitatively measure the LM's response to treatment. These hindrances create challenges for physicians to manage LM or to determine the best course of treatment. CNSide, is a Laboratory Developed Test (LDT ) that is analytically validated and run commercially in Biocept's CLIA certified, CAP accredited laboratory at the Physician's discretion. CNSide can detect and quantify tumor cells in the CSF from patients with Breast Cancer or NSCLC having a suspicious or confirmed LM. Data derived from case studies suggest that the detection of tumor cells in the CSF by CNSide can be used by Physicians to monitor the response of the LM tumor to treatment and improve the ability to make treatment decisions in patients with LM. Subjects enrolled onto the trial will be treated per Standard of Care. The diagnostic tests used to either diagnose LM, or monitor the LMs response to treatment will be Standard of Care, in combination with CNSide. The goal of the FORESEE Study is to further evaluate the performance of CNSide for LM in monitoring the LM's response to treatment and to assess the impact of CNSide on treatment decisions made by Physicians.