ChatGPT & Surgeon Synergy: Redefining Breast Reconstruction Consultations for Enhanced Patient Engagement and Satisfaction
In this study, patients who are scheduled for breast reconstruction consultation will be randomized into the intervention group (ChatGPT-generated patient education regarding possible reconstruction options) or the control group (usual patient education). All patients will complete a survey following their in-person consultation to assess their experience and overall satisfaction with the consultation process. Additionally, participating surgeons will complete a separate survey to evaluate their consultation experience, satisfaction, and to assess the accuracy and clinical utility of the ChatGPT-generated patient education materials. The surveys are designed to gather information on patient characteristics, organizational health literacy according to Brega et al. Other survey questions have been designed to meet the outcomes of this study and have not been based on previously published surveys.
Breast Cancer|Cancer of the Breast
OTHER: ChatGPT-generated patient education|OTHER: Usual patient education
Patient perceived understanding of breast reconstruction, The patient will choose an answer ranging from 0-100 (strongly disagree to strongly agree). The higher the score, the more perceived understanding the patient had., Pre-surgical consultation (day 1)
Patient satisfaction with education regarding breast reconstruction, The patient will choose an answer ranging from 0-100 (strongly disagree to strongly agree). The higher the score, the more satisfied the patient was., Pre-surgical consultation (day 1)|Surgeon satisfaction with the consultation process, Survey includes two question regarding surgeon's satisfaction with the consultation process. The surgeon will choose an answer ranging from 0-100 (strongly disagree to strongly agree). The higher the score, the more satisfied the surgeon was with the consultation process., Pre-surgical consultation (day 1)|Surgeon perception of patient preparedness, Survey includes one question regarding patient preparedness. The surgeon will choose an answer ranging from 0-100 (strongly disagree to strongly agree). The higher the score, the more prepared the surgeon felt the patient was., Pre-surgical consultation (day 1)|Surgeon views on the efficiency of the consultation, Survey includes one question regarding efficiency of the consultation. The surgeon will choose an answer ranging from 0-100 (strongly disagree to strongly agree). The higher the score, the more efficient the surgeon felt the consult was., Pre-surgical consultation (day 1)|Surgeon overall experience with the consultation, Survey includes one question regarding the pre-surgical consultation overall experience. The surgeon will choose an answer ranging from 0-100 (strongly disagree to strongly agree). The higher the score, the better the overall experience was., Pre-surgical consultation (day 1)
In this study, patients who are scheduled for breast reconstruction consultation will be randomized into the intervention group (ChatGPT-generated patient education regarding possible reconstruction options) or the control group (usual patient education). All patients will complete a survey following their in-person consultation to assess their experience and overall satisfaction with the consultation process. Additionally, participating surgeons will complete a separate survey to evaluate their consultation experience, satisfaction, and to assess the accuracy and clinical utility of the ChatGPT-generated patient education materials. The surveys are designed to gather information on patient characteristics, organizational health literacy according to Brega et al. Other survey questions have been designed to meet the outcomes of this study and have not been based on previously published surveys.