A Study of Usage of Brigatinib in the Treatment of Adult Participants for Approved Indications In South Korea
The purpose of this study is to estimate the proportion of all adverse events (AEs) including serious adverse events (SAEs) occurring with the use of brigatinib among adult participants who have been administered brigatinib as per the approved indications.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase
OTHER: No Intervention
Percentage of Participants with AEs and SAEs, Up to 30 days after the end of treatment (up to 24 months)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR will be evaluated by investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best response of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: defined as disappearance of all target lesions, non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, no progression in non-target lesion, and no new lesions., Up to 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR will be evaluated according to RECIST version 1.1. DOR is defined as duration from the point at CR or PR is reached first until the day the recurrence of cancer or disease progression is confirmed. CR: defined as disappearance of all target lesions, non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. PR: defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, no progression in non-target lesion, and no new lesions. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to 24 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be evaluated by treating physicians according to RECIST version 1.1. PFS is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., From first administration of study drug to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause (up to 24 months)
This is a prospective observational post-marketing surveillance study of participants with ALK-positive NSCLC who initiate treatment for the first time with brigatinib in a routine clinical practical setting. The study will characterize the safety and effectiveness of brigatinib for its approved indications under real world use.

The study will enroll approximately 257 participants. The data will be prospectively collected, at the centers from routinely scheduled and emergency visits until end of follow up, and recorded into electronic case report forms (e-CRFs). All participants will be assigned to a single observational cohort.

This multi-center study will be conducted in the South Korea. The overall duration of this study is approximately 6 years. Data will be collected over and up to a 24 month-surveillance period (per participant) once enrolled.