Endostatin Study for Patients With Neurofibromatosis Type 2 (NF2) and NF2-Related Tumors
1)Preliminarily evaluate the treatment effect of continuous vein injection of recombinant human endostatin on NF2; 2)Preliminarily evaluate the safety and the patient's tolerance of the treatment of endostatin; 3)Provide an objective basis for an enlarged randomized double-blind trial.
Vestibular Schwannoma|Neurofibromatosis Type 2
DRUG: Endostatin
Change from Baseline in volume of tumour after every course of the treatment, Patients in this clinical trial would receive MRI test to evaluate the volume of tumour after every course of the treatment., Baseline,Month 3,Month 7,Month 11
Change from Baseline in hearing ability after every course of the treatment, Patients' hearing ability would be tested after every course of the treatment., Baseline,Month 3,Month 7,Month 11
Change from baseline in QOL(quality of life) score after every course of the treatment, Patients' QOL(quality of life) would be evaluated after every course of the treatment., Baseline,Month 3,Month 7,Month 11
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a hereditary tumor predisposition syndrome caused by mutations in the NF2 tumor suppressor gene. Individuals with NF2 have a higher likelihood to develop multiple nervous system tumors, including schwannomas, meningiomas, and ependymomas. The hallmark of NF2 is bilateral vestibular schwannomas. Historically, most NF2 patients experience complete hearing loss either from tumor progression or after treatment of the tumors with surgery or radiation. Effective treatments are urgently needed for NF2 patients with progressive hearing loss because hearing loss is associated with impairment in social, emotional,and communication function and with increased depression.

Previous studies of NF2 patients treated with bevacizumab suggested that inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) could result in hearing improvement and reduction in tumor size.Recombinant human endostatin can inhibit the formation of blood vessels by inhibiting the migration of vascular endothelial cells .In this way, endostatin can inhibit the nutrition of the tumor and decrease the tumor's growth and metastasis. In vitro tests, endostatin can inhibit the cell migration and Tube formation of the microvascular endothelial cell line HHEC. Besides, it can inhibit blood vessels' formation of the chicken embryo sac membrane. Based on these studies, we perform this clinical trial to known the treatment effect and tolerability of endostatin on NF2.