Phase II Study of Sipuleucel-T and Indoximod for Patients With Refractory Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This is a randomized, double blind, multi-institutional phase II therapeutic study of Indoximod or placebo after the completion of standard of care sipuleucel-T (Provenge®) in men with asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic metastatic prostate cancer that is castration resistant (hormone refractory). Patients are randomized to receive either twice daily oral Indoximod or placebo for 6 months beginning the day after the third and final sipuleucel-T infusion.
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Indoximod|BIOLOGICAL: Sipuleucel-T|OTHER: Placebo
Immune Response to Sipuleucel-T, Assess the augmentation of immune response (PA2024) to sipuleucel-T measured at 14 weeks from first leukapheresis, in response to twice daily oral Indoximod at a dose of 1200 mg/day or an identical looking placebo.

The frequency of antigen specific, cytokine producing cells will be determined by an ELISPOT assay. ELISPOT assay will use whole PBMC to assess interferon gamma production in response to the immunizing protein PA2024. Increase in number of ELISPOT responses to PBMC in patients in the treatment arm will be compared to those in control arm., 14 Weeks from First Leukapheresis
Number of Participants With Progression Free Survival at 6 Months, Progression free survival (PFS) is a composite endpoint defined as disease progression in bone or soft tissues, PSA progression, worsening pain, or death. PFS will be measured in months from the time of study enrollment until the date of disease progression.

Progression is evaluated using the international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) \[Eur J Ca 45:228-247, 2009\]. Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria., 6 Months|Objective Response Rate, rate as defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group -2 (PCWG2). ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST)(version 1.1) Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesion.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 4 weeks|Overall Survival, To evaluate 2 year overall survival, 2 years|Quality of Life Scale Results, measured by the performance status with scale of 0-5 0 being 'normal activity' and 5 'being dead', 6 Months|Ratio of Antibodies to PA2024, Assess the augmentation of immune response (PA2024) to sipuleucel-T measured at 14 weeks from first leukapheresis, in response to twice daily oral Indoximod at a dose of 1200 mg/day or an identical looking placebo.

The frequency of antigen specific, cytokine producing cells will be determined by an ELISPOT assay. ELISPOT assay will use whole PBMC to assess interferon gamma production in response to the immunizing protein PA2024.

Antibodies to PA2024 is measured by ELISA. The ratio of antibodies to ELISPOT responses to PBMC in patients in the treatment arm will be compared to those in control arm., 14 Weeks from First Leukapheresis
Sipuleucel-T will be administered as standard of care. Oral Indoximod/placebo will be self-administered twice daily for 6 months starting after the last infusion of sipuleucel-T. Patients will be treated for a minimum of 12 weeks of Indoximod/placebo before disease progression can be declared and Indoximod/placebo will not be discontinued for increasing prostate specific antigen (PSA) in the absence of symptomatic clinical progression.