3D Printing for Nodule Localization
Implementation of lung cancer screening using low-dose computed tomography has increased the rate of detection of small peripheral pulmonary nodules. However, it is hard to localize these nodules by palpation because of their small volume and long distance to the nearest pleural surface. To further clarify the confounding factors, we developed our own 3D printing localization procedure. In contrast to traditional CT-G percutaneous puncture localization, our procedure was performed in the operating room without CT scan evaluation.
Pulmonary Nodule, Solitary|Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: 3D-printing guided|PROCEDURE: CT-guided|DRUG: Indocyanine Green|DRUG: Methylene blue|PROCEDURE: Preoperative|PROCEDURE: Intraoperative
Localization distance, The distance of the two stain points from the tumor. The investigators use a sterile, standard ruler to measure the distance. Based on our previous experience with CT-G localization, a deviation of less than 2 cm was considered a successful localization., Day of surgery
Pulmonary wedge resection is one of the most common types of operations performed by thoracic surgeons, especially given that more and more patients with ground glass nodules are being detected recently. One of the most significant current discussion concerning wedge resection is nodule localization. At present, a commonly used localization method is the CT-guided percutaneous lung puncture methylene blue staining marker localization, but this method has two main disadvantages: 1. the methylene blue dye is easy to spread, affecting the intraoperative judgment of nodule position by surgeon; 2. patients often suffer additional CT radiation. In recent years, the three-dimensional (3D) printing technique has been gradually applied to clinical therapy. However, 3D-printed template-guided (3D-G) localization required pre-evaluation by CT scanning. If deviation of more than 2 cm was found on the CT scan, the 3D-G method was regarded as a failure and traditional CT-G hookwire localization was used. To further clarify the confounding factors, the investigators developed their own 3D printing localization procedure. In contrast to traditional CT-G percutaneous puncture localization, the 3D printing localization procedure was performed in the operating room without CT scan evaluation.