Vegetable Intake Effect on Heterocyclic Amine Metabolism
This is a randomized trial with crossover design, where each participant will undergo four study phases with a different test meal at the end of each phase. Every phase will consist of subjects consuming for six days their normal diet excluding cruciferous and apiaceous vegetables, alcohol, and caffeine. The participants will refrain from meat products for 24 hours prior to the test meal. On day seven of each phase and after an overnight fast, subjects will be randomly assigned to eat one of four meals:

1. grilled hamburger with no vegetables
2. grilled hamburger with steamed broccoli and Brussels sprouts
3. grilled hamburger with steamed parsnips, fresh parsley, and celery sticks
4. grilled hamburger with steamed broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and parsnips plus fresh parsley and celery sticks.
Colon Cancer
OTHER: grilled hamburger (7 oz) with no vegetables|OTHER: grilled hamburger (7 oz) with steamed broccoli and Brussels sprouts (3g/kg body weight combined)|OTHER: grilled hamburger (7 oz) with steamed parsnips, fresh parsley, and celery sticks (3g/kg body weight combined)|OTHER: grilled hamburger (7 oz) with steamed broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and parsnips plus fresh parsley and celery sticks (6g/kg body weight combined).
Hydroxylated PhlP profile with cruciferous vegetables, Quantify Hydroxylated PhlP in ng per ml of urine will be measured using LC-MS metabolomics approach., 24 hours|Hydroxylated PhlP profile with apiaceous vegetables, Quantify Hydroxylated PhlP in ng per ml of urine will be measured using LC-MS metabolomics approach., 24 hours|Hydroxylated PhlP profile with both cruciferous and apiaceous vegetables, Quantify Hydroxylated PhlP in ng per ml of urine will be measured using LC-MS metabolomics approach., 24 hours
Colon cancer is the third most common cancer in the U.S. Convincing evidence suggests that high intake of red meat increases colon cancer risk, according to the 2007 AICR/WCRF Second Expert Report. The likely responsible mutagens are heterocyclic aromatic amines (HAA), which form naturally during the cooking of meat, poultry, and fish at high temperatures. Bioactivation of HAA to carcinogenic metabolites is primarily mediated by phase I biotransformation enzymes. Evidence suggests that the activity of many of these enzymes can be modulated by constituents in apiaceous vegetables (parsnips, celery, etc.) and cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cabbage, etc.)

In this trial researchers are comparing the effects of eating cruciferous vegetables, apiaceous vegetables, or both groups combined on HAA metabolism after eating grilled hamburger together in a single meal. They aim to define optimal dietary patterns and food combinations that maximize the safe excretion of dietary carcinogens through this trial. This contribution is significant because the knowledge gained will be applicable to the prevention of colon cancer as well as additional cancers.