Smoldering Myeloma High-Risk Patient Observation and Longitudinal Insight Trial
The purpose of this study is to define the natural history of high-risk smoldering myeloma in a modern cohort of patients undergoing close standard of care follow-up with diffusion weighted whole body magnetic resonance imaging.
Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
OTHER: Patients with smoldering myeloma undergoing active surveillance with diffusion weighted whole body MRI.
Incidence of morbid progression events attributable to a plasma cell dyscrasia at two years, with morbid events defined as: death, renal injury that does not reverse, fracture, lytic bone lesion, AL Amyloidosis or plasma cell leukemia., Frequency and nature of progression events in a prospective cohort of patients with smoldering myeloma undergoing active surveillance with diffusion weighted whole body MRI, 2 years
Change in the quality of life as measured by physical function domain on the PROMIS-29 (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System), from baseline to the end of study at 24 months of follow-up., Determine longitudinal Quality of Life as assessed by the PROMIS-29 instrument. The PROMIS-29 scales will be scored using a T-score metric method. A score of 50 points represents the population average for each scale, and 10 points represent one standard deviation. Higher scores means a higher level of physical function., 2 years|Change in the quality of life as measured by pain interference domain on the PROMIS-29 (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System), from baseline to the end of study at 24 months of follow-up., Determine longitudinal Quality of Life as assessed by the PROMIS-29 instrument. The PROMIS-29 scales will be scored using a T-score metric method. A score of 50 points represents the population average for each scale, and 10 points represent one standard deviation. Higher scores means a higher level of pain interference., 2 years|Change in the quality of life as measured by anxiety domain on the PROMIS-29 (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System), from baseline to the end of study at 24 months of follow-up., Determine longitudinal Quality of Life as assessed by the PROMIS-29 instrument. The PROMIS-29 scales will be scored using a T-score metric method. A score of 50 points represents the population average for each scale, and 10 points represent one standard deviation. Higher scores means a higher level of anxiety., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to define the natural history of high-risk smoldering myeloma in a modern cohort of patients undergoing close standard of care follow-up with diffusion weighted whole body magnetic resonance imaging.