Impact of Palliative Transfusions on Quality of Life in Patients With Blood Cancers on Hospice
The purpose of this pilot research study is to evaluate the effectiveness of blood and platelet transfusions in improving symptoms and quality of life of patients enrolled in hospice.
Hematologic Malignancy
PROCEDURE: Blood and/or platelet transfusion|PROCEDURE: Complete blood count (CBC) collection
Proportion of subjects with improved quality of life after receiving transfusions., Improved quality of life (QOL) and palliative efficacy will be evaluated by improvement of the presenting symptoms and quality of life based on CTCAE and QOL questionnaires., 6 months|Proportion of subjects with improved palliative efficacy after receiving transfusions., Palliative efficacy will be evaluated by improvement of the presenting symptoms and quality of life based on CTCAE and QOL questionnaires., 6 months
This is a non-randomized pilot study to investigate the feasibility of symptom-based blood transfusion in patients with hematologic malignancies enrolling in hospice care.

The study will be a case series involving OU Medical Center (OUMC). Patients will be identified at the University of Oklahoma/Stephenson Cancer Center (OU-SCC) where investigators performing the study will consent and monitor patients. Integris Home Hospice agency will provide hospice patients with blood transfusions in those willing to participate, and the Oklahoma Blood Institute (OBI) will provide the hospice patients with palliative transfusions at home at no cost to the patient, including blood products, transfusion testing, infusions and the nursing staff.

This will be a pilot project including 20 consented patients with hematologic malignancies enrolling in hospice through Integris Home Hospice. The transfusions received will be determined by the hospice team, and will not be based on objective symptom based guidelines. Patients will have the option to either be enrolled on this clinical trial, where they may receive home based blood or platelet transfusions, or be enrolled in any other hospice of their choosing, including the other hospice that will provide home based transfusions. Information will be collected regarding symptoms, Hospice QOL scores and transfusion use, reactions, and time in hospice. Data will be collected until death.