Effectiveness of a Preoperative Pulmonary Rehabilitation Program in Patients Awaiting Lung Resection
The purpose of this study is to establish the effectiveness of a preoperative pulmonary rehabilitation program in patients awaiting lung resection for lung cancer by Video-assisted thoracic surgery in order to improve exercise tolerance and quality of life. The investigators hypothesized that a pulmonary rehabilitation program including both endurance and strength training may improve exercise tolerance and quality of life measured with a submaximal exercise test and a quality of life questionnaire respectively.
Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Pulmonary Rehabilitation Program
Exercise Tolerance, Maximum time sustained (in seconds) during the constant-load cycle endurance test performed at 80% of the maximal workload achieved measured three weeks after hospital discharge in comparison with the control group., Exercise tolerance 3 weeks after hospital discharge|Exercise Tolerance, Maximum time sustained (in seconds) during the constant-load cycle endurance test performed at 80% of the maximal workload achieved measured three months after hospital discharge in comparison with the control group., Exercise tolerance 3 months after surgery
Health-Related Quality of Life, Health-Related Quality of Life measured with the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey Version 2 (SF-36) three weeks post-surgery. This scale is scored on a 0 - 100 scale, with higher scores referring to a better health-related quality of life. The scale compromises 8 subscales and two summaries (physial and mental)., Quality of life 3 weeks after surgery|Health-Related Quality of Life, Health-Related Quality of Life measured with the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey Version 2 (SF-36) three months post-surgery. This scale is scored on a 0 - 100 scale, with higher scores referring to a better health-related quality of life. The scale compromises 8 subscales and two summaries (physial and mental)., Quality of life post-surgery|Upper Body Strength, Upper body strength measured with the Arm-Curl Test of the Senior Fitness Test. The test measures the number of curl-arm movements with a 2.27kg or a 3.61 kg dumbbell for women and men respectively during 30 seconds., 3 weeks post-surgery|Upper Body Strength, Upper body strength measured with the Arm-Curl Test of the Senior Fitness Test. The test measures the number of curl-arm movements with a 2.27kg or a 3.61 kg dumbbell for women and men respectively during 30 seconds., 3 months post-surgery|Lower Body Strength, Lower body strength measured with the sit-to-stand Test. The test consist of counting the number of full stands from a chair that can be completed in 30 seconds with arms folded across chest., 3 weeks post-surgery|Lower Body Strength, Lower body strength measured with the sit-to-stand Test. The test consist of counting the number of full stands from a chair that can be completed in 30 seconds with arms folded across chest., 3 months post-surgery
The purpose of this study is to establish the effectiveness of a preoperative pulmonary rehabilitation program in patients awaiting lung resection for lung cancer by Video-assisted thoracic surgery in order to improve exercise tolerance and quality of life. The investigators hypothesized that a pulmonary rehabilitation program including both endurance and strength training may improve exercise tolerance and quality of life measured with a submaximal exercise test and a quality of life questionnaire respectively.