A Randomized Phase II Study of Stereotactic Ablative Body Radiotherapy for Metastases to the Lung (TROG 13.01 SAFRON II)
The main purpose of this study is to determine the safety (defined as number of participants experiencing ≥ 5% toxicity at 12 months post treatment) of stereotactic ablative fractionated radiotherapy versus radiosurgery for oligometastatic neoplasia to the lung.
Cancer|Metastases to the Lung
RADIATION: Multi-fraction SABR|RADIATION: Single Fraction SABR
Toxicity, The primary outcome is safety, defined as number of participants experiencing less than or equal to 5% toxicity at 12 months post treatment (toxicity as measured by CTCAE V4)., 12 months
Quality of Life, To compare quality of life outcomes between techniques assessed using EQ-5DL and MDASI-LC questionnaires., 24 months|Time to local failure, Local progression free survival assesed by CT scan and clinical assessment, 24 months|Overall survival, Overall survival assesed by clinical assessment, 24 months|Time to distant failure, Time to distant failure assessed by CT scan and clinical assessment, 24 months|Resources use and costs associated with treatment, Resources use and costs associated with treatment assessed by EQ5DL and accessing Medicare data, 24 months|Disease Free Survival, Disease free survival will be measured from the date of randomisation to the date of a local recurrence, regional or distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 24 months
Immune response, To explore immune system responses to single fraction and multi-fraction SABR., 3 months
Stereotactic Ablative Body Radiotherapy (SABR) is an exciting novel radiotherapy technique that is delivered over very few sessions. In the case of limited pulmonary 'oligometastases', SABR can result in long-term survival. It is non-invasive and associated with high rates of tumour control and relatively low toxicity. Additionally, the large doses of precision radiotherapy involved may evoke a strong immune response to recognise and attack any remaining tumour cells. In the future, SABR may be an attractive alternative to invasive surgery. There are two SABR techniques emerging in Australia; fractionated and single fraction treatments. We aim to conduct the first clinical trial of SABR in patients with limited pulmonary metastases testing fractionated versus single fraction treatments.

The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the toxicity, Quality of Life, clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness of single fraction SABR compared to multi-fraction SABR in patients with oligometastases to the lung.

The secondary aim of this study is to assess the immune response evoked by both fractionated and single fraction SABR and its prognostic implications for patient outcomes.