A Study of MM-121 Combination Therapy in Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
A Phase 1-2 study of MM-121 in combination with standard therapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: MM-121|DRUG: Erlotinib
Phase 1: To Determine the Recommended Phase 2 Dose of the MM-121 + Erlotinib Combination Based Upon Either the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) or the Maximum Feasible Dose of the Combination in Patients With NSCLC., To establish the safety of escalating doses of MM-121 in combination with erlotinib in order to determine the recommended phase 2 dose of the combination for the second part of the study. Dose-escalation conducted using standard 3+3 model to determine maximum tolerated dose. Reports of Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) were assessed to determine the MTD., From date of first dose to 30 days after termination, the longest 175 weeks|Phase 1: Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose Dependent on Reports of Dose-limiting Toxicities, Using a 3+3 dose escalation model, the maximum tolerated dose was determined by assessing dose-limiting toxicities in each cohort. If 3 patients were treated and passed the observation window, escalation to the next cohort was initiated. If a DLT was reported, 3-4 additional patients were enrolled and observed. If a DLT was observed in the expanded cohort, this dose was considered to be the maximum tolerated dose. The maximum tolerated dose was defined at the cohort in which two dose-limiting toxicities were observed, or as the highest target dose tested in the absence of DLTs.

The determined MTD was used as the recommended Phase 2 dose., From date of first dose to 30 days after termination, the longest 175 weeks|Phase 2: Progression-free Survival of the MM-121 + Erlotinib Combination, This was a time-to-event measure using Progression-Free Survival (PFS) comparing MM-121 + erlotinib vs.erlotinib alone. Progression of disease is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions". Progression free survival was defined as the number of weeks from the date of randomization to the date of death or progression. If neither death nor progression was observed during the study, PFS data was censored at the last non-progressive disease valid tumor assessment unless the patient was discontinued due to symptomatic deterioration. If this occurred, the patient was counted as having progressive disease (PD)., Time from first dose to date of progression, with a median of 8.1 weeks
Phase 1: Patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) may be enrolled to evaluate the safety, tolerability and recommended Phase 2 dose of MM-121 in combination with standard therapy.

Phase 2: Patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) may be enrolled to estimate the progression-free survival of the MM-121 + standard therapy.