Testing the Addition of a New Anti-cancer Drug, Radium-223 Dichloride, to the Usual Treatment (Cabozantinib) for Advanced Renal Cell Cancer That Has Spread to the Bone, RadiCaL Study
This phase II trial studies whether adding radium-223 dichloride to the usual treatment, cabozantinib, improves outcomes in patients with renal cell cancer that has spread to the bone. Radioactive drugs such as radium-223 dichloride may directly target radiation to cancer cells and minimize harm to normal cells. Cabozantinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving radium-223 dichloride and cabozantinib may help lessen the pain and symptoms from renal cell cancer that has spread to the bone, compared to cabozantinib alone.
Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma|Chromophobe Renal Cell Carcinoma|Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Collecting Duct Carcinoma|Kidney Medullary Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone|Papillary Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8|Unclassified Renal Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Radium Ra 223 Dichloride
Symptomatic skeletal event (SSE)-free survival (FS), SSE-FS distribution will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier by treatment arm. Comparison between the two arms will be performed using a one-sided log-rank test and one-sided p-value less than 0.025 will indicate that the experimental arm is superior to the control arm. SSE-FS will be censored at the date of last SSE assessment for those alive and SSE free. Hazard ratio (experimental over control arm) as well as two-sided 90% confidence interval (CI) for treatment will be estimated using the stratified Cox proportional hazard model with a single treatment covariate., From the date of randomization to the date of the earliest occurrence of SSE or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Incidence of adverse events, Will be determined using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Adverse events will be summarized and compared between arms using chi-square or fisher exact tests as appropriate., Up to 5 years|SSE-FS, Will be estimated with the Kaplan Meier methodology. Comparison between arms or between predefined groups will be conducted using the log-rank test., From randomization to the date of SSE or death due to any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Radiographic progression will be defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Will be estimated with the Kaplan Meier methodology. Comparison between arms or between predefined groups will be conducted using the log-rank test., From randomization to time of radiographic progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated with the Kaplan Meier methodology. Comparison between arms or between predefined groups will be conducted using the log-rank test. Patients who are alive will be censored at last follow up date., From randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to first SSE, Will be determined in each treatment. The median estimate to first SSE-FS will be calculated., From randomization to the date of first SSE or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall response rate (ORR), Will be defined by RECIST version 1.1. Number and proportion of patients achieving ORR (by RECIST) will be summarized with two-sided 90% CI by treatment arm; comparison between arms will be conducted using chi-square or Fisher's exact test as appropriate., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the symptomatic skeletal event (SSE)-free survival of metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) patients with bone metastases treated with cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) + radium Ra 223 dichloride (radium-223 dichloride) compared to cabozantinib alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the safety, toxicity and tolerability as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 in patients treated with cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride compared to cabozantinib alone.

II. To assess SSE-free survival of each treatment arm in predefined sub-groups. III. To assess progression-free survival (PFS) in each treatment arm. IV. To assess overall survival (OS) in each treatment arm. V. To assess time to first SSE (defined as first use of radiation therapy to relieve skeletal symptoms, new symptomatic pathologic vertebral or non-vertebral bone fractures, spinal cord compression, or symptomatic tumor-related orthopaedic surgical intervention) in each treatment arm.

VI. To assess the objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1.

VII. To assess time to subsequent anti-cancer systemic therapy and type of systemic therapy.

EXPLORATORY QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare patient-reported pain as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory questionnaire (BPI) between patients randomized to cabozantinib versus cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride at 6 months.

II. To compare patient-reported pain as assessed by the BPI between patients randomized to cabozantinib versus cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride at other timepoints.

III. To compare overall health-related quality of life as assessed by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information Systems (PROMIS) Global Health 10 between patients randomized to cabozantinib versus cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride.

IV. To compare quality-adjusted survival (overall survival x utility score assessed by European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale \[EQ5D-5L\]) between patients randomized to cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in the following bone turnover markers between arms:

Ia. Marker of bone formation: P1NP, BSAP. Ib. Marker of bone resorption: CTX, NTX. II. To correlate changes in bone turnover markers with SSE-free survival. III. To assess the immunomodulatory properties of cabozantinib with or without radium-223 dichloride at baseline, during treatment, and at progression.

IV. To identify prognostic and predictive genomic biomarkers of response to cabozantinib and radium-223 dichloride via assessment of tissue, circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA).

V. To assess the association between bone response according to MD Anderson response criteria and SSE-free survival (FS).

VI. To correlate change in level of total alkaline phosphatase and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase to overall response to cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride compared to cabozantinib alone.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive radium Ra 223 dichloride intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on day 1 of cycles 1-6 and cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of every cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo blood sample collection, bone scan, computed tomography (CT), or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and may undergo fludeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) or sodium fluoride (NaF)-PET throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5 years from study registration.