Tibetan Yoga in Improving Fatigue and Sleep in Participants With Stage I-III Breast Cancer
The goal of this behavioral research study is to learn if participating in a Tibetan yoga program helps to improve quality of life for women during treatment for or recovery from breast cancer. Researchers are also interested in whether the yoga program helps to improve sleep, lung function, and physical therapy, based on outcomes.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Actigraph|OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Sleep Diary|OTHER: Stretching|PROCEDURE: Yoga
The correlation on the effects of Tibetan yoga on fatigue, Participants will be monitored on the extent to which the Tibetan Yoga program decreases fatigue and sleep disturbances. Fatigue will be assessed using the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI). The BFI is a 9-item questionnaire designed to be used in the clinical setting to rapidly assess fatigue severity. The items are ranked from 0 to 10, and patients rate their fatigue at its "worst" and "usual" and as it is "now," with 0 = "no fatigue" and 10 = "fatigue as bad as you can imagine." Patients also rate how much their fatigue has interfered with their life. This single-dimension instrument was tested in a sample of patients with cancer, and provided an internally stable measure of fatigue severity., Up to 12 months|The correlation on the effects of Tibetan yoga on sleep disturbances, The Fatigue will be assessed using the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), items are ranked from 1-10 and patients will rate their fatigue at its "worst" and "usual" and as it is "now" with 0= no fatigue and 10= "fatigue as bad as you can imagine". The Sleep disturbance will be assessed using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), this 18 item questionnaire and it rates the sleep quality from 0=good and 3=very poor. The less the total score the less of a sleep disturbance problem., Up to 12 months|Identifying the process of the underlying efficacy of Tibetan yoga intervention., Writing will be conducted at the 3 month post intervention assessment. Participants will only conduct the writing one time as an outcome measure, which should not have an appreciable affect on the outcomes. Samples will be analyzed using Linguistic Inquiry Word Count (LIWC) software was developed to examine the linguistic content of writing samples. We used this program in our previous pilot study examining the emotional-expression writing intervention. The software counts the number of times specific words are used in the writing samples. The software recognizes more than 2,290 words and classifies them into 74 different grammatical, cognitive, and emotional categories. It can calculate the average percentage of words used in the different categories and determine changes in the percentages over writing samples. Writings will also be assessed in an exploratory fashion using qualitative analyses, including the use of ethnographic methods., Up to 12 months|The Effects of Tibetan Yoga Program with the aspects of adjustment., We will assess cytotoxicity to K562 target cells; stimulated and circulating release of IL-12, IFN, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 (using polyclonal stimulators); flow cytometric analysis of intracellular cytokines (to identify the subset of cells producing the particular cytokine); and lymphocyte phenotype (CD3, CD56, CD16, CD4, and CD8) \[279, 280\]. PBMCs will be cryopreserved for future analyses if the initial assays are encouraging. Other assays may be conducted in the future., Up to 12 months
You will come to M. D. Anderson for an initial meeting. You will complete several questionnaires asking about mood, quality of life, and other things like sleep, fatigue, anxiety, and coping skills. You will also have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test to measure the electrical activity of your heart). Both the questionnaires and the ECG test should take about 60 minutes, total, to complete.

You will also wear an actigraph (a watch-like instrument that records arm movements) for 7 days. The actigraph records information about your physical activity, rest, and sleep. You will be asked to complete daily sleep diary forms that ask about some behaviors, your sleep, and sleep quality for the 7 days. At the end of the 7 days, you will return the actigraph and sleep diaries to the research staff, or a member of the research staff can go to your home to pick them up.

If you are assigned to the yoga group, you will take part in 4 weekly sessions of Tibetan yoga. If you are not able to attend 4 weekly sessions, you can attend 1 session every 3 weeks, for a total of 4 sessions over 12 weeks, of Tibetan yoga. You will be asked to complete a brief form at the start of each session that will take 1-2 minutes to complete. During the yoga sessions, you will be asked to do deep breathing exercises and perform different stretching and movement exercises. You will be able to move through the exercises at your own pace. Sessions occurring weekly will last 90 minutes. Sessions occurring once every 3 weeks will last 90 minutes. All sessions will be provided free of charge. One or more of these yoga sessions may be videotaped by the study staff for quality assurance purposes. Only the study staff will be able to view this videotape.

If you are assigned to the stretching group, you will take part in 4 weekly sessions in which you will be asked to do simple stretching exercises. If you are not able to attend 4 weekly sessions, you can attend 1 session every 3 weeks, for a total of 4 sessions over 12 weeks. Sessions occurring weekly will last 90 minutes. Sessions occurring once every 3 weeks will last 90 minutes. All sessions will be provided free of charge. None of the movements are difficult. You will be able to follow this program at your own pace.

If you are assigned to the yoga or stretching group, you will take part in 3 "booster" sessions consisting of a review and practice of the entire program. If you are in the 4 weekly sessions, your booster sessions will take place 1 and 2 months after your last yoga or stretch class and again around the time of your 6-month assessment. If you are in the classes that meet every 3 weeks over a 12-week period, your booster sessions will take place 3 and 6 weeks after your last yoga or stretch class and again around the time of your 6-month assessment.

If a need for counseling/therapy arises, your primary care physician will be notified and can refer you to the Section of Psychiatry, Department of Neuro-Oncology.

One week, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the end of the yoga or stretching sessions (or similar time for the usual care group), you will be asked to return to the clinic. You will fill out a packet of questionnaires and complete an ECG evaluation again. The questionnaires and tests should take about 60 minutes to complete. You will also be asked to wear the actigraph and complete daily sleep diary forms for another 7 days. At the end of the 7 days, you will return the actigraph and sleep diaries to the research staff, or a member of the research staff can go to your home to pick them up. This will be your last participation in the study.

After the study is over, if you took part in the stretching or were in the usual care group, you will be given the option to take the yoga classes.