To Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of SCB01A in Subjects With r/m Squamous Cell Head and Neck Cancer
The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of i.v. infusion for 24-hour of SCB01A in subjects with squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck who have failed previous platinum based therapies.
Head and Neck Neoplasms
DRUG: SCB01A
Objective Response Rate (ORR) During Treatment Phase, Objective response rate (ORR) was defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR), according to RECIST v1.1 criteria.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to approximately 15 months (assessed continuously during treatment)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the start of treatment up to the date of first progression based on RECIST v1.1 or the date of death, which ever comes first.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., From the start of treatment up to either first observation of progressive disease or occurrence of death, up to approximately 15 months (assessed continuously during treatment)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the as the time from the start of treatment up to the time that the subject is still alive., From the start of treatment up to death from any cause or last day known to be alive, up to approximately 15 months (assessed continuously during treatment)|Best Overall Tumor Response, Best overall tumor response is defined as an objective response or stable disease of treatment phase., Up to approximately 15 months (assessed continuously during treatment)
From pre-clinical pharmacology and phase I clinical study SCB01A has demonstrated promising anticancer action with a vascular disrupting activity that has the potential for treatment of various malignancies, particularly for patients with drug resistance. The drug has been studied in human subjects in a dose escalation phase I study and has shown to be safe for up to 2 cycles of 24 mg/m2 (each cycle consisting of one intravenous \[i.v.\] administration of SCB01A via a central line every 3 weeks). In the phase I study, partial response (PR) (shrinkage of tumor size to 50%) was observed in cycle 9 (3 mg/m2) of one subject with right buccal squamous cell carcinoma and 19/33 (58%) subjects had stable disease (SD) for more than 2 cycles.

Pre clinical study of SCB01A showed that the concentrations at which tubulin inhibition occurred were around 80 nM for 24-hour exposure or 200 nM for 6-hour exposure. However, pharmacokinetic (PK) results of phase I study showed that the average elimination half-life (t1/2) of a 3-hours i.v. infusion of SCB01A is approximately 2.5 hours and almost no SCB01A can be detected after 10 hours, indicating most subjects were treated in short API exposure time and may have been insufficient to achieve efficacy. Therefore, to extend the exposure duration above effective concentration in blood may increase the treatment efficacy.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of i.v. infusion for 24-hour of SCB01A in subjects with squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck who have failed previous platinum based therapies.