Study of EGFR TKI in Patients With Advanced NSCLC Harbouring EGFR Mutations
The goal of this clinical trial is to explore the efficacy of afatinib in NSCLC harbouring EGFR PACC mutation subtype. The main question it aims to answer is:

Afatinib is active in patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring EGFR PACC mutation subtype.

Participants will undergo screening, follow by treatment if eligible for study participation and then enter follow up phase after study medication has stopped. Patients will take afatinib 40mg daily continuously, until the development of progressive disease or meeting discontinuation criteria. A treatment cycle is defined as 28 days.
NSCLC
DRUG: Afatinib 40 MG
Objective response rate, Defined as best overall response (Complete Response or Partial Response) across all assessment time-points according to RECIST criteria v1.1, At baseline and every 8 weeks for the first 6 cycles, every 12 weeks from cycle 7 to 12 and every 16 weeks from cycle 13 onwards (each cycle is 28 days)
Progression free survival, Defined as the time from the date of study enrolment to the first date of documented disease progression, within 4 weeks from starting treatment and every 8 weeks for the first 6 cycles, every 12 weeks from cycle 7 to 12 and every 16 weeks from cycle 13 onwards (each cycle is 28 days)|Overall survival, Defined as the time from the date of randomisation until documented progression (according to RECIST v1.1) or death, 48 months|Duration of response, Defined as the time from first documented Complete Response or Partial Response to the time of radiological progression or death, whichever occurs earlier., every 8 weeks for the first 6 cycles, every 12 weeks from cycle 7 to 12 and every 16 weeks from cycle 13 onwards (each cycle is 28 days)|Time to treatment failure, Defined as the time from afatinib treatment to the time of treatment discontinuation for any reason including disease progression, treatment toxicity, and death, 48 months|Number of participant with treatment related toxicities, Toxicities will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) toxicity grading Version 5, 48 months
This is a multi-center, open-label, phase II study of patients with stage IIIb-IV NSCLC harbouring EGFR PACC mutations.

Before taking the study drug, patients will need to undergo baseline assessments to ensure that they are eligible for the study. Then they will enter treatment period, where afatinib 40mg will be administered daily continuously, until the development of progressive disease or meeting discontinuation criteria. A discontinuation visit will be performed if patients stopped study drug for any reason. Thereafter, patients will be placed on Follow Up visit.

Clinical assessment, routine blood tests and routine imaging:

Physical examinations, imaging, and blood tests will be performed during baseline assessment, on the first day of each treatment cycle, after patients have completed the study and when clinically required by the treating physician. Patients will need to visit the doctor's office approximately 1-2 times every 4 weeks when they are receiving active treatment during the course of the study. More frequent visits may be needed as clinically indicated by the treating physician.

Treatment procedure:

Afatinib will be taken once a day at approximately the same time each day initially starting at a dose of 40mg. Afatinib must be taken on an empty stomach (at least one hour before or at least two hours after a meal).

Research Blood samples:

Blood samples for research will be taken at baseline, before starting cycle 3 and at the time of cancer progression. The estimated total volume of research blood that will be drawn is 10mL (2-3 teaspoons) each time for a total of 30mL.