Fludeoxyglucose F-18 PET/CT in Predicting Response to Chemotherapy in Patients With Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well fludeoxyglucose F-18 (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works in predicting response to chemotherapy in patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer that can be removed by surgery (resectable). Performing diagnostic procedures, such as fludeoxyglucose F-18 PET/CT, after one course of chemotherapy may help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment earlier and help plan the best treatment.
Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Docetaxel|RADIATION: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Pemetrexed Disodium|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Rate of mediastinal downstaging, The predictive accuracy of the percent change in SUVmax on FDG-PET/CT from T0 to T1 measured on mediastinal lymph nodes will be estimated by the area under a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) with a 95% confidence interval (CI). The AUC will be estimated empirically. The reference standard for the ROC analysis will be the presence or absence of mediastinal downstaging, as assessed by thoracotomy, mediastinoscopy, mediastinotomy, endoscopic bronchoscopic ultrasound (EBUS), or endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)., Up to 9 weeks
Change of SUVmax, The predictive accuracy of the change in SUVmax on FDG-PET/CT from T0 to T1 measured on mediastinal lymph nodes will be estimated by the ROC AUC with a 95% CI. The AUC will be estimated empirically., Baseline to 3 weeks|Overall survival, Time-dependent ROC analysis will be used to determine the predictive accuracy of percent change in SUVmax on FDG-PET/CT from T0 to T1 measured on mediastinal to predict overall survival., Up to 5 years|Percent change of metabolic tumor volume, The predictive accuracy of percent change of metabolic tumor volume from T0 to T1 from primary tumor will be measured by the ROC AUC with a 95% CI. The AUC will be estimated empirically., Baseline to 3 weeks|Percent change of SUVpeak, The predictive accuracy of percent change of SUVpeak from T0 to T1 from primary tumor will be measured by the ROC AUC with a 95% CI. The AUC will be estimated empirically., Baseline to 3 weeks|Percent change of TLG, The predictive accuracy of percent change of TLG from T0 to T1 from primary tumor will be measured by the ROC AUC with a 95% CI. The AUC will be estimated empirically., Baseline to 3 weeks|SUVmax, The predictive accuracy of SUVmax at T1 will be estimated by the ROC AUC with a 95% CI. The AUC will be estimated empirically., At 3 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether percent change in maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) on FDG-PET/CT from T0 to T1 measured on mediastinal lymph nodes can predict mediastinal downstaging in patients with stage IIIA-N2 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the predictive accuracy for mediastinal downstaging of two other FDG-PET/CT-based markers measured on mediastinal lymph nodes: SUVmax at T1 and change of SUVmax from T0 to T1.

II. To evaluate the predictive accuracy for mediastinal downstaging of the FDG-PET/CT-based markers measured on the primary tumor, include percent change of peak standardized uptake value (SUVpeak) (based on PET Response Criteria in Solid Tumors \[PERCIST\] criteria), total lesion glycolysis (TLG) and metabolic tumor volume (MTV) from T0 to T1.

III. To evaluate whether percent change in SUVmax on FDG-PET/CT from T0 to T1 measured on mediastinal lymph nodes can predict overall survival (OS).

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F-18 PET/CT at baseline and after course 1 of chemotherapy. Patients undergo 1 of 3 chemotherapy regimens at the discretion of the investigator.

CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN 1: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, and 8. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN 2: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 60 minutes and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN 3: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years.