Inetetamab Combined With Pyrotinib Plus Oral Vinorelbine for the Treatment of HER2-positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
In this phase 2 single-arm clinical trial, 30 patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer after progression on trastuzumab are enrolled and receive treatment of Inetetamab plus Pyrotinib plus Oral Vinorelbine. The study aimed to access the efficacy and safety of Inetetamab combined with Pyrotinib and Oral Vinorelbine in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer patients after progression on trastuzumab.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Inetetamab|DRUG: Pyrotinib|DRUG: Oral Vinorelbine Tartrate
Progression Free Survival，PFS, The time from the beginning of treatment to the progression or death of the patient, 2 years
overall survival，OS, The time from the beginning of treatment to the death of the patient, 4 years|Objective Response Rate，ORR, The percentage of participants whose best overall response, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, is either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), 2 year|Clinical Benefit Rate，CBR, the percentage of participants whose best overall response, is either CR, PR or stable disease (SD) lasting for at least 24 weeks, 2 year|adverse events, The probability and severity of adverse reactions related to the treatment were assessed by CTCAE (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) v5.0., 2 years
Exploration of biomarkers, To explore the potential biomarkers for the efficacy of combined therapy. The biomarkers will be tested by next-generation sequence, 1 year
Trastuzumab is an important agent for the treatment of patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. However, a considerable number of patients will develop resistance to trastuzumab treatment. Previous studies have shown that multiple mechanisms mediate trastuzumab resistance, such as abnormal extracellular domain of the HER2 receptor, HER3 mutation and activation of bypass signaling pathway. To overcome these resistance mechanisms, the combination of trastuzumab with HER2-targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) is an effective strategy. In this phase 2 single-arm clinical trial, 30 patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer after progression on trastuzumab are enrolled and receive treatment of Inetetamab plus Pyrotinib plus Oral Vinorelbine. The study aimed to access the efficacy and safety of Inetetamab combined with Pyrotinib and Oral Vinorelbine in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer patients after progression on trastuzumab. The primary end point is Progressive-free Survival (PFS). The secondary end points are Overall Survival (OS), Overall Response Rate (ORR), Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) and safety.