Study of Propranolol to Decrease Gene Expression of Stress-Mediated Beta-Adrenergic Pathways in HCT Recipients
This is a randomized controlled pilot study designed to evaluate whether the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol is effective in decreasing gene expression of stress-mediated beta-adrenergic pathways among a cohort of individuals receiving an autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) for multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Propranolol
Beta-adrenergically Mediated Gene Expression (Change From Baseline), Expression (up or down regulation) of genes involved in the stress response can be modulated through the beta-adrenergic pathway. The log2 RNA abundance is a means to normalize results to determine whether a gene is up regulated (value greater than 1) or down regulated (value less than 1). Differential change in log2 RNA abundance is defined by the fold change (FC) as log2FC=Log2(B)-Log2(A). Logarithmic measures are unitless. The change in the measure between two time points determines whether a gene has up-or down-regulated., Baseline (Pre-Transplant); 4 weeks post-transplant
Patient-reported Depression and Anxiety Scores, This measure will be assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The HADS scale includes fourteen 4-response Likert-scale questions graded 0 to 3. Seven questions are specific to depression; 7 questions are specific to anxiety. The score is the total of the responses in their respective categories. Lower scores indicated less depression and/or anxiety. Scores 0-7 indicate normal status; scores 8-10 suggest borderline abnormal status; and scores 11-21 indicate abnormal status. Only anxiety scores are presented., Baseline and 4 weeks|Number of Subjects Experiencing Engraftment Syndrome as a Function of Beta-blocker Administration, Number of subjects experiencing any of: fever, diarrhea or rash requiring steroid intervention within 48 hours before or after neutrophil recovery., 4 weeks|Time (Days) to Neutrophil Engraftment, This measure is the mean time to the beginning of three consecutive days where the neutrophil count (absolute neutrophil count) was 500 cells/mm\^3 (0.5 x 10\^9/L) or greater., 4 weeks after transplant|Time (Days) to Platelet Engraftment, This measure is the mean time to the beginning of three consecutive days where the platelet count is at least 20,000/mm\^3 (20 x 10\^9/L) unsupported by a platelet transfusion., 4 weeks|Number of Participants Diagnosed With Culture-positive Infection or Neutropenic Fever Greater Than 100.4 Degrees Fahrenheit, This measure is the number of subjects diagnosed with culture-positive infection or neutropenic fever greater than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit., Up to 100 days after transplant|Number of Participants With Myeloma Response as a Function of Beta-blocker Administration, This measure is the number of participants experiencing a response defined by the International Uniform Response Criteria as: very good partial response (VGPR) or better (near complete response (nCR), complete response (CR), and stringent CR (sCR) according to at day 100 post-Hematopoietic Cell Transplant., 100 days after transplant
This is a randomized controlled pilot study designed to evaluate whether a drug designed to block the physiologic effects of stress is effective at blocking stress-related gene expression in people receiving autologous stem cell transplants (their own cells) for multiple myeloma. Such stress-related gene expression is one way that the body is programmed to make specific proteins under conditions of stress. These proteins are believed to contribute to worse health outcomes. By using the drug propranolol, we aim to see whether we might block these negative health effects of stress as occur in the cancer setting and during the transplant process. We hypothesize that individuals taking propranolol will have more favorable gene expression.

We will enroll 40 individuals, randomizing half to receive propranolol and half to serve as the control group not on the study drug. Study participants will start propranolol three weeks prior to their transplant and continue it until 30 days after the transplant. We will explore the effect of socioeconomic status, depression, and anxiety on individuals' gene expression response to propranolol with the idea that the more impoverished, anxious, or depressed individuals will display an even greater change in their gene expression. Part of the purpose of this study is also be to assess whether it is feasible to give this drug to individuals with cancer. Results of this study may inform larger trials assessing the effects of propranolol on cancer progression.