A Study of Daratumumab in Combination With Atezolizumab Compared With Atezolizumab Alone in Participants With Previously Treated Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of the study is to compare the overall response rate (ORR) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) participants treated with daratumumab in combination with atezolizumab versus atezolizumab alone.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Daratumumab
Percentage of Participants With Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Criteria for CR: Disappearance of all target lesions; all lymph nodes must be of non-pathological in size (less than \[\<\]10 millimeter \[mm\] short axis; normalization of tumor marker level. Criteria for PR: greater than or equal to (\>=)30 percent (%) decrease in sum of the diameter of all target lesions compared with baseline, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. The outcome measure (OM) was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Up to 1.5 years
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical event that occurs in a participant administered an investigational product, and it does not necessarily indicate only events with clear causal relationship with the relevant investigational product. Crossover participants were counted twice (in 'Randomized Phase: Atezo arm' and in 'Randomized Phase: Atezo Crossed Over to Dara + Atezo') for safety analysis. For cross-over participants, AEs after initiation of cross-over treatment were summarized separately in the crossover arm, however, AEs occurred before crossover treatment were included in 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab arm'., Up to 1.5 years|Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of response was defined as duration from date of initial documentation of disease response to date of first objectively documented evidence of recurrence or progressive disease (PD) or death, whichever occurred first. PD: Sum of diameters increased by \>=20% and \>=5 millimeter (mm) from nadir (including baseline if it was smallest sum). Participants with measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" based on non-target disease, overall level of substantial worsening that merits discontinuation of therapy (if target disease was stable disease \[SD\]/PR). Participants without measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" of non-target disease, increase in overall tumor burden comparable to increase required for PD of measurable disease. Appearance of 1/ more new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesion was also considered as PD. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Up to 1.5 years|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate was defined as percentage of participants who achieved disease control (CR, PR, or SD). RECIST 1.1 Criteria for CR: Disappearance of all target lesions; all lymph nodes of non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis); normalization of tumor marker level. Criteria for PR: \>=30 % decrease in sum of the diameter of all target lesions compared with baseline, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Criteria for SD: \<30% decrease in sum of diameters of all target lesions compared with baseline and \<20% increase compared with nadir, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of nontarget lesions. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Up to 1.5 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the duration from the date of randomization until the first documented disease progression (PD) or death, whichever occurred first. PD: Sum of diameters increased by \>=20% and \>=5 millimeter (mm) from nadir (including baseline if it was smallest sum). Participants with measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" based on non-target disease, overall level of substantial worsening that merits discontinuation of therapy (if target disease was stable disease \[SD\]/PR). Participants without measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" of non-target disease, increase in overall tumor burden comparable to increase required for PD of measurable disease. Appearance of 1/ more new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesion was also considered as PD. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Up to 1.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of participant's death due to any cause. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Up to 1.5 years|Daratumumab Serum Concentration, Daratumumab serum concentrations were reported. Each cycle was of 21-days. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1):predose and postdose; C2D1 and C3D1:predose; C3D15: predose and postdose; C4D1: predose and postdose; C8D1: predose and postdose; C12D1: predose; end of treatment (37 days after last dose); and post last dose (up to 1.5 years)|Atezolizumab Serum Concentration, Atezolizumab serum concentrations were reported. Each cycle was of 21-days. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., C1D1:predose and postdose; C1D2:predose and postdose; C2D1, C3D1:predose; C3D15:predose and postdose; C4D1:predose and postdose; C8D1:predose and postdose; C12D1:predose; end of treatment (37 days after last dose); and post last dose (up to 1.5 years)|Number of Participants With Anti-Daratumumab Antibodies, Number of participants with antibodies to daratumumab (tested using a validated immunoassay method) were reported. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Up to 1.5 years|Number of Participants With Anti-Atezolizumab Antibodies, Number of participants with antibodies to atezolizumab (tested using a validated immunoassay method) were reported. The OM was planned to be reported for participants based on their initial assignment to 'Randomized Phase: Atezolizumab'., Up to 1.5 years
This randomized (study medication assigned to participants by chance), multicenter study will provide study treatment (atezolizumab alone or atezolizumab+daratumumab) to participants with previously treated advanced or metastatic NSCLC to assess the anti-tumor activity and safety. Participants who receive atezolizumab treatment with confirmed disease progression based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 will be eligible to crossover to treatment (atezolizumab + daratumumab) if they meet crossover eligibility criteria. It is expected that 100 participants will enroll in the study including 6 participants in the safety run in phase. Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will review ongoing data, and may formulate recommendations on study conduct, including expansion of enrollment of some PD-L1 subgroups, resulting in greater than 96 participants. The participants in the safety run in phase will be administered the combination of daratumumab and atezolizumab to determine the safety and tolerability that will be evaluated by the Safety Evaluation Team (SET) for dose limiting toxicity before the random assignment of participants in a 1:1 ratio in 2 treatment arms. The study consists of 3 phases: Screening Phase (up to 28 days), Treatment Phase and Post-Treatment Follow-up Phase which will continue until death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of consent, or the End of the Study \[the study end is approximately 6 to 12 months after that last participant is enrolled\]. Participants will undergo tumor assessments (RECIST 1.1), immunogenicity, pharmacokinetics, biomarkers and safety evaluations (adverse events, laboratory tests, electrocardiogram \[ECGs\], vital sign measurements, physical examinations, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group \[ECOG\] performance status score) over the time.