Triple Assay of Rectal Mucus in the Diagnosis of Colorectal Cancer
Development of a multiomics assay for use on OriColTM sampled rectal mucus for detection of cancer and significant polyps in symptomatic patients on the Colorectal Urgent Suspected Cancer pathway.
Colorectal Cancer|Adenoma Colon Polyp
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Oricol Test
TRIOMIC - 1, Determination of the clinical utility for stratification of colorectal cancer and high risk adenoma in a symptomatic population using hologenomic analysis., 26 months|TRIOMIC - 2, To expand and refine the genomic, epigenetic and microbiome biomarker signature profiles associated with colorectal cancer and high-risk adenoma to identify rarer biomarkers in addition to those previously established., 26 month|TRIOMIC - 3, To generate indicative performance metrics, including an assessment of discriminatory power, sensitivity, specificity and negative predictive values for the clinical application of Oricol™ multiomics assay., 26 months
Health Economic Assessment, 1. To assess the health economics of delivering a diagnostic service to patients referred to the urgent suspected cancer (USC) pathway via a Community Diagnostic Centre (CDC) in comparison to the current delivery mechanisms through the Two-Week Wait (TWW) pathway., 26 months
The primary objectives of the study are:

1. Confirm the presence of established genetic, epigenetic and microbiome based biomarker signatures associated with CRC and high-risk adenoma (defined as \>10mm in diameter or the presence of high-grade dysplasia) in colorectal urgent suspected cancer referrals, who are triaged for colonoscopy.
2. To expand and refine the genomic, epigenetic and microbiome biomarker signature profiles associated with colorectal cancer and high-risk adenoma to identify rarer biomarkers in addition to those previously established.
3. To generate indicative performance metrics, including an assessment of discriminatory power, sensitivity, specificity and negative predictive values for the clinical application of Oricol™ multiomics assay.

The Secondary Objectives of the study are:

1. To assess the health economics of delivering a diagnostic service to patients referred to the urgent suspected cancer (USC) pathway via a Community Diagnostic Centre (CDC) in comparison to the current delivery mechanisms through the Two-Week Wait (TWW) pathway.