A Chart Review Study of Adults With Advanced NSCLC
The main aim is to see how treatment patterns and drugs might improve care for adults with advanced or metastatic NSCLC with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon-20 driven mutations. Past medical records will be reviewed. No clinic visits or procedures will be required.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
Real-world Progression Free Survival (rwPFS), rwPFS is defined as the time elapsed from the initiation of a new treatment line to real-world progressive disease (rwPD) or death, whichever occurred first. rwPD: unequivocal increase in visible disease/disease burden or presence of new lesions. Participants will be censored at the end of the line of therapy or date of last contact available., Up to 6 months|Real-world Overall Response Rate (rwORR), Overall response rate (ORR) is the percentage of participants on a treatment line who achieve real-world complete response (rwCR) or real-world partial response (rwPR) as best response per treatment line. rwCR: complete resolution of disease; rwPR: partial reduction in size of visible disease in some, or all, areas without any increase in visible disease., Up to 6 months|Confirmed Real-world Overall Response Rate (rwCORR), ORR is the percentage of participants on a treatment line who achieve confirmed rwCR or rwPR as best response per treatment line. Confirmed responses are responses that persist greater than or equal to (\>=) 4 weeks after initial response. rwCR: complete resolution of disease; rwPR: partial reduction in size of visible disease in some or all areas without any increase in visible disease., Up to 6 months|Real-world Duration of Response (rwDOR), rwDOR is defined as the time from the date of first rwCR or rwPR after treatment initiation to the date of the first noted occurrence of progressive disease or death. rwCR: complete resolution of disease, rwPR: partial reduction in size of visible disease in some or all areas without any areas of increase in visible disease., Up to 6 months|Real-world Disease Control Rate (rwDCR), rwDCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a rwCR, rwPR, or real-world stable disease (rwSD) assessment during the course of a line of therapy, among all participants in that cohort. rwCR: complete resolution of disease, rwPR: partial reduction in size of visible disease in some or all areas without any areas of increase in visible disease, rwSD: no change in overall size of visible disease, or mixed response (some lesions increased, some lesions decreased)., Up to 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of advanced disease diagnosis until the date of death. Participants for whom a date of death has not been identified, will be censored at the date of last contact available., Up to 6 months|Real-world Time to Treatment Discontinuation (rwTTD), rwTTD is defined as time from treatment initiation to treatment discontinuation for any reason. Treatment discontinuation is defined as the date of the last drug administered during the same treatment line of therapy or death, whichever occurs earlier. Participants are considered to discontinue treatment if they have advanced to a new line of therapy since the last drug administration, have a recorded date of death, or have no visit activity more than 120 days after the last drug administration., Up to 6 months
This is a retrospective, observational study in participants with advanced NSCLC with EGFR exon-20 driven mutations. This study will look at clinical outcomes, patterns of care and disease management strategies and healthcare resource utilization (HCRU) in a routine clinical practice setting in the real world.

The study will enroll approximately 218 participants. Participants who were treated at the participating sites between 01 January 2017 and 30 November 2021 will be included. The data will be collected retrospectively at the specialized centers from the participants medical records and notes. All the participants will be assigned to a single observational cohort:

• Participants With Advanced NSCLC With EGFR Exon-20 Mutations

This multi-center study will be conducted in Canada, France and Hong Kong. The overall duration of the study will be 6 months.