A Companion Study for Patients Enrolled in Prior/Parent Ipilimumab Studies
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the continued use of ipilimumab in patients who had reinduction at the time of disease progression or to continue maintenance treatment. In addition, this study will continue to follow patients who have taken ipilimumab, but who are not eligible for maintenance or reinduction therapy.
Melanoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab
Number of Participants With On-study Adverse Events (AEs), AEs Leading to Discontinuation, Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Drug-related AEs, Immune-related AEs (irAEs), and Death as Outcome, An AE is any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. An SAE is a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Drug-related is defined as having certain, probable, possible, or missing relationship to study drug. An IrAE is an AE characterized by a potential association with inflammation and considered by the investigator to be drug related. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4=Life-threatening or disabling, Gr 5=Death., Continuously from first dose to 70 days after last dose of study drug. For deaths, Day 1 of enrollment to 70 days after last dose of study drug.
Overall Survival (OS), OS was computed for all patients who entered this study and is defined as the time between the first dose of study therapy and death. If a patient has not died, OS was censored at the time of last contact., From first dose of study drug in parent study to death or date of last censoring.|Percentage of Participants Surviving at 1, 1.5, and 2 Years, Survival rate was defined as the time from first dose of study drug to 1, 1.5, and 2 years., From first dose of study drug in parent study to up to 2 years after reinduction|Number of Participants With On-study Immune-related Adverse Events (irAEs), irAEs were defined as adverse events characterized by a potential association with inflammation and considered by the investigator as drug related. These prespecified terms were grouped into the following organ-specific subcategories: gastrointestinal, hepatic, skin, endocrine, neurologic, and other (includes blood, eye, immune system, investigations, infections, renal, and respiratory systems). Patients may have 1 or more events., From first dose of study drug during reinduction to the earliest of 70 days after last dose or day before second reinduction first dose date|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time between the date of the baseline tumor assessment in this study and the date of progression or death, whichever occurred first., From day of first reinduction in current study to date of progression or death, whichever occurred first.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the continued use of ipilimumab in patients who had reinduction at the time of disease progression or to continue maintenance treatment. In addition, this study will continue to follow patients who have taken ipilimumab, but who are not eligible for maintenance or reinduction therapy.