A Trial of 5 Fraction Prostate SBRT Versus 5 Fraction Prostate and Pelvic Nodal SBRT
This study will compare the safety and efficacy of curative radiotherapy to the prostate and lymph glands given in 5 visits to that of prostate alone radiotherapy given in 5 visits, in men with high risk localised prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: SBRT
Time to biochemical or clinical failure, Time to biochemical or clinical failure as defined by time from randomisation to the first progression event (either biochemical failure, local recurrence, lymph node/pelvic recurrence, distant metastases, recommencement of androgen deprivation therapy or death due to prostate cancer)., minimum of 3.5 years follow up post-randomisation
Clinical reported acute toxicity, Clinical reported acute and late toxicity using CTCAE version 5.0 and RTOG criteria. Focus will be given to GU and GI Grade 2 or higher (G2+) toxicities, 12 weeks post-randomisation|Clinical reported late toxicity, Clinical reported acute and late toxicity using CTCAE version 5.0 and RTOG criteria. Focus will be given to GU and GI Grade 2 or higher (G2+) toxicities, up to 5 years post-randomisation|Metastatic relapse-free survival, Time from randomisation to distant metastases or death from prostate cancer, up to 5 years post-randomisation|Prostate cancer-specific survival, Time from randomisation to death due to prostate cancer, up to 5 years post-randomisation|Overall survival, Time from randomisation to death from any cause, up to 5 years post-randomisation|Patient Reported Outcome Measures, Quality of life will be evaluated using combined data from the following questionnaires. IPSS questionnaire: a validated diagnostic tool used to assess urinary \& bowel incontinence.

IIEF-5: validated diagnostic tool for erectile dysfunction. EPIC questionnaire: to assess typical symptoms after radiotherapy in prostate cancer patients. EQ-5D: a commonly used generic questionnaire to measure health-related QoL used to asess mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression \& the subject's perceptions of their own current overall health. A QoL analysis plan will be developed in consultation with the TMG with key endpoints for each questionnaire. Standard algorithms will be used to derive scores and handle missing data. Changes from baseline at each time point will be compared within groups as well as between treatment groups (by means of ordinal logistic regressions or ANCOVA models). Analyses to account for the longitudinal nature of the data may be used., up to 5 years post-randomisation|Adherence to radiotherapy protocol, Qualitative analysis of adherence to pre-specified radiotherapy dose constraints with radiotherapy quality assurance to demonstrate feasibility in a muliticentre setting., after completion of treatment
This study will look at the safety of curative radiotherapy to the prostate and lymph glands given in 5 visits, in men with high risk localised prostate cancer.

The purpose of the research is to test an advanced type of external beam radiotherapy called stereotactic body radiotherapy (also known as SBRT) in 1128 participants with high risk localised prostate cancer (that is, prostate cancer that has not spread beyond the prostate gland but is at high risk of growing quickly or spreading). Importantly, this treatment delivers a potentially curative dose of radiotherapy in only 5 treatments over two weeks. Half the participants in the trial will receive radiotherapy to the prostate, the other half will have radiotherapy to the prostate as well as the surrounding lymph nodes. The investigators will follow patients in the trial for at least three and half years to see which treatment is best. The investigators will be looking at whether it is safe to give this treatment by reviewing any side-effects that occur and also assessing whether giving SBRT to the lymph nodes as well as the prostate reduces the chance of prostate cancer returning.

The treatment will take place at NHS radiotherapy centres that are experienced in giving SBRT and radiotherapy to the pelvic nodes, and have been quality assured to deliver these treatments