The Effect of Using a Kaleidoscope During Central Venous Catheter Dressing Changes in Children With Cancer
Many medical interventions, including the dressing of central venous catheters, a common procedure used for children with cancer, cause anxiety and pain in children. This can adversely affect their care and recovery. This study aims to determine the effect of using a kaleidoscope during central venous catheter dressing on anxiety and pain in children with cancer.
Pain|Anxiety
BEHAVIORAL: kaleidoscope application
Wong-Baker FACES Pain Rating Scale (WB-FACES), The Wong-Baker Faces Pain Rating Scale (WB-FACES) is used to evaluate pain levels in children. This numeric rating scale ranges from 0 to 10 and is represented by faces that display emotions ranging from smiling (0 = very happy or no pain) to crying (10 = the worst pain)., 5 MONTHS|Children's Fear Scale (CFS), The Children's Fear Scale (CFS) is used to evaluate anxiety levels in children. It consists of five facial expressions representing a range from no anxiety (0) to severe anxiety (4)., 5 MONTHS
Heart Rate, The heart rate and oxygen saturation values of the children in both groups were measured and recorded by the researcher 3 minutes before the procedure, during the procedure and 5 minutes after the procedure using a pulse oximeter device., 5 MONTHS|Oxygen Saturation, The heart rate and oxygen saturation values of the children in both groups were measured and recorded by the researcher 3 minutes before the procedure, during the procedure and 5 minutes after the procedure using a pulse oximeter device., 5 MONTHS
This was a randomised controlled trial with 60 children aged 6-12 diagnosed with cancer who were placed either in a kaleidoscope group (n=30) or a control group (n=30). Each child's anxiety was evaluated by the child using the Child Fear Scale before, during and after a central venous catheter dressing procedure, and each child's pain during and after the procedure was evaluated by the child using the Wong-Baker Faces Pain Rating Scale (WB-FACES). Each child's heart rate and oxygen saturation were measured with a pulse oximeter device before, during and after central venous catheter dressing.

The children in kaleidoscope group looked into the kaleidoscope and slowly turned it. This distraction procedure began immediately before the central venous catheter dressing and continued until it was finished.

No intervention was performed to reduce pain and anxiety for children in the control group.

Parents accompanied their children during the procedure in both groups.