Immunogenicity and Safety of V503 in Chinese Males 9 Through 19 Years Old (V503-053)
This study is designed to demonstrate non-inferior immunogenicity of 3 doses of the 9-Valent Human Papillomavirus (9vHPV) vaccine (GARDASIL™9, V503) in Chinese males 9 through 19 years of age, and 2 doses of the 9vHPV vaccine in Chinese males 9 through 14 years of age, compared to the 3 dose regimen in Chinese males 20 through 26 years of age (from Merck Protocol V503-052). The primary hypothesis is that each of the 3-dose regimen in Chinese males aged 9 through 19 years and 2-dose regimens in Chinese males aged 9 through 14 years induces non-inferior competitive Luminex immunoassay (cLIA) geometric mean titers (GMTs) at one month post last dose compared to the 3-dose regimen in Chinese adult males aged 20 through 26 years. A noninferiority margin of 0.67 in the GMT ratio (9 through 19 years of age or 9 through 14 years of age vs 20 through 26 years of age) is used for each HPV type.
Genital Warts
BIOLOGICAL: 9vHPV vaccine
Competitive Luminex immunoassay (cLIA) GMTs to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine at one month post last dose, cLIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine at one month post last dose. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., Up to Month 13|cLIA GMTs to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine up to 60 months post last dose, cLIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine at up to 60 months post last dose. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., Up to 72 months|cLIA seropositivity percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine, cLIA seropositivity to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized., Up to 72 months
cLIA seroconversion percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine, cLIA seroconversion to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized., Up to Month 13|Immunoglobulin G Luminex immunoassay (IgG LIA) GMTs to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine at one month post last dose, IgG LIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine at one month post last dose. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., Up to Month 13|IgG LIA seroconversion percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine, IgG LIA seroconversion to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized., Up to Month 13|Percentage of participants experiencing solicited injection-site adverse events (AEs),, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with study vaccine. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study vaccine or a protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the study vaccine or protocol-specified procedure. Solicited injection-site AEs such as erythema, swelling, pain, and induration at the injection site will be recorded., Day 1 through Day 8 following any study vaccination|Percentage of participants experiencing solicited systemic AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with study vaccine. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study vaccine or a protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the study vaccine or protocol-specified procedure. Systemic AEs are those not categorized as injection-site AEs., Day 1 through Day 8 following any study vaccination|Percentage of participants experiencing serious AEs (SAEs), A SAE is an AE that results in death, is life threatening, results in a persistent or significant disability or incapacity, results in or prolongs an existing hospitalization, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or is another important medical event., Up to 72 months|IgG LIA GMTs to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine up to 60 months post last dose, IgG LIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine up to 60 months post last dose. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., Up to 72 months|IgG LIA seropositivity percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine, IgG LIA seropositivity to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized., Up to 72 months
This study is designed to demonstrate non-inferior immunogenicity of 3 doses of the 9-Valent Human Papillomavirus (9vHPV) vaccine (GARDASIL™9, V503) in Chinese males 9 through 19 years of age, and 2 doses of the 9vHPV vaccine in Chinese males 9 through 14 years of age, compared to the 3 dose regimen in Chinese males 20 through 26 years of age (from Merck Protocol V503-052). The primary hypothesis is that each of the 3-dose regimen in Chinese males aged 9 through 19 years and 2-dose regimens in Chinese males aged 9 through 14 years induces non-inferior competitive Luminex immunoassay (cLIA) geometric mean titers (GMTs) at one month post last dose compared to the 3-dose regimen in Chinese adult males aged 20 through 26 years. A noninferiority margin of 0.67 in the GMT ratio (9 through 19 years of age or 9 through 14 years of age vs 20 through 26 years of age) is used for each HPV type.