Continuous Dosing of BAY73-4506 in Patients With Advanced Malignancies
Continuous dosing of BAY73-4506 in patients with advanced cancer
Neoplasm
DRUG: Escalation cohort: Regorafenib (Stivarga, BAY73-4506) 20 mg|DRUG: Escalation cohort: Regorafenib (Stivarga, BAY73-4506) 40 mg|DRUG: Escalation cohort: Regorafenib (Stivarga, BAY73-4506) 100 mg|DRUG: Escalation cohort: Regorafenib (Stivarga, BAY73-4506) 120 mg|DRUG: Escalation cohort: Regorafenib (Stivarga, BAY73-4506) 140 mg|DRUG: HCC Child-Pugh A expansion cohort: Regorafenib 100 mg|DRUG: HCC Child-Pugh B expansion cohort: Regorafenib 100 mg|DRUG: NSCLC expansion cohort: Regorafenib 100 mg
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD was defined as the highest dose level, which could be given to 6 participants such that no more than 1 participant (less than 33%) experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)., Within first 4 weeks of treatment|Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration After Single Dose Administration (Cmax), Cmax refers to the highest measured drug concentration, which is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples and measuring the concentrations of drug in each sample., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 24, and 48 h post-dose|Area Under the Concentration vs. Time Curve From Zero to Infinity After Single (First) Dose (AUC), The AUC is a measure of systemic drug exposure, which is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples and measuring the concentrations of drug in each sample., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 24, and 48 h post-dose|Cmax at Steady State During a Dosing Interval (Cmax,ss), Cmax,ss refers to the highest measured drug concentration, which is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples and measuring the concentrations of drug in each sample, after multiple dose administration and after a steady state concentration has been reached., Blood samples were collected at on Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose.|AUC From Time 0 to 24 Hours at Steady State(AUC(0-24),ss), AUC(0-24),ss is a measure of systemic drug exposure over 24 hours, which is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples and measuring the concentrations of drug in each sample, after multiple dose administration and after a steady state concentration has been reached., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose.
AUC From Time 0 to the Last Data Point > Lower Limit of Quantification (LLOQ) (AUC(0-tlast)), The AUC(0-tlast) is a measure of systemic drug exposure from time 0 up to the time point at which the last measurable drug could be detectable, which is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples and measuring the concentrations of drug in each sample., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 24, and 48 h post-dose|Area Under the Concentration vs. Time Curve From Zero to Infinity After Single (First) Dose Divided by Dose (AUC/D), The AUC/D is a measure of systemic drug exposure (AUC) after the first single dose, which is then divided by that dose. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 24, and 48 h post-dose|Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration After Single Dose Administration Divided by Dose (Cmax/D), Cmax/D refers to the highest measured drug concentration after a single dose administration, which is then divided by the administered dose. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 24, and 48 h post-dose|Time to Reach Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Tmax), Tmax refers to the time after dosing when a drug attains its highest measurable concentration (Cmax). It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 24, and 48 h post-dose.|Half-life Associated With the Terminal Slope (T1/2), T1/2 is the period of time required for the concentration or amount of drug in the body to be reduced to exactly one-half of a given concentration or amount. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 24, and 48 h post-dose.|Cmax at Steady State During a Dosing Interval Divided by Dose (Cmax,ss/D), Cmax,ss/D refers to the highest measured drug concentration after multiple dose administration and after a steady state concentration has been reached, which is then divided by the administered dose. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected at on Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose|AUC From Time 0 to 24 Hours at Steady State Divided by Dose (AUC(0-24)ss/D), AUC(0-24)ss/D is a measure of systemic drug exposure (AUC) over 24 hours after multiple dose administration and after a steady state concentration has been reached, which is then divided by the administered dose. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose|Time to Reach Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration at Steady State (Tmax,ss), Tmax,ss refers to the time after multiple dose administration and after a steady state concentration has been reached when a drug attains its highest measurable concentration (Cmax). It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose|Ratio of Cmax,ss/Cmax (RACmax), RACmax is the ratio of the highest drug concentration at steady state to the highest drug concentration after single dose administration. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose|Ratio of Cmin,ss/Cmin (RACmin), RACmin is the ratio of the lowest drug concentration at steady state to the lowest drug concentration after single dose administration. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose|Ratio of AUCt,ss/AUCt (RAAUC), RAAUC is the ratio of the measure of systemic drug exposure over a specific dosing interval at steady state to the measure of systemic drug exposure over a specific dosing interval after single dose administration. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Cycle 2, Day 1 and on Cycle 3, Day 1 for expansion cohort. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose|Ratio of AUCt,ss/AUC (RLIN), RLIN is the ratio of the measure of systemic drug exposure at steady state to the measure of systemic drug exposure after single dose administration. It is obtained by collecting a series of blood samples at various times after dosing, and measuring them for drug content., Blood samples were collected on Cycle 1, Day 1 and Cycle 2, Day 1. Samples were drawn at the following time points: 0 h pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 and 24h post-dose|Biomarker Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) Plasma Levels, The analysis of Biomarker VEGF plasma levels is not done, No data obtained|Biomarker Soluble Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor 2 (sCEGFR-2) Plasma Levels, The analysis of Biomarker sCEGFR-2 plasma levels is not done., No data obtained
Tumor Progression in Dose Escalation Cohort, Tumor progression evaluates changes in a tumor or tumors over time due to worsening of disease. Measurements and observations of the tumor status were performed before, during and after treatment. Progression for solid tumors was evaluated based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.0) criteria. Tumor dimensions were measured in millimeters and the longest diameter (LD) was recorded for up to 5 lesions per organ and 10 lesions total. A sum of the LD for all target lesions was recorded. The use of a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions from the smallest sum or appearance of a new lesion was assessed as progression of disease., From the screening visit of the first participant until the last evaluation of the final participant over 6 years later, assessed at the screening visit, end of cycle 2, end of each even cycle and during the final visit (end of treatment)|Tumor Progression in Expansion Cohort, Tumor progression evaluates changes in a tumor or tumors over time due to worsening of disease. Measurements and observations of the tumor status were performed before, during and after treatment. Tumor progression evaluates changes in a tumor or tumors over time due to worsening of disease. Measurements and observations of the tumor status were performed before, during and after treatment. Progression for solid tumors was evaluated based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.0) criteria. Tumor dimensions were measured in millimeters and the longest diameter (LD) was recorded for up to 5 lesions per organ and 10 lesions total. A sum of the LD for all target lesions was recorded. The use of a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions from the smallest sum or appearance of a new lesion was assessed as progression of disease., From the screening visit of the first participant until the last evaluation of the final participant over 6 years later, assessed at the screening visit, end of cycle 2, end of each even cycle and during the final visit (end of treatment)|Tumor Response in Dose Escalation Cohort, Tumor Response (= Best Overall Response) of a participant was defined as the best tumor response (Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease (PD)) observed during trial period assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. CR was defined as disappearance of tumor lesions, PR was defined as a decrease of at least 30% in the sum of tumor lesion sizes, SD was defined as steady state of disease, PD was defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of tumor lesions sizes., From the screening visit of the first participant until the last evaluation of the final participant over 6 years later, assessed at the screening visit, end of cycle 2, end of each even cycle and during the final visit (end of treatment)|Tumor Response in Expansion Cohort, Tumor Response (= Best Overall Response) of a participant was defined as the best tumor response (Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease (PD)) observed during trial period assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. CR was defined as disappearance of tumor lesions, PR was defined as a decrease of at least 30% in the sum of tumor lesion sizes, SD was defined as steady state of disease, PD was defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of tumor lesions sizes., From the screening visit of the first participant until the last evaluation of the final participant over 6 years later, assessed at the screening visit, end of cycle 2, end of each even cycle and during the final visit (end of treatment)
Continuous dosing of BAY73-4506 in patients with advanced cancer