Single-Center Eval of Clinical & Radiological Benefit AHCC in Combo W/ SOC Tx for HPV+ Pts W/ HNSCC
This is a phase 2, single-arm, open-label clinical trial determining safety and tolerability of AHCC in subjects with HPV-positive patients with Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma. These are subjects who have undergone surgery or will be undergoing surgery.
HNSCC|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: AHCC®capsules
Overall Survival (OS) of Patients receiving AHCC and concurrent standard of care treatment regimens, To evaluate the overall survival of patients with HPV-positive Head and Heck squamous cell carcinoma, 60 months
Difference in Tumor Response of patients receiving concurrent therapy with chemoradiation plus AHCC over SoC treatment and in the long term follow up period compared to historical data., Tumor response will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 consist of a standardize set of imaging procedures with results graded using the American Joint Committee on Cancer TNM staging system version 8., 5 years|Percentage of Adverse Events, To evaluate safety and tolerability of AHCC in HPV+ patients with HSNCC receiving concurrent SoC treatment regiments by estimating proportion of adverse events for the following patients who experience at least one of the following:

1. Neutropenia adverse event at a grade of 3 or above
2. Neutropenia adverse event
3. Renal impairment adverse event
4. Hepatic dysfunction adverse event
5. Neuropathy event
6. Ototoxicity adverse event, Up to 24 cycles
Change in Quality of Life (QoL) score, QoL score measurement will be defined as the change from baseline to Cycle 6, At the end of Cycle 6 (each cycle is 28 days)|Changes in HPV DNA in blood samples from HPV+ patients with HNSCC, Evaluate whether changes in HPV DNA in blood samples from HPV+ patients with HNSCC have predictive value as a marker of tumor response or recurrence in HPV+ patients that have received SoC treatment regimens, Up to 5 years
This is a phase 2, single-arm, open-label clinical trial determining safety and tolerability of AHCC in subjects with HPV-positive patients with Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma. These are subjects who have undergone surgery or will be undergoing surgery.