Comparison of Clinical Effects of Rituximab and Glatiramer Acetate in Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis Patients
The purpose of this study is to compare expanded disability status scale, annualized relapse rate, Gad-enhanced brain lesions, and side effects after administration of rituximab and glatiramer acetate among patients with active secondary progressive multiple sclerosis during a one year follow up through a randomized clinical trial.
Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis
DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Glatiramer Acetate
Disability measured by Expanded Disability Status Scale, expanded disability status scale will be measured in the baseline and after 12 months of intervention. This scale measures the disability of patients with a score, ranging from 0 (normal neurological exam) to 10 (death due to MS). This score is assigned to the patient by the neurologist and after neurological examination. The patient will be given a score in this scale according to the observed disability. The scores will be compared at the end of study., one year
Adverse Drug Reactions, adverse drug reactions will be observed closely and reported during the intervention. We will compare the number of adverse drug reactions in two groups. Also, adverse drug reactions will be described by details in each group., one year|number of Gadolinium-enhanced brain lesions and neuroimaging findings, patients will undergo brain MRI before and after the study and number of Gad-enhanced brain lesions will compared before and after intervention., one year|Annualized relapse rate, annualized relapse rate will be measured in the baseline (according to patients' history in the last year) and after 12 months of intervention., one year
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune inflammatory demyelinative disease of central nervous system. Active secondary progressive MS means progressive accumulation of disability after an initial relapsing course which is also associated with clinical relapses and/or new/enlarged Gad-enhanced brain lesions. This form of the disease leads to high rates of morbidity and mortality among patients. Different immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory agents are recommended by researchers to decrease relapses and improve disability among MS patients. The effect of these medications on different phenotypes of MS are mostly investigated solely and very small number of comparative studies are conducted to evaluate the superiority of these medications on each other.

Glatiramer acetate is one of the known MS medications which is being used to control relapses from a long time ago and different clinical trials have shown its partial efficacy among MS patients. On the other hand, rituximab is one of the medications which is recently suggested for treatment of MS and currently phase II clinical trials are conducted to evaluate the efficacy of this medication among patients. As previously stated, there is a lack of clinical trials to compare the efficacy of suggested medications among secondary progressive patients. To fill this gap, we aimed to compare the efficacy of these two medications on disability, annualized relapse rate, and Gad-enhanced brain lesions among patients with active secondary progressive MS through a randomized clinical trial during a one-year follow-up period.