The Effect of exeRcise And Diet on Quality of Life in Patients With Incurable Cancer of Esophagus and Stomach (RADICES)
The survival of patients with incurable gastroesophageal cancer can extend over a year with anticancer therapy. However, the number of patients with deteriorating quality of life in this patient group steadily decreases over time during the treatment. Potentially reversible causes related to deterioration of quality of life are diminished muscle mass, physical capacity and nutritional status. Therefore, interventions that can target these in order to maintain or improve quality of life are urgently needed.

However, it is yet unknown whether improvement of physical capacity and nutritional status improves quality of life in patients with incurable gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma after failure of first-line treatment. Since these patients are in a precarious situation, the benefits and harms of a combined exercise and nutritional intervention should be carefully evaluated.Therefore this study investigates the effect of a combined exercise and nutrition intervention compared to usual care on quality of life in incurable GAC patients after progression upon first-line treatment.

A total of 196 patients with metastasized gastroesophageal cancer will be recruited and randomly allocated 1:1 to standard care or standard care plus a combined exercise and nutritional intervention.
GastroEsophageal Cancer|Incurable Disease
OTHER: Exercise intervention|OTHER: Nutrition intervention
Quality of life (EORTC-QLQ-30) summary score, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 item. The summary score encompasses the last question of this questionnaire.

Scale: 1-7 Higher score means better quality of life.

Analyzed will be the difference in quality of life between the intervention group and the control group at 12 weeks, taking into account the baseline values, and measured with the Summary Score of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30)., Baseline, 6 weeks and every 12 weeks up to one year after intervention
Aerobic capacity: MSEC, Changes in MSEC (= maximum short exercise capacity or in other words maximum wattage in the steep ramp test).

In the steep ramp test participants cycle with a pedal frequency between 70 and 80 rpm 30 seconds at 25 W. Then every 10 seconds, the load is increased with 25 W until exhaustion. The test ends when pedal frequency falls below 60 rpm. From the MSEC peak Wattage (Wpeak) can be estimated using a regression equation.

Scale: 0-500 W, Baseline, 12 weeks|Muscle strength: Hand grip strength, Changes in hand grip strength. Hand grip strength: using a handgrip dynamometer the participant will be asked to squeeze the dynamometer as hard as possible for three times, for both hands. The best of three attempts for bot hands is recorded.

Scale: 0-100 kg., Baseline, 12 weeks|Body composition: Muscle mass, Muscle mass will be measured with the validated InBody Dial H20B Smart Scale. Scale: 0-100 kg, Baseline, 12 weeks|Body composition: Fat mass, Fat mass will be measured with the validated InBody Dial H20B Smart Scale. Scale: 1-100 kg, Baseline, 12 weeks|Body composition: Weight, Weight will be measured with the validated InBody Dial H20B Smart Scale. Scale: 0-200 kg, Baseline, 12 weeks|Self-reported screening of malnutrition, Malnutrition will be screened using the short-form Abridged Scored Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment (abPG-SGA).

Scale: 0-50 Higher score is more malnourished, Baseline and every 12 weeks up to one year after intervention|Physical activity, Physical activity is measured by an activity tracker (Fitbit). Participants are instructed to wear the tracker for 12 weeks. Mean daily steps and minutes spent in different intensity levels of physical activity are calculated, excluding no-wear days., Baseline, 12 weeks|WHO performance status, Changes in WHO performance status., Baseline and during the intervention, until the end of the intervention (12 weeks).|Quality of life (EORTC-QLQ-30) total score, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 item.

Changes in total quality of life. Scale: 0-100 Higher score means better quality of life., Baseline, 6 weeks and every 12 weeks up to one year after intervention|Self-reported screening of sarcopenia, Changes in sarcopenia will be assessed using the Sarc-F questionnaire. (Scale 0-10, higher the score the better the condition)., Baseline,12 weeks|Skeletal muscle index, Changes in skeletal muscle index, assessed by diagnostic CT-scans., Baseline, 12 weeks.|Muscle strength: leg press maximal muscle strength, Changes in leg press one repetition maximum (1RM). Leg strength: the 12 repetition maximum is the maximum weight with which exactly 12 repetitions of a defined exercise/movement sequence can be performed with clean technique. Afterwards, the so called hypothetical 1RM (h1RM) can be calculated.

Scale: 0-200 kg, Baseline, 12 weeks|Medical effects: Treatment toxicity, Changes in treatment toxicity in case of start of second line systemic treatment will be assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, Baseline up to one year after intervention|Medical effects: percentage of patients starting second-line treatment, Percentage of patients who have started second-line treatment, Baseline up to one year after intervention|Medical effects: dose reductions, Treatment tolerance assessed by the amount of delivered second-line systemic treatment doses., Baseline up to one year after intervention|Medical effects: dose delays, Treatment tolerance assessed by the number of dose delays of second-line systemic treatment., Baseline up to one year after intervention|Medical effects: duration of systemic therapy, Treatment tolerance assessed by the total duration of second-line systemic treatment., Baseline up to one year after intervention|Progression-free survival, Time to progression, Baseline up to one year after intervention|Overall survival, Proportion of patients who have not died 1 year after baseline., Baseline up to 1 year after intervention.|Patient reported physical activity, Physical activity will be assessed by the validated and reliable Short Questionnaire to assess health enhancing physical activity (SQUASH) including commuting activities, leisure time activities, household activities, and activities at work and school., Baseline and every 12 weeks up to one year after intervention|Health-related quality of life: physical functioning, Changes in physical functioning, element of the EORTC-QLQ-30. To improve measurement precision compared to the standard, static EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire, and to avoid floor- and ceiling effects, physical functioning will be assessed using computer adaptive testing in collaboration with experts of the EORTC., Baseline and every 2 weeks during the intervention, until the end of the intervention (12 weeks).|Health-related quality of life: role functioning, Changes in role functioning, element of the EORTC-QLQ-30. To improve measurement precision compared to the standard, static EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire, and to avoid floor- and ceiling effects, role functioning will be assessed using computer adaptive testing in collaboration with experts of the EORTC., Baseline and every 2 weeks during the intervention, until the end of the intervention (12 weeks).|Health-related quality of life: fatigue, Changes in fatigue, element of the EORTC-QLQ-30. To improve measurement precision compared to the standard, static EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire, and to avoid floor- and ceiling effects, fatigue will be assessed using computer adaptive testing in collaboration with experts of the EORTC., Baseline and every 2 weeks during the intervention, until the end of the intervention (12 weeks).
(Serious) Adverse Events potentially related to the exercise intervention, Adverse events will be monitored and reported according to the Exercise Harms Reporting Method (ExHaRM). Patients in both groups will be asked by the study team about adverse events systematically and in a standardized manner at the follow-up measurement. Patients will be asked by their trainer before and after each supervised session whether any (Serious) Adverse Events occurred during or since the last session (i.e. active surveillance). In addition, trainers will be asked to actively observe for adverse events that may occur during training sessions as well (i.e. passive surveillance). An adverse event panel, consisting of independent exercise and nutritional professionals and clinicians, will review all adverse event forms and determine whether adverse events are indeed potentially causally related to the exercise or nutritional intervention or not., Baseline until the end of intervention (12 weeks)|Adherence and compliance to the exercise and diet intervention, Session attendance and adherence to the planned exercise dose/session. Deviations from the scheduled exercise dose are recorded by the physiotherapist. Attendance rates are computed as the number of supervised exercise sessions attended divided by the number of sessions prescribed and as the number of sessions with the dietician attended divided by the number of sessions prescribed. Compliance will be calculated for the exercise part as the ratio of total completed to total planned cumulative dose for three parts of the RADICES exercise program: duration of aerobic exercises, intensity of aerobic exercises and muscle strength exercises. Compliance will be calculated for the nutritional part as the ratio of total completed to total planned intake of calories, proteins and fat., During the intervention period of 12 weeks|Satisfaction with the exercise and nutritional intervention, Intervention group only. After the 12-week intervention period, we will assess satisfaction with the exercise and nutritional intervention by means of a self-designed questionnaire. The questionnaire contains satisfaction items with regard to the supervised exercise program, the trainer, the activity tracker and the nutritional intervention., Post-intervention (12 weeks)
Randomization will be stratified based on: duration of first line therapy (shorter or longer than 6 months), WHO performance status (0, 1 versus 2), (intended) start of second-line (or further) systemic therapy for progressive disease (yes versus no) and time since failure of first line therapy (shorter or longer than 3 months ago). Due to the nature of the intervention, it is not possible to blind the patients, the local study nurses, or the investigators to the treatment assignment.