Study to Evaluate the Diagnostic Performance of of MAGENTIQ-COLO During Colonoscopy.
This is an international, multicenter, study to evaluate the diagnostic performance of the CADx polyp sizing modality of the MAGENTIQ-COLO.
Screening Colonoscopy|Surveillance Colonoscopy
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: MAGENTIQ-COLO.
The sensitivity of the CADx-assisted optical diagnosis in classifying colorectal polyps as diminutive (≤5mm) or non-diminutive (>5mm) compared to the reference gold standard., The sensitivity of the CADx-assisted optical diagnosis in classifying colorectal polyps as diminutive (≤5mm) or non-diminutive (\>5mm) compared to the reference gold standard, which is the size classification of the colorectal polyp using open biopsy forceps, or polypectomy snare, of known diameter.

The diagnostic performance of the CADx-assisted optical diagnosis to correctly classify colorectal polyps as diminutive (≤5mm) or non-diminutive (\>5mm) compared to size classification using open biopsy forceps, or polypectomy snare, of known diameter. This will be measured by the sensitivity and specificity of the CADx-assisted optical diagnosis compared to an expected minimum of 70% sensitivity and 70% specificity., During the Colonoscopy Procedure
CADx size measurement vs. open biopsy forceps, The diagnostic performance of the optical diagnosis of the CADx system for correctly classifying colorectal polyps as diminutive (≤5mm) or non-diminutive (\>5mm) compared to the size classification using open biopsy forceps, or polypectomy snare, of known diameter. This will be measured by the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of the CADx-assisted optical diagnosis.

In addition, the correlation between the size measurement in millimeters by the CADx system and by using open biopsy forceps or polypectomy snare of known diameter will be calculated. This correlation will also be conducted for classifying polyps into diminutive (≤5mm), small (6-9mm), and advanced (≥10mm) size categories., During the Colonoscopy Procedure|ESGE 'resect-and-discard' & 'leave-in-situ', The diagnostic performance of high-confidence CADx-assisted optical diagnosis to correctly identify diminutive colorectal polyps as neoplastic (adenoma or SSL). This will be measured by the sensitivity and specificity of the high-confidence CADx-assisted optical diagnosis compared to the ESGE 'resect-and-discard' strategy; an expected minimum of 80% sensitivity and 80% specificity. Additionally, for diminutive polyps located in the rectosigmoid, the diagnostic performance will be compared to the ESGE 'leave-in-situ' strategy, with an expected minimum sensitivity of 90% and specificity of 80% for neoplastic diagnosis, During the Colonoscopy Procedure
ASGE PIVI-1 Post-polypectomy surveillance interval, The ability of the CADx-assisted optical diagnosis to correctly assign post-polypectomy surveillance intervals. This will be measured by the agreement rate of high-confidence CADx-assisted optical diagnosis for polyps ≤5mm (cutoff based on the reference gold standard of this study) combined with the pathological diagnosis for polyps \>5mm compared to the ASGE PIVI-1 criteria; an expected minimum of 90% agreement between assigning ASGE/US Multisociety Task Force on Colorectal Cancer (USMSTF) post-polypectomy surveillance intervals, During the Colonoscopy Procedure|ASGE PIVI-2 NPV of neoplastic rectosigmoid polyps, The diagnostic performance of CADx-assisted optical diagnosis to correctly identify diminutive polyps in the rectosigmoid as neoplastic. This will be measured by the negative predictive value (NPV) of the high-confidence CADx-assisted optical diagnosis compared to the ASGE PIVI-2 criteria; an expected minimum of 90% NPV, During the Colonoscopy Procedure|Rate of high-confidence diagnoses, The rate of high-confidence neoplastic diagnoses (size and optical diagnosis) of diminutive colorectal polyps between standard visual inspection, the CADx system diagnosis, and CADx-assisted optical diagnosis., During the Colonoscopy Procedure
Colonoscopy is the gold standard for the detection and removal of premalignant colorectal polyps. Recommended post-polypectomy surveillance intervals are primarily based on pathological diagnosis and polyp size. However, accurate estimation of polyp size remains challenging, potentially influencing post-polypectomy surveillance intervals. Inaccuracies in size estimation may lead to either unnecessary or prematurely scheduled surveillance colonoscopies when overestimating size or lead to an increased risk of post-colonoscopy colorectal cancer or advanced neoplasia when underestimating size. Furthermore, diminutive (1-5mm) polyps pose challenges due to their high incidence and frequent pathological assessment. Proposed strategies to reduce this burden, such as the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) 'resect-and-discard' strategy, are infrequently used as non-expert endoscopists often do not meet diagnostic thresholds when using standard visual inspection. The MAGENTIQ-COLO computer-aided diagnosis (CADx) system by Magentiq Eye LTD, Haifa, Israel, addresses these challenges by providing real-time polyp size estimation and polyp characterization. Additionally, this study evaluates the diagnostic accuracy of the MAGENTIQ-COLO CADx system in an average-risk screening and surveillance colonoscopy population.

The primary objective of the study is to assess the diagnostic performance of the endoscopist performing a MAGENTIQ-COLO CADx-assisted colonoscopy to classify polyps as diminutive (≤5mm) or non-diminutive (\>5mm) compared to the size classification using open biopsy forceps, or polypectomy snares, of known diameter.

This will be measured by comparing the sensitivity and specificity between the two size classifications. Secondary objective include:

* To assess the diagnostic performance of the endoscopist performing a MAGENTIQ-COLO CADx-assisted colonoscopy to diagnose diminutive (rectosigmoid) colorectal polyps as neoplastic (adenoma or sessile serrated lesion (SSL)) with high-confidence compared to the pathology diagnosis. This will be measured by the sensitivity and specificity between the two diagnoses;
* To assess the diagnostic performance of the CADx system in measuring the size in millimeters and the size classification of colorectal polyps compared to the size measurement using open biopsy forceps, or polypectomy snare, of known diameter; this correlation will also be conducted for classifying polyps into diminutive (≤5mm), small (6-9mm), and advanced (≥10mm) size categories.

The sensitivity of the CADx-assisted optical diagnosis in classifying colorectal polyps as diminutive (≤5mm) or non-diminutive (\>5mm) compared to the reference gold standard, which is the size classification of the colorectal polyp using open biopsy forceps, or polypectomy snare, of known diameter.

This is an international, multicenter, study to evaluate the diagnostic performance of the CADx polyp sizing modality of the MAGENTIQ-COLO. Study subjects who are already referred for screening or surveillance colonoscopy, will undergo colonoscopy with the real-time use of the MAGENTIQ-COLO technology. Endoscopists will assess all colorectal polyps detected during colonoscopy with and without the MAGENTIQ-COLO. Diagnostic performance of polyp size classification and optical diagnosis with and without MAGENTIQ-COLO is evaluated with reference to open biopsy forceps, or polypectomy snare of known diameter size classification, and pathology-based diagnosis, respectively. There is no formal study subject follow-up. Study procedures will be performed intraprocedural during the colonoscopy. Final pathological diagnosis will be recorded from the electronic health record.

The unit of analysis is the colorectal polyp rather than a study subject. The study is planned to include 396 colorectal polyps. Based on an expected detection rate of approximately 1.20 polyps per colonoscopy in the study population, we assume that enrollment of 330 subjects will be sufficient to meet the study objectives.