Study to Assess [177Lu]Lu-PSMA-R2 (AAA602) and [225Ac]Ac-PSMA-R2 (AAA802) in Participants With PSMA-positive HRLPC
The purpose of this trial is to learn more about the effects of AAA602 and AAA802 in men with prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positive high-risk localized prostate cancer (HRLPC) before surgery to remove the prostate and lymph nodes present in the pelvis area. Lymph nodes are small structures near the prostate that help fight infections. These lymph nodes are removed during surgery because they are a site the disease can spread to.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: AAA602|DRUG: AAA802|DRUG: Gallium (68Ga) gozetotide|DRUG: Piflufolastat (18F)|DRUG: Flotufolastat F 18|DRUG: 18F-PSMA-1007
Number of participants with dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) (Phase l), Incidence and severity of dose-limiting toxicities., At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is maximum 6 weeks)|Biochemical recurrence free survival (BFS) (Phase ll), BFS is defined as the time from the date of surgery until the date of confirmed biochemical recurrence (PSA \> 0.2 ng/mL on two readings separated by at least 4 weeks measured at least 8 weeks after surgery)., From the date of surgery until the date of confirmed biochemical recurrence or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first assessed to approximately 60 months
Biochemical response as measured as Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA)50 (Phase ll), PSA50 is defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a ≥ 50% decrease (that is confirmed by a second PSA measurement ≥ 4 weeks later) from baseline at the end of neoadjuvant treatment., From screening until the end of neoadjuvant treatment assessed to approximately 6 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) at 12 months after surgery (Phase ll), ORR is the percentage of participants with a response without addition of any new antineoplastic therapy. Antineoplastic therapy is defined as PSA \< 0.2 ng/ml as per central lab at month 12 (that is confirmed by a second PSA measurement ≥ 4 weeks later)., at 12 months after surgery|Change from baseline in domain scores of the EPIC-26 (Phase ll), EPIC-26 (expanded prostate cancer index composite) is a health related quality of life assessment. It contains five symptom domains (urinary incontinence, urinary irritative/obstructive, sexual, bowel, hormonal), scored from 0 (worst) to 100 (best), that can be tracked over time to understand symptom burden and functional outcomes., From screening to end of long term follow up assessed up to approximately 66 months|Change from baseline on FACT-GP5 item (Phase ll), FACT-GP5 (Functional assessment of Cancer Therapy item-GP5) is a health related assessment measuring the overall impact of treatment toxicity. The assessment consists of 1 question - 'I am bothered by side effects of treatment'. The scoring range goes from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much)., From screening to end of long term follow up assessed up to approximately 66 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) (Phase l & ll), ORR is the percentage of participants with a complete biochemical response without addition of any new antineoplastic therapy other than the study medication (AAA602/AAA802 and/or Radical Prostatectomy (RP) and Pelvic Lymph Node Dissection (PLND)). Antineoplastic therapy is defined as PSA \< 0.2 ng/ml as per central lab (that is confirmed by a second PSA measurement ≥ 4 weeks later)., Month 12, Month 15, Month 18|Percentage of participants with a functional response on PSMA PET/CT, Functional response is defined as either complete PSMA response if all PSMA-avid lesions had resolved, a partial response if there was \>30% decrease in SUVmax, progressive disease if there was \>30% increase in SUVmax, or the presence of new PSMA-avid lesions and stable disease if the response did not meet the criteria for complete, partial, or progressive PSMA-avid disease. The response will be assessed at the end of neoadjuvant treatment with radioligand therapy compared to baseline (Eapen et al 2024)., From screening until the end of neoadjuvant treatment assessed to approximately 6 months|Percentage of participants achieving pathological complete response (absence of disease) or minimal residual disease (Phase l & ll), Percentage of participants achieving pathological complete response (absence of disease) or minimal residual disease (Ph I \& II) as assessed by local review and independent central review., From screening until post-surgery follow up assessed at approximately 7.5 months|Concordance in the evaluation of pathological response between local review and independent central review (Phase l & ll), Correspondence between local and independent central assessment of participants achieving pathological complete response (absence of disease) or minimal residual disease., From screening until post-surgery follow up assessed at approximately 7.5 months|Radiation absorbed doses in organs and tumors of AAA602 (Phase l & ll), To evaluate tumor and organs dosimetry of AAA602., From cycle 1 day 1 until until approximately cycle 2 day 3 (cycle is maximum 6 weeks)|Time concentration profiles and Pharmacokinetics parameters of AAA802 and AAA602, Time-concentration profiles and PK parameters of AAA602 and AAA802 (e.g. AUC, Cmax)., From cycle 1 day 1 until until approximately cycle 1 day 3 (cycle is maximum 6 weeks)|Percentage of participants with surgical complications graded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification (Phase l & ll)To evaluate surgical safety (phase l & ll), Number and severity of complications based on the Clavien-Dindo classification (assessment performed post surgery). The Clavien Dindo Classification is used to rank the severity of a surgical complication. It is based on the type of therapy needed to correct the complication. The scale consists of several grades (Grade I, II, IIIa, IIIb, IVa, IVb and V). Grade I complications being the mildest and V being most significant., From screening until post-surgery follow up assessed at approximately 7.5 months|Percentage of participants achieving a complete response to therapy (Phase l & ll), Percentage of participants achieving undetectable PSA and absence of disease on PSMA PET/CT during neoadjuvant treatment. Complete response to safety is defined as: PSA \< 0.1 ng/ml that is confirmed by a second PSA measurement ≥ 4 weeks later; the absence of any PSMA uptake on PSMA PET/CT., From screening until end cycle 2 assessed up to 20 weeks (cycle is maximum 6 weeks)|Percentage of participants achieving PSA < 0.2 (Phase l & ll), Percentage of participants achieving undetectable PSA (\<0.2) after treatment with AAA802 and AAA602 post biochemical recurrence. PSA \< 0.2 is confirmed by a second PSA measurement ≥ 4 weeks later in response to treatment with cycles of AAA602 and/or AAA802 administered following biochemical recurrence after surgery;, From cycle 1 day 1 of post progression treatment to approximately 60 months after surgery
This Phase I/II study is intended to determine the safety, tolerability, anti-tumor activity, pharmacokinetics, and dosimetry of neoadjuvant treatment with the radioligand therapies (RLT) \[177Lu\]Lu-PSMA-R2 (AAA602) and \[225Ac\]Ac-PSMA-R2 (AAA802) before surgery, i.e., radical prostatectomy (RP) and pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND), in participants with Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen (PSMA)-positive high-risk localized prostate cancer (HRLPC).

Study CAAA802B12101 is a Phase I/II open-label, multi-center study investigating AAA602 and AAA802 as neoadjuvant RLTs before surgery in participants with PSMA-positive HRLPC. In Phase I, participants will be assigned to AAA602 or AAA802 dose escalation cohorts to determine the respective maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the recommended dose for Phase II (RP2D). In Phase II, participants will be randomized to one or two investigational arms, i.e., the RP2D of AAA602 or AAA802, or to the control arm. Therefore, Phase II will have two or three treatment arms. In the control arm, participants will be treated with the standard of care (SoC), i.e., they will not receive any neoadjuvant treatment. Supportive care will be allowed.

Following the last dose of completed RLT, participants will complete a post-treatment imaging/Safety follow-up visit. Upon discontinuation of RLT, participants will complete an end of treatment (EOT) visit prior to the post-treatment imaging/Safety follow-up visit.

If participants undergo surgery, the post-treatment imaging/Safety follow-up visit will be performed before undergoing surgery.

After surgery, participants will complete a post-surgery visit and enter the LTFU. No adjuvant treatment is allowed between surgery and biochemical recurrence (BCR).

The investigational treatments in both Phases I and II are neoadjuvant treatment with AAA602 or AAA802 before surgery (RP and PLND). Surgery is to be performed as per the SoC and is not part of the investigational treatment in this study.

The control treatment in Phase II is SoC, i.e., no neoadjuvant treatment.