Study Using High-Dose Single Fraction Image-Guided Radiotherapy for Metastatic Lesions to Soft Tissue Masses, Lymph Node, or Bone
The purpose of this research study is to find out what IG-IMRT radiation dose works best for treatment of disease in bone or soft tissues. This protocol will study what dose level may work most effectively. The first part of study will treat 10 patients with 22 Gray. Gray (Gy) is the unit that is used to describe the dose of radiation that is being given to a person with cancer. After we confirm that 22 Gy is a safe and sufficient amount of radiation, we will then treat another group of patients with 24 Gy and so on until we reach 28 Gy. Each dose level starting with 24 Gy will enroll at least 20 patients per treatment site (bone, bowel and/or spine). Patients will be enrolled in each treatment category until 20 patients in each strata reach an evaluable time point of 3 months post-RT. When we understand what dose works best and has the least amount of bad effects, the study will then look to see how well the patients do after the radiation therapy. This study is trying to see how your doctor can best treat the cancer that has spread to the other parts of your body.
Metastatic Disease
RADIATION: intensity modulated radiation therapy
To assess the feasibility of single dose image-guided intensity modulated radiotherapy (IGIMRT)for metastatic disease to soft tissue, lymph nodes or bones., conclusion of the study
To establish the maximal safe single fraction dose for osseous and soft tissue metastatic lesions using IG-IMRT in a Phase I dose escalation study., conclusion of the study|To obtain information on the effect of high-dose external beam irradiation on the biodistribution and pharmacokinetics of FLT., 2 years|To obtain preliminary information on the changes in tumor perfusion resulting from high-dose, single fraction IGRT for patients treated with approach to focal metastases using dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE)-MRI., 2 years
The purpose of this research study is to find out what IG-IMRT radiation dose works best for treatment of disease in bone or soft tissues. This protocol will study what dose level may work most effectively. The first part of study will treat 10 patients with 22 Gray. Gray (Gy) is the unit that is used to describe the dose of radiation that is being given to a person with cancer. After we confirm that 22 Gy is a safe and sufficient amount of radiation, we will then treat another group of patients with 24 Gy and so on until we reach 28 Gy. Each dose level starting with 24 Gy will enroll at least 20 patients per treatment site (bone, bowel and/or spine). Patients will be enrolled in each treatment category until 20 patients in each strata reach an evaluable time point of 3 months post-RT. When we understand what dose works best and has the least amount of bad effects, the study will then look to see how well the patients do after the radiation therapy. This study is trying to see how your doctor can best treat the cancer that has spread to the other parts of your body.