Megestrol Acetate With or Without Mirtazapine in Treating Cancer Patients With Weight Loss or Loss of Appetite
This randomized phase II trial studies the safety and efficacy of megestrol acetate given with or without mirtazapine in treating cancer patients with weight loss and loss of appetite. To date, no pharmacologic interventions have been approved by FDA to treat cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome (CACS). Megestrol acetate has been shown to increase appetite in cancer patients. Adding mirtazapine may provide a much more effective treatment and help improve quality of life.
Anorexia
DRUG: Megestrol Acetate|DRUG: Mirtazapine
Response rates for weight gain, Determine the rates of \>= 5% weight gain in the treatment groups. Compare the difference of the response rate between the 2 groups., Baseline to 8 weeks
Safety and tolerability of MA alone and MA + MRZ, NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 will be utilized for all toxicity reporting., Baseline to 12 weeks (30 days after end of study)|Weight change (in lbs), Change over time as well as the difference between groups for weight (in lbs) will be analyzed., Baseline to 8 weeks|Appetite stimulation, Assessed using Simplified Nutritional Appetite Questionnaire (SNAQ). The change over time as well as the difference between groups will be analyzed., Baseline to 8 weeks|Quality of life, Assessed using the Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy (FAACT). The Change over time as well as the difference between groups will be analyzed., Baseline to 8 weeks|Mood assessments, Measured using CES-D. The Change over time as well as the difference between groups will be analyzed., Baseline to 8 weeks|Evaluation of biochemical markers, Explore the relationship between weight gain and serum markers of nutritional status (prealbumin, transferrin, C-reactive protein, TNF-alpha, and IL-1 and IL-6)., Baseline to 8 weeks
This randomized phase II trial studies the safety and efficacy of megestrol acetate given with or without mirtazapine in treating cancer patients with weight loss and loss of appetite. To date, no pharmacologic interventions have been approved by FDA to treat cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome (CACS). Megestrol acetate has been shown to increase appetite in cancer patients. Adding mirtazapine may provide a much more effective treatment and help improve quality of life.