Supervised Exercise, Sleep in Patients With Non Metastatic Breast Cancer
Insomnia affects about 60% of the patients treated with radio-chemotherapy, a percentage twice higher compared to that observed in the general population. This sleep disorder increases cancer-related fatigue (CRF), the side effect most often reported by patients. Conversely, it is well accepted that adapted physical activity (APA) improves tolerance to treatment, decreases the risk of recurrence, increases survival, and reduces CRF. The present study aims to evaluate, in non-metastatic breast cancer patients, the composition and architecture of sleep by ambulatory polysomnography and to verify the effects of an APA rehabilitation program (3 times a week during 12 weeks), on the quality and quantity of sleep, daytime sleepiness. The biological markers: melatonin and body temperature will be studied to better understand the chronobiological mechanisms of the sleep-wake rhythm. Finally, the physiological responses to exercise, pain, CRF and finally quality of life will be studied at the beginning, at the end of the program and at a distance from it. Improved sleep-wake rhythm by a physical activity may reduce CRF, prevent recurrence and comorbidities.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Physical activity
Change from baseline Total sleep time at 6 months, Evaluated with polysomnography, 6 months
Change from baseline quality of sleep at 6 months, Evaluated with actimetry, 6 months|Change from baseline Score of fatigue at 6 months, Evaluated with questionnaire Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (score between 20 to 100), 6 months|Change from baseline body composition at 3 months, Evaluated bioimpedance BMI in Kg/m2, 3 months.|Score of pain, Evaluated by questionnaire Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (score between 15 to 150), Baseline (T0) , 3 months (T3).|Inflammatory responses, Evaluated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Baseline (T0), 3 months (T3).|Level of physical activity, Evaluated with smartwatch withings with number of step, Baseline (T0), 3 months (T3), 6 months (T6).|Basic respiratory functional exploration, Evaluated by pneumotachography (Sensors Medics MSE, USA) for the evaluation of bronchial volumes and flows., Baseline (T0), 3 months (T3).|Level of anxiety, Evaluated by questionnaire Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (under 7 to more than 11), Baseline (T0), 3 months (T3), 6 months (T6).|Concentration of Melatonin, Evaluated by saliva samples, Baseline (T0), 3 months (T3), 6 months (T6).|Body temperature, Evaluated by thermobuttons, Baseline (T0), 3 months (T3), 6 months (T6).
Insomnia affects about 60% of the patients treated with radio-chemotherapy, a percentage twice higher compared to that observed in the general population. This sleep disorder increases cancer-related fatigue (CRF), the side effect most often reported by patients. Conversely, it is well accepted that adapted physical activity (APA) improves tolerance to treatment, decreases the risk of recurrence, increases survival, and reduces CRF. The present study aims to evaluate, in non-metastatic breast cancer patients, the composition and architecture of sleep by ambulatory polysomnography and to verify the effects of an APA rehabilitation program (3 times a week during 12 weeks), on the quality and quantity of sleep, daytime sleepiness. The biological markers: melatonin and body temperature will be studied to better understand the chronobiological mechanisms of the sleep-wake rhythm. Finally, the physiological responses to exercise, pain, CRF and finally quality of life will be studied at the beginning, at the end of the program and at a distance from it. Improved sleep-wake rhythm by a physical activity may reduce CRF, prevent recurrence and comorbidities.