The Impact of Expressive Emotional Writing on Facilitating Grief Resolution in Adults With Spinal Cord Injury
The aim of this study is to evaluate the therapeutic benefits of a 10-week online coach-guided EEWP on psychosocial health among adults with SCI.
Spinal Cord Injuries|Transverse Myelitis
BEHAVIORAL: expressive writing
Grief and Loss Scale, a 9-item measure of an individual's emotional reactions or grief such as anger, guilt, anxiety, sadness, and despair in the past 7 days, using a 5-point scale: 1=never to 5=always. The scores range from 9 to 45. Higher scores reflect higher degree of grief and loss., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Impact of Events Scale, a 6-item measure of an individual's distress related to different difficulties in the past 7 days, using a 5-point scale: 0=not at all to 4=extremely. The scores range from 0 to 24. Higher scores reflect greater distress., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Emotional Distress - Depression, It is a part of the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS). It is an 8-item measure of an individual's emotional distress (depression) in the past 7 days, using a 5-point scale: 1=never to 5=always. The scores range from 8 to 40. Higher scores reflect higher degree of emotional distress (depression), baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), is a 10-item measure of frequency of an individual experiencing stress in the past month, using a 5-point scale: 1=never to 5=very often. Four positively stated items require reversed coding. The scores range from 10 to 50. Higher scores reflect higher frequency of experiencing stress., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Sleep Disturbance, It is a part of the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS). It is a 4-item measure of an individual's sleep problem or quality in the past 7 days, using a 5-point scale: 1=not at all to 5=very much or 1=very good to 5=very poor. Two positively stated item require reversed coding. The scores range from 4 to 20. Higher scores reflect greater sleep problem., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Sleep Impact, It is a part of the Adult Sickle Cell Quality of Life Measurement Information System (ASCQ). It is a 5-item measure of an individual's trouble falling asleep in the past 7 days, using a 5-point scale: 5=never to 5=always. One positively stated item require reversed coding. The scores range from 5 to 25. Higher scores reflect less trouble falling asleep., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Meaning and Purpose, It is part of the NIH Toolbox Item Bank. It is a 7-item measure of an individual's meaning and purpose in life, using a 5-point scale:1=strongly disagree to 5=strongly agree. The scores range from 7 to 35. Higher scores reflect greater meaning and purpose in life., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions - Managing Emotions, It is a part of the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS). It is a 4-item measure of an individual's self-efficacy for managing chronic conditions, using a 5-point scale: 1=I am not at all confident to 5=I am very confident. The scores range from 4 to 20. Higher scores reflect greater confident in managing chronic conditions., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Ability to Participate in Social Roles and Activities, It is a 4-item measure of an individual's trouble participating in social roles and activities, using a 5-point scale:1=always to 5=never. The scores range from 4 to 20. Higher scores reflect less trouble participating in social roles and activities., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Satisfaction with Social Roles and Activities, It is a 4-item measure of an individual's satisfaction with social roles and activities, using a 5-point scale:1=not at all to 5=very much. The scores range from 4 to 20. Higher scores reflect greater satisfaction with social roles and activities., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale, It consists of 10 statements that respondents rated on a 5-point scale from 0 - Not true at all.

1 - Rarely true.2 - Sometimes true.3 - Often true.4 - True nearly all the time. Answers were scored from 0 to 4 to create a total score that ranged from 0 to 100, with higher numbers denoting greater resilience., baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up|Cortisol level, Hair cortisol level, baseline, 11 weeks, 3-month follow-up
Paralysis in people with spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to grief from the loss of physical capacity, social or occupational role function, and life goals. Expressive emotional writing (EEW) provides an outlet for these individuals to explore and express feelings and emotions that arise from their losses related to limb paralysis. Using a randomized controlled trial design, the proposed project will attempt to confirm the benefits of an online coach-guided EEW program for improving psychosocial health among adults with SCI. Benefits of participating in the program will be evaluated using validated assessments to measure reduction of grief intensity and improvement in other psychosocial dimensions and social participation.