Carboplatin and Paclitaxel With or Without Bevacizumab Compared to Docetaxel, Carboplatin, and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Stage II, Stage III, or Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cavity Carcinoma (Cancer)
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of intraperitoneal infusions of carboplatin when given together with intravenous infusions of either docetaxel or paclitaxel followed by intraperitoneal paclitaxel in treating patients with stage II, stage III, or stage IV ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cavity carcinoma (cancer). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, docetaxel, and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug and giving them in different ways may kill more tumor cells
Brenner Tumor|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Carcinosarcoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mixed Epithelial Carcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Stage II Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage III Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: docetaxel|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of IV paclitaxel with IP carboplatin followed by IP paclitaxel, determined according to dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0), 3 weeks|MTD of IV docetaxel with IP carboplatin followed by IP paclitaxel, determined according to dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) graded using CTCAE v3.0, 3 weeks|MTD of IV paclitaxel with IP carboplatin and IV bevacizumab followed by IP paclitaxel, determined according to dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) graded using CTCAE v3.0, 3 weeks
Incidence of adverse events in patients given IV paclitaxel with IP carboplatin followed by IP paclitaxel at the MTD, assessed by CTCAE v3.0, 12 weeks|Incidence of adverse events in patients given of IV docetaxel with IP carboplatin followed by IP paclitaxel at the MTD, assessed by CTCAE v3.0, 12 weeks|Incidence of adverse events in patients given IV paclitaxel with IP carboplatin and IV bevacizumab followed by IP paclitaxel at the MTD, assessed by CTCAE v3.0, 12 weeks
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intraperitoneal (IP) carboplatin when given in combination with IV paclitaxel followed by IP paclitaxel in patients with stage III or IV ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cavity carcinoma.

II. Determine the MTD of IP carboplatin and IV docetaxel when given in combination with IP paclitaxel in these patients.

III. To determine the feasibility of the combination of IV paclitaxel, IP carboplatin and IV bevacizumab on day one followed by IP paclitaxel on day eight (Part C Only).

IV. Determine the dose-limiting toxic effects and complications in patients treated with these regimens.

V. Evaluate the neurotoxicity of this regimen at each cycle using the FACT/GOG-NTX4 assessment tool to determine dose reduction in these patients.

VI. Evaluate the techniques used for intraperitoneal catheter placement, surgical procedures, and reporting of outcomes in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of intraperitoneal (IP) carboplatin.

Patients in the dose-escalation phase are not eligible to enter the feasibility phase.

DOSE-ESCALATION PHASE (PART A or PART B): Patients receive IP carboplatin on day 1, and paclitaxel IV over 3 hour (part A) or docetaxel IV over 1 hour (Part B) on day 1, and IP paclitaxel on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

FEASIBILITY PHASE (PART C): Patients receive IP carboplatin on day 1, paclitaxel IV on day 1, and IP paclitaxel on day 8 in course 1 as in part A dose-escalation phase. Beginning in course 2 and all subsequent courses, patients receive IP carboplatin on day 1, IV paclitaxel on day 1, and IP paclitaxel on day 8 as in the dose-escalation phase, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.