Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer Patients
The propose of this study is to determine if neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by chemoradiation is safe and effective in locally advanced cervical cancer patients. Moreover, the study would determine if there is any association between hENT1 expression and response rate to gemcitabine.
Cancer of Cervix
DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: cisplatin|RADIATION: chemoradiation
Toxicity will be evaluated with Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 4,0)., Toxicity will be recorded before each day of chemotherapy and weekly during radiotherapy., Up to 4 weeks after brachytherapy|Response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria with pelvic MRI and PET-CT), Response will be evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria with pelvic MRI and PET-CT.

Immediately after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and 30 days after brachytherapy, clinical response will also be evaluated., 12 weeks after treatment
Disease free survival, From recruitment date to relapse date., One year of follow up.|Overall Survival, From recruitment date to death., One year of follow up.|hENT1 expression, hENT1 will be analysed by immunohistochemistry. Scoring for hENT1 was based on staining intensities and the proportion of cancer cells. Islet cells of pancreas tissue served as an external positive control for hENT1 immunohistochemistry, and lymphocytes or endothelial cells surrounding the tumour area served as internal positive controls. Carcinoma was then evaluated by comparison with the internal controls. Staining intensity was graded as: 0, absent; 1+, positive but less intense than internal control tissue; 2+, positive as in internal control tissue; and 3+,positive, more intense than internal control tissue. Samples with regions of varying staining intensities of hENT1 were scored and the percentages of each region were recorded. Finally, tumours with an intensity staining of 3+in≥50% of the tumour cells were considered as showing high expression of hENT1., At the end of recruitment, expected to be at 24 months after study beginning
The study has been developed and executed at Medicina Integral Prof. Fernando Figueira Institute - IMIP since September/2013. The primary objective is to evaluate the safety of neoadjuvant chemotherapy based in gemcitabine followed by chemoradiation in cervical cancer patients. Data has been collected at medical oncology clinic, where patients have medical visits and receive chemotherapy treatment. New cases of cervical cancer patients are analysed for eligibility criteria. When matching these criteria, the protocol is explained, its participation is offered and consent form is explained, highlighting the voluntary aspect of the process. If there is agreement in participation, two consent forms are provided and signed. Patients receive one copy and the other one goes to his/her medical record. All demographic, social and medical data is recorded.

Patients are considered to have the first visit on the day they sign consent agreement form, when they are also referred to radiooncologist visit. Up to 30-business days they should complete staging (MRI, PET-SCAN, labs) and initiate neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Before each day, of each cycle, patients are seen by medical oncologist and nurse, when toxicity data is collected. Before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, there is a clinical evaluation performed by the gynecologic oncologist to evaluate clinical response. During chemoradiation, patients have weekly visits. The treatment is completed with brachytherapy, and 30-days after its completion, another clinical evaluation is done. After 90 days of completion treatment, pelvic MRI and PET-SCAN are repeated and considered to determine response rate.

Biopsies samples have been collected. The investigators intend to perform immunohistochemical analysis at the end of recruitment and identify any association between hENT1 expression and outcomes.

Information is collected by principal investigator in EXCEL forms, during medical visits. Toxicity data has been analyzed every 3 months by a data monitoring committee comprising two medical oncologists, one radiooncologist and a gynecological nurse. All unexpected event is related to this committee and also to the Research Ethics Committee of IMIP. Patients are followed up 3/3 months. Inconsistent or missing data will be re-checked in medical records.

This is a phase IIa study with only one arm of intervention. Since response rates observed in phase III studies with concomitant platin based chemoradiation is 85% in average, and given that response rate using gemcitabin based adjuvant chemotherapy, after chemoradiation, is 96.5%, the investigators calculated the sample size of 49 patients. It was considered an alpha error of 5% and 80% power. Descriptive analyses of variables of this population will be held. The normal numerical variables are described as mean +/- standard deviation. The non-parametric numeric variables are described as median (interquartile range). Categorical data will be described as a percentage of the total. The progression free survival and overall survival will be obtained by Kaplan-Meier method, using the computer program Epinfo.