A Study of Oral Ixazomib Maintenance Therapy in Participants With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma (NDMM) Not Treated With Stem Cell Transplantation (SCT)
The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of ixazomib maintenance therapy on progression free survival (PFS) compared with placebo, in participants with NDMM who have had a major response (complete response \[CR\], very good partial response \[VGPR\], or partial response \[PR\]) to initial therapy and who have not undergone SCT.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Ixazomib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, as evaluated by an independent review committee (IRC) according to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per IMWG criteria, PD is defined as, increase of 25% of lowest response value in one or more of following criteria: serum M-component (absolute increase ≥0.5 g/ deciliter (dL)); or urine M-component (absolute increase ≥200 mg/24-hour); difference between involved and uninvolved free light chains (FLC) levels (absolute increase \>10 mg/dL); or bone marrow plasma cell percentage (absolute plasma cell percentage ≥10%); development of new/ increase in size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytoma; or development of hypercalcemia (corrected serum calcium \>11.5mg/dL)., From randomization until PD or death (up to 52 months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS was measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death., From the date of randomization and every 12 weeks after PD on next-line therapy until death (up to 88 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Achieve or Maintain Any Best Response Category During the Treatment Period, Response was assessed according to IMWG criteria based on IRC assessment. Best response included PR, VGPR and CR. PR= \>=50% reduction of serum M protein and \>=90% or \<200 mg reduction urinary M protein in 24-hour, or \>50% decrease in difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels, or \>50% reduction in bone marrow plasma cells, if bone marrow plasma cells \>30% and \>50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytomas at baseline. VGPR= \>90% reduction (\<100 mg/24-hour) in serum M-protein + urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis. Complete response= \>5% plasma cells in myelogram with absence of paraprotein in serum and urine according to immunofixation., Up to 27 months|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of PD, using IMWG criteria., From randomization until PD or death (up to 52 months)|Progression Free Survival 2 (PFS2), PFS2 is defined as the time from the date of randomization to objective PD on next-line treatment using IMWG criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., From the date of randomization to every 12 weeks until second PD or death (up to 88 months)|Time to Next Line Therapy (TTNT), TTNT is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first dose of next-line antineoplastic therapy., From randomization until PD or death (up to 52 months)|Time to End of the Next-line of Therapy After Study Treatment, Time to end of the next line of therapy is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of last dose of the next line of antineoplastic therapy following study treatment., From randomization until PD or death (up to 52 months)|Duration of Next-line Therapy, Duration of next-line therapy is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of the next line of antineoplastic therapy coming after study treatment to the date of the last dose., From randomization until PD or death (up to 52 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Develop a New Primary Malignancy, From randomization until PD or death (up to 52 months)|Percentage of Participants With Conversion From Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Positive to MRD Negative, Bone marrow aspirates and blood samples were sent to a central laboratory and were assessed for MRD using flow cytometry. MRD negativity was defined as absence of MRD and MRD positivity was defined as presence of MRD. MRD was assessed by 8-color flow cytometry with the IMWG recommended sensitivity of 10\^-5., Up to 52 months|Correlation of MRD Status With PFS and OS, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of PD or death from any cause, as evaluated by an IRC according to IMWG criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first, assessed for up to 52 months in this outcome measure. OS was measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death, assessed for up to 52 months in this outcome measure. Participants with various types of known MRD status were pooled together for analysis of overall survival in this outcome measure., From randomization up to 52 months|OS in a High-risk Population, High-risk population included but not be limited to participants carrying cytogenetic deletion (del)17, translocation \[t\](4;14), t(14;16). OS was measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death., From the date of randomization and every 12 weeks after PD on next-line therapy until death (up to 88 months)|PFS in a High-risk Population, High-risk population included but not be limited to participants carrying del17, t(4;14), t(14;16). PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of PD or death from any cause., From randomization until PD or death (up to 52 months)|Change From Baseline in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, ECOG performance status assesses a participant's performance status on a 6-point scale ranging from 0=fully active/able to carry on all pre-disease activities without restriction; 1=restricted in physically strenuous activity, ambulatory/able to carry out light or sedentary work; 2=ambulatory (\>50% of waking hours), capable of all self-care, unable to carry out any work activities; 3=capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed/chair \>50% of waking hours; 4=completely disabled, cannot carry on any self-care, totally confined to bed/chair; 5=dead. Lower grades indicate improvement., Baseline, Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, and 26, progression free survival follow-up (PFSFU)- Visit 37 and progressive disease follow-up (PDFU)- Visit 26 (cycle length=28 days)|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (e.g., a clinically significant abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a drug, whether or not it is considered related to the drug. TEAEs were defined as events that occurred after administration of the first dose of ixazomib or placebo through 30 days after the last dose of ixazomib or placebo. A SAE means any untoward medical occurrence that resulted in death, was life-threatening, required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect or was considered medically significant., First dose of study drug through 30 days after last dose of study drug (up to 88 months)|Change From Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) as Measured by the Global Health Status (GHS), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. The change from baseline in GHS (EORTC QLQ-C30) score is presented. Participant responses to the question "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1=very poor to 7=excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall GHS., Baseline, Cycles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, and 26 (cycle length=28 days)|Correlation Between Frailty Status and PFS and OS, Participant's frailty status is classified as fit, unfit or frail on the bases of 4 components: age, the Charlson comorbidity scoring system without age weighting, the Katz index of independence in activities of daily living, and the Lawton instrumental activities of daily living scale. The sum of the 4 frailty scores equals the total frailty score. A total frailty score of 0 corresponds to a frailty status of fit; a total score of 1, to unfit; and a total score of 2 or more, to frail. PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of PD or death from any cause, as evaluated by an IRC according to IMWG criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed for up to 52 months in this outcome measure. OS will be measured as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death, assessed for up to 52 months in this outcome measure., From randomization up to 52 months|Pharmacokinetic Parameter: Plasma Concentration of Ixazomib, Plasma concentrations of the complete hydrolysis product of ixazomib citrate (ixazomib) were measured using a validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay., Cycle 1 (1 and 4 hours post-dose Day 1, Days 8 and 15 pre-dose); Cycle 2 and 5 (Days 1 and 8 pre-dose) and Cycles 3, 4, 6 to 10 (Day 1 pre-dose) (cycle length=28 days)|Time to Resolution of Peripheral Neuropathy (PN) Events, PN is defined as the event in the high-level term of peripheral neuropathies not elsewhere classified (NEC) according to the medical dictionary for regulatory activities (MedDRA). A PN event was considered as resolved if its final outcome was resolved with no subsequent PN event of the same preferred term occurring on the resolution date or the day before and after. Time to resolution was defined as the time from the initial onset date (inclusive) to the resolution date for resolved events., Up to 52 months|Time to Improvement of PN Events, PN is defined as the event in the high-level term of peripheral neuropathies NEC according to the MedDRA. A PN event was considered as resolved if its final outcome was resolved with no subsequent PN event of the same preferred term occurring on the improvement date or the day before and after. Time to improvement was defined as the time from the initial onset date (inclusive) to the improvement of event., Up to 52 months
The drug being tested in this study is called ixazomib citrate. Ixazomib citrate is being tested to slow progressive disease (PD) and improve overall survival in people who have NDMM who have had a major positive response to initial therapy and have not undergone SCT. This study will look at the effect of ixazomib citrate has on the length of time that participants are free of PD and their overall survival.

The study will enrol approximately 700 participants. Participants will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) in 3:2 ratio to Ixazomib or matching placebo groups-which will remain undisclosed to the participant and study doctor during the study (unless there is an urgent medical need):

* Ixazomib citrate initiates at 3 mg which will be escalated to 4 mg with cycle 5 day 1
* Placebo (dummy inactive pill) - this is a capsule that looks like the study drug but has no active ingredient

All participants will be asked to take one capsule on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle. The treatment period will be approximately 24 months (equivalent to 26 cycles) or until patients experience PD or unacceptable toxicities, whichever occurs first.

This multi-center trial will be conducted worldwide. The overall time to participate in this study is approximately 78 to 106 months. Participants will make 28 visits to the clinic during the treatment period and will continue to make follow-up visits every 4 weeks until the next line of therapy begins. Participants will also be contacted by telephone every 12 weeks after last treatment visit for a follow-up assessment.