Testing the Combination of DS-8201a and Olaparib in HER2-Expressing Cancers With Expansion in Patients With Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer
This phase I trial identifies the side effects and best dose of DS-8201a and olaparib in treating patients with HER2-expressing cancers that have spread to other places in the body or cannot be removed by surgery or ovarian cancer that remains despite treatment with a platinum treatment (platinum resistant). Olaparib is a drug that blocks an enzyme involved in many cell functions, including the repair of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage. Blocking this enzyme may help keep tumor cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. DS-8201a is an antibody-drug conjugate. This agent has two components: an antibody component and a chemotherapy component. The antibody component is attached to the chemotherapy molecules. Upon administration of DS-8201a, the antibody targets and binds to tumor cells that have abundant HER2 (human-epidermal growth factor receptor 2), which is a protein on the surface of some tumor cells. The chemotherapy then enters the cells and blocks DNA replication in the tumor cells with abundant HER2, causing them to die. Giving DS-8201a and olaparib may shrink or stabilize the cancer.
Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Platinum-Resistant Ovarian High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Olaparib|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan
Maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase 2 dose, Will be measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version (v) 5.0 and analyzed using descriptive statistics., Up to 42 days|Incidence of adverse events, Up to 30 days post treatment
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria to determine the best overall response for evaluable patients., Up to 30 days post treatment|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), CBR will be evaluated by RECIST 1.1 criteria to determine the best overall response for evaluable patients., Up to 30 days post treatment|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be evaluated by RECIST 1.1 criteria to determine the best overall response for evaluable patients. DOR will be described using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 30 days post treatment|HER2 expression, HER2 expression on archival specimens will be analyzed using current American Society of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists breast cancer and gastric cancer scoring methods. The levels of HER2 expression (0, 1+, 2+, or 3+) will be determined and the number and percentage of patients in each category will be reported. Chi-squared test and regression modeling may be used to investigate any possible relationship of HER2 biomarker levels with anti-tumor efficacy., At baseline|Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles, PK will be analyzed using descriptive statistics. Analysis of variance and regression model may be used to investigate any possible relationship of PK biomarker levels with anti-tumor efficacy, Up to 30 days post treatment|Markers of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage response (DDR), Markers of DDR will be measured by multiplex IF in tumor specimens at baseline and on-treatment in patients with platinum resistant high grade serous ovarian carcinoma in the dose expansion cohort and correlating these markers with response. For the DDR assay, levels exceeding 4% nuclear area positive (NAP) γH2AX, 4% NAP pNBS1, and 5% cells with ≥ 5 Rad51 nuclear foci indicate a DNA damage activation response (Wilsker et al., 2019)., At baseline and on-treatment
HER2 expression, Correlation between HER2 expression, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and response may be evaluated by Chi-squared test and regression model., Up to 30 days post treatment|Formation of topoisomerase I cleaved complex formation (TOP1cc) in blood samples, Will measure the formation of formation TOP1cc in blood specimens and correlate with response in the dose escalation and in the dose expansion Will be analyzed using descriptive statistics., Up to 30 days post treatment|Changes in HER2 expression, Will measure changes in HER2 expression over the course of treatment by IHC and immunoMRM and correlate with response in patients with platinum resistant high grade serous ovarian carcinoma in the dose expansion. Will be analyzed using descriptive statistics., Baseline up to 30 days post treatment|Biomarkers of response and resistance, Will be analyzed using descriptive statistics., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of trastuzumab deruxtecan (DS-8201a) in combination with olaparib, and to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D).

II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of this combination in a dose expansion cohort in patients with platinum resistant high grade serous ovarian carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity as measured by objective response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate, progression-free survival (PFS), and duration of response (DoR).

II. To measure baseline HER2 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in a central laboratory and correlate with response in the dose escalation and in the dose expansion.

III. To evaluate the plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of olaparib and DS-8201a metabolites when administered in combination in the dose escalation and in the dose expansion.

IV. To determine markers of DNA damage response (DDR) in tumor specimens at baseline and on-treatment in patients with platinum resistant high grade serous ovarian carcinoma in dose expansion.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure baseline HER2 expression by immune-mass spectroscopy, and correlate with baseline central IHC and with response in dose escalation and in dose expansion.

II. To measure the formation of topoisomerase I cleaved complex formation (TOP1cc) in blood specimens and correlate with response in dose escalation and in dose expansion.

III. To measure changes in HER2 expression over the course of treatment by IHC and immune multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (immunoMRM) and correlate with response in patients with platinum resistant high grade serous ovarian carcinoma in dose expansion.

IV. To determine biomarkers of response and resistance in tumor specimens and blood specimens, including whole exome sequencing (WES) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of trastuzumab deruxtecan in combination with olaparib followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, days 8-14, or days 3-9 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients undergo collection of blood samples, echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA), computed tomography (CT), and biopsies throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.