A Study of Anti-PD-1 (Pembrolizumab) Therapy in Metastatic Melanoma (ADAPTeM)
Abbreviated Title: An explorative Phase II study of Anti-PD-1 (Pembrolizumab) in patients with advanced melanoma (ADAPTeM)

Trial Phase: Phase II

Clinical Indication: Stage III unresectable/stage IV metastatic melanoma

Trial Type: Exploratory Phase II trial

Route of administration: Intravenous Pembrolizumab, 200mg, 3weekly

Trial Blinding: Unblinded; open label Phase II study

Treatment Groups: All participants treated with Pembrolizumab, 200mg iv, 3weekly

Number of trial subjects: 40

Estimated duration of trial: 24 months

Duration of Participation: 24 months
Advanced Melanoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
The percentage of patients that undergo serial core biopsies of metastatic lesions during treatment with Pembrolizumab, The primary endpoint of the study is to assess the feasibility of obtaining sequential tumour biopsies will be achieved when sequential biopsies (at baseline, week 6 and at disease progression), have successfully been carried out in a minimum of 75% of patients (i.e. 29 out of 40).The percentage of patients with complete tumour response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) will be tabulated. Associated 95% CI will be provided for response rates. The duration of objective response (for patients with CR and PR) will be defined as the time from initial CR or PR to the time of disease progression or death (whichever occurs first). For patients who do not die or experience PD, duration of objective response will be censored on the day of the last tumour assessment., At study progression (average of 9 months) or 24 months after last patient enrolled
The complication rate associated with undergoing serial core biopsies, Complication rate will be defined as the proportion of patients who have hospital admission due to complication of biopsy e.g. infection/bleeding/pain control and/or delay in Pembrolizumab treatment due to complication of biopsy. This will be presented as a proportion with the 95% confidence interval., At study progression (average of 9 months) or 24 months after last patient enrolled|Objective response rate, Objective response rate defined as proportion of patients with a best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., At study progression (average of 9 months) or 24 months after last patient enrolled|Progression free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as the time from the first day of Pembrolizumab treatment (cycle 1 day 1) until documented disease progression or death (whichever occurs first). Patients who do not have documented PD or death will be censored on the day of last tumour assessment (last follow-up)., At study progression (average of 9 months) or 24 months after last patient enrolled|Overall survival, Overall survival will be measured from the first day of treatment until death or last follow-up. Overall survival will be presented graphically using the Kaplan-Meier method. Median time to event and 95% CI will be estimated from the Kaplan-Meier curves., At study progression (average of 9 months) or 24 months after last patient enrolled
This is a single arm, single agent, open label, exploratory translational research study in patients with unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma being treated with Pembrolizumab. Suitable patients will undergo serial surgical core biopsies (nonradiological) of subcutaneous or lymph node metastases (as judged by an Oncological Surgical Consultant). As a primary endpoint, the investigators will assess the safety and feasibility of undergoing these biopsies within the patient cohort. A total of forty patients will be recruited over a period of two years.

Patients who have provided consent and satisfied the eligibility criteria will undergo baseline CT scanning and peripheral blood sampling. At baseline, biopsies of suitable metastatic lesions will be undertaken and samples sent for histopathological assessment and analysis of molecular and immune parameters. Participants will be treated with Pembrolizumab, 200mg, intravenously, every 3 weeks. At 6 weeks following commencement of Pembrolizumab therapy, a further biopsy or excision of metastatic disease will be performed, unless considered no longer possible on the basis of a near or complete response to treatment. Blood sampling will be performed prior to each cycle and repeat CT scanning will occur every 9 weeks. Response evaluations will be performed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. Pembrolizumab will be continued as long as study participants are deriving benefit and further biopsies of progressing lesions will be performed where possible.

The investigators aim to evaluate the safety and feasibility of obtaining serial tumour biopsies or excisions of metastatic disease during treatment with Pembrolizumab with exploration of the i) mechanistic activity of Pembrolizumab, ii) identification of intratumoural and peripheral factors limiting response, iii) identification of candidate predictive biomarker panels based on (i) and (ii) and iii) use of circulating free DNA (cfDNA) as a surrogate marker of response and guide to duration of therapy.