UV Exposure Assessed With Wearable Sensor and Sun Protection
The goal is to prevent ultraviolet light (UV) overexposure by providing consumers with relevant, easy-to-access, specifically actionable information. This research proposal will develop a UV protection system consisting of an automated real-time counseling framework and a personal dosimeter that overcomes barriers to consumer adoption. These new, wearable sensors take the form of small (\< 1 cm), thin (\<0.1 mm), lightweight (\<0.1 g), battery-free "stickers" that are fundamentally differentiated from other wearable electronics in their modes of use, cost structures and accuracy.
Sunburn, Erythema|Sun Protection
BEHAVIORAL: Goal attainment
Acceptability of Wearing UV Sensor and Receiving Text Messages, Online system usability 6 item scale (Likert 7 items range from strongly disagree to strongly agree Minimum value 6, maximum value 42, higher score better outcome, cohort study 1 (arms 1 and 2) at end of 21 days, cohort study 2 (only one arm) at end of 28 days
Sun Exposure in Participants With Structured vs Unstructured Goal Setting, Change in daily UV exposure recorded by UV sensor (J/m\^2/day) between period prior to and after goal setting among melanoma survivors, 21 days
Participant Reported Sunburns Prior to Intervention and During the Intervention, Young adult participants with sun sensitive skin reported sunburns in the 28 days prior to the intervention and during the 28 days of the intervention., 56 days|Knowledge of Sun Protection, Knowledge of sun protection using the scale after completing focus group after completing an arm of the study. The same scale was administered at baseline for each arm.

9 item scale (Minimum= 9, Maximum=18) Total range is 9-18. Higher value is better knowledge and a better outcome., 2 months
The proposed work is to refine and validate a UV protection system based on a dosimeter "sticker." The key innovations of the system are automated personalized intervention messaging triggered by the exposure levels measured by a novel charge accumulation device applied to ultraminiaturized circuit forms. The research will validate the system's accuracy and acceptability to users, refine the device, and prove its robustness and efficacy in real world use cases. Focus groups and structured interviews will develop sun protection strategies to be communicated by text messages to participants. Successful completion of the research will yield a system to prevent excessive UV exposure and sunburn, thus reducing the incidence of skin cancer by equipping large numbers of general-population consumers and at-risk people to practice digitally-informed healthy sun behavior.