Radiation Combined With BIspecific T-Cell Engager in DLL3 Expressing Tumors
Phase I study to examine safety of the addition of concurrent tarlatamab with standard palliative and consolidative RT regimens , with a main cohort of N=20-24 patients with extracranial anatomic radiation sites.

I) After lead in of 10 patients demonstrating safety of treatment, allow for expansion to cranial sites of disease (N=6-10) with continued enrollment in main cohort II) If toxicity criteria is not met in concurrent RT tarlatamab cohort, we will continue with sequential RT, either A) delivered within 7 days prior to cycle 1 day 1, or B) delivered during cycle 1 -2 but with pre- and post-RT washout of 7 days with no drug during RT, to examine safety in a temporally spaced setting.

III) If sequential tarlatamab and radiation is not deemed safe, we would allow for continued enrollment to assess efficacy of drug sans radiation treatment, enriching for tumors not of small cell lung cancer histology and allowing for patients without sites amenable to RT.

A nested phase II study will attempt to assess for ORR and safety of study intervention amongst tumors not of small cell lung cancer histology.
Melanoma|Medullary Thyroid Cancer|Sinonasal Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Esthesioneuroblastoma|Bladder Cancer|Testicular Cancer|Glioblastoma Multiforme|Cervical Cancer|Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Lung|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Merkel Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Tarlatamab|RADIATION: Concurrent Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Sequential Radiation therapy
Percentage of participants experiencing dose limiting toxicities (DLT) attributed to radiation or combination of radiation and tarlatamab., The primary endpoint is safety, which will be measured by DLT using adverse events graded according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0) and ASTCT (CRS and ICANS). DLT will be defined as having 1) grade 3 - 5 non-hematologic adverse events (AEs) possibly, probably or definitely related to protocol treatment (radiation or combination of radiation and tarlatamab) by 8 weeks from start of radiation therapy; or 2) AEs possibly, probably, or definitely related to radiation or combination of radiation and tarlatamab leading to early termination of radiation or permanent discontinuation of tarlatamab. Grade 3+ AEs (or discontinuation) due to tarlatamab alone (not attributable to combination therapy) will not contribute to the primary endpoint. Frequency (%) of the patients with DLT will be reported by cohort., Until radiographic or disease progression or up to 24 months, whichever is earlier.
Objective response rate (ORR) using RESIST/iRECIST and RANO/RANO-BM criteria of radiated and non-radiated sites stratified by anatomic RT site and tumor histology., ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with measurable disease who have at least 1 confirmed response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) prior to any evidence of progression. ORR will be reported by cohort and site., Until radiographic or disease progression or up to 24 months, whichever is earlier.|Toxicity of tarlatamab in tumors in all patients, not of SCLC histology, and stratified by histology in accordance with CTCAE v5., Assess toxicity of therapy (tarlatamab with radiation therapy) by the incidence of treatment emergent adverse events reported (to include SAEs and AEs leading to discontinuation) based on CTCAE v5 and ASTCT (CRS and ICANS), stratified by histology and by SCLC vs. tumors that are not SCLC. Counts of all AEs by grade will be provided by cohort., Until radiographic or disease progression or up to 24 months, whichever is earlier.|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from registration to death and will be estimated using the Kaplan Meier method by cohort., Until radiographic or disease progression or up to 24 months, whichever is earlier.|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS according to RECIST guidelines is defined as the time from registration to progressive disease or death, whichever occurs first, and will be estimated using the Kaplan Meier method by cohort and site if applicable., Until radiographic or disease progression or up to 24 months, whichever is earlier.|Duration or Response (DOR), DOR will only be evaluated in participants with objective response of CR or PR. All confirmed responders will be followed for at least 6 months from the onset of initial response. The end of response will match with the date of progression or death from any cause used for the PFS endpoint. The DOR estimate will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier method by cohort., Until radiographic or disease progression or up to 24 months, whichever is earlier.
This is a Phase I, Open label, Single Arm, Multi-center Study, with nested Phase II to examine safety of standard palliative and consolidative RT regimens in a main cohort of patients with tumor histologies with high prevalence of DLL3 (N=20-24) with an extracranial site (primary or metastatic) amenable to radiation (not allowing for re-irradiation of the same lesion, with a minimum of 10 thoracic sites. Given the potential toxicity of ICANS with tarlatamab, once deemed safe in the main cohort, we will allow for expansion for treatment of cranial sites amenable to radiation (excluding lesion re-irradiation except for stereotactic radiosurgery / fractionated stereotactic radiosurgery \[SRS/fSRS\] after prior whole brain RT or prophylactic cranial irradiation \[PCI\]) with continued enrollment in the main cohort.

Given the need to determine safety of administration of tarlatamb with RT, if safety is not met for concurrent administration in the main cohort, we would discontinue concurrent treatment, and assess safety in a sequential RT and tarlatamab cohort, as temporal de-escalation. If safety is not met in the sequential cohort, treatment with RT will be discontinued and enrollment will continue with tarlatamab monotherapy, not requiring patients having a site amenable to RT and enriching for patients without SCLC.

In the nested phase II, we will assess efficacy of radiation and tarlatamab amongst patients with tumors with high prevalence of DLL3 or those who have positive DLL3 (≥1% per IHC), including but not exclusive to SCLC. This would allow for potential evaluation of safety and response for tumors beyond the DeLLPhi 300/301 studies.

The study population will include patients ≥18 years of age with primary/metastatic sites amenable to external beam radiation treatment refractory solid tumors of:

1. small cell histology
2. high grade / poorly differentiated neuroendocrine histology
3. tumor histologies with high prevalence of DLL3 (≥ 50% prevalence), including but not limited to: melanoma, medullary thyroid cancer, sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma, esthesioneuroblastoma, bladder cancer, testicular cancer, glioblastoma multiforme, cervical cancer; large cell neuroendocrine tumor of lung, non-small cell lung cancers with mixed neuroendocrine features, and Merkel cell carcinoma OR
4. Patients with DLL3+ tumors (≥1% IHC)

Up to 30 patients will be enrolled.