Phase I-II Study of Fluorouracil in Combination With Phenylbutyrate in Advanced Colorectal Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Interferon-gamma may interfere with the growth of tumor cells and slow the growth of the tumor. Combining more than one drug with interferon-gamma may kill more tumor cells. This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of giving fluorouracil together with phenylbutyrate, indomethacin, and interferon-gamma and to see how well it works in treating patients with stage IV colorectal cancer
Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Stage IVA Colon Cancer|Stage IVA Rectal Cancer|Stage IVB Colon Cancer|Stage IVB Rectal Cancer
DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: sodium phenylbutyrate|DRUG: indomethacin|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interferon gamma
Toxicity of flurouracil (FU) when given in escalating doses in combination with fixed doses of phenlylbutyrate (PB), indomethacin and recombinant human interferon-gamma (rhIFNg) to patients with advanced colorectal cancer (Phase I), 1 week|Efficacy of FU in combination with PB, indomethacin and rhIFNg in patients with advanced colorectal cancer (Phase II), Up to 7 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine in a Phase I study the toxicity of flurouracil (FU) when given in escalating doses in combination with fixed doses of phenlylbutyrate (PB), indomethacin and recombinant human interferon-gamma (rhIFNg) to patients with advanced colorectal cancer.

II. To determine in a Phase II study the efficacy of FU in combination with PB, indomethacin and rhIFNg in patients with advanced colorectal cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of fluorouracil (5-FU).

Phase I: Patients receive 5-FU IV over 24 hours on day 1; phenylbutyrate IV over 120 hours and oral indomethacin daily on days 2-6; and interferon gamma subcutaneously on days 2, 4, and 6. Courses repeat weekly in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 5-FU until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which less than 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

Phase II :Patients receive 5-FU, phenylbutyrate, indomethacin, and interferon gamma as in phase I at the MTD.

Patients are followed for survival.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 24 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of this study and approximately 46 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion of this study.