Mobile-Health Delivery of Lifestyle Interventions for Women With Breast Cancer
This clinical trial aims to develop a lifestyle program to improve clinical outcomes in women with breast cancer who do not have a healthy diet, regular exercise habits, or ways to manage their stress well. The program will include support and counseling in healthy eating, physical activity, stress management and mindfulness, learning sleep hygiene techniques, and behavioral counseling in addition to social support. Developing a lifestyle program may help improve quality of life and encourage healthy lifestyle choices among patients diagnosed with breast cancer.
Breast Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Best Practice|DEVICE: FitBit|BEHAVIORAL: Nutrition Education|OTHER: Physical Activity|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Assess the feasibility of delivering a mobile, standardized, comprehensive lifestyle program in women with BCa., The feasibility criteria will include consent rate (how many patients are consented in a period of time), adherence rate ( how many patients adhere to the program and finish it), and study retention rate ( how many patients that are consented stay with the program until the end/ low number of participants withdrawing from the study after consent)., up to 9 months after study baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the feasibility of delivering a mobile, standardized, comprehensive lifestyle program in women with breast cancer (BCa).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether the comprehensive lifestyle intervention program (CLIP) group has reduction in body mass index (BMI) and percent body fat and weight over time.

II. Determine whether the CLIP group has improved outcomes in anthropometric measures, dietary patterns, and fitness measures and patient-reported outcomes including quality of life (QOL), fatigue, sleep disturbances, mental health, social support, and mindfulness.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo 60 minute sessions of nutrition education for 12 weeks and behavioral intervention 26 weeks. Patients receive FitBit and undergo physical activity for 30-60 minutes 5 days a week (aerobic activity) and 2 days a week (resistance training).

GROUP II: Patients have access to all usual care supportive services.