Evaluation of Talazoparib, a PARP Inhibitor, in Patients With Somatic BRCA Mutant Metastatic Breast Cancer: Genotyping Based Clinical Trial
This research is to evaluate the effectiveness of Talazoparib as a potential treatment for metastatic breast cancer with a BRCA 1 or BRCA 2 mutation.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Talazoparib
Median Progression Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to the date of disease progression as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., From the start of treatment until death or disease progression, up to approximately 2 years
Objective Response Rate, The number of participants that achieve either a complete (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1.

* CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.
* PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the start of treatment until treatment discontinuation, up to approximately 2 years|Number of Participants with Treatment-related Serious Adverse Events, Adverse events will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 5). The number of participants with grade 3 or greater adverse events that were deemed to be possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment will be reported., From the start of treatment until treatment discontinuation, up to approximately 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved talazoparib for the participants' specific disease but it has been approved for metastatic breast cancer with a germline (inherited) BRCA mutation.

Talazoparib is a study drug that inhibits (stops) the normal activity of certain proteins called "poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases" also called "PARPs". PARPs are proteins (made from genes which are part of your DNA) that are found in all normal and cancer cells that are involved in the repair of DNA. PARPs are needed to repair mistakes that can happen in DNA when cells divide. If the mistakes are not repaired, the defective cell will usually die and be replaced. Cells with mistakes in their DNA that do not die can become cancer cells. Cancer cells may be killed by a study drug, like talazoparib, that stops the normal activity of PARPs. In clinical trials, the use of talazoparib and other PARP inhibitors have shown that these drugs can reduce tumor size and slow tumor growth in some cancer patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations.

In this research study, the investigators are examining how effective talazoparib is in patients with metastatic breast cancer with a BRCA mutation in their tumor.