Iodine I 131 Monoclonal Antibody BC8, Fludarabine Phosphate, Cyclophosphamide, Total-Body Irradiation and Donor Bone Marrow Transplant in Treating Patients With Advanced Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, or High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of iodine I 131monoclonal antibody BC8 when given together with fludarabine phosphate, cyclophosphamide, total-body irradiation, and donor bone marrow transplant, and to see how well they work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic leukemia that has spread to nearby or other places in the body (advanced), or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome. Giving chemotherapy drugs, such as fludarabine phosphate and cyclophosphamide, and total-body irradiation before a donor bone marrow transplant helps stop the growth of cancer or abnormal cells and helps stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. Also, radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies, such as iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8, can find cancer cells and carry cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving cyclophosphamide together with mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus after the transplant may stop this from happening. Giving a radiolabeled monoclonal antibody together with donor stem cell transplant, fludarabine phosphate, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, and tacrolimus may be an effective treatment for advanced acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or myelodysplastic syndromes.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|CD45-Positive Neoplastic Cells Present|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts|Refractory Anemia With Ring Sideroblasts|Refractory Cytopenia With Multilineage Dysplasia|Refractory Cytopenia With Multilineage Dysplasia and Ring Sideroblasts
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|RADIATION: Iodine I 131 Monoclonal Antibody BC8|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|DRUG: Tacrolimus|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation
Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLT) 30 Days After Transplant, The criteria of Grade III/IV regimen-related toxicity (Bearman) or dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) are as follows:

Grade 1 Development of transient chemical abnormalities which are not of major clinical consequence and which reverse without requiring major medical interventions. In general, the intent of this toxicity scale is to observe transient target organ toxicity which is reversible.

Grade 2 Development of chemical or laboratory abnormalities that are persistent and which may represent target organ damage that may not be readily reversed. It is anticipated that at this dose of the drug, the toxicity obtained would be manageable by clinical methods but may interfere with other therapies.

Grade 3 Development of major clinical, chemical or laboratory abnormalities which represent maximum toxicities without being fatal. This grade of toxicity is designed to be the dose-limiting toxicity.

Grade 4 Fatal, Up to 30 days post-transplant
Number of Participants With Transplant-Related Mortality Within 100 Days After Transplant, Number of Participants that received and completed study treatment who died within 100 days after transplant, Up to 100 days post-transplant|Participant Disease Response Within 90 Days After Transplant, The number of participants that are in complete remission or relapsed within 90 days after transplant

Complete Remission is defined as the complete resolution of all signs of leukemia for at least 90 days with all of the following:

1. Normal bone marrow with blasts \<5% with normal cellularity, normal megakarypoiesis, more than 15% erythropoiesis, and more than 25% granulocytopoiesis.
2. Normalization of blood counts (no blasts, platelets \> 100000/mm3, granulocytes \>1500/mm3)
3. No extramedullary disease

Relapse is measured as follows:

1. After CR: \>5% blasts in the bone marrow and/or peripheral blood. Confirmation of relapse by bone marrow analysis with more than 10% blasts.
2. After PR: increase of blast cells in the marrow to \>50% of those during PR.
3. Extramedullary disease confirmed cytologically or histologically., Up to 90 days after transplant|Severity of Acute GVHD in Patients Who Completed the Study Treatment, The severity of acute GVHD is measured based on Graft vs Host Disease:

Grade I +1 to +2 skin rash No gut or liver involvement

Grade II +3 skin rash or

* 1 gastrointestinal involvement and/or +1 liver involvement

Grade III +2 to +4 gastrointestinal involvement and/or

* 2 to +4 liver involvement with or without a rash

Grade IV Pattern and severity of GVHD similar to grade 3 with extreme constitutional symptoms or death, 100 days after transplant|Number of Participants With 100% Donor Chimerism at Day 84, Post-transplant bone marrow and peripheral blood samples were collected on day 84 after transplant for DNA Chimerism Analysis, Day 84 after transplant|Two-Year Disease-free Survival of Study Participants Who Completed the Study Regimen, Survival and complete resolution of all signs of leukemia 2 years after transplant with all of the following:

1, Normal bone marrow with blasts \<5% with normal cellularity, normal megakaryopoiesis, more than 15% erythropoiesis, and more than 25% granulocytopoiesis.

2. Normalization of blood counts (no basts, platelets \>100,000/mm3, granulocytes \>1,500/mm3) 3. No extramedullary disease., 2 years post-transplant
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose of radiation delivered via 131 I-BC8 antibody (iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8) when combined with pre- and post-transplant cyclophosphamide (CY), fludarabine phosphate (FLU), 2 Gy total-body irradiation (TBI), tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and a haploidentical allogeneic hematopoietic marrow transplant in patients who have advanced acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), or high risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).

II. To estimate rates of immune reconstitution, engraftment, and donor chimerism resulting from this combined preparative regimen.

III. To determine rates of disease relapse, acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and day 100 disease-free survival in patients receiving 131 I-BC8 antibody (Ab) combined with CY, FLU, 2 Gy TBI, tacrolimus, MMF, and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-haploidentical allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8.

RADIOIMMUNOTHERAPY: Patients receive therapeutic iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 via central line on day -14.

NONMYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING: Patients receive FLU intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2 and CY IV over 1 hour on days -6 and -5. Patients undergo TBI on day -1.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow transplantation on day 0.

POST-TRANSPLATATION IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive CY IV over 1-2 hours on day 3, MMF IV or orally (PO) thrice daily (TID) on days 4 to 35, and tacrolimus IV over 1-2 hours or PO on days 4 to 180 with taper on day 84.

Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months, and then annually thereafter.