A Study of Ulocuplumab And Ibrutinib in Symptomatic Patients With Mutated CXCR4 Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
This research study is studying Ulocuplumab combined with ibrutinib as a possible treatment for symptomatic Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia (WM).
Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Ulocuplumab|DRUG: Ibrutinib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Ulocuplumab, MTD was determined by testing increasing doses up to 1600mg of ulocuplumab on dose escalation levels 1 to 3 with 3 to 7 participants each. MTD reflects the highest dose of ulocuplumab that did not cause a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in \>33% of participants. DLTs were defined as any Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE 4.0) grade 4 or 5 hematologic toxicities (anemia, neutropenia, or thrombocytopenia) and grade 3 or above non-hematologic toxicities. Exceptions were allowed for toxicities attributed to underlying disease, grade 3 infection, and easily reversible asymptomatic laboratory abnormalities, and nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea controlled by medications., Up to 8 weeks for each dose level
Time to Minor Response, Time in months to \>25%-50% reduction in serum IgM from baseline, Response evaluated at each cycle day 1, starting at Cycle 2 Day 1 through Cycle 48|Time to Major Response, Time in months to \>50-90% reduction in serum IgM from baseline, Response evaluated at each cycle day 1, starting at Cycle 2 Day 1 through Cycle 48|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time in months until \>25% increase in serum IgM from nadir, Response and progression status evaluated at each cycle day 1, starting at Cycle 2 Day 1 through Cycle 48, and every 12 weeks during follow-up for up to 2 years after end of treatment
This was planned to be a Phase I/II clinical trial. A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. The study was halted early and did not open the Phase II portion.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Ulocuplumab as a treatment for any disease. Ulocuplumab is a type of protein called an antibody that attacks CXCR4, a protein that is found on B-cells like WM.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has Ibrutinib as a treatment option for this disease.

Ibrutinib has been under investigation in research studies in participants with recurrent B-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and prolymphocytic leukemia, and WM. In a study of ibrutinib in relapsed/refractory WM patients, response rates were high and the treatment was well tolerated. In that study participants who had a CXCR4 mutation had a lower response rate to ibrutinib than those without a mutation.

In this research study, the investigators are evaluating the safety of ulocuplumab in combination with ibrutinib participants with symptomatic WM who have a CXCR4 mutation. The investigators are also evaluating how well the ulocuplumab works in combination with ibrutinib