Topical Ethanol Extract (Piper Crocatum) for Anogenital Warts
This clinical trial aims to assess the efficacy of topical Piper crocatum in treating Anogenital warts. It aims to answer

* the clinical efficacy of treating anogenital warts
* the expression of Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg), TGF/Tumor Growth Factor -β1, and IFN/interferon -γ of anogenital wart lesion Participants will be allocated into two topical treatments, intervention and active comparator Trichloroacetic Acid (TCA) 90%. The researchers assume that intervention is superior compared to TCA 90%
Anogenital Wart
DRUG: Topical Ethanol Extract (Piper crocatum)|DRUG: Trichloroacetic Acid Topical
Size of wart, the size of wart measured from the outermost edge of the warts., Changes of wart size from baseline to week 12|Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg), the expression of Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) from the stained T cells in anogenital wart lesion, change of Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) expression from baseline to week 8|TGF-β1, the expression of TGF-β1 from the stained cells in anogenital wart lesion, change of TGF-β1 expression from baseline to week 8|IFN-γ, the expression of IFN-γ from the stained cells in anogenital wart lesion, change of IFN-γ expression from baseline to week 8
Adverse reaction, any records of adverse reaction including inflammation, irritation or other systemic adverse event, any adverse event from baseline to week 12
Study Design :

A randomized controlled trial

Population:

Diagnosed with Condyloma Acuminata (International Classification of Disease 10 code A.63.0)

Intervention period :

8 weeks of daily topical intervention with follow-up at week 12

Detailed formulation

1. Extraction of Piper crocatum with ethanol assisted in a microwave-assisted extraction (MAE)
2. The dissolution and active substances are separated by evaporation using a rotary evaporator to obtain the extract in the form of a thick solution
3. freeze-drying is performed to obtain a stable thick extract
4. preparation of ointment by adding formulation of ethanol extract of red betel leaves with 50 mg of white vaseline to achieve 30% concentration

Settings:

Outpatient care at the designated hospital

Participants:

Consecutive recruitment

Sample Size Estimation:

Following the formula of two different means, with the indicator, as follows:

1. Type 1 error 5%
2. Power of Study 80%
3. Assuming the effect size of cohen d (in reducing the size of warts) is 0.5
4. equal allocation between two arms total sample: 100 participants

Proposed analysis:

Intention to treat (ITT) with sensitivity and subgroup analysis