Lenvatinib Combined With TACE and Camrelizumab in Conversion Resection for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (LEN-TAC Study)
Compared to systemic therapy alone, conversion therapy is promising to improve the prognosis of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Triple therapy (lenvatinib combined with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and camrelizumab) may have significant efficacy in conversion therapy for patients with advanced HCC, but its safety and efficacy remain unknown. To address this, we have designed a randomized, open-label, parallel-controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of lenvatinib combined with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and camrelizumab versus lenvatinib combined with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization in conversion resection for advanced HCC. Totally 196 patients with BCLC C stage HCC will be rigorously screened and included, and the primary endpoints of the study are overall survival. This study aims to provide valuable insights into new treatment strategies for advanced HCC.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Lenvatinib combined with TACE and Camrelizumab
Overall survival, Time from randomization to death (any cause)., 3-year
Adverse events, The occurrence of any hematological or non-hematological toxicity event (≥ class Ⅲ), including but not limited to impaired liver function, impaired hematological system, hypertension, diarrhea, proteinuria, hand-foot syndrome, etc. Severity of adverse events will be graded according to CTCAE v5.0., 2 years|Objective response rate, The percentage of patients achieving complete response and partial response among all patients. Response to treatment will be evaluated according to mRECIST., 2 years|Disease control rate, The percentage of patients with complete response, partial response and stable disease among all patients., 2 years|Event-free survival, Time from randomization to disease progression, local recurrence, distant metastasis, or death, whichever occurs first, assessed by mRECIST, 2 years|Overall survival at 2 years, The time from start of treatment until death from any cause or the end of the study (the last enrolled patient should be followed for at least 2 years, 2 years|Conversional resection rate, conversional resection patients/enrolled patients, 2 years
Compared to systemic therapy alone, conversion therapy is promising to improve the prognosis of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Triple therapy (lenvatinib combined with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and camrelizumab) may have significant efficacy in conversion therapy for patients with advanced HCC, but its safety and efficacy remain unknown. To address this, we have designed a randomized, open-label, parallel-controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of lenvatinib combined with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and camrelizumab versus lenvatinib combined with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization in conversion resection for advanced HCC. Totally 196 patients with BCLC C stage HCC will be rigorously screened and included, and the primary endpoints of the study are overall survival. This study aims to provide valuable insights into new treatment strategies for advanced HCC.