A Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of HLX11 Vs. EU-Perjeta® in the Neoadjuvant Therapy of HER2-Positive and HR-Negative Early-stage or Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
This is a phase III, double-blind, randomized, parallel-controlled, multicenter equivalence study to compare the efficacy and safety of pertuzumab biosimilar HLX11 vs. EU-Perjeta® on HER2-positive and HR-negative early-stage or locally advanced breast cancer with a primary tumor \> 2 cm.

Patients are random assignment to 2 arms and treatment with either HLX11 or EU-Perjeta® , and received neoadjuvant THP regimen every 3- weeks 4 cycles，adjuvant AC every 3- weeks 4 cycles and pertuzumab+trastuzumab(HP) every 3- weeks 13cycles.
Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasms|HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: HLX11|DRUG: EU-Perjeta®
The total pathological complete response (tpCR) rate assessed by the Independent Review Committee (IRC), tpCR is defined as the histological evidence of no malignancy of lymph nodes in the regions of primary lesion and metastasis of breast cancer (i.e., ypT0/is, ypN0 in accordance with the AJCC staging system), immediately after the surgery
Breast pathologic complete response (bpCR) rate, bpCR is defined as the histological evidence of no malignancy in the primary lesion of breast cancer, or only carcinoma in situ (i.e., ypT0/Tis in the AJCC staging system, 8th edition), immediately after the surgery
This is a phase III, double-blind, randomized, parallel-controlled, multicenter equivalence study to compare the efficacy and safety of pertuzumab biosimilar HLX11 vs. EU-Perjeta® on HER2-positive and HR-negative early-stage or locally advanced breast cancer with a primary tumor \> 2 cm.Subjects will be randomly assigned to treatment group (HLX11) or control group (EU-Perjeta®) at 1:1 ratio. The stratification factors include disease category (early-stage vs. locally advanced) and geographic region (Asia vs. non-Asia).

Study drugs will be administered intravenously on a 3-weekly schedule and given consecutively on the same day in the following sequence trastuzumab, followed by pertuzumab and docetaxel(THP regimen) for neoadjuvant，Doxorubicin in combination with cyclophosphamide (AC) for adjuvant chemotherapy, then HP regimen for adjuvant HER2-targeted.

The primary endpoint is total pCR (tpCR) . Secondary efficacy endpoints include breast pCR (bpCR), objective response rate (ORR),Event-free survival (EFS) and Disease-free survival (DFS).

The safety indicators is incidence, type, severity, and causality of all adverse events (including serious adverse events and AESI) based on NCI CTCAE v5.0; Vital signs, physical examination, laboratory tests, cardiac function test, etc.

pharmacokinetic(PK) and immunogenicity is also assessed.