Fludarabine Phosphate and Total-Body Irradiation Before Donor Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or Small Lymphocytic Leukemia
This clinical trial studies how well giving fludarabine phosphate together with total-body irradiation (TBI) before donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant works in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic leukemia. Giving low doses of chemotherapy, such as fludarabine phosphate, and TBI before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. Giving chemotherapy before or after peripheral blood stem cell transplant also stops the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. The donated stem cells may replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells (graft-versus-tumor effect). Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil before and after the transplant may stop this from happening.
B-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|T-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Cyclosporine|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|PROCEDURE: Nonmyeloablative Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation
Overall Survival, Number of patients surviving 18 months post-transplant., At 18 months
Rate of Relapse, Number of patients with relapsed disease post-transplant. Relapse/progression is defined as 1) Physical exam/Imaging studies (nodes, liver, and/or spleen) ≥50% increase or new, 2) circulating lymphocytes by morphology and/or flow cytometry ≥50% increase, or 3) lymph node Biopsy Richter's transformation., 18 months|Acute Grade II-IV GVHD and Chronic (Extensive) GVHD, Number of patients who developed acute/chronic GVHD post-transplant. aGVHD Stages

Skin:

a maculopapular eruption involving \< 25% BSA a maculopapular eruption involving 25 - 50% BSA generalized erythroderma generalized erythroderma with bullous formation and often with desquamation

Liver:

bilirubin 2.0 - 3.0 mg/100 mL bilirubin 3 - 5.9 mg/100 mL bilirubin 6 - 14.9 mg/100 mL bilirubin \> 15 mg/100 mL

Gut:

Diarrhea is graded 1 - 4 in severity. Nausea and vomiting and/or anorexia caused by GVHD is assigned as 1 in severity. The severity of gut involvement is assigned to the most severe involvement noted. Patients with visible bloody diarrhea are at least stage 2 gut and grade 3 overall.

aGVHD Grades Grade II: Stage 1 - 3 skin and/or stage 1 gut involvement and/or stage 1 liver involvement Grade III: Stage 2 - 4 gut involvement and/or stage 2 - 4 liver involvement Grade IV: Pattern and severity of GVHD similar to grade 3 with extreme constitutional symptoms or death, aGVHD: 100 days after transplant; cGVHD: 1 Year after transplant.|Rate and Types of Infections, Number of infections patients experienced, by infection type., 18 months|Transplant-related Mortality, Defined as death before day +200 not related to progression of disease., At 200 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) from matched-related donors can improve the probability of survival 18 months after treatment for fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate)-refractory, fludarabine phosphate, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR)-failed, or del 17p chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) beyond that observed in historical controls (30%).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the rate of relapse with allogeneic HSCT using nonmyeloablative conditioning for patients with fludarabine-refractory, FCR-failed, or del 17p CLL compared with historical data on autologous HSCT.

II. To estimate the incidence of grade 2-4 acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and chronic GVHD in patients with CLL treated with low-dose TBI, fludarabine, peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) infusion and immunosuppression with cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil.

III. To characterize the rate and types of infections with this regimen.

IV. To estimate the rate of transplant-related mortality in the first 200 days.

OUTLINE:

NONMYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -4 to -2 and TBI on day 0.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) every 12 hours on days -3 to 180 with taper beginning on day 56 and mycophenolate mofetil PO every 12 hours on days 0-27.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12 and 18 months and then annually for 5 years.