18F-FET PET/CT in the Management of Glioma
O-(2-\[18F\]-fluoroethyl)-L-tyrosine (FET) is a tracer for positron emission tomography (PET). The Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) working group has officially recommended 18F-FET PET in the management of patients with brain glioma. Recently, the utility of 18F-FET PET in the diagnosis of fresh and residual gliomas has been reported by several investigators. But clinical usefulness of radiomics parameters has not been explored thoroughly in glioma patients. 18F-FET PET has been widely used in clinical studies or routine service in Europe, America, Mainland China, or Japan. However, 18F-FET PET is still not available in Taiwan. In this context, the investigator propose this study to explore the role of multiparametric 18F-FET PET imaging for glioma in Taiwan, with the emphasis in radiomics analysis.
Glioma
DEVICE: 18F-FET PET/CT
Overall survival, Overall survival is measured from the date of diagnosis to the date of death, or censored at last follow-up date., 3 years
Study background:

O-(2-\[18F\]-fluoroethyl)-L-tyrosine (FET) is a tracer for positron emission tomography (PET). The Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) working group has officially recommended 18F-FET PET in the management of patients with brain glioma. Recently, the utility of 18F-FET PET in the diagnosis of fresh and residual gliomas has been reported by several investigators. But clinical usefulness of radiomics parameters has not been explored thoroughly in glioma patients. 18F-FET PET has been widely used in clinical studies or routine service in Europe, America, Mainland China, or Japan. However, 18F-FET PET is still not available in Taiwan. In this context, the investigator propose this study to explore the role of multiparametric 18F-FET PET imaging for glioma in Taiwan.

Materials and methods:

1. During the pre-treatment work-up, the study participants undergo an 18F-FET PET/CT scan. In addition, other routine examinations, including MRI with and without contrast enhancement, are performed.
2. After a definitive diagnosis of primary/recurrent glioma is confirmed, subjects begin treatment (surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, etc.). Within 3 to 6 months after completing treatment, the study subjects undergo a second 18F-FET PET/CT scan for response evaluation, along with a follow-up MRI.