Exergaming Intervention in ALL Patients
This is a pilot feasibility study to collect preliminary data for a large-scale exergaming intervention in children undergoing maintenance therapy for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL). Patients, ages 5-17 years will be randomized to the intervention or non-intervention control group. The intervention will consist of 30 minute sessions of exergaming 3-5 times a week for 6 months, with weekly assessment of exercise level and phone calls by kinesiology graduate students for safety and compliance. Physical activity at baseline and at the end of study will be assessed using accelerometers. Outcome measures will include: anthropometrics, blood pressure, body composition, visceral fat, vascular function, fasting insulin, fasting glucose, LDL-cholesterol, HDL- cholesterol, triglycerides, functional mobility and endurance, and strength.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
BEHAVIORAL: Exergaming Program
Average minutes of physical activity per day, The feasibility of an exercise intervention in pediatric ALL patients undergoing maintenance therapy and its effects on markers of cardiometabolic risk. The primary outcome for this pilot study is average minutes and time spent at varying intensity of physical activity per day, as measured by accelerometers., 6-months
Average difference of blood pressure, Estimate of the likely effect size (i.e., difference between the groups in average outcome) of blood pressure., 6 months|Average difference of body composition, Estimate of the likely effect size (i.e., difference between the groups in average outcome) of body composition., 6 months|Average difference in visceral fat, Estimate of the likely effect size (i.e., difference between the groups in average outcome) of visceral fat., 6 months|Average difference in triglycerides, Estimate of the likely effect size (i.e., difference between the groups in average outcome) of triglycerides., 6 months
This is a pilot feasibility study to collect preliminary data for a large-scale exergaming intervention in children undergoing maintenance therapy for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL). Patients, ages 5-17 years will be randomized to the intervention or non-intervention control group. The intervention will consist of 30 minute sessions of exergaming 3-5 times a week for 6 months, with weekly assessment of exercise level and phone calls by kinesiology graduate students for safety and compliance. Physical activity at baseline and at the end of study will be assessed using accelerometers. Outcome measures will include: anthropometrics, blood pressure, body composition, visceral fat, vascular function, fasting insulin, fasting glucose, LDL-cholesterol, HDL- cholesterol, triglycerides, functional mobility and endurance, and strength.