An Open-label Study of GSK1120212 Compared With Docetaxel in Stage IV KRAS-mutant Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This is a phase II, open-label, multicenter, randomized study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of GSK1120212 compared with docetaxel in the second line setting for subjects with locally advanced or metastatic (Stage IV) Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring a KRAS mutation who have failed one platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen. A small subset of NSCLC subjects harboring BRAF, NRAS, or MEK1 mutations will be randomized in addition to the primary KRAS population, for exploratory purposes.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell
DRUG: GSK1120212|DRUG: docetaxel
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Investigator (INV), PFS is defined as the time from RAN until the earliest date of documented radiological PD or DT due to any cause. PD was assessed by the INV according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), version 1.1. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters (SD) of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm) or the appearance of at least 1 new lesion, or the worsening of non-target lesions significant enough to require study treatment discontinuation. For participants (PAR) who did not have a documented date of PD or DT, PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate assessment. For PAR who received subsequent anti-cancer therapy prior to the date of documented PD or DT, PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate assessment prior to the initiation of therapy., From randomization (RAN) until the earliest date of documented radiological disease progression (PD) or death (DT) due to any cause (maximum of 10.2 months)
Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline in the Indicated Clinical Chemistry Parameters: Randomized Phase, Clinical chemistry parameters were summarized according to National Cancer Institutes (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade, version 4.0. Grade (G) 1, Mild; Grade 2, Moderate; Grade 3 (G3), Severe; Grade 4 (G4), Life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, Death. Data are presented for only those parameters for which an increase to any G, G3, or G4 occurred. Clinical chemistry parameters included: albumin, alkaline phosphatase (ALKP), alanine amino transferase (ALT), aspartate amino transferase (AST), total bilirubin, calcium (hypercalcemia), calcium (hypocalcemia), creatine kinase, creatinine, glucose (hyperglycemia), glucose (hypoglycemia), potassium (hyperkalemia), potassium (hypokalemia), sodium (hypernatremia), and sodium (hyponatremia). Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Randomized Phase (up to Study Week 40)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline in the Indicated Clinical Chemistry Parameters: Crossover Phase, Clinical chemistry parameters were summarized according to NCI CTCAE grade, version 4.0. Grade (G) 1, Mild; Grade 2, Moderate; Grade 3 (G3), Severe; Grade 4 (G4), Life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, Death. Data are presented for only those parameters for which an increase to any grade, Grade 3, or Grade 4 occurred. Clinical chemistry parameters included: albumin, alkaline phosphatase (ALKP), alanine amino transferase (ALT), aspartate amino transferase (AST), total bilirubin, calcium (hypercalcemia), calcium (hypocalcemia), creatine kinase, creatinine, glucose (hyperglycemia), glucose (hypoglycemia), potassium (hyperkalemia), potassium (hypokalemia), sodium (hypernatremia), and sodium (hyponatremia). Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Crossover Phase (up to Study Week 19)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline in the Indicated Hematology Parameters: Randomized Phase, Hematology parameters were summarized according to NCI CTCAE grade, version 4.0. Grade (G) 1, Mild; Grade 2, Moderate; Grade 3 (G3), Severe; Grade 4 (G4), Life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, Death. Data are presented for only those parameters for which an increase to any G (IAG), G3, or G4 occurred. Hematology parameters included: haemoglobin (increased \[inc\]), haemoglobin (anemia), lymphocyte count (ct) (inc), lymphocyte ct (decreased \[dec\]), total absolute neutrophil count (ANC), platelet ct, and white blood cell count (WBC). Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Randomized Phase (up to Study Week 40)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline in the Indicated Hematology Parameters: Crossover Phase, Hematology parameters were summarized according to NCI CTCAE grade, version 4.0. Grade (G) 1, Mild; Grade 2, Moderate; Grade 3 (G3), Severe; Grade 4 (G4), Life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, Death. Data are presented for only those parameters for which an increase to any G (IAG), G3, or G4 occurred. Hematology parameters included: haemoglobin (increased \[inc\]), haemoglobin (anemia), lymphocyte count (ct) (inc), lymphocyte ct (decreased \[dec\]), total absolute neutrophil count (ANC), platelet ct, and white blood cell count (WBC). Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Crossover Phase (up to Study Week 19)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline With Respect to Normal Ranges in the Indicated Clinical Chemistry Parameters: Randomized Phase, Data are presented for only those clinical chemistry parameters for which the following worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline with respect to the normal range were observed: decrease to low, change to normal (CTN) or no change, or increase to high. Clinical chemistry parameters included: lactate dehydrogenase, total protein, and urea/blood urea nitrogen (BUN). Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments. Normal ranges for each parameter may vary depending on the laboratory (central versus local) and the participant (age, gender, etc.)., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Randomized Phase (up to Study Week 40)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline With Respect to Normal Ranges in the Indicated Clinical Chemistry Parameters: Crossover Phase, Data are presented for only those clinical chemistry parameters for which the following worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline with respect to the normal range were observed: decrease to low, change to normal (CTN) or no change, or increase to high. Clinical chemistry parameters included: lactate dehydrogenase, total protein, and urea/blood urea nitrogen (BUN). Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments. Normal ranges for each parameter may vary depending on the laboratory (central versus local) and the participant (age, gender, etc.)., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Crossover Phase (up to Study Week 19)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline With Respect to Normal Ranges in the Indicated Hematology Parameters: Randomized Phase, Data are presented for only those hematology parameters for which the following worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline with respect to the normal range were observed: decrease to low, change to normal (CTN) or no change, or increase to high. Hematology parameters included: atypical lymphs, atypical lymphs (percentage \[%\]), basophils, eosinophils, metamyelocytes, monocytes, myelocytes, neutrophil bands (%). Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments. Normal ranges for each parameter may vary depending on the laboratory (central versus local) and the participant (age, gender, etc.)., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Randomized Phase (up to Study Week 40)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case On-therapy Change From Baseline With Respect to Normal Ranges in the Indicated Hematology Parameters: Crossover Phase, Data are presented for only those hematology parameters for which the following worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline with respect to the normal range were observed: decrease to low, change to normal (CTN) or no change, or increase to high. Hematology parameters included: atypical lymphs, atypical lymphs (percentage \[%\]), basophils, eosinophils, metamyelocytes, monocytes, and myelocytes. Worst-case on-therapy changes from Baseline were summarized. Worst-case on-therapy was defined using the on-therapy window and changes were indentified using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments. Normal ranges for each parameter may vary depending on the laboratory (central versus local) and the participant (age, gender, etc.)., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Crossover Phase (up to Study Week 19)|Number of Participants With Any Serious Adverse Event (SAE) or Non-serious Adverse Event (AE): Randomized Phase, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or is an event of possible drug-induced liver injury. Medical or scientific judgment should have been exercised in deciding whether reporting was appropriate in other situations. Refer to the general Adverse AE/SAE module for a complete list of AEs and SAEs., From randomization until 30 days following discontinuation of study treatment regardless of initiation of a new cancer therapy or transfer to hospice (maximum of 19 months)|Number of Participants With Any SAE or Non-serious AE: Crossover Phase, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or is an event of possible drug-induced liver injury. Medical or scientific judgment should have been exercised in deciding whether reporting was appropriate in other situations. Refer to the general Adverse AE/SAE module for a complete list of AEs and SAEs., From the date of the first dose of study treatment in the Crossover Phase until 30 days following discontinuation of study treatment regardless of initiation of a new cancer therapy or transfer to hospice (maximum of 12 months)|Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) and Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP): Randomized Phase, Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were measured at the following scheduled time points: Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1 (Study Week 1); and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation. The worst-case on-therapy was determined using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments during the on-therapy period. Change from Baseline was calculated as the value at post-Baseline time point minus the value at Baseline., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Randomized Phase (up to Study Week 40)|Change From Baseline in SBP and DBP: Crossover Phase, Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were measured at the following scheduled time points: Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1 (Study Week 1); and Day 1 of every cycle therafter until treatment discontinuation. The worst-case on-therapy was determined using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments during the on-therapy period. Change from Baseline was calculated as the value at post-Baseline time point minus the value at Baseline., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Crossover Phase (up to Study Week 19)|Change From Baseline in Heart Rate: Randomized Phase, Heart rate was measured at the following scheduled time points: Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1 (Study Week 1); and Day 1 of every cycle therafter until treatment discontinuation.The worst-case on-therapy was determined using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments during the on-therapy period. Change from Baseline was calculated as the value at post-Baseline time point minus the value at Baseline., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Randomized Phase (up to Study Week 40)|Change From Baseline in Heart Rate: Crossover Phase, Heart rate was measured at the following scheduled time points: Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1 (Study Week 1); and Day 1 of every cycle therafter until treatment discontinuation.The worst-case on-therapy was determined using both scheduled and unscheduled assessments during the on-therapy period. Change from Baseline was calculated as the value at post-Baseline time point minus the value at Baseline., Baseline; Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycle 1; and Day 1 of every cycle thereafter until treatment discontinuation of the Crossover Phase (up to Study Week 19)|Number of Participants With a Best Response of Either a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as Assessed by the Investigator: Randomized Phase, Response was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST, version 1.1, using confirmed and unconfirmed responses. Responders were defined as participants achieving either a CR (disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeters \[mm\] in the short axis; without the appearance of new lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters \[e.g., percent change from Baseline\]). Participants with unknown or missing response were treated as non-responders., From randomization until the first documented evidence of a CR or PR (maximum of 10.2 months)|Number of Participants With a Best Response of Either a CR or PR as Assessed by the Investigator: Crossover Phase, Response was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST, version 1.1, using confirmed and unconfirmed responses. Responders were defined as participants achieving either a CR (disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeters \[mm\] in the short axis; without the appearance of new lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters \[e.g., percent change from Baseline\]). Participants with unknown or missing response were treated as non-responders., From the date of the first dose of study treatment in the Crossover Phase until the first documented evidence of a CR or PR (maximum of 4 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by the Investigator: Randomized Phase, DOR was assessed by the investigator for participants with CR (disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis; without the appearance of new lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters \[e.g., percent change from Baseline\]). DOR is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR or PR until the earliest date of documented radiological progression or death due to any cause. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters (SD) of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm) or the appearance of at least 1 new lesion, or the worsening of non-target lesions significant enough to require study treatment discontinuation., Time from the first documented evidence of CR or PR until the earliest date of documented radiological progression or death due to any cause (maximum of 10.2 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the interval of time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. For participants who did not die, OS was censored at the date of last contact., Time interval between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause (maximum of 22 months)|GSK1120212 Plasma Pharmacokinetic (PK) Concentration, Blood samples for PK analysis of GSK1120212 were collected at the following time points: Cycle 1 (Study Day 15), Cycle 2 (Study Day 22), Cycle 3 (Study Day 43), and Cycle 4 (Study Day 64). Post-dose PK samples collected on Day 15 of Cycle 1 occurred at least 1 hour apart. Participants were instructed to withhold the dose of GSK1120212 until after blood for PK samples had been drawn. Pre-dose samples were taken 15 minutes or less prior to taking the next dose (i.e., trough)., Day 15 of Cycle 1: pre-dose; 0.5-2 hours, 2-4 hours, and 4-8 hours post-dose; Day 1 of Cycle 2, Cycle 3 and Cycle 4: pre-dose
This is a phase II, open-label, multicenter, randomized study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of GSK1120212 compared with docetaxel in the second line setting for subjects with locally advanced or metastatic (Stage IV) Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring a KRAS mutation who have failed one platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen. A small subset of NSCLC subjects harboring BRAF, NRAS, or MEK1 mutations will be randomized in addition to the primary KRAS population, for exploratory purposes.