Narrative Visualization for Breast Cancer Survivors' Physical Activity
This study tests the feasibility and acceptability of a physical activity intervention that combines use of a wearable activity monitor with a scrapbook. Half of the participants will receive this enhanced intervention, while the other half will receive a wearable activity monitor with a standard step log.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Narrative visualization|BEHAVIORAL: Standard self-regulation
Percentage of Daily Workbook Entries Completed, Percentage of daily workbook entries completed out of the total possible number, measured by photography of intervention materials at 12 week assessment and then assessment of each page., 12 weeks
Physical Activity as Measured by Steps Per Day During Intervention Period, Mean of daily steps taken from accelerometers worn for 7 days, Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Physical Activity as Measured by Daily Steps During No-intervention Maintenance Period, Mean of steps per day taken from accelerometers worn for 7 days, Change from 12 to 24 weeks|Intrinsic Regulation, Self-reported intrinsic regulation on a scale from 0 (least motivated) to 4 (most motivated) using the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire - 3. Reported here are results from the intrinsic regulation subscale. Higher results on the scale indicate greater intrinsic regulation., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Integrated Regulation, Self-reported integrated regulation on a scale from 0 (least motivated) to 4 (most motivated) using the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire - 3. Here, results from the integrated regulation subscale are reported. Higher numbers on the scale indicate greater integrated regulation., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Basic Psychological Needs: Autonomy, Self-reported fulfillment of basic psychological needs on a scale from 1 (least fulfilled) to 5 (most fulfilled) using the Basic Psychological Needs in Exercise Questionnaire. The three subscales are perceived autonomy, competence, and relatedness. Here, autonomy is reported. A higher score means greater perceived autonomy., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Exercise Identity, Self-reported identity as an exerciser on a scale from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree) as measured by the Exercise Identity Scale. The two subscales are exercise beliefs and exercise role identity. Here, exercise role identity is reported. A higher score means greater exercise role identity., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Basic Psychological Needs: Competence, Self-reported fulfillment of basic psychological needs on a scale from 1 (least fulfilled) to 5 (most fulfilled) using the Basic Psychological Needs in Exercise Questionnaire. The three subscales are perceived autonomy, competence, and relatedness. Here, competence is reported. A higher score means greater perceived competence., 0 to 12 weeks|Basic Psychological Needs: Relatedness, Self-reported fulfillment of basic psychological needs on a scale from 1 (least fulfilled) to 5 (most fulfilled) using the Basic Psychological Needs in Exercise Questionnaire. The three subscales are perceived autonomy, competence, and relatedness. Here, relatedness is reported. A higher score means greater perceived relatedness., 0 to 12 weeks|Self-reflection, Self-reported self-reflection on a scale from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree) using the Self-Reflection and Insight Scale. Here, we report changes in the insight subscale, which has 8 items and a range of 5-40. For this scale, higher values indicate greater levels of insight., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Quality of Life (Physical, Social, Emotional, Functional, and Breast Cancer-specific), Self-reported quality of life on a scale from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much) using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast measure. Reported here is the change in total score for the entire measure (with the total ranging from 0-123). Better quality of life is indicated by a lower score., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Importance of Valued Domains, Self-reported importance of family, intimate relationships, friends, work, health, and growth values domains on a scale from 0 (not at all important) to 5 (extremely important) using the Chronic Pain Values Inventory. Reported here is the change in total across all domains, which is an average of the individual items (range: 0-5). A higher score indicates stronger endorsement of importance of the valued domains., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Success in Living According to Valued Domains, Self-reported success in living according to values related to family, intimate relations, friends, work, health, and growth on a scale from 0 (not at all successful) to 5 (extremely successful) using the Chronic Pain Values Inventory. Reported here is the change in total across all domains, as an average across items (range: 0-5). A higher score indicates stronger endorsement of success in the valued domains., Change from 0 to 12 weeks|Engaged Living, Self-reported perception of living in accordance with one's values on a scale from 1 (completely disagree) to 5 (completely agree) using the Engaged Living Scale. The two subscales are valued living and life fulfillment. Reported here is the change in total results for the scale (which ranges from 16-80). Higher scores on this scale indicate higher levels of engaged living., Change from 0 to 12 weeks
Receipt of Study Materials, Self-reported percent of study materials received out of total supplied, 12 weeks|Usefulness of Study Materials, Self-reported usefulness of study materials, on a scale from 1 (strongly disagree they were useful) to 5 (strongly agree they were useful), 12 weeks|Participant Attrition, Number of participants in each group who are lost to follow-up, 24 weeks|Number of Serious Adverse Events, The number of serious adverse events that occur during the intervention (0 - 12 weeks) and follow-up period (12 - 24 weeks), Up to 24 weeks|Days the Activity Monitor Was Worn, The number of days the activity monitor was worn, as assessed via review of the mobile app, 12 weeks|Completion of Values Clarification Activity, From photographs taken of the intervention materials at the 12 week assessment, the investigators will assess whether participants in the enhanced intervention group completed their values clarification activity, 12 weeks
Women breast cancer survivors could benefit from increased physical activity but are in need of greater motivation to be active. Interventions that use wearable activity monitors and mobile apps have shown promise in the short-term, but use drops off over time. Reports have suggested that users find the step data provided to be unclear and not very personally meaningful. The ultimate purpose of this line of research is to test whether enhanced motivational feedback, using scrapbooks, can increase motivation for activity. The scrapbooks will target integrated regulation, which is a type of motivation related to personal identity and values. Participants who receive this intervention will draw their step graph, add photographs and stickers an explanations to the graph, and answer reflection questions daily. Before testing the effects of this intervention on physical activity, the investigators must first ensure that the materials and procedures are feasible and acceptable. This small pilot study will allow the research team to iteratively test scrapbook materials and improve upon them for use in future studies. The investigators will compare an intervention using the enhanced materials to an intervention using only the wearable device, app, and a standard step log without scrapbook or reflection components. In addition to the primary outcome of feasibility (use of the scrapbook), the investigators will also explore the effects of the intervention on steps, motivational and values-related outcomes, and various aspects of feasibility and acceptability.