Lenalidomide Plus Melphalan as a Preparative Regimen for Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation in Relapsed Multiple Myeloma: A Phase 1 / 2 Study
A) Phase 1: To determine the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide that can be safely added to high-dose melphalan prior to autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT).

B) Phase 2: To determine whether the addition of high-dose lenalidomide to ASCT followed by maintenance standard-dose lenalidomide improves the response rate and duration of response for relapsed multiple myeloma (RMM).
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: melphalan
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Lenalidomide That Can be Added to Melphalan, The primary endpoint for the phase 1 portion of this study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide that can be added to melphalan., 12 months|Duration of Overall Response (DoR), The primary endpoint for the phase 2 portion of this study is to determine the duration of overall response (DoR). The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Until disease progression, death, or for a maximum of 3 years, whichever occurs first
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate is the number of patients with complete response and partial response. Response is defined by the International Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma (IURC), Until disease progression or a maximum of 3 years, whichever occurs first|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the interval between the day of transplantation (Day 0) and date of death. If the date of death is uncertain, the date of last contact with the subject will be used., Until death or date of last contact with the subject|Mean Functional Assessment of of Cancer Therapy-Bone Marrow Transplant (FACT-BMT) Score, quality of life will be evaluated and scored using the questionnaire from the bone marrow transplant subscale of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy available from w ww.facit.org. The FACT-BMT is a 50 item questionnaire that measures five dimensions of quality of life in bone marrow transplant patients, including physical well-being, social and family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and additional concerns. It is scored on a 5 point Likert scale. Total scores range from 0 to 148, with a higher score indicating higher quality of life., Cycle 6, day 1, at approximately 4.5 months
Experimental: Phase 1 Subjects will dose escalate lenalidomide in a series of subjects in a 3+3 design through 6 dose levels of lenalidomide (as per modified Fibonacci escalation) to determine the maximal tolerated dose (MTD)of lenalidomide prior to ASCT.

Planned dose levels of lenalidomide in Phase 1 portion of study:

Dose Level/ Lenalidomide Dose / Schedule

-1: 25mg daily x 5 days

1. 25mg twice daily x 5 days
2. 25mg qAM, 50mq qPM x 5 days
3. 50mg qAM, 75mg qPM x 5 days
4. 75mg qAM, 100mg qPM x 5 days
5. 100mg qAM, 150mg qPM x 5 days
6. 150mg qAM, 200mg qPM x 5 days

Experimental: Phase 2 The MTD determine for lenalidomide in the phase 1 portion of this study will be used in the transplant phase of the phase 2 portion.

In the transplant phase of the study, all participants will receive oral lenalidomide at the pre-determined dose level for phase 1 and MTD for phase 2 for 5 days (designated as days -5 to -1). On days-2 and -1, all patients will receive 100mg/m2 of intravenous melphalan once daily for a total of 2 doses (200mg/m2total). After a period of 24-72 hours has elapsed from the last melphalan dose (designated as Day 0) each patient will receive infusion of at least 2.0 x 106/kg of autologous CD34+ stem cells.

Maintenance lenalidomide will begin at Day +100 at a dose of 25 mg/day, orally for 1-21 days followed by a 7-day rest period (28 day cycles).