Pemigatinib After Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial identifies the best dose and clinical benefit of giving pemigatinib following standard induction chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Pemigatinib selectively inhibits FGFR (fibroblast growth factor receptor) activity, a receptor that may contribute to the growth of leukemia cells. The genetic changes responsible for activating the growth of leukemia cells can be unique to each patient and can change during the course of the disease. Chemotherapy drugs, such as cytarabine and daunorubicin work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspirate|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin|PROCEDURE: Electrocardiography|DRUG: Pemigatinib
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Will be summarized using the proportion and exact binomial confidence interval. DLTs will be summarized at each dose level by severity and major organ site according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0., From cycle 1 day 8, until 14 days after cycle 1 day 28 (up to 42 days)
Rate of composite complete remission (cCR), From cycle 1 day 1, until blood cell count recovery after induction (day 25-42)|Duration of remission (DOR), Date of first response (>= immune complete remission) till date of documented relapse assessed up to 2 years from last dose of study intervention|Event-free survival (EFS), From cycle 1 day 1, until date of primary refractory disease, progression, relapse, or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years from last dose of study intervention|Relapse-free survival (RFS), Date of first response (>= complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery [CRi]), until date of relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years from last dose of study intervention|Overall survival (OS), Estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method., From cycle 1 day 1, until date of death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years from last dose of study intervention|Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), Will be determined for the safety analysis set (i.e., study participants who receive at least one dose of pemigatinib) and the subset of safety evaluable patients treated at the MTD. The point estimate and 95% confidence interval will be reported. Each toxicity event will be tabulated and summarized by severity and major organ site according to the CTCAE v5.0. Will be evaluated in the dose determining and dose expansion cohorts separately as well as combined., From cycle 1 day 8, until 90 days after last dose of study intervention|Incidence of non-treatment related adverse events (AEs), Will be determined for the safety analysis set (i.e., study participants who receive at least one dose of pemigatinib) and the subset of safety evaluable patients treated at the MTD. The point estimate and 95% confidence interval will be reported. Each toxicity event will be tabulated and summarized by severity and major organ site according to the CTCAE v5.0. Will be evaluated in the dose determining and dose expansion cohorts separately as well as combined, From cycle 1 day 8, until 90 days after last dose of study intervention|Time-to-marrow recovery, Defined as absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \>= 1 x 10\^9 /L and platelets \>= 100 x 10\^9/L., Baseline (cycle 1 day 1), until time of count recovery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of pemigatinib (INC054828) following standard of care induction chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess preliminary efficacy associated with study intervention. II. To assess the safety profile of the study intervention. III. To evaluate time-to- marrow recovery between cycles of pemigatinib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess minimal residual disease (MRD) by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and/or next-generation sequencing of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) genetic abnormalities in bone marrow and blood.

II. Quantify FGF2/FGFR immunohistochemical staining of marrow core biopsies and compare to historical controls at various timepoints.

III. Assess ex vivo sensitivity of patient-derived mononuclear cells to pemigatinib with and without FGF2 supplementation.

IV. Evaluate pemigatinib-induced changes in stromal expression using cultured bone marrow samples and compare to historical controls.

V. Evaluate the impact of pemigatinib on the need for intravenous (IV) phosphate replacement after chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of pemigatinib followed by a dose-expansion study.

INDUCTION: Patients receive cytarabine IV on days 1-7, daunorubicin IV on days 1-3, and pemigatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 8-21 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with hematologic count recovery (assessed between days 25-42) after induction proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) during screening and as clinically indicated on study. Patients undergo blood sample collection and bone marrow aspirate and biopsy during screening and cycle 11 day 21 on study.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive high dose cytarabine IV twice daily (BID) on days 1, 3, and 5 of each cycle, and pemigatinib PO QD on days 8-21 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo ECHO as clinically indicated and blood sample collection and bone marrow biopsy and aspirate at the end of consolidation.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 24 months.