Phase 2 Study of Carfilzomib in Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
To evaluate the best overall response rate, safety and tolerability of carfilzomib in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: carfilzomib
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) in the Response Evaluable Subset Population, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a best response of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR) determined by Independent Review Committee (IRC). Responses were assessed according to International Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma, documented by 2 consecutive assessments made at any time before the start of new therapy.

sCR: CR as defined below plus normal FLC ratio and absence of clonal cells in bone marrow by immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence.

CR: absence of M-protein in serum and urine by immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas, and ≤5% plasma cells in bone marrow.

VGPR: serum and urine M-proteins detectable by immunofixation but not by electrophoresis or a ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein with urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours.

PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-protein and in urine of ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg per 24 hours., Disease response was assessed on Day 15 of Cycle 1, Day 1 of Cycles 2 through 12, and at End of Study, 30 days after last dose. Median duration of treatment was 100 days for Part 1 and 170 days for Part 2 participants.
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) in the Response Evaluable Population, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a best response of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR) determined by Independent Review Committee (IRC). Responses were assessed according to International Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma, documented by 2 consecutive assessments made at any time before the start of new therapy.

sCR: CR as defined below plus normal FLC ratio and absence of clonal cells in bone marrow by immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence.

CR: absence of M-protein in serum and urine by immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas, and ≤5% plasma cells in bone marrow.

VGPR: serum and urine M-proteins detectable by immunofixation but not by electrophoresis or a ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein with urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours.

PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-protein and in urine of ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg per 24 hours., Disease response was assessed on Day 15 of Cycle 1, Day 1 of Cycles 2 through 12, End of Study, 30 days after last dose; median duration of treatment was 100 days for Part 1 and 170 days for Part 2 participants.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical Benefit Rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of minimal response (MR) or better, i.e., a best overall response of sCR, CR, VGPR, PR, or MR. MR was defined as outlined by European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) criteria, defined as reduction of M-protein in serum of 25% to 49% and in urine of 50% to 89%, maintained for 6 weeks., Disease response was assessed on Day 15 of Cycle 1, Day 1 of Cycles 2 through 12, and at End of Study, 30 days after last dose. Median duration of treatment was 100 days for Part 1 and 170 days for Part 2 participants.|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from first evidence of PR or better to disease progression assessed by the IRC or death due to any cause. Patients lost to follow-up prior to disease progression or who were alive without disease progression before the analysis cutoff date were censored at the last disease assessment.

Progressive disease was defined as any of the following:

* An increase of M-protein in serum (absolute increase ≥ 0.5 g/dL) or urine (absolute increase ≥ 200 mg/24 hours) of \> 25% from the nadir (if not zero).
* Percentage of plasma cells in bone marrow ≥ 10%.
* New or increased size of bone lesions or new plasmacytomas.
* Patients without measurable serum and urine M-protein: 25% increase from nadir in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels and absolute increase \>10 mg/dL.
* Development of hypercalcemia (corrected serum calcium \> 11.5 mg/dL) attributed solely to the proliferative disorder.

Median DOR was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods., Patients were followed for up to 2 years after study discontinuation. The data cutoff for the analysis is 30 November 2010 for Part 1 and 22 April 2011 for Part 2.|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to Progression is defined as the time from the start of treatment to IRC-determined disease progression. Patients who were lost to follow-up prior to documentation of disease progression, or who died before documentation of disease progression or who were alive and did not have documentation of disease progression before the data analysis cut-off date were censored at the last disease assessment.

Median TTP was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Patients were followed for up to 2 years after study discontinuation. The data cutoff for the analysis is 30 November 2010 for Part 1 and 22 April 2011 for Part 2. Median follow-up time was 13.4 months for Part 1 and 11.5 months in Part 2.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from start of treatment to IRC determined disease progression or death due to any cause. Patients who were lost to follow-up prior to documentation of disease progression and patients who were alive without disease progression before a data analysis cut-off date were censored at the last disease assessment.

Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Patients were followed for up to 2 years after study discontinuation. The data cutoff for the analysis is 30 November 2010 for Part 1 and 22 April 2011 for Part 2. Median follow-up time was 13.4 months for Part 1 and 11.5 months in Part 2.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as the time from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause.

Patients who were alive or lost to follow-up as of the data analysis cut-off date for the final OS analysis were censored at the date the patient was last known to be alive. Median OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Patients were followed for up to 2 years after study discontinuation. The data cutoff for the analysis is 19 November 2012 for Part 1 and 07 January 2013 for Part 2. Median follow-up time was 19.1 months for Part 1 and 35.9 months in Part 2.
Two groups of patients with multiple myeloma were initially studied: bortezomib-naïve and bortezomib-treated. Following Amendment 2, only bortezomib-naïve patients were enrolled. Study results were reported in 2 parts, depending on whether a patient received prior bortezomib.