Ginseng in Decreasing Cancer-Related Fatigue After Treatment in Cancer Survivors
This randomized pilot trial studies how well North American ginseng extract AFX-2 (ginseng) works in decreasing cancer-related fatigue after treatment in cancer survivors. Ginseng may decrease fatigue in people who were treated for cancer.
Cancer Survivor|Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage I Colon Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage II Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIC Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Colon Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Colon Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: American Ginseng|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in general subscale of the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory- Short Form (MFSI-SF), Will be evaluated by taking the change from baseline in the general subscale of the MFSI-SF and comparing the two arms by a two-sample, two-sided t-test. If there is evidence of non-normality (via Shapiro-Wilk testing), a non-parametric procedure such as Wilcoxon rank sum will be used. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time for each treatment group. Supplemental tests on endpoints (paired t-test for continuous/ordinal data; McNemar?s test for binary data; and Bowker?s test for categorical data) will be utilized to deter, Baseline up to day 56
Change in MFSI-SF emotional subscale, Will be evaluated by taking the change from baseline in the general subscale of the MFSI-SF and comparing the two arms by a two-sample, two-sided t-test. If there is evidence of non-normality (via Shapiro-Wilk testing), a non-parametric procedure such as Wilcoxon rank sum will be used. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time for each treatment group. Supplemental tests on endpoints (paired t-test for continuous/ordinal data; McNemar?s test for binary data; and Bowker?s test for categorical data) will be utilized to deter, Baseline up to day 56|Change in MFSI-SF general subscale, Will be evaluated by taking the change from baseline in the general subscale of the MFSI-SF and comparing the two arms by a two-sample, two-sided t-test. If there is evidence of non-normality (via Shapiro-Wilk testing), a non-parametric procedure such as Wilcoxon rank sum will be used. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time for each treatment group. Supplemental tests on endpoints (paired t-test for continuous/ordinal data; McNemar?s test for binary data; and Bowker?s test for categorical data) will be utilized to deter, Baseline up to day 56|Change in MFSI-SF mental subscale, Will be evaluated by taking the change from baseline in the general subscale of the MFSI-SF and comparing the two arms by a two-sample, two-sided t-test. If there is evidence of non-normality (via Shapiro-Wilk testing), a non-parametric procedure such as Wilcoxon rank sum will be used. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time for each treatment group. Supplemental tests on endpoints (paired t-test for continuous/ordinal data; McNemar?s test for binary data; and Bowker?s test for categorical data) will be utilized to deter, Baseline up to day 56|Change in MFSI-SF physical subscale, Will be evaluated by taking the change from baseline in the general subscale of the MFSI-SF and comparing the two arms by a two-sample, two-sided t-test. If there is evidence of non-normality (via Shapiro-Wilk testing), a non-parametric procedure such as Wilcoxon rank sum will be used. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time for each treatment group. Supplemental tests on endpoints (paired t-test for continuous/ordinal data; McNemar?s test for binary data; and Bowker?s test for categorical data) will be utilized to deter, Baseline up to day 56|Change in MFSI-SF vigor subscale, Will be evaluated by taking the change from baseline in the general subscale of the MFSI-SF and comparing the two arms by a two-sample, two-sided t-test. If there is evidence of non-normality (via Shapiro-Wilk testing), a non-parametric procedure such as Wilcoxon rank sum will be used. Graphical procedures will include stream plots of individual patient scores and plots of average values over time for each treatment group. Supplemental tests on endpoints (paired t-test for continuous/ordinal data; McNemar?s test for binary data; and Bowker?s test for categorical data) will be utilized to deter, Baseline up to day 56|Change in the single item numeric analogue fatigue question, Analysis will involve a t-test and Wilcoxon rank sum procedures (as appropriate)., Baseline up to day 56|Fatigue as measured by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) score, Analysis will involve a t-test and Wilcoxon rank sum procedures (as appropriate)., At day 28|Fatigue as measured by the NIH PROMIS score, Analysis will involve a t-test and Wilcoxon rank sum procedures (as appropriate)., At day 56|Incidence of adverse events as reported by the patient in a Ginseng Symptom Experience Diary, Any other possible side effects are recorded in the diary and assessed through nurse phone calls using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Descriptive statistics of frequency (percentage) will be used to summarize adverse event (AE) incidence and severity as measured by the CTCAE version 4.0 for each randomized arm separately. Toxicity data and other incidence rate-based endpoints will be compared across treatment groups using chi-square testing. Binomial confidence intervals for toxicity incidence rates will be constructed for each treatment group. The Gins, Up to day 56|Perceived treatment efficacy as measured by the Subject Global Impression of Change, Analysis will involve a t-test and Wilcoxon rank sum procedures (as appropriate). Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the Global Impression of Change., At 4 weeks|Perceived treatment efficacy as measured by the Subject Global Impression of Change, Analysis will involve a t-test and Wilcoxon rank sum procedures (as appropriate). Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the Global Impression of Change., At 8 weeks
Change in inflammation biomarkers (adiponectin, cortisol, IL-6), Cytokine levels and cortisol slopes will be described for the sample as a whole at baseline and at 28 days using means and frequencies. Relationships using Spearman correlation will be performed on fatigue measures, mood, and cytokine levels and cortisol slopes as well as evening cortisol levels at baseline. Baseline fatigue scores on the linear analogue scale will then be grouped into a dichotomous variable, (4 to 7 versus 8 to 10) to evaluate whether differences in cortisol and cytokine expression exist based on fatigue severity, using chi square analysis., Baseline up to day 84
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of ginseng on decreasing cancer-related fatigue (CRF) in post-treatment cancer survivors as measured by Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory MFSI-Short Form (SF) at 28 and 56 days compared to placebo-controlled group.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the acceptability and feasibility of ginseng as therapy for CRF in posttreatment cancer survivors.

II. To evaluate toxicities and tolerability associated with 2,000 mg per day of North American ginseng extract AFX-2 (panax quinquefolius) when used for cancer-related fatigue.

III. To explore the impact of ginseng on secondary endpoints, various dimensions of fatigue as measured by the other subscales of the MFSI-SF, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue Short Form, as well as the single measure of fatigue (captured on Fatigue Linear Analogue Scale).

IV. To determine clinically significant changes in fatigue scores per the various measures of fatigue using the global impression of change.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the relationship between ginseng therapy, inflammation biomarker adiponectin, and post-treatment cancer survivors? fatigue.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive North American ginseng extract AFX-2 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At the end of course 2, patients may optionally crossover to Group I to receive ginseng for an additional 28 days.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at day 28 and 56.