This Study is Evaluating a New Radiation Treatment Technique for Patients Who Have Had Prostate Cancer, Undergone Surgery for Cancer, and Then Have Evidence That Their Prostate Cancer Has Returned.
There is significant, proven use of radiation for recurrent prostate cancer after surgical resection. This treatment typically is delivered over seven and a half weeks of daily treatments, presenting a burden to patients and the health care system. Stereotactic body radiation (SBRT) is a radiation technique in which large doses are delivered over a short period of time. To date there is extremely limited evidence in SBRT for recurrent prostate cancer after surgery, with a significantly growing body of evidence for primary SBRT treatment of prostate cancer in men who opt for non-surgical upfront treatment. Additionally, advances in imaging have allowed better detection of the site of recurrence, and novel artificial intelligence aided daily-adaptive radiation therapy have allowed more precise delivery of radiation doses. This study seeks to evaluate the role of Daily-Adaptive with AI-assisted SBRT in the post operative setting utilizing Ethos Plan Adaptive technology in attempt to maintain control and minimize side effects.
Recurrent Prostate Cancer After Surgery
RADIATION: Daily-adaptive Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Daily-adaptive Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability]), The Primary objective of the safety lead in component is to report acute, attributable genitourinary and gastrointestinal toxicity as scored by CTCAE v5.0., 1-2 years|The primary objective of the full enrollment Phase II component is to report biochemical recurrence free survival (bPFS)., We will utilize a globally standard definition of bPFS which was defined in the RADICALS(6) international trial as follows: freedom from PSA of 0·4 ng/mL or greater following postoperative radiotherapy, or PSA of more than 2·0 ng/mL at any time following therapy, clinical progression, or initiation of non-protocol hormone therapy, or death from any cause., 5 years
Long term side effects, Late patient toxicity as defined by EPIC-IPSS prostate QoL forms, 5 years|Distant metastasis free survival, Development of metastatic prostate cancer to other parts of the body, 5 years|Need for long term anti-testosterone therapy, Time to initiation of non-protocol hormonal therapy, if needed, 5 years
Planning parameters and techniques, Identification of novel artificial-intelligence aided planning techniques, algorithms, and utilization as uncovered during the course of therapy, 5 years
This will be a two cohort Phase II single center, prospective trial, with a safety lead-in component. This design will allow an initial toxicity assessment phase of a novel radiation treatment schema that is based on other literature, but with limited evidence. There is no plan to escalate the dose. Pending assessment of the safety lead in, complete enrollment will be permitted. Each cohort will be analyzed separated for the safety lead in. There will be 7 patients in the safety lead in cohorts. The stopping point will be an incidence of 2 cases of CTCAE v5.0 Grade 3+ acute toxicity attributed to therapy within gastrointestinal or urinary domains. This generally entails symptoms significant enough to require a procedure or limit basic levels of daily activity (bathing, cooking). Actue toxicity of a comparable magnitude has been reported in the 1-5% rate in a recent meta-analysis of contemporary trials which utilized standard of care radiation. Thus two cases would represent an unacceptable increased toxicity level, and a cohort size of 7 is approximate the commonly accepted size in Phase I escalation studies to evaluate dose limiting toxicity.