Study of Safety and Efficacy of Pembrolizumab and Chemotherapy in Participants With Newly Diagnosed Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL) (MK-3475-C11/KEYNOTE-C11)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) monotherapy, followed by chemotherapy, followed by pembrolizumab consolidation. The primary hypothesis of the study is that the complete response (CR) rate at the end of study intervention according to Lugano 2014 response criteria is higher than conventional chemotherapy.
Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Vinblastine|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Bleomycin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Procarbazine|DRUG: Prednisone
Complete Response (CR) Rate at the End of Study Intervention as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) Per Lugano 2014 Response Criteria, CR rate was assessed by BICR using Computed Tomography (CT) and PET scan according to Lugano 2014 response criteria (Cheson, B.D. et al, Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2014). At each timepoint, CR was determined by combining the anatomic response, metabolic response, and clinical data. The criteria for CR included complete metabolic (no/minimal 2-fluorodeoxyglucose \[FDG\] uptake) and radiologic response (target lesions regress to ≤1.5 cm in longest transverse diameter of a lesion) and no new lesions. Per protocol, participants who discontinued study intervention during pembrolizumab monotherapy, chemotherapy, or pembrolizumab consolidation, or are lost to follow-up, or receive any new non-study anticancer therapy prior to end of treatment were classified as non-responders. The percentage of participants who had CR after the completion of pembrolizumab consolidation is presented., Up to approximately 24 months
CR Rate at the End of Study Intervention as Assessed by Investigator Per Lugano 2014 Response Criteria, CR rate was assessed by the investigator using CT and PET scan according to Lugano 2014 response criteria (Cheson, B.D. et al, Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2014). At each timepoint, CR was determined by combining the anatomic response, metabolic response, and clinical data. The criteria for CR included complete metabolic (no/minimal FDG uptake) and radiologic response (target lesions regress to ≤1.5 cm in longest transverse diameter of a lesion) and no new lesions. Per protocol, participants who discontinued study intervention during pembrolizumab monotherapy, chemotherapy, or pembrolizumab consolidation, or are lost to follow-up, or receive any new non-study anticancer therapy prior to end of treatment were classified as non-responders. The percentage of participants who had CR after the completion of pembrolizumab consolidation is presented., Up to approximately 31 months|Duration of Complete Response (DurCR) as Assessed by BICR Per Lugano 2014 Response Criteria, DurCR was defined as the time from CR to progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever came first. CR was assessed by BICR using CT and PET scan according to Lugano 2014 response criteria (Cheson, B.D. et al, Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2014). At each timepoint, CR was determined by combining the anatomic response, metabolic response, and clinical data. The criteria for CR included complete metabolic (no/minimal FDG uptake) and radiologic response (target lesions regress to ≤1.5 cm in longest transverse diameter of a lesion) and no new lesions. PD was defined as uptake moderately or markedly higher than the liver and/or new lesions. DurCR was analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method for censored data and is presented for participants who demonstrated CR., Up to approximately 31 months|Rate of PET Negativity Assessed by BICR According to the FDG-PET 5-point Scale After Administration of Pembrolizumab Monotherapy (PET Scan 2), The rate of PET negativity was defined as the percentage of participants considered negative on the FDG-PET 5-point scale, as assessed by BICR according to Lugano 2014 response criteria (Cheson, B.D. et al, Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2014). Participants were assigned a single score on the FDG-PET 5-point scale measuring FDG uptake (1 = no uptake above background, 2 = uptake above background but ≤ mediastinum, 3 = uptake \> mediastinum but ≤ liver, 4 = uptake moderately \> liver, 5 = uptake markedly \> liver or new FDG-positive lesions). Higher scores corresponded to greater uptake (greater disease). FDG-PET 5-point scale scores of 1, 2, and 3 were considered negative and scores of 4 and 5 were considered positive. The percentage of participants who were assessed as negative at PET scan 2, after completion of 3 cycles of pembrolizumab monotherapy, is presented., Up to approximately 10 weeks|Rate of PET Negativity Assessed by BICR According to the FDG-PET 5-point Scale After Administration of Pembrolizumab Monotherapy and AVD Chemotherapy (PET Scan 3), The rate of PET negativity was defined as the percentage of participants considered negative on the FDG-PET 5-point scale, as assessed by BICR according to Lugano 2014 response criteria (Cheson, B.D. et al, Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2014). Participants were assigned a single score on the FDG-PET 5-point scale measuring FDG uptake (1 = no uptake above background, 2 = uptake above background but ≤ mediastinum, 3 = uptake \> mediastinum but ≤ liver, 4 = uptake moderately \> liver, 5 = uptake markedly \> liver or new FDG-positive lesions). Higher scores corresponded to greater uptake (greater disease). FDG-PET 5-point scale scores of 1, 2, and 3 were considered negative and scores of 4 and 5 were considered positive. The percentage of participants who were assessed as negative at PET scan 3, after completion of 3 cycles of pembrolizumab monotherapy and phase 1 AVD chemotherapy (2 AVD cycles), is presented., Up to approximately 5 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. Per protocol, collection and reporting of AEs was based on the study treatment received by the participant (pembrolizumab, AVD chemotherapy, or escBEACOPP chemotherapy) at the time of the event. The number of participants who experienced an AE is reported., Up to approximately 31 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. Per protocol, collection and reporting of AEs was based on the study treatment received by the participant (pembrolizumab, AVD chemotherapy, or escBEACOPP chemotherapy) at the time of the event. The number of participants who discontinued study intervention due to an AE is reported., Up to approximately 17 months
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) monotherapy, followed by chemotherapy, followed by pembrolizumab consolidation. The primary hypothesis of the study is that the complete response (CR) rate at the end of study intervention according to Lugano 2014 response criteria is higher than conventional chemotherapy.