Toripalimab Combined With Definitive CCRT for LACC Patients
Cervical cancer constitutes a significant health burden for women globally. While most patients with early-stage disease can be cured with radical surgery or chemoradiotherapy, patients with high-risk locally advanced disease or with recurrent/metastatic disease have a poor prognosis with standard treatments. Immunotherapies are a rational treatment for this HPV-driven cancer that commonly expresses programmed cell death ligand-1. Toripalimab, a humanized immunoglobulin G4 monoclonal antibody against PD-1, showed promising anti-tumor efficacy in multiple solid tumors. This randomised study is evaluating toripalimab combined with CCRT versus CCRT alone for treatment-naïve LACC.
Cervical Cancer|Chemoradiotherapy|Immunotherapy
DRUG: Toripalimab|RADIATION: CCRT
2-year progression-free survival, the date of the treatment to the date of disease progression or death from any cause in the absence of progression, 2 year
2-year local control, absence of disease in the cervix (uterus), upper vagina or parametria on clinical examination, imaging, and biopsy, 2 year|2-year local regional control, absence of disease in the cervix (uterus), upper vagina or parametria and regional lymph nodes on clinical examination, imaging, and biopsy, 2 year|2-year overall survival, the time from the start of treatment until the date of death from any cause., 2 year
Cervical cancer constitutes a significant health burden for women globally. While most patients with early-stage disease can be cured with radical surgery or chemoradiotherapy, patients with high-risk locally advanced disease or with recurrent/metastatic disease have a poor prognosis with standard treatments. Immunotherapies are a rational treatment for this HPV-driven cancer that commonly expresses programmed cell death ligand-1. Toripalimab, a humanized immunoglobulin G4 monoclonal antibody against PD-1, showed promising anti-tumor efficacy in multiple solid tumors. This randomised study is evaluating toripalimab combined with CCRT versus CCRT alone for treatment-naïve LACC.