A Bidirectional Cohort Study of COMMD10 Expression in Tumor Tissues for Predicting Radiosensitivity
Radiotherapy is one of the main treatments for malignant tumors, and according to authoritative estimates, about 70% of patients with malignant tumors should receive radiotherapy. However, radiation resistance limits its application and clinical curative effect. To find suitable radiation resistance markers and identify patients with radiation resistance, early part of the patients with appropriate radiotherapy sensitization agent or choose other more efficient and low toxicity of treatment, for improving the prognosis of patients, improve the quality of survival is of great significance, it is also the difficult point in the present study. However, there are no effective biomarkers to predict radiosensitivity. Through our previous basic research and analysis of clinical tumor tissues, we have found that the low expression of copper metabolism domain protein 10 (COMMD10) is associated with radioresistance, and COMMD10 is an effective marker for predicting radiosensitivity. We planned to conduct a single-center, prospective cohort study to verify the reliability of COMMD10 as a predictive marker for radiosensitivity in pan-cancer patients.
Biomarker|Radiosensitivity
Objective response rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) is the proportion of patients who achieve a prespecified reduction in tumor volume that is maintained for a minimum duration. The objective response rate was defined as the sum of complete response plus partial response (CR+PR). According to RECIST1.1 criteria, CR was defined as the disappearance of target lesions and the reduction of the short diameter of pathological lymph nodes to less than 10mm. PR: the sum of the measured diameters of the target lesions reduced by 30% compared with the baseline; PD: the sum of the major diameters of all target lesions increased by at least 20%, and the absolute value of the sum of the major diameters increased by more than 5mm, or new lesions appeared. SD: Changes between PR and PD., 1 month
Overall survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of inclusion until death from any cause., 1 years
Radiotherapy is one of the main treatments for malignant tumors, and according to authoritative estimates, about 70% of patients with malignant tumors should receive radiotherapy. However, radiation resistance limits its application and clinical curative effect. To find suitable radiation resistance markers and identify patients with radiation resistance, early part of the patients with appropriate radiotherapy sensitization agent or choose other more efficient and low toxicity of treatment, for improving the prognosis of patients, improve the quality of survival is of great significance, it is also the difficult point in the present study. However, there are no effective biomarkers to predict radiosensitivity. Through our previous basic research and analysis of clinical tumor tissues, we have found that the low expression of copper metabolism domain protein 10 (COMMD10) is associated with radioresistance, and COMMD10 is an effective marker for predicting radiosensitivity. We planned to conduct a single-center, prospective cohort study to verify the reliability of COMMD10 as a predictive marker for radiosensitivity in pan-cancer patients.