Neoadjuvant Phase 2 Study Comparing the Effects of AR Inhibition With/Without SRC or MEK Inhibition in Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and the second leading cause of cancer death in men. The purpose of this research study is to compare prostate cancers treated with hormone therapy versus prostate cancers treated with hormone therapy plus drugs that directly target cancer cells.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: degarelix|DRUG: enzalutamide|DRUG: trametinib|DRUG: dasatinib
N-cadherin and vimentin expression, The primary outcome of N-cadherin and vimentin expression will be measured in post-treatment RP specimens. Comparisons amongst the various treatment groups (post-treatment inter-group) will be performed after all data have been collected., Prostatectomy will occur during the 2 week "window" between 6 and 8 weeks after enrollment
Most prostate cancers respond to hormone therapy, also known as chemical castration. Unfortunately, castration resistance may occur in certain prostate cancers. Castration resistance or hormone refractory prostate cancer means that the cancer continues to progress as seen by progressively rising PSA and/or or an increase in tumor mass on bone scan, X-ray, CT scan or MRI despite previous hormonal therapy. The researchers are interested in understanding mechanisms of castration resistance in prostate cancer by analyzing prostate tissue before radical prostatectomy (from prostate biopsy tissue) and after radical prostatectomy (whole prostate specimen). They will look at the "molecular signature" of prostate cancer cells after hormone therapy to identify the key steps that the cancer cells undergo to become resistant to hormone therapy. In addition, the researchers will use other medications in addition to hormone therapy in order to block some of the key biochemical steps that are thought to mediate treatment resistance. This research will provide crucial information for the development of therapies that can improve the clinical outcome of patients with advanced prostate cancer.