InBody Band 3 Fitness Tracker to Improve Health Outcomes and Quality of Life in Black Prostate Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial studies how well the InBody Band 3 fitness tracker works to improve physical activity, body composition, and quality of life in Black prostate cancer survivors. Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and Black men are more likely to be diagnosed with prostate cancer in an advanced stage. Body composition is associated with disease progression, treatment response, and survival in cancer patients. Reducing stress and maintaining healthy levels of physical activity and sleep are important for a healthy body and improving outcomes, however, there is currently little evidence available on the physical activity, stress levels and sleep patterns in this population. Wearable health activity trackers and smart watches are tools that can be used to track physical activity, stress, sleep and body composition and have been shown to have a positive impact in many patient populations. The InBody Band 3 may be an effective method to improve physical activity, body composition and quality of life in Black prostate cancer survivors.
Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Discussion|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Adherence rate, The adherence rate will be calculated as the ratio of number of valid data collection weeks to the number of expected valid data collection weeks for each participant. A group average adherence rate of 80% will be considered feasible., Up to 6 weeks|Change in acceptability scale score, Will be assessed using the 6-item Acceptability survey for physical activity interventions. Participants will be asked to rate each question from 0 (not at all) to 10 (extremely), and a mean score will be calculated. An average group rating of 8.0 or higher on a 10-point scale will be required to determine intervention acceptability. Change in score will be defined as the final intervention week's value minus the first week's value., Up to 8 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the feasibility of a remote wearables-based intervention among Black prostate cancer survivors.

II. Assess the acceptability of the wearables-based intervention among Black prostate cancer survivors.

OUTLINE:

Patients wear the InBody Band 3 fitness tracker continuously and participate in check-in/goal-setting discussions over 20-30 minutes weekly for 6 weeks.