BiCaZO: A Study Combining Two Immunotherapies (Cabozantinib and Nivolumab) to Treat Patients With Advanced Melanoma or Squamous Cell Head and Neck Cancer, an immunoMATCH Pilot Study
This phase II trial studies the good and bad effects of the combination of drugs called cabozantinib and nivolumab in treating patients with melanoma or squamous cell head and neck cancer that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. This trial may help doctors determine how quickly patients can be divided into groups based on biomarkers in their tumors. A biomarker is a biological molecule found in the blood, other body fluids, or in tissues that is a sign of a normal or abnormal process or a sign of a condition or disease. A biomarker may be used to see how well the body responds to a treatment for a disease or condition. The two biomarkers that this trial is studying are "tumor mutational burden" and "tumor inflammation signature." Another purpose of this trial is to help doctors learn if cabozantinib and nivolumab shrink or stabilize the cancer, and whether patients respond differently to the combination depending on the status of the biomarkers.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Locally Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Recurrent Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Recurrent Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Melanoma|Metastatic Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Biomarker results turnaround time, A biomarker turnaround time estimate of at least 75% within 21 days will be considered successful with respect to feasibility. For melanoma participants, turnaround time is defined as the time-period between date of tissue submission by the site to central repository and date the site was sent notification of participant molecular group determination. For head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) participants, turnaround time is defined as the time-period between date of tissue submission by the site to central repository and one day after both results have been received by the Southwest Oncology Group Statistics and Data Management Center to simulate when the site would have received notification of participant molecular group determination., Within 21 days|Objective response rate, Confirmed and unconfirmed complete and partial responses) in molecular subgroups. Will assess biomarker response association. To test this association, will consider combination of biomarkers coded as 0 = Lo/Lo, 1 = Lo/Hi or Hi/Lo, and 2 = Hi/Hi. Assume each biomarker level is associated with an odds-ratio of approximately 3.1 (for example, corresponding to a difference in response rate of 5 percent to 14 percent from Lo/Lo to Lo/Hi or Hi/Lo). For the melanoma cohort, with approximately equal sized biomarker combination subgroups, a one-sided 0.10 level test for trend using (0,1,2) coding with logistic regression has a power of 80%. The same analysis for HNSCC will have lower power for the same effect size due to the unequal frequencies in the subgroups defined by the biomarkers. We will also conduct disease-by-biomarker interaction tests; however, there will be limited power to detect even to detect relatively large interaction parameters., At the end of stage I
Rate and profile of >= grade 3 treatment-related adverse events, Per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0. With respect to overall disease group, 60 participants are sufficient to estimate the probability of a particular toxicity to within +/- 13 percent. Any toxicity occurring with at least a 5 percent probability is likely to be seen at least once (95 percent chance)., Up to 2 years|Disease control rate, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Turnaround time for the Tumor Inflammation Score in stage II, Assessed within 21 days
Additional markers of response or resistance, Explore additional markers of response or resistance through hypothesis generating analysis., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the feasibility of molecular characterization based on tumor mutation burden (TMB) for participant stratification, as assessed by the proportion of participants with less than or equal to a 21-day turnaround time for biopsy results in Stage I of the study.

II. To evaluate the feasibility of molecular characterization based on TMB and gene expression profiling (GEP) (for Tumor Inflammation Score \[TIS\]) for stratification, as assessed by the proportion of participants with less than or equal to a 21-day turnaround time for biopsy results in Stage II of the study.

III. To evaluate the efficacy by overall response rate (ORR - defined as confirmed and unconfirmed partial responses plus complete responses) of cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) plus nivolumab in each disease cohort, both across and within tumor biomarker subgroups.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the difference in ORR in each disease cohort between tumor marker subgroups separately for each disease cohort.

II. To assess safety and tolerability of this treatment in these populations. III. To estimate disease control rate (DCR) in participants receiving cabozantinib plus nivolumab in each disease cohort, stratified by tumor biomarkers.

IV. To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) in participants receiving cabozantinib plus nivolumab in each disease cohort, stratified by tumor biomarkers.

V. To estimate overall survival (OS) in participants receiving cabozantinib plus nivolumab in each disease cohort, stratified by tumor biomarkers.

VI. To assess the proportion of patients with assay failure, and the time from the date of tissue collection to molecular group determination at the end of Stage I.

ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To identify candidate biomarkers predictive of response and toxicity to the cabozantinib and nivolumab combination.

BANKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and cabozantinib orally (PO) daily. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans and collection of blood samples throughout the trial. Patients undergo a tumor biopsy during screening and optionally during follow-up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year and then every 6 months until 3 years after step 2 registration.