The Effects of Three Different Techniques During PIVC
Purpose: This study will conducted to the effect of three different techniques used during peripheral intravenous cannulation (PIVC) application on vein visibility, pain and comfort in cancer patients receiving palliative care.

Design: This is a prospective, randomized controlled experimental study. Methods: The population of the research will be cancer patients who applied to Ege University Medical Faculty Hospital Oncology unit between April 2023 and November 2024. The number of applications due to palliative care and cancer treatment in the clinic in 2021 is 352 patients. For this reason, direct sample selection was not made in the study, and the sample calculation was made according to the number of patients registered in the unit and the results of previous research (Chiao et al., 2013; Aulagnier et al., 2014). Calculations were made using the "G.Power-3.17" program with 95% confidence, an effect size of 0.4, and a statistical test power of at least 80%. Accordingly, it was aimed to reach 120 patients, including at least 40 in each group. In the study, randomization will be made according to vein visibility.
Pain|Arm|Visual Aura|Infrared; Rays, Injury
OTHER: Experimental group: infrared vascular imaging
Visual Analog Scale, It is a one-dimensional scale used in the measurement of VAS pain. Among the one-dimensional scales used to determine the severity of pain in patients, it was determined that the VAS measures more sensitively and is more reliable. The scale consists of a 100 mm long horizontal line. On one end are the phrases "No Pain" and on the other end "Unbearable Pain" describing the most severe pain possible. The patient is asked to mark his pain on the scale. The length of the line from the starting point of the scale to the point marked by the patient is measured and recorded in mm., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Arm Comfort Scale, The arm comfort has been developed based on VAS. The patient's subjective arm comfort evaluation at the 5th, 30th and 60th minutes before and after the PIVC administeration will be recorded on the form.

A 10 cm vertical visual analog scale will be used to evaluate the arm comfort felt by individuals during the procedure, with one end showing the discomfort and the other the best possible comfort (Hausfeld et al., 2015)., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Vein Visibility, Vein visibility were recorded in real time as excellent = easily visible; medium =moderately visible or only perceived by light touch; poor = not visible and not perceived by touch by the operator student (Aulagnier et al., 2014)., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Purpose: This study will conducted to the effect of three different techniques used during peripheral intravenous cannulation (PIVC) application on vein visibility, pain and comfort in cancer patients receiving palliative care. We will implement of the study during the insert on PIVC; the vascular imaging device group; isometric hand exercise group and control group.

Design: This is a prospective, randomized controlled experimental study.

Methods: Implementation of the study in the control group: The patient's vital signs, skin color and skin turgor will be evaluated and recorded in the peripheral intravenous chemotherapy application registration form. Since it is stated in the literature that the placement of the PIVK in the arm that is not actively used is important in preventing complications, PIVK will be placed in the arm that the patient does not actively use in groups (Ingram and Lavery, 2005; INS, 2011). After the tourniquet is attached, the stopwatch will be started and the catheter intervention process will be started when the vein visibility reaches the level where the nurse can insert the catheter. The stopwatch will be terminated at the stage of advancing the branule into the vein and fixing it with a plaster. If the catheterization application is successful or unsuccessful in the first attempt, it will be recorded. PIC success will be evaluated according to whether the branule is placed in the vein. Successful catheter insertion will be considered as blood coming into the chamber of the catheter. If the vein cannot be entered or blood is not coming to the catheter, the catheterization will be considered unsuccessful. Patients with two unsuccessful attempts per group will be excluded from the study, as more than two unsuccessful attempts may result in infiltration (INS, 2011). Vein visibility after tourniquet application, catheter number used in the procedure, time to determine the appropriate vein, successful catheter placement time, number of attempts for successful catheter placement will be recorded in the intravenous chemotherapy application registration form. The pain and arm comfort levels in the form will be evaluated on a scale ranging from 0 to 10, with 0: none, 10: many, before and after the application (at the 5th, 30th, and 60th minutes).

Implementation of the study in the vascular imaging device group: The patient's vital signs, skin color and skin turgor will be evaluated and recorded in the peripheral intravenous chemotherapy application registration form. After the tourniquet is attached, the stopwatch will be started and the catheter intervention process will be started when the vein visibility reaches the level where the nurse can insert the catheter. The stopwatch will be terminated at the stage of advancing the branule into the vein and fixing it with a plaster. If the catheterization application is successful or unsuccessful in the first attempt, it will be recorded. PIC success will be evaluated according to whether the branule is placed in the vein. Successful catheter insertion will be considered as blood coming into the chamber of the catheter. Patients with two unsuccessful attempts per group will be excluded from the study, as more than two unsuccessful attempts may result in infiltration (INS, 2011). Vein visibility after tourniquet application, catheter number used in the procedure, time to determine the appropriate vein, successful catheter placement time, number of attempts for successful catheter placement will be recorded in the intravenous chemotherapy application registration form. The pain and arm comfort levels in the form will be evaluated on a scale ranging from 0 to 10, with 0: none, 10: many, before and after the application (at the 5th, 30th, and 60th minutes).

Isometric hand exercise: The patients to be included in this group will have applied isometric hand squeeze exercise, which lasted for twenty minutes a day, five days a week, before the PIVK procedure. On the fifth day, the patient's vital signs, skin color and skin turgor will be evaluated and recorded in the peripheral intravenous chemotherapy application registration form. Patients will be told how to use the stress ball 5 minutes before and during the PIVK procedure before the procedure. Patients will be taught to count from one to three and tighten and loosen the stress ball once, and they will be told to continue squeezing and loosening the stress ball in this way until the procedure is over. Focus their attention on the stress ball during the procedure