Evidence-Based Tobacco Cessation Strategies in Patients With Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies evidence-based tobacco cessation strategies in patients with cancer. Stop-smoking plans suggested by doctors may help patients with cancer quit smoking.
Malignant Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: smoking cessation intervention|OTHER: survey administration|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Percentage of providers from the Piedmont Oncology Association (POA) reporting a need for training on evidence-based tobacco cessation strategies, Will be estimated and 95% confidence intervals (CI) constructed., Up to 1 month|Percentage reporting feeling very confident in their ability to counsel smokers, Will be estimated and 95% CI constructed., Up to 1 month|Percentage reporting they would be willing to participate in training on evidence-based tobacco cessation strategies, Will be estimated and 95% CI constructed., Up to 1 month|Proportion of oncology patients willing to complete a survey in an oncology clinic, Will be estimated and 95% CI constructed., Up to 1 month|Proportion of patients who report that their provider asked about tobacco use during their visit, These prevalences will be estimated at pre- and post-intervention, and 95% CIs calculated adjusting for the expected within-clinic correlation of patient outcomes. These outcomes will be analyzed further using a subject-specific modeling approach to account for the correlation that occurs due to patients being clustered within clinics., Up to 1 month|Proportion of current smokers who report that their provider advised them to quit during their visit and provided tobacco-cessation strategies, These prevalences will be estimated at pre- and post-intervention, and 95% CIs calculated adjusting for the expected within-clinic correlation of patient outcomes. These outcomes will be analyzed further using a subject-specific modeling approach to account for the correlation that occurs due to patients being clustered within clinics., Up to 1 month
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess oncology providers' self-reported need for training on evidence-based tobacco cessation strategies and assess their level of interest in future training on evidence-based tobacco cessation strategies.

II. To test the feasibility of the implementation of evidence-based tobacco cessation strategies in community oncology clinics.

III. To test the feasibility of surveying community oncology patients after a clinic visit to assess provider behavior regarding screening and brief intervention for tobacco use.

OUTLINE:

Patients complete a survey over approximately 10-15 minutes related to their provider's cessation advice and assistance with quitting.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1 month.