Clinical Study of ssCART-19 Cells in Patients With CD19 Positive Relapsed or Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This is a single arm, open-label, non-randomized, dose-escalation, phase I study to determine the safety and efficacy of ssCART-19 in the treatment of patients with CD19 positive relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Relapsed or Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
GENETIC: ssCART-19 Cells|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Determine the safety and tolerability of ssCART-19 in patients with refractory or relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Safety measures include adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0., 28 days
Overall Remission Rate (ORR), which includes Complete Remission (CR) and Complete Remission with Incomplete Blood Count Recovery (CRi), Efficacy of ssCART-19 as measured by ORR during the 3 months after ssCART-19 infusion, which includes CR and CRi., 3 months|Duration of remission (DOR), Statistical parameter:Duration of remission (DOR), 24 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Statistical parameter:Progression-free Survival (PFS), 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Statistical parameter:Overall survival (OS), 24 months
cellular pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of ssCART-19 cells, Number of DNA copies of ssCART-19 cells, 24 months|Anti-drug antibody, Detect titer of anti-drug antibody (ADA), 24 months
This is a single arm, open-label, non-randomized, dose-escalation, phase I study to determine the safety and efficacy of ssCART-19 in the treatment of patients with CD19 positive relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Primary objectives:

Determine the safety and tolerability of ssCART-19 cells in patients with refractory or relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Secondary objectives:

1. Observe the anti-tumor response of ssCART-19 cells to refractory or relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

   * Overall remission rate (ORR) assessment during the 3 months after ssCART-19 administration，ORR includes CR and CRi
   * Duration of response (DOR)
   * Progression-free survival (PFS)
   * Overall survival (OS)
2. To characterize the in vivo cellular pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of ssCART-19 cells.
3. To characterize the pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of ssCART-19 cells.