Testing Sacituzumab Govitecan Therapy in Patients With HER2-Negative Breast Cancer and Brain Metastases
This phase II trial studies the effect of sacituzumab govitecan in treating patients with HER2-negative breast cancer that has spread to the brain (brain metastases). Sacituzumab govitecan is a monoclonal antibody, called sacituzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug, called govitecan. Sacituzumab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules on the surface of cancer cells, known as Trop-2 receptors, and delivers govitecan to kill them. Giving sacituzumab govitecan may shrink the cancer in the brain and/or extend the time until the cancer gets worse.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic HER2 Negative Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab Govitecan
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be evaluated using use a Simon two-stage minimax design., Up to 2 years
Overall survival, Will use the Kaplan-Meier curves to estimate the respective survival curves., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will use the Kaplan-Meier curves to estimate the respective survival curves., From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The incidence of adverse events will be reported. Toxicity will be by grade and attribution to treatment., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the intracranial objective response rate (ORR) (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\] by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases \[RANO-BM\]) with sacituzumab govitecan (IMMU-132) in patients with HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer with brain involvement.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate bi-compartmental progression-free survival in this population. II. To evaluate overall survival in this population. III. To assess safety and tolerability of sacituzumab govitecan (IMMU-132) treatment in this population.

IV. To evaluate ORR by hormone-receptor (HR) subgroup (HR+, HR-).

BANKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sacituzumab govitecan intravenously (IV) over 1-3 hours on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study registration, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 1 year.