Safety and Efficacy of Allogeneic NK Cell Infusions in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory AML and High Risk MDS
This study involves the use of an investigational cell therapy known as DVX201. DVX201 is an investigational cell therapy that contains a type of white blood cell called natural killer (NK) cells. NK cells are a normal part of your immune system and have a lifespan of only about two weeks. They are called natural killer cells because they have the natural ability to identify and kill cells in the body that are abnormal, like cancer cells or virally infected cells. But fighting cancer can also lead to exhaustion and abnormal function of NK cells. It can also result in a significant decrease in the number of NK cells in the blood, making it more difficult for the immune system to control the disease. We believe that infusion of healthy, functional NK cells into patients with AML or MDS may boost the immune system and help by killing cancer cells that remain after chemotherapy. DVX201 is an investigational NK cell therapy that may provide a rapid and temporary source of healthy NK cells that are better able to fight those cancer cells.
AML, Adult Recurrent|MDS
BIOLOGICAL: DVX201
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities, Dose limiting toxicities include toxicities with cell therapy infusion, CRS, organ toxicity, GVHD as defined in the protocol, Through 28 days post second infusion of ccell therapy (DVX201)
Disease response, Patient's response to DVX201 as CR, CRi, PR, MLFS, PD, or NR based on the Investigator's evaluation using standardized NCCN criteria, through approximately 30 days post second cell therapy infusion (DVX201)|Duration of response, Patients with disease response will be followed to see how long the duration of this response is and if primary disease recurs or worsens, Through study completion, an average of 6 months start of therapy
Length of time that DVX201 (NK cells) remain in the blood, Evaluation of persistence of DVX201 in the peripheral blood by chimerism testing, through 28 days post second infusion of DVX201|1. Evaluation of NK cells in blood samples after DVX201 infusion to look for markers of NK cell exhaustion and activation, Characterization of circulating NK and other immune cells in the peripheral blood by flow immunophenotyping, through 28 days post second infusion of DVX201
This study involves the use of an investigational cell therapy known as DVX201. DVX201 is an investigational cell therapy that contains a type of white blood cell called natural killer (NK) cells. NK cells are a normal part of your immune system and have a lifespan of only about two weeks. They are called natural killer cells because they have the natural ability to identify and kill cells in the body that are abnormal, like cancer cells or virally infected cells. But fighting cancer can also lead to exhaustion and abnormal function of NK cells. It can also result in a significant decrease in the number of NK cells in the blood, making it more difficult for the immune system to control the disease. We believe that infusion of healthy, functional NK cells into patients with AML or MDS may boost the immune system and help by killing cancer cells that remain after chemotherapy. DVX201 is an investigational NK cell therapy that may provide a rapid and temporary source of healthy NK cells that are better able to fight those cancer cells.