Combination Study of IPH2201 (Monalizumab) With Ibrutinib in Relapsed, Refractory or Previously Untreated CLL
Combination study of monalizumab (IPH2201) with Ibrutinib in relapsed, refractory or previously untreated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) patients in 2 parts :

* phase 1 : a 3+3 design to assess the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD)
* phase 2: to evaluate the anti-leukemic activity of the combination
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: monalizumab
Number of Dose Limiting Toxicities, Number of dose-limiting toxicities, measured during the phase 1, dose escalation, part of the study., 8 weeks|Rate of Complete Response (CR), The rate of complete response (CR) was evaluated using the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) grading scale and confirmed by a bone marrow biopsy. Per International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL), Complete Response (CR) is defined as lymphocytes \<4x109/l, absence of lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly and splenomegaly at CT scan, no constitutional symptoms, no cytopenia, normocellular bone marrow. Partial Response (PR) is a reduction \> 50% in lymphocytes, lymphadenopathy, spleen or liver, no cytopenia. PD if appearance of any new lesion, or increase in lymphocytes \> 50%, or occurrence of cytopenia attributable to CLL., CR assessed 52 weeks after the beginning of combination treatment
Best Overall Response / Remission Rates, Measure of best overall response at any time during the study. cCR: confirmed complete response/remission; uCR: unconfirmed complete response / remission; PR: partial response/remission; SD: stable disease; PD: progressive disease.

Per International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL), Complete Response (CR) is defined as lymphocytes \<4x109/l, absence of lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly and splenomegaly at CT scan, no constitutional symptoms, no cytopenia, normocellular bone marrow. Partial Response (PR) is a reduction \> 50% in lymphocytes, lymphadenopathy, spleen or liver, no cytopenia. PD if appearance of any new lesion, or increase in lymphocytes \> 50%, or occurrence of cytopenia attributable to CLL.

In order to have a confirmed CR (cCR), the CR must be confirmed by a scan and a bone marrow assessment assessed at least 2 months after the first occurrence of CR. Otherwise it would be an unconfirmed CR (uCR)., From beginning of study drug treatment to the end of study (up to 24 months)|Duration of Remission, The duration of remission (DOR) is defined as the time from the date of first evaluation of the remission (cCR, uCR or PR) to the first documentation of progressive disease, relapsed disease or death. In case an assessment of progressive / relapsed disease or death does not exist, the DOR was censored at the time of the last disease assessment date. The DOR was calculated only for the patients with a remission that was assessed at 52 weeks., Up to 24 months|Progression Free Survival, The Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from first dose administration until the occurrence of progressive disease, relapsed disease or death from any cause. Patients without an event at the time of the analyse were censored at his or her last disease assessment date. Patients with no post-Baseline assessment were censored at the day of the first dose administration., Up to 24 months|Overall Survival, The overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from first dose administration until death from any cause. Alive patients were censored at the most recent date they were known to be alive. Subjects with no assessment post-Baseline were censored at the day of the first dose administration., Up to 24 months.
This trial was designated to test the hypothesis that the combination of ibrutinib and IPH2201 will result in a substantial complete response (CR) rate, especially CR without minimal residual disease (MRD), as this has been shown to be associated with long-term clinical benefit.

Up to 45 patients were planned to be enrolled. During the phase 1 part a 3+3 dose escalation design was employed. Four doses were planned to be assessed if the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) was not previously reached: 1, 2, 4 and 10 mg/kg.

During phase 2 part, patients received monalizumab in combination with ibrutinib; monalizumab was given at the dose recommended upon completion of the phase I portion.

The primary objective of the phase 1 was to assess the safety of monalizumab given intravenously as a single agent and in combination with ibrutinib in patients with relapsed, refractory or previously untreated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia.

The primary objective of the phase 2 was to evaluate the anti-leukemic activity of the combination of monalizumab and ibrutinib in patients with relapsed, refractory or previously untreated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia.