Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire in Measuring Eating Behavior in Adolescent and Young Adult Survivors of CNS Tumors
This trial studies how the Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire works in measuring eating behavior in adolescent and young adult survivors of central nervous system (CNS) tumors. The Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire is comprised of three factors, including cognitive restraint, uncontrolled eating, and emotion eating. The Eating Questionnaire - Ecological Momentary Assessment method measures a patient's recent experiences and behavior, such as eating behavior, as they continue their daily living. Giving the Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire and the Eating Questionnaire - Ecological Momentary Assessment may help researchers measure eating behaviors more effectively in adolescent and young adult survivors of CNS tumors.
Cancer Survivor
OTHER: Nutritional Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Similarity of factor structures between the Eating Questionnaire (EQ-EMA) and the Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire (TFEQ-R18v2), Will use a structural equation modeling (SEM) methodology to examine the extent to which individual items comprising both the original TFEQ-R18v2 and the adapted EQ-EMA loaded on their respective factors (cognitive restraint \[CR\] and uncontrollable eating \[UE\]) and will examine the correlations between them., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. Evaluate whether the factor structure of the adapted Eating Questionnaire-Ecological Momentary Assessment (EQ-EMA), which has been modified for real time assessment, will be similar to the factor structures for cognitive restraint (CR) and uncontrollable eating (UE) factors assessed by the Three Factor Eating Questionnaire-R18v2 (TFEQ-R18v2) in a sample of adolescent and young adult (AYA) survivors of childhood central nervous system (CNS) tumors in the United States (US).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES I. To validate the original TFEQ-R18v2 in a sample of AYA survivors of childhood CNS tumors in the US.

II. To determine the association of the original TFEQ-R18v2 with self-reported body mass index (BMI).

III. To determine the association of the original TFEQ-R18v2 with fruits and vegetables, fiber, and fat intake.

IV. To determine the association of EQ-EMA with self-reported BMI. V. To determine the association of EQ-EMA with fruits and vegetables, fiber, and fat intake.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients complete the TFEQ-R18v2 questionnaire, a dietary intake assessment, and the EQ-EMA questionnaire online.

GROUP II: Patients complete the EQ-EMA questionnaire, a dietary intake assessment and the TFEQ-R18v2 questionnaire.