MLN0128 in Recurrent/Metastatic Merkel Cell Carcinoma
This research study is studying a targeted therapy as a possible treatment for merkel cell carcinoma.

- The name of the study intervention involved in this study is: MLN0128.
Merkel Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: MLN0128
MLN01283 Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) [Phase I], The MLN01283 MTD is determined by the number of participants who experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). See subsequent primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a DLT. If no DLTs are observed, the MTD is not reached but the highest dose received may be the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D)., The observation period for DLT evaluation was the first 28 days (cycle 1) of treatment.|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) [Phase I], A DLT was defined as an adverse event (AE) assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications meets any of the following criteria including but not limited to: grade (G) 4-5 AEs, G3 thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, AST, ALT, serum creatinine or total bilirubin 2 to 3 x upper limit normal (ULN), aymptomatic amylase and/or lipase lasting \>7 consecutive days; febrile neutropenia; G3 cardiac, hyperglycemia, mood alteration; G2 pancreatitis; G2 hyperglycemia unresolved within 14 days; G2 mood alteration unresolved in 14 days despite medical treatment; Dose interruption \>21 days due to G2 dematologic; one grade level increase neurotoxicity., The observation period for DLT evaluation was the first 28 days (cycle 1) of treatment.
This is a phase I/II clinical trial. A phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved MLN0128 as a treatment for any disease.

MLN0128 may prevent tumor cells from dividing and growing by selectively and potently inhibiting a chemical, mTOR kinase, which regulates cell growth and survival.

Patients with merkel cell carcinoma have been observed to sometimes carry genetic alterations in their tumor cells which may make the cancer more sensitive to inhibition by MLN0128. In this research study,the investigators are studying the usefulness of MLN0128 in merkel cell carcinoma cases.