Multidisciplinary Approach to Fatigue
Prospective longitudinal, single-center, non-randomized study for the implementation of an integrated multidisciplinary fatigue follow-up for young patients with breast cancer or germ cell tumour
Breast Cancer|Germ Cell Tumor
OTHER: Ergospirometry
Evaluate the feasibility of the specific fatigue management program, Rate of participation The program will be considered feasible for a given patient if he/she participates in a minimum of 70% of the 70% of the sessions/activities defined in their particular program, Through study completion, an average of 4 years
The measurement of the evolution of the intensity of residual fatigue in the months following acute cancer treatment(s) before and after the specific fatigue management program, Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for fatigue, At the time of multidisciplinary screening and at 1, 3, 6, 12 and 18 months after completion of the specific fatigue management program.
Each patient will receive a full evaluation by a multidisciplinary evaluation by a multidisciplinary team during one day. This evaluation will take place between 1 and 3 months after the end of "acute" treatments. The team is composed of an oncologist, a psychologist, a physiotherapist, a dietician and a nurse-coach. The goal of this comprehensive evaluation is to :

* to detect organic or psychological factors (severe depression,...) contributing to fatigue.
* to evaluate in detail the impact of fatigue on the patient's daily life.
* to evaluate the patient's level of physical activity in order to propose an adequate and and personalized management. During this evaluation, the patient will be asked to discuss which aspects of his or her daily life he or she would like to improve as a priority. At the end of this complete evaluation, each patient's case will be will be discussed in a multidisciplinary meeting with all the people involved in the program in order to propose a detailed and personalized treatment plan.

This plan will be explained in detail to the patient by the nurse-coach who will organize and coordinate the patient's care. The patient will receive the detailed management plan in writing.

The patient will receive the detailed management plan in writing, which will also be communicated to the patient's treating physicians.