Safety Study of Tecemotide (L-BLP25) in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Subjects With Unresectable Stage III Disease
The primary objective is to document the safety of tecemotide (L-BLP25) phase III formulation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) subjects with unresectable Stage III disease. This population includes Stage IIIA NSCLC subjects, a population not studied in former clinical studies with this vaccine. The secondary objective is to document the survival of subjects treated.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Lung Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Tecemotide (L-BLP25)|DRUG: Single low dose cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Best standard of care (BSC)
Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious TEAEs, TEAEs With CALGB-ECTC Grade 3 or 4, TEAEs Leading to Discontinuation, TEAEs Leading to Death, and Injection Site Reactions (ISRs), TEAEs occurred between the first dose of study drug and up to 42 days after the last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. A serious TEAE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect. TEAEs with Cancer and Leukemia Group B Extended Clinical Toxicity Criteria (CALGB-ECTC) Grade 3 or 4 were also reported., Up to data cut-off date (17 September 2007)
Survival Time, Survival time was to be measured from study entry (date of cyclophosphamide administration) to date of death. For subjects alive or lost to follow-up at time of analysis, the time between date of cyclophosphamide administration and date on which the subject was last known alive was to be calculated and used as a censored observation in the analysis., Up to data cut-off date (17 September 2007)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS was defined as duration from first administration of trial treatment until progressive disease \[PD\] (radiological or clinical, if radiological progression is not available) or death due to any cause. Participants without event were censored on the date of last tumor assessment. Clinical assessments were performed 4 weekly in primary treatment and 6 weekly in maintenance treatment., Up to data cut-off date (17 September 2007)
The primary objective is to document the safety of tecemotide (L-BLP25) phase III formulation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) subjects with unresectable Stage III disease. This population includes Stage IIIA NSCLC subjects, a population not studied in former clinical studies with this vaccine. The secondary objective is to document the survival of subjects treated.