Pilot Study of Cyclobenzaprine for Treatment of Sleep Disturbance in Aromatase Inhibitor-treated Breast Cancer Patients
Many women with breast cancer who are treated with aromatase inhibitor medications develop difficulty sleeping and fatigue during treatment. Some examples of aromatase inhibitor medications include anastrozole (Arimidex), exemestane (Aromasin), and letrozole (Femara). Frequently, sleeping pills do not work very well to improve sleep. Cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril) is a medication that was originally developed to treat muscle spasms. It may also improve sleep in patients with chronic pain disorders, such as fibromyalgia. In this study we are testing to see if cyclobenzaprine at bedtime will help improve sleep in women treated with aromatase inhibitors.
Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders|Pain
DRUG: Cyclobenzaprine
Number of Patients That Experience an Improvement in Sleep Quality as Assessed Using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) With 8 Weeks of Cyclobenzaprine Therapy., Will measure sleep quality using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index at baseline and after 8 weeks of therapy with cyclobenzaprine. A total score is calculated for the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. The total score ranges from 0-21, with higher scores representing worse sleep quality. Any reduction in PSQI total score was considered an improvement., 8 weeks
Change in Fatigue Between Baseline and Week 8 With Cyclobenzaprine Therapy, Will measure fatigue using the PROMIS fatigue questionnaire at baseline and after 8 weeks of therapy with cyclobenzaprine. The PROMIS Fatigue 7a score was calculated according to the information provided on the website. The raw score ranges from 7-35. The raw score is then converted to a T score according to the instruction on the website, with higher scores representing more fatigue. The T score rescales the raw score into a standardized score with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. The change in fatigue is calculated by subtracting the T score at baseline from the T score at 8 weeks. Positive values represent worsening of fatigue., baseline and 8 weeks|Change in Average Pain Between Baseline and Week 8 With Cyclobenzaprine Therapy, Will measure average pain using the Brief Pain Inventory at baseline and after 8 weeks of therapy with cyclobenzaprine. On the Brief Pain Inventory, average pain is reported using a 0-10 scale, with higher numbers reflecting more pain. Change is calculated by subtracting pain at baseline is from pain at 8 weeks. A positive value represents an increase in pain., baseline and 8 weeks
Percentage of Subjects Who Continue to Take Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy, We will assess the number of patients who continue to take the original aromatase inhibitor medication at the 24 week timepoint, as assessed using patient self-report and medical records, 24 weeks|Percentage of Patients That Experience Adverse Events, Persistence with cyclobenzaprine therapy for 24 weeks will be assessed using a medication diary. Safety will be assessed using CTCAE criteria, 24 weeks
Many women with breast cancer who are treated with aromatase inhibitor medications develop difficulty sleeping and fatigue during treatment. Some examples of aromatase inhibitor medications include anastrozole (Arimidex), exemestane (Aromasin), and letrozole (Femara). Frequently, sleeping pills do not work very well to improve sleep. Cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril) is a medication that was originally developed to treat muscle spasms. It may also improve sleep in patients with chronic pain disorders, such as fibromyalgia. In this study we are testing to see if cyclobenzaprine at bedtime will help improve sleep in women treated with aromatase inhibitors.