Non-invasive Ventilation in Reducing the Need for Intubation in Patients With Cancer and Respiratory Failure
This randomized clinical trial studies how well non-invasive ventilation works in reducing the need for intubation, or placement of a tube in the windpipe, in patients with cancer and respiratory failure. Respiratory failure is a condition in which not enough oxygen passes from the lungs to the blood, and is a common cause of admission to the emergency room in patients with hematological and solid tumor patients. Non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is a method of delivering oxygen using a mask. It is not yet known whether NIPPV is better at improving the amount of oxygen in the blood, reducing shortness of breath, and the need for intubation than standard high flow oxygen (a tube with 2 prongs placed in the nostrils) in patients with cancer and respiratory failure.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Methylprednisolone|PROCEDURE: Oxygen Therapy|DEVICE: Positive Air Pressure Device
Percent of patients who require intubation or meet criteria for intubation, Fisher's exact test or a chi-squared test will be used to assess the association between two categorical variables. The intubation rate by 28 days and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated for each treatment arm. Logistic regression will be utilized to assess the effect of patient prognostic factors on the intubation rate by 28 days., Up to 28 days from study inclusion
Time to intubation, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the time-to-event distribution for each treatment group, and the median time will be provided. The log-rank test will be used to examine the time-to-event distribution of the active treatment group versus that of the control. Time to intubation rate at different time points will be provided by treatment group (i.e. at 7 days, 14 days, 21 days, and 28 days). Since there might be other competing risks for intubation, a competing risk analysis will be performed treating these early events as a competing event for intubation., Up to 28 days|Intensive care unit length of stay, Descriptive statistics, including the mean, standard deviation, median, and range, will be provided. The t-test or Wilcoxon's rank sum test will be used to evaluate the difference between the non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) arm and the control arm., Up to 28 days|Hospital length of stay, Descriptive statistics, including the mean, standard deviation, median, and range, will be provided. The t-test or Wilcoxon's rank sum test will be used to evaluate the difference between the NIPPV arm and the control arm., Up to 28 days|Change in partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2):fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) ratio, Descriptive statistics, including the mean, standard deviation, median, and range, will be provided. The t-test or Wilcoxon's rank sum test will be used to evaluate the difference between the NIPPV arm and the control arm., Baseline up to 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the percent of patients who meet criteria for intubation within 28 days of study inclusion.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A (NIPPV THERAPY): Patients undergo intermittent NIPPV, with the recommended schedule comprising 2 hours on NIPPV followed by =\< 2 hours off NIPPV and continuous NIPPV at night or while sleeping for 8 hours per day, for 28 days or until discharged from the hospital.

ARM B (HIGH FLOW OXYGEN THERAPY): Patients continue to receive high flow nasal cannula oxygen therapy using current protocol for titration of high flow oxygen therapy for 28 days or until discharged from the hospital. Patients may receive NIPPV if they develop evidence of accessory muscle use with breathing or at the discretion of the treating physician.

IDIOPATHIC PULMONARY SYNDROME (IPS) SUBGROUP (INCLUDING DIFFUSE ALVEOLAR HEMORRHAGE): Patients with IPS receive methylprednisolone daily on days 0-48 and every other day (QOD) on days 49-55 in parallel with NIPPV or oxygen therapy, with a taper at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study, patients are followed up until day 100.