Genetic Testing in Guiding Treatment for Patients With Brain Metastases
This phase II trial studies how well genetic testing works in guiding treatment for patients with solid tumors that have spread to the brain. Several genes have been found to be altered or mutated in brain metastases such as NTRK, ROS1, CDK, PI3K, or KRAS G12C. Medications that target these genes such as abemaciclib, paxalisib, entrectinib and adagrasib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Genetic testing may help doctors tailor treatment for each mutation.
CDK Gene Mutation|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|NTRK Family Gene Mutation|PI3K Gene Mutation|ROS1 Gene Mutation|KRAS G12C Mutation
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: PI3K Inhibitor paxalisib|DRUG: Entrectinib|DRUG: Adagrasib
Objective response rate in the brain, Assessed per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria for brain metastases. The response rate is defined as the number of patients who have achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RANO for brain metastases criteria during treatment with CDK, PI3K, NTRK/ROS, or KRAS G12C inhibitors divided by total number of evaluable patients. The response rate and associated exact confidence interval will be estimated within each cohort defined by the targeted agent and histology., Up to 5 years
Systemic response for extracranial disease, Assessed with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Will be estimated using the systemic response rate (SRR) - where SRR is defined as the number of evaluable patients achieving a response (PR or CR per RECIST 1.1) during treatment with study therapy divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Point estimates will be generated for systemic response rates within each cohort with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 5 years|Clinical benefit rate for central nervous system (CNS), Evaluated by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria. Will be estimated as the number of evaluable patients achieving stable disease (SD), partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) as their best objective response during treatment with protocol therapy divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Point estimates will be generated for clinical benefit rates within each cohort with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 5 years|Clinical benefit rate for extracranial disease, Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Will be estimated as the number of evaluable patients achieving stable disease (SD), partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) as their best objective response (per RECIST for extracranial disease) during treatment with protocol therapy divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Point estimates will be generated for clinical benefit rates within each cohort with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 5 years|Duration of response for brain metastases, Duration of response for brain metastases is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved a confirmed response as the time from the date at which the patient's objective status for brain metastases is first noted to be a CR or PR (per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology \[RANO\] for brain metastases) to the date of the earliest progressive CNS disease is documented or death. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. No formal comparison will be made among the cohorts., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR for brain metastases until the first date that progressive CNS disease or death is documented, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of response for extracranial disease, Duration of response for extracranial disease is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved a confirmed response as the time from the date at which the patient's objective status for extranial disease is first noted to be a CR or PR (per RECIST1.1) to the date of the earliest progression (PD) for extracranial disease is documented or death. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. No formal comparison will be made among the cohorts., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR for extracranial disease until the first date that progressive disease for extracranial disease or death is documented, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) - intracranial, Intracranial PFS is defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to the earliest date of intracranial disease progression (per RANO for brain metastases) or death from any cause, whichever comes first. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. No formal comparison will be made among the cohorts., From first day of study treatment to the earliest date documentation of intracranial disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) - extracranial, Extracranial PFS is defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to the earliest date of extracranial disease progression (per RECIST1.1) or death from any cause, whichever comes first. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. No formal comparison will be made among the cohorts., From the first day of study treatment to the earliest date of documentation of extracranial disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Site of first progression, The site of first progression will be estimated descriptively within each cohort within 12 and 24 months after starting protocol treatment. The first progression is defined as the first documented central nervous system (CNS) progression per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) or extracranial progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), whichever occurs first. The percentage of extracranial progression at first progression within 12 and 24 months after starting protocol treatment will be estimated as number of patients who experience the first progression which is extracranial progression divided by number of patients who are still at risk up to 12 and 24 months, respectively., Up to 24 months|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to death due to any cause. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. No formal comparison will be made among the cohorts., From the first day of study treatment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, toxicity is defined as adverse events that are classified as possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. Toxicities will be evaluated via the ordinal CTCAE standard toxicity grading. Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by patient and treatment cohort will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of the analysis. No formal comparison will be made among the cohorts., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the activity of a CDK inhibitor in patients with progressive brain metastases derived from lung cancer, breast cancer, and other cancers harboring actionable genetic alterations associated with sensitivity to CDK inhibitors as measured by response rate (Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology \[RANO\] criteria).

II. To determine the activity of a PI3K inhibitor in patients with progressive brain metastases derived from lung cancer, breast cancer, and other cancers harboring actionable genetic alterations in the PI3K pathway as measured by response rate (RANO criteria).

III: To determine the activity of an NTRK/ROS1 inhibitor in patients with progressive brain metastases derived from lung cancer harboring actionable NTRK/ROS1 gene fusions as measured by response rate (RANO criteria).

IV. To determine the activity of an KRAS G12C inhibitor in patients with progressive brain metastases derived from lung cancer, and other cancers harboring a KRAS G12C mutation as measured by response rate (RANO criteria).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the systemic response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

II. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\] + stable disease \[SD\]) by Brain Metastases (BM)-RANO for central nervous system (CNS) in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

III. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (CR + PR + SD) by RECIST for extracranial disease in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

IV. To evaluate the duration of response by BM-RANO in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

V. To evaluate the duration of response by RECIST in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

VI. To evaluate the progression-free survival for intracranial disease in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

VII. To evaluate the progression-free survival for extracranial disease in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

VIII. To evaluate the site of first progression (CNS versus \[vs\] non-CNS) in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

IX. To evaluate the overall survival in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

X. To evaluate the toxicity profile of agents in patients with brain metastases in each of the cohorts determined by treatment and primary cancer type.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 arms.

ARM I (CDK GENE MUTATION): Patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (PI3K GENE MUTATION): Patients receive PI3K inhibitor paxalisib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III (NTRK/ROS1 GENE MUTATION): Patients receive entrectinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IV (KRAS G12C MUTATION): Patients receive adagrasib (MRTX849) PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8 weeks for 2 years, then every 3 months for years 3-4, and then every 6 months thereafter for up to 5 years after registration.