Study of ASN-002 to Treat Basal Cell Carcinomas (BCCs) in Individuals With Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS)
The primary objective is to confirm the safety of treating multiple BCCs once weekly x 3 weeks in individuals with Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS).

The secondary objectives of the study are to obtain preliminary data on the effectiveness of ASN-002 in the treatment of BCCs in individuals with Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS) by

1. evaluating the histological clearance of BCCs in patients with BCNS, and
2. assessing the clinical changes of BCCs after treatment with ASN-002, and
3. assessing the systemic effect of ASN-002 by determining response in non-injected lesions
4. assess the safety and clinical changes after a second cycle of ASN-002 injections
Basal Cell Carcinoma in Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome
BIOLOGICAL: ASN-002
Safety of ASN-002 will be studied in terms of AEs reported in individuals with Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS) receiving ASN-002 using CTCAE 4.03., Clinical safety will assessed in terms of changes in vital signs, AEs, serious AEs (SAEs), laboratory abnormalities and withdrawals from study. Local skin and injection site reactions will be assessed in detail scoring erythema, ulceration, pain and overall severity as none, mild, moderate or severe using protocol-specific modifications of the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03., The assessment will be conducted at every visit after first dose, week1, week2, week 3, Months1, 2, 3, 4 and at Month 6.
Treatment efficacy in term of percentage of histological cure of BCC lesions at 6 months, At the end of the study, BCC lesions will be excised and studied under microscope to study the complete cure of BCC i.e. histological clearance, 6 months from baseline|Clinical changes in BCCs after treatment with ASN-002 in- terms of change in lesion size (mm), The BCC lesions will be measured in mm at baseline, after first dose at Months1, 2, 3, 4 and at Month 6 to study the change in lesion size and clinical response., 6 months from baseline.|The systemic effect of ASN-002 will be assessed for non-injected lesions by studying the change in lesion size from baseline to end of the study., The non-injected BCC lesions will be measured in mm at baseline, after first dose at Months1, 2, 3, 4 and at Month 6 to study the change in lesion size and clinical response., 6 months from baseline|The safety in terms of the AEs reported (using CTCAE 4.03) after 6 months from first dose in retreatment cycle, Clinical safety will assessed in terms of changes in vital signs, AEs, serious AEs (SAEs), laboratory abnormalities and withdrawals from study. Local skin and injection site reactions will be assessed in detail scoring erythema, ulceration, pain and overall severity as none, mild, moderate or severe using protocol-specific modifications of the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03., 6 months|The systemic effect of ASN-002 will be assessed for non-injected lesions by studying the rate of histological clearance after 6 months of first dose., At the end of the study, BCC lesions will be excised and studied under microscope to study the complete cure of BCC i.e. histological clearance, 6 months from baseline|The efficacy will be assessed in terms of change in lesion size (mm) after 6 months from first dose in retreatment cycle, The change in lesions size in mm will be studied after 6 months from first dose in retreatment cycle., 6 months
Methodology:

Patients with BCNS who meet the Eligibility Requirements below will be studied. After informed consent is obtained and baseline evaluation, each lesion to be injected will receive ASN-002 once weekly x 3 weeks. Subjects will be premedicated with acetaminophen, 1000mg, 30 minutes prior to injection and continue 650mg, four times/day for two days after injection. Evaluation for toxicity and safety will be performed at 1, 2, 3 and 4 months after the first injection. All target lesions will be excised at 6 months and the subject evaluated for healing one month later.

Subjects with 5 or more lesions will be entered into Cohort A and will receive 1.0 x 1011 vp/injection into each of 4 BCCs, weekly x 3, i.e. weeks 1, 2, and 3, i.e. a total dose of 4.0 x 1011 vp on each day of injections. If one subject in this cohort experiences Grade 3 or greater local or systemic toxicities by week 4, three additional subjects will be accrued to this cohort. If none of the first 3 subjects or no more than one of the six subjects in the expanded cohort experiences Grade 3 or greater local or systemic toxicities by week 4, the total dose of 4.0 x 1011 vp/day will be accepted for further clinical assessment. All four injected lesions and 1 or 2 non-injected lesions will be excised after 6 months.

Cohort B will be open for accrual to patients with 4 or more lesions once Cohort A is accepted for further clinical assessment or if Cohort A has \>1/6 Grade 3 AEs. Subjects in Cohort B will receive 1.5 or 1.0 x 1011 vp/injection into each of 3 BCCs, weekly x 3, i.e. weeks 1, 2, and 3, i.e. a total dose of 4.5 or 3.0 x 1011 vp on each day of injections as outlined in Synopsis Table 2 below. If one subject in this cohort experiences Grade 3 or greater local or systemic toxicities by week 4, three additional subjects will be accrued to this cohort. If none of the first 3 subjects or no more than one of the six subjects in the expanded Cohort B1.5 or B1.0 experiences Grade 3 or greater local or systemic toxicities by week 4, that total dose of 4.5 or 3.0 x 1011 vp/day will be accepted for further clinical assessment. All three injected lesions and 1-2 non-injected lesions will be excised after 6 months.

Cohort C may be designed based on the results observed in Cohorts A and B with the agreement of the Protocol Steering Committee. If a total dose \>4.5 x 1011 vp/day of injection ASN-002 on any single day or more than 3 weekly injections are to be administered, a formal amendment to the Protocol must be approved before accrual to Cohort C is permitted.

Each cohort will be assessed for safety, dose escalation and possible cohort expansion as described above. The week 4 assessment of toxicity and apparent efficacy of the first 3 subjects in each cohort will be used to determine the need to increase the size of that cohort to 6 subjects. Cohorts will be assessed clinically at 1, 2, 3 and 4 months. Treated tumors will be resected at 6 months, based on observations in the ongoing Australia trial study that inflammation persisting at 16 weeks could not be reliably distinguished from residual tumor. The 1st and 3rd secondary endpoints, histological clearance of injected and non-injected lesions, will be assessed by the Pathology Department of each clinical site. Representative slides will be submitted for possible central review to be performed at the discretion of Ascend. Each participant will also be seen one month after tumor resection to assess healing and post-surgical results Each subject may be evaluated on the 7 month visit for a second cycle of 3 weekly ASN-002 injections into new or previously untreated BCC lesions at a dose accepted for further clinical assessment. Subjects who receive a second cycle will be followed for 6 months as before, but lesion excision will be at the discretion of the investigator.

In the event study subjects in any Cohort do not proceed to histological confirmation of response per protocol, they may be replaced as long as the reason for not proceeding to histological confirmation of response per protocol was not investigational product related adverse events and so long as the Protocol Steering Committee concurs with the Sponsor that no limiting safety issues have been identified.

Depending on results, and at the discretion of the Sponsor and the Protocol Steering Committee, one Cohort may be expanded to a total of 24 subjects so long as no more than one of six subjects already included at that dose and schedule of ASN-002 experienced Grade 3 or greater local or systemic toxicities. The selection of the cohort to be expanded will be based on favorable response data from the subjects already included at that dose and schedule of ASN-002,