Study Evaluating Chemotherapy in Combination With Inotuzumab Ozogamicin In Subjects With Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This is a phase 1 trial designed to evaluate safety and tolerability of chemotherapy in combination with inotuzumab ozogamicin, an investigational product, in adults with CD22-positive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The trial will involve two arms. In one arm, subjects will receive chemotherapy regimen R-CVP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone). In the other arm, subjects will receive R-GDP (rituximab, gemcitabine, cisplatinum and dexamethasone). Subjects in both arms will also receive inotuzumab ozogamicin.
Lymphoma, B-Cell
DRUG: inotuzumab ozogamicin+rituximab +cyclophosphamide+vincristine+prednisone|DRUG: inotuzumab ozogamicin+rituximab+gemcitabine+cisplatinum+dexamethasone
Participants Reporting Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) Adverse Events (AEs) for Participants in the DE Cohort and the MTD Confirmation Cohort for Arm 1, DLT was defined as: febrile neutropenia, Grade (Gr) 4 neutropenia ≥7 days, Gr 4 thrombocytopenia ≥7 days, Gr 3/4 thrombocytopenia associated with bleeding requiring a transfusion, Gr 3/4 non-hematologic toxicity (except alopecia) ≥7 days or treatment-related and clinically significant irrespective of duration, ≥Gr 3 QTc prolongation, Gr 4 alanine or aspartate aminotransferase, Gr 2 hyperbilirubinemia (greater than (\>)1.5 x upper normal limit) \>7 days, delayed recovery from a treatment-related toxicity that prevented re-dosing by \>7 days, or Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor treatment during the first cycle., From the first dose of study medication (Study Day 1) to the completion of the first 21-day cycle.|Participants Reporting DLT AEs for Participants in the DE Cohort and the MTD Confirmation Cohort for Arm 2, DLT was defined as: febrile neutropenia, Grade (Gr) 4 neutropenia ≥7 days, Gr 4 thrombocytopenia ≥7 days, Gr 3/4 thrombocytopenia associated with bleeding requiring a transfusion, Gr 3/4 non-hematologic toxicity (except alopecia) ≥7 days or treatment-related and clinically significant irrespective of duration, ≥Gr 3 QTc prolongation, Gr 4 alanine or aspartate aminotransferase, Gr 2 hyperbilirubinemia (greater than (\>)1.5 x upper normal limit) \>7 days, delayed recovery from a treatment-related toxicity that prevented re-dosing by \>7 days, or Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor treatment during the first cycle., From the first dose of study medication (Study Day 1) to the completion of the first 21-day cycle.|Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response (OR) of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) According to International Response Criteria for NHLs in the MTD and EE Cohorts, OR was evaluated according to the International Response Criteria for NHLs. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all lesions and disease-related symptoms; all nodes must have decreased to normal (less than or equal to \[≤\]1.5 centimeters \[cm\] in their greatest transverse diameter (GTD) for nodes \>1.5 cm before therapy) or ≤1 cm (short axis) in previously involved node; enlarged spleen prior to therapy must have regressed and be non-palpable; bone marrow lymphoma: infiltrate must have been cleared on repeat bone marrow aspirate and biopsy. PR was defined as \>50% decrease in the sum of the product diameters (SPD) of up to 6 index lesions. No increase in size of other nodes, liver or spleen. Splenic and hepatic nodules must have regressed by ≥50% in the SPD or GTD (for single nodules). With the exception of splenic and hepatic nodules, involvement of other organs is usually assessable and no measurable disease should be present. No progression of non-target disease or new lesions., From first dose of study medication through 2 year follow-up period, including but not limited to planned assessments scheduled every 9 to 24 weeks.|Percentage of Participants With a Treatment Emergent AE, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a product or medical device; the event may not necessarily have had a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged in-patient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent AEs were defined as those occurring on or after the first study drug dose day through and including 56 days post last dose of study drug. The severity of all AEs was graded by the investigator using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for AE Version 3.0 (NCI CTCAE v3.0)., SAEs were assessed from informed consent through and including the end of treatment visit (at least 28 calendar days after last study drug administration). Non-SAEs were recorded from time of the first dose of study drug through last participant visit.|Percentage of Participants With Any Grade 3/4 Chemistry Abnormality During Therapy, The following parameters were analyzed for blood chemistry: blood urea nitrogen (or urea), creatinine, glucose, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, total bilirubin (and direct bilirubin, if total bilirubin was elevated), alkaline phosphatase, uric acid (or urate), albumin and total protein. Laboratory test results were graded using the NCI CTCAE v3.0 where CTCAE Grade 3 equals "severe" and CTCAE Grade 4 equals "life threatening or disabling.", Within 3 days prior to the start of each cycle, on Day 8 of each cycle, on Day 15 of Cycles 1, 2, and 3, and the end-of-treatment visit. Each Cycle is 21 Days.|Percentage of Participants With Any Grade 3/4 Hematology Abnormality During Therapy, The following parameters were analyzed for hematology: lymphocytes, basophils, eosinophils, erythrocytes, hematocrit, hemoglobin, leukocytes, monocytes, neutrophils, platelets, prothrombin international normalized ratio, prothrombin time, fibrinogen, and activated partial thromboplastin time. Laboratory test results were graded using the NCI CTCAE v3.0 where CTCAE Grade 3 equals "severe" and CTCAE Grade 4 equals "life threatening or disabling.", Within 3 days prior to the start of each cycle, Day 8 of each cycle, Day 15 of Cycles 1, 2, and 3, and the end-of-treatment visit. Each Cycle is 21 Days.
Percentage of Participants With a Best OR of CR or PR According to International Response Criteria for NHLs in the DE Cohorts, OR was evaluated according to the International Response Criteria for NHLs. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all lesions and disease-related symptoms; all nodes must have decreased to normal (≤1.5 cm in their GTD for nodes \>1.5 cm before therapy) or ≤1 cm (short axis) in previously involved node; enlarged spleen prior to therapy must have regressed and be non-palpable; bone marrow lymphoma: infiltrate must have been cleared on repeat bone marrow aspirate and biopsy. PR was defined as \>50% decrease in the SPD of up to 6 index lesions. No increase in size of other nodes, liver or spleen. Splenic and hepatic nodules must have regressed by ≥50% in the SPD or GTD (for single nodules). With the exception of splenic and hepatic nodules, involvement of other organs is usually assessable and no measurable disease should be present. No progression of non-target disease or new lesions., From first dose of study medication through 2 year follow-up period, including but not limited to planned assessments scheduled every 9 to 24 weeks.|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of the Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in the DE Cohorts, PFS was defined as time from date of first dose to the earlier date of progression (including symptomatic deterioration), date of death from any cause, or initiation of new anticancer therapy for the lymphoma. Participants without an event were censored at the date of the last valid tumour assessment. A valid tumour assessment visit was defined as the tumour assessment visit with overall response of CR, PR, stable disease (SD), or disease progression (PD), but not 'Not Done' or 'Unknown'. Participants without a post-baseline tumour assessment and without a PFS event were censored on the date of first dose., From first dose of study medication through 2 year follow-up period, including but not limited to planned assessments scheduled every 9 to 24 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of the Probability of Being Alive and Free From PD or New Anticancer Therapy at 6, 12, and 24 Months in the DE Cohorts, Measure includes death from any cause, PD (including symptomatic deterioration) during and after treatment or initiation of new anticancer therapy for the lymphoma. PD was defined as symptomatic deterioration and according to the International Response Criteria for NHL: 1) appearance of any new lesion \>1.5 cm in any axis during or at EOT, even if other lesions are decreasing, 2) at least a 50% increase from nadir in the SPD of any previously involved or single involved nodes, or the size of other lesions (splenic or hepatic). Lymph nodes with a short axis diameter of \<1.0 cm must increase by ≥50% and to a size of 1.5x1.5 cm or \>1.5 cm in the long axis, 3) 50% increase in the longest diameter of any single previously identified node \>1 cm in its short axis. PD was defined as clinical PD, new non-nodal lesions or new nodal lesion ≥1.5 cm in GTD, progression of existing non-index lesions or bone marrow that was negative and now positive., 6, 12 and 24 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of the PFS in the MTD Confirmation/EE Cohorts, PFS was defined as time from date of first dose to the earlier date of progression (including symptomatic deterioration), date of death from any cause, or initiation of new anticancer therapy for the lymphoma. Participants without an event were censored at the date of the last valid tumour assessment. A valid tumour assessment visit was defined as the tumour assessment visit with OR of CR, PR, SD, or PD, but not 'Not Done' or 'Unknown'. Participants without a post-baseline tumour assessment and without a PFS event were censored on the date of first dose., From first dose of study medication through 2 year follow-up period, including but not limited to planned assessments scheduled every 9 to 24 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of the Probability of Being Alive and Free From PD or New Anticancer Therapy at 6, 12, and 24 Months in the MTD Confirmation/EE Cohorts., Measure includes death from any cause, PD (including symptomatic deterioration) during and after treatment or initiation of new anticancer therapy for the lymphoma. PD was defined as symptomatic deterioration and according to the International Response Criteria for NHL: 1) appearance of any new lesion \>1.5 cm in any axis during or at EOT, even if other lesions are decreasing, 2) at least a 50% increase from nadir in the SPD of any previously involved or single involved nodes, or the size of other lesions (splenic or hepatic). Lymph nodes with a short axis diameter of \<1.0 cm must increase by ≥50% and to a size of 1.5x1.5 cm or \>1.5 cm in the long axis, 3) 50% increase in the longest diameter of any single previously identified node \>1 cm in its short axis. PD was defined as clinical PD, new non-nodal lesions or new nodal lesion ≥1.5 cm in GTD, progression of existing non-index lesions or bone marrow that was negative and now positive., 6, 12, and 24 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of the Overall Survival (OS) in the DE Cohorts, OS was defined from date of first dose to date of death due to any cause, censoring at the date of last contact., From first dose of study medication through 2 year follow-up period|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of the Probability of Being Alive at 6, 12, and 24 Months in the DE Cohorts, OS was defined from date of first dose to date of death due to any cause, censoring at the date of last contact., 6, 12, and 24 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of the OS in the MTD Confirmation/EE Cohorts, OS was defined from date of first dose to date of death due to any cause, censoring at the date of last contact., From first dose of study medication through 2 year follow-up period|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of the Probability of Being Alive at 6, 12, and 24 Months in the MTD Confirmation/EE Cohorts, OS was defined from date of first dose to date of death due to any cause, censoring at the date of last contact., 6, 12, and 24 Months|Mean Inotuzumab Ozogamicin Serum Concentrations, Pharmacokinetic (PK) samples were required for participants enrolled in the confirmatory and preliminary efficacy MTD cohorts only (Parts 2 and 3). Concentrations of inotuzumab ozogamicin in serum were determined using appropriate, validated unconjugated (also known as free) bioanalytical assays., Pre-dose on Cycle 1, Day 2; Pre-dose, 1 and 3 hours post-dose on Cycle 3, Day 2; 24 hours post-dose on Cycle 3, Day 3 and 168 hours post-dose on Cycle 3, Day 8.
This is a phase 1 trial designed to evaluate safety and tolerability of chemotherapy in combination with inotuzumab ozogamicin, an investigational product, in adults with CD22-positive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The trial will involve two arms. In one arm, subjects will receive chemotherapy regimen R-CVP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone). In the other arm, subjects will receive R-GDP (rituximab, gemcitabine, cisplatinum and dexamethasone). Subjects in both arms will also receive inotuzumab ozogamicin.