Arsenic Trioxide With Cyclophosphamide in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and toxicity profile of the combination of cyclophosphamide and ATO (Arsenic Trioxide) in subjects with relapsed refractory AML.

Determine the efficacy of ATO and cyclophosphamide in this population, as defined by response rate, response duration, event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS).

Determine the number of transplant-eligible subjects who are successfully bridged to stem cell transplantation or donor lymphocyte infusion.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Relapsed/Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 500 MG|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 1000 MG|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 2000 MG|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 3000 MG|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 4000 MG
Number of Participants That Reached Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Cyclophosphamide and ATO, Number of Participants that were treated in each Cohort in attempt to establish Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) of cyclophosphamide with ATO is defined as the highest dose level of 1000 mg/m2. MTD is established when at least 6 participants within a Cohort have responded without toxicity.

The trial is organized in a standard, phase I, 3+3 design. The first 3 subjects will be assigned to cohort 1. Per standard trial design, if there are 0/3 dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) in this cohort, the next three subjects will be assigned to cohort 2. This will continue until MTD is established., 26 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Using ATO and Cyclophosphamide, ORR defined by complete remission/complete remission with incomplete recovery of blood counts (CR/CRi), morphologic leukemia free state (MLFS) and partial responses (PR), 26 months
This is an open label phase 1 study of fixed dose ATO (Arsenic Trioxide) and escalating doses of cyclophosphamide using a standard 3+3 dose escalation design. All subjects will be treated with sequential cycles of 3 days of ATO at 0.15 mg/kg/d IV followed by Cyclophosphamide as a single IV dose on day 4 along with mesna at a dose equal to the cyclophosphamide (for doses ≥1000 mg/m2) and hydration for a maximum of 6 cycles. ATO and Cyclophosphamide will be repeated every 28-42 days. Treatment will be given inpatient for the first cycle, with the option of outpatient treatment for subsequent cycles. Subjects may remain on study in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity for a maximum six cycles. Toxicity assessments will be performed continuously; DLT determination will be made based on adverse events (AEs) that occur during cycle 1 (day 1-28). An expansion cohort of ten subjects at the maximum tolerated dose will occur at the conclusion of dose escalation.