Managing Pain and Symptom Burden Caused by Chemotherapy in People With Myeloma or Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to find out whether acupuncture treatments can reduce the need for opioid medication when managing pain caused by chemotherapy. The study will compare the effects of adding acupuncture to usual pain management with those of usual pain management alone, in reducing opioid use by relieving pain. Researchers also want to find out more about the effects of acupuncture treatments on other symptoms caused by cancer treatments and quality of life.
Multiple Myeloma|Hodgkin Disease|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
OTHER: Acupuncture|DRUG: opioid|OTHER: Assessments
the Number of Patients Using Opioids at a Given Time, at a given time divided by the total number of patients randomized to that group at Day 7) by review of medication records and urine drug test, at day 7|the Number of Patients Using Opioids at a Given Time, at a given time divided by the total number of patients randomized to that group at Day 90) by review of medication records and urine drug test, at day 90|Symptom Burden, measured by M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Blood and Marrow Transplantaion (MDASI-BMT). The symptoms rated are feeling physically sick, weak, diarrhea, mouth sores, and bleeding. All symptoms are rated with reference to "the last 24 hours" on 0-10 numeric scales from "not present" to "as bad as you can imagine." MDASIBMT Total Symptom Severity score will serve as the symptom burden primary endpoint. The MDASI assesses the severity of symptoms at their worst in the last 24 hours on a 0-10 numerical scale with 0 being "not present" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine. Total symptom severity was calculated by averaging all 18 items in the scale, At baseline|Symptom Burden, measured by M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Blood and Marrow Transplantaion (MDASI-BMT). The symptoms rated are feeling physically sick, weak, diarrhea, mouth sores, and bleeding. All symptoms are rated with reference to "the last 24 hours" on 0-10 numeric scales from "not present" to "as bad as you can imagine." MDASIBMT Total Symptom Severity score will serve as the symptom burden primary endpoint. The MDASI assesses the severity of symptoms at their worst in the last 24 hours on a 0-10 numerical scale with 0 being "not present" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine. Total symptom severity was calculated by averaging all 18 items in the scale, At Day 7|Symptom Burden, measured by M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Blood and Marrow Transplantaion (MDASI-BMT). The symptoms rated are feeling physically sick, weak, diarrhea, mouth sores, and bleeding. All symptoms are rated with reference to "the last 24 hours" on 0-10 numeric scales from "not present" to "as bad as you can imagine." MDASIBMT Total Symptom Severity score will serve as the symptom burden primary endpoint. The MDASI assesses the severity of symptoms at their worst in the last 24 hours on a 0-10 numerical scale with 0 being "not present" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine. Total symptom severity was calculated by averaging all 18 items in the scale, At Day 90
The purpose of this study is to find out whether acupuncture treatments can reduce the need for opioid medication when managing pain caused by chemotherapy. The study will compare the effects of adding acupuncture to usual pain management with those of usual pain management alone, in reducing opioid use by relieving pain. Researchers also want to find out more about the effects of acupuncture treatments on other symptoms caused by cancer treatments and quality of life.