Tebentafusp-tebn With LDT in Metastatic UM
We will conduct a multicenter, open label phase I/ II trial to assess the safety and clinical efficacy of tebentafusp-tebn in combination with liver-directed therapies in HLA-A\*0201 positive patients with metastatic uveal melanoma. In Part 1 of the study, we will investigate the safety and efficacy of tebentafusp-tebn in combination with hepatic IE in patients with a low to moderate hepatic disease burden. In Part 2, we will investigate the efficacy of tebentafusp-tebn in combination with TACE in patients with bulky hepatic disease.
Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: Tebentafusp-Tebn|DRUG: GM-CSF (Sargramostim)|DRUG: BCNU
Part 1A: Safety lead-in, Adverse events (AEs) according to NCI CTCAE Version 5.0. Safety and tolerability data will be presented by treatment arm using the safety population. Safety data will be summarized descriptively and will not be formally analyzed. AE presentation will include incidence, severity, and relationship to study drug., From when the patient receives the first study treatment to 7 days (for non-serious AEs) or 30 days (for SAEs) after completion of study treatment or withdrawal from the study.|Part 1A: Efficacy, 6-month progression-free survival rate as determined by response criteria (RECIST 1.1). Will be summarized by count and percentage along with the two-sided 90% exact confidence interval (CI)., From when the patient receives the first study treatment to 6 months after first treatment|Part 1B: Progression-free Survival, Defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objective disease progression or death by any cause. The primary Progression-free Survival (PSF) analysis will use a one-sided log-rank test, with a type I error of 0.05. In addition, PFS will be analyzed using Cox proportional hazards model and the estimated HR with 90% Confidence Interval (CI) will be reported. Kaplan-Meier curves of PFS will be presented by treatment arm along with estimated medians PFS (CIs)., From when patient joins study until disease progression or death, up to 2.5 years after last patient&amp;amp;amp;#39;s last treatment.|Part 2: 6-month progression-free survival rate, As determined by response criteria (RECIST 1.1). Defined as the proportion of patients alive and progression-free at 6 months after treatment initiation. Will be summarized by count and percentage. In addition, a two-sided 90% Confidence Interval (CI) based on the method of Koyama and Chen will be provided. This method is appropriate because it is proposed for Simon's 2-stage design, accounting for the inherent futility analysis., From when the patient receives the first study treatment to 6 months after first treatment.
All toxicities using the NCI CTCAE Version 5.0, Safety and tolerability data will be presented by treatment arm using the safety population. Safety data will be summarized descriptively and will not be formally analyzed. AE presentation will include incidence, severity, and relationship to study drug., From when the patient receives the first study treatment to 7 days (for non-serious AEs) or 30 days (for SAEs) after completion of study treatment or withdrawal from the study.|Overall response rate (ORR), Count and percentage of patients with a tumor response (Complete Response/Partial Response), From when the patient receives the first study treatment to at least one year (and up to 2.5 years) after discontinuing treatment|Liver-specific progression-free survival, As determined by response criteria (RECIST 1.1). Defined as the proportion of patients alive and progression-free at 6 months after treatment initiation. Will be summarized by count and percentage., From when patient joins study until disease progression or death, up to 2.5 years after last patient&amp;#39;s last treatment.|Overall survival, Measured from the start of the treatment to death due to any cause. Date and cause of death will be recorded. Any patient not known to have died at the time of analysis will be censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive. The cause of death will be categorized as either cancer-related or cancer-unrelated., From the start of the treatment to death due to any cause (assessed up to 2.5 years after last patient&#39;s last treatment)
We will conduct a multicenter, open label phase I/ II trial to assess the safety and clinical efficacy of tebentafusp-tebn in combination with liver-directed therapies in HLA-A\*0201 positive patients with metastatic uveal melanoma. In Part 1 of the study, we will investigate the safety and efficacy of tebentafusp-tebn in combination with hepatic IE in patients with a low to moderate hepatic disease burden. In Part 2, we will investigate the efficacy of tebentafusp-tebn in combination with TACE in patients with bulky hepatic disease.