Efficacy and Safety of Trabectedin (Yondelis®) in Patients With Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma
Efficacy and safety of trabectedin in real-life practice, routinely used for the management of advanced sarcoma after failure of anthracyclines and ifosfamide or patients unsuited to receive these drugs in Germany.

Trabectedin is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma, after failure of anthracyclines and ifosfamide, or who are unsuited to receive these agents. Efficacy data are based mainly on liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma patients.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: trabectedin
3 months progression free survival (PFS) rate, Number of patients without PD or death 3 months after start of therapy, 3 months after start of therapy|6 months progression free survival (PFS) rate, Number of patients without PD or death 6 months after start of therapy, 6 months after start of therapy
Tumor control rate, Best response (CR+PR+Disease stabilization) according to institutional standards, in average 6 months|3 and 6 months overall survival (OS) rate, Number of patients alive after 3 months and 6 months, 3 and 6 months after start of therapy|Progression free survival (PFS), Time from start of therapy to the date of documented PD or death (death of any cause), in average 6 months|Type of treatment used, dose reductions and postponement of cycles, 2 years|Treatment duration, Number of cycles, from first cycle up to a maximum of 17 cycles, each cycle is 21 days (= 1 year)|Reason for discontinuation of trabectedin treatment, Analysis of documented reasons, from first cycle up to a maximum of 17 cycles, each cycle is 21 days (= 1 year)|General description of grade 3/4 adverse events, Adverse events of grade 3/4 according to NCI CTC V4, 2 years
This is a non-interventional, observational and prospective study to evaluate efficacy and safety of trabectedin in routine practice. Patients are assigned to a therapeutic strategy within current practice, not according to a trial protocol. The prescription of the medicine is separated from the decision to include the patient in the study. Diagnostic or monitoring procedures are only those ordinarily applied to the therapeutic strategy.

There are no dose regimens or medical procedures defined within this study plan. Every medical decision and course of treatment with trabectedin will reflect exclusively the decision of the Investigator in a routine clinical situation according to SmPC. The concept of this non-interventional study and its documentation procedure will not affect in any way the routine treatment situation.