Dose Escalation and Dose Expansion Study of GAS in Subjects With Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
A Phase 1b, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and dose expansion study of S-1 in combination with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine (GAS) in subjects with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. This study is a dose escalation and dose expansion study with the objective to establish the MTD and/or RP2D and/or DLT of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine in combination with a body surface area(BSA)-based dose of S-1 in subject with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Gemcitabine 800mg/m2 + Nab-paclitaxel 100mg/m2 + S-1 (dose according to BSA)|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Gemcitabine 800mg/m2 + Nab-paclitaxel 125mg/m2 + S-1 (dose according to BSA)|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 + Nab-paclitaxel 125mg/m2 + S-1 (dose according to BSA)
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), To determine a recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine in combination with body surface area (BSA) - based dose of S-1 in subject with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, From cycle 1 day 1 (each cycle is 14 days) untill the date of radiographic tumor assessment confirm tumor recurrence or specified AE occur, assessed up to 3 years|Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), From cycle 1 day 1 (each cycle is 14 days) untill the date of radiographic tumor assessment confirm tumor recurrence or specified AE occur, assessed up to 3 years|Objective response rate (ORR), Tumor response will be evaluated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1., From cycle 1 day 1 (each cycle is 14 days) untill the date of radiographic tumor assessment confirm tumor recurrence or specified AE occur, assessed up to 3 years
Safety profile of GAS regimen, Safety profile will be recorded and graded according to NCI-CTCAE v 5.0., From cycle 1 day 1 (each cycle is 14 days) untill the date of radiographic tumor assessment confirm tumor recurrence or specified AE occur, assessed up to 3 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as having complete response, partial response or stable disease at 12 weeks. (based on RECIST Version 1.1), Through study completion, an average of 3 year|Duration of Response (DoR), Time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression. (based on RECIST Version 1.1), Through study completion, an average of 3 year|Progression-free Survival (PFS), From the start date of study treatment to the date of progression disease or death. (based on RECIST Version 1.1), Through study completion, an average of 3 year|Overall Survival (OS), From the start date of study treatment to the date of death., Through study completion, an average of 3 year
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is the seventh leading cause of cancer- related death worldwide as the second leading cause of cancer mortality in the United States by 2030 . The overall 5-year survival rate is around 5% for advanced PDAC and 15-30% for resected PDAC. While recent advances have emerged in precision medicine and immunotherapy in a variety of cancer types, unfortunately these drugs are not applicable to most patients with PDAC. To date, polychemotherapy combinations remain the mainstay of systemic treatments for advanced PDAC. Of note, FOLFIRINOX is a triplet combination regimen while nab-Paclitaxel and gemcitabine is a doublet combination. Both NALIRIFOX and FOLFIRINOX showed the same median OS with about 11.1 months from NAPOLI 3 and PRODIGE4 trials, respectively, demonstrating the biologically comparable anti-tumor effects. On the other hand, the median OS of 8.5 months of gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel raised the question-would it be possible to add the third active drug in this doublet combination to achieve more potential efficacy, being comparable with triplet combination such as FOLFIRINOX or NALIRIFOX. Therefore, in this study the investigator aimed to investigate whether adding S-1 to nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine as GAS regimen can be a potential triplet combination.