Ipilimumab and Nivolumab for the Treatment of Stage III-IV Unresectable Metastatic Melanoma
This phase I trial identifies the best dose of ipilimumab that can be administered through the DoseConnect™ device followed by nivolumab in treating patients with stage III melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) or stage IV melanoma that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab and nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Melanoma|Unresectable Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Lymph Node Assessment|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ipilimumab administration via the DoseConnect device in combination with nivolumab, MTD is defined as the dose level where at most 1 of the 6 patients treated at that dose level develops a dose-limited event (DLE) during the first cycle of treatment and neither a Grade 3 or worse adverse event (AE) attributable to either drug or device or a Grade 2 or worse AE lasting ≥1 week and attributable to device reported after the first cycle of treatment., Up to 21 days|Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade of each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient. For each adverse event reported by dose level, the percentage of patients developing any degree of that adverse event as well as the percentage of patients developing a severe degree (grade 3 or higher) will be determined., Up to 21 days|Progression-free survival, Defined as the time from study entry to the documentation of disease progression., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Defined as the time from study entry to death., Up to 2 years
Immune parameter analysis, For each individual, a time series plot of the fold increase in a given immune parameter from pre-treatment levels will be constructed to visual inspect for trends. An immune response in a given parameter will be defined as a two-fold or more increase from pre-treatment levels for those with detectable levels prior to treatment or a two-fold or more increase from the LLD for those with levels below the LLD prior to treatment., Up to 2 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ipilimumab that can be administered through the DoseConnect™ device followed 30 minutes later by nivolumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of a 21-day cycle in patients with metastatic melanoma. (Cohort A) II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ipilimumab that can be administered through up to four (4) DoseConnect™ devices, followed by nivolumab IV on Day 1 of four 21-day cycle in patients with metastatic melanoma. (Cohort B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab administered using the DoseConnect™ followed by nivolumab IV in patients with metastatic melanoma. (Cohort A) II. To assess the rate of Grade 3 and 4 adverse events, as well as the rate of drug discontinuation for adverse events and objective response rate (ORR) for patients who receive ipilimumab via the DoseConnect™ device for four cycles in combination with nivolumab administered as an IV infusion, without any IV administration of ipilimumab. (Cohort B)

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the changes in immunologic profile after one cycle of ipilimumab administered using the DoseConnect™ followed by nivolumab IV.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT A: Patients receive ipilimumab intra-lymphatically via DoseConnect™ on day 1 of cycle 1 and IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 2-4. Patients also receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo lymphatic imaging with indocyanine green (ICG) prior to treatment start and blood sample collection throughout the study. (CLOSED TO ENROLLMENT)

COHORT B: Patients receive ipilimumab intra-lymphatically via DoseConnect™ and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study and may optionally undergo lymphatic imaging with ICG prior to treatment start.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months until disease progression, and then every 6 months for up to 2 years after registration.