Assessing the Impact of a Financial Navigation Program for Patients With Multiple Myeloma
The study is a randomized controlled trial to develop and evaluate a coordinated financial navigation program at the Abramson Cancer Center (ACC) for patients with multiple myeloma and identify barriers to its broader implementation.
Multiple Myeloma
OTHER: Coordinated Financial Navigation Program
COmprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity (COST), Primary outcome is assessing for change in participants' COmprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity (COST) from the baseline assessment to repeat assessment after 4 months of financial navigation. Scores range from 0-44, with lower scores representing greater financial hardship., 4 months
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G), Secondary outcome is assessing for change in participants' Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) as measured in part by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) from the baseline assessment to repeat assessment after 4 months of financial navigation. The FACT-G includes 4 subscales (physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, and functional well-being). The score ranges from 0-108 with a higher score indicating better quality of life., 4 months|Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire Short-Form [PSQ-18], Secondary outcome is assessing for change in participants' HRQOL as measured in part by the Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire Short-Form \[PSQ-18\] from the baseline assessment to repeat assessment after 4 months of financial navigation. The PSQ-18 includes 7 subscales (general satisfaction, technical quality, interpersonal manner, communication, financial aspects, time spent with doctor, and convenience). The score ranges from 18-90 points with higher scores indicating increased patient satisfaction., 4 months
Many financial support services are available to patients at the ACC, but are offered by different umbrella departments and rely on self- or clinician-referrals. Financial Advocacy provides assistance with insurance benefits, copayment assistance and hospital-based financial support. Social work assists with costs not directly related to treatment and also connects patients with community resources. Programs that increase coordination between these departments and proactively screen patients for financial hardship may enhance the reach of available services. However, such programs are resource intensive. As such, obtaining a better understanding of their benefits and any barriers to their expansion is a necessary first step to their broader implementation.

The long-term goal is to implement evidence-based practices that reduce ACC patients' financial burden. The overall objective of this proposal is to develop and evaluate a coordinated financial navigation program at the ACC for patients with multiple myeloma and identify barriers to its broader implementation. The rationale is that understanding the program's effectiveness and any barriers to its scalability will guide the way in which it could be incorporated into existing ACC workflows to maximize benefit for patients.