Tandem Peripheral Blood Stem Cell (PBSC) Rescue for High Risk Solid Tumors
This study uses a double autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue (PBSC) following dose-intensive chemotherapy for the treatment of high-risk pediatric solid tumors.
Ewing's Sarcoma|Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Hepatoblastoma|Hodgkin's Disease|Germ Cell Tumor
DRUG: High-Dose Chemotherapy with Tandem PBSC Rescue.
Determine the feasibility and toxicity of tandem PBSC rescue following high dose chemotherapy as consolidation in pediatric patients with high risk solid tumors., annually
Evaluate length of remission and long term disease free survival in chemotherapy responsive high-risk pediatric solid tumor patients treated using this approach., Annually|Evaluate correlation between cell dose and time to engraftment in high-risk pediatric solid tumor patients treated using this approach., Time to engraftment
Significant advances have been made in recent years in the treatment of solid tumors of childhood. However, much of the improvement in survival has been made in low stage and localized disease. Of significance is the fact that the improvements have come in up-front remission rates without translation into significantly high event-free survival(EFS) or overall survival (OS). This is despite the fact that these tumors as a whole are largely chemotherapy responsive.

Recent advances in the understanding of the biology of hematopoeitic stem cells have driven the design of treatment regimens that allow for dose intensification without unacceptable hematologic toxicity. Protocol development has focused on active agents that have a broad range between hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities. This study uses a double autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue (PBSC) following dose-intensive chemotherapy for the treatment of high-risk pediatric solid tumors. This study utilizes PBSC to limit the risk of tumor cell contamination while retaining prompt hematologic recovery from these highly intensified treatments.