Inotuzumab Ozogamicin and Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Leukemia or Lymphoma Undergoing Stem Cell Transplantation
The goal of this phase II clinical study is to learn about the safety of inotuzumab ozogamicin when given with fludarabine, with or without bendamustine, melphalan, and rituximab before and after a stem cell transplant. Researchers also want to learn if inotuzumab ozogamicin when given after a stem cell transplant can help control leukemia and lymphoma. Inotuzumab ozogamicin is a monoclonal antibody, called inotuzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug called ozogamicin. Inotuzumab attaches to CD22-positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers ozogamicin to kill them. Giving chemotherapy before a bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cells in the bone marrow, including normal blood-forming cells (stem cells) and cancer cells. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor attack the body's normal cells (called graft-versus-host disease). Giving tacrolimus and filgrastim before or after the transplant may stop this from happening. Fludarabine, bendamustine, melphalan, and rituximab are commonly given before stem cell transplants. Giving inotuzumab ozogamicin with chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with leukemia or lymphoma undergoing stem cell transplantation.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Lymphocytic Neoplasm|Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation|DRUG: Bendamustine|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim-sndz|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Inotuzumab Ozogamicin|DRUG: Melphalan|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Tacrolimus
Incidence of grade 3 or higher renal, hepatic, cardiac, pulmonary, or neurologic toxicity, Will be assessed using the Bayesian method of Thall, Simon, and Estey. At the end of the trial, the rates of severe toxicity will be summarized, and analyses will be performed to assess the relationship between each toxicity endpoint and covariates of interest using logistic regression., Up to 30 days after cycle 1 of maintenance therapy
Treatment-related mortality (TRM), The cumulative incidence of TRM will be assessed in a competing risks framework with the competing risk of disease relapse. Regression models will be fit to assess the relationship between each and covariates of interest using the method of Fine and Gray., Up to 2 years|Relapse, Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), The distribution of OS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and distributions will be compared using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards regression models will be fit to assess the relationship between OS and covariates of interest., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and distributions will be compared using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards regression models will be fit to assess the relationship between PFS and covariates of interest., Up to 2 years|Acute graft versus host disease (GVHD), The cumulative incidence of acute GvHD will be assessed in a competing risks framework with competing risks of death without relapse and disease relapse. The method of Fine and Gray will be used to assess the association between GvHD and covariates of interest., Up to 2 years|Chronic GVHD, The cumulative incidence of chronic GvHD will be assessed in a competing risks framework with competing risks of death without relapse and disease relapse. The method of Fine and Gray will be used to assess the association between GvHD and covariates of interest., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety of the addition of inotuzumab ozogamicin (IO) pre- and post-allogeneic transplantation in patients with CD22-positive hematological malignancies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival, progression-free survival and relapse rates. II. Treatment-related mortality. III. Cumulative incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and aggressive lymphoma receive inotuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day -13, fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2, melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -2, and tacrolimus IV continuously beginning on day -2 then orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) for about 6 months. Patients also receive bone marrow or peripheral blood progenitor cells IV on day 0. Patients receive cylophosphamide IV over 3 hours and mesna IV on days +3 to +4 and filgrastim-sndz subcutaneously (SC) QD beginning 1 week after the transplant until blood cell levels return to normal.

GROUP II: Patients with indolent lymphoma receive inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on day -13, fludarabine IV over 1 hour and bendamustine IV over 30 minutes to 1 hour on days -5 to -3, and tacrolimus IV continuously beginning on day -2 then PO QD or BID for about 6 months. Patients also receive bone marrow or peripheral blood progenitor cells IV on day 0. Patients then receive rituximab IV over 4-6 hours on days 1 and 8, cyclophosphamide IC over 3 hours and mesna IV on days +3 to +4, and filgrastim-sndz SC once a day beginning 1 week after the transplant.

MAINTENANCE: Between 45 and 100 days after stem cell transplantation, all patients receive inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2. Beginning 28 to 100 days after start of first cycle, patients receive inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.

GROUP III: Recipients of haploidentical or mismatched unrelated stem cell transplant: Patients will receive inotuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day -13, fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2, melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -3 to -2, total body irradiation on day -1, and tacrolimus IV continuously beginning on day -2 then orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) for about 6 months. Patients also receive bone marrow or peripheral blood progenitor cells IV on day 0. Patients receive cylophosphamide IV over 3 hours and mesna IV on days +3 to +4 and filgrastim-sndz subcutaneously (SC) QD beginning 1 week after the transplant until blood cell levels return to normal.