Cytoreductive Prostatectomy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed, Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects of cytoreductive prostatectomy in treating patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer that has spread from the primary site to other places in the body. Cytoreductive prostatectomy is a type of surgery that removes the prostate and as much of the tumor as possible. When combined with hormone therapy, robotic assisted radical prostatectomy (RARP) or conventional open retropubic radical prostatectomy (RRP) may prolong survival in patients with prostate cancer that has spread.
Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostatic Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Carcinoma Metastatic to the Bone
PROCEDURE: Robotic Assisted Radical Prostatectomy|PROCEDURE: Conventional open retropubic radical prostectomy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: ADT (androgen deprivation therapy) (i.e. leuprolide) plus an androgen receptor inhibitor (i.e. bicalutamide)
Rate of major peri-operative complications defined as Clavien-Dindo grade III or higher, Rate will be calculated for the primary end point, and one-sided Binomial test will be used to compare the rate to the hypothesized value. Descriptive statistics will be provided. Any further statistical analysis deemed necessary to calculate significant findings will be done with the assistance of the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey Biostatistics Section., Within 90 days after cytoreductive prostatectomy
Time to PSA nadir, Time to event data will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Descriptive statistics will be provided. Any further statistical analysis deemed necessary to calculate significant findings will be done with the assistance of the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey Biostatistics Section., Up to 3 years|Time to rising PSA while on the standard androgen deprivation therapy, Time to event data will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Descriptive statistics will be provided. Any further statistical analysis deemed necessary to calculate significant findings will be done with the assistance of the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey Biostatistics Section., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and feasibility of cytoreductive prostatectomy (to remove as much of the primary cancer as possible) in men with newly diagnosed clinical T1-3N1M0 or T1-3N0M1a-b prostate cancer (herein, collectively referred to as metastatic prostate cancer).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Time to prostate specific antigen (PSA) nadir and castration resistance following cytoreductive prostatectomy and subsequent standard systemic therapy, androgen deprivation.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo RARP or conventional open RRP. Immediately following surgery, patients receive standard systemic androgen deprivation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 90 days for 3 years.