Haploidentical Transplant With NK Cell Infusion for Pediatric Acute Leukemia and Solid Tumors
This study will assess the feasibility of utilizing a reduced intensity conditioning regimen, in the setting of haploidentical transplantation, for patients with recurrent acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), AML and high risk or refractory solid tumors. In addition, the feasibility and safety of administering post-transplant NK cell infusions will be evaluated. Data obtained from this study will help determine the efficacy of allogeneic HSCT in the treatment of pediatric sarcomas and add to the small body of literature utilizing haploidentical HSCT to treat acute leukemia in pediatric patients. This study will also further elucidate the role of NK cells in mediating a graft vs. tumor effect in allogeneic HSCT. The main benefit to society is that this study will explore a novel therapy for children with highly refractory cancer who are felt to be incurable with conventional approaches. If feasibility is demonstrated, and there is evidence of anti-tumor activity, then this will open up a new area of clinical research to better define the efficacy of this approach for specific childhood malignancies.
Leukemia|Solid Tumors
DEVICE: Clinimacs Cell Separation System|DRUG: conditioning chemotherapy|OTHER: DLI
Grade III or IV GVHD, Skin Grade III: Stage 0-4 GVHD, where 0 is no rash and 4 is generalized erythroderma with bullous formation and/or with desquamation Grade IV: Stage 4 GVHD, generalized erythroderma with bullous formation and/or with desquamation

GI (diarrhea) Grade III: Stage 2-4 GVHD, where 2 is \> 1000 mL/day but ≤ 1500 mL/day or 556-833 mL/m2, and 4 is severe abdominal pain +/- ileus or stool with frank blood or melena Grade IV: Stage 0-4 GVHD, where 0 is \< 500 mL/day or 280 mL/m2, and 4 is severe abdominal pain +/- ileus or stool with frank blood or melena

Overall:

Grade III: Grade III Skin and/or GI as well as bilirubin 3.1-15 mg/dl Grade IV: Grade IV Skin and/or GI as well as bilirubin \> 15 mg/dl, Day 100|Engraftment Failure, Utilize non-myeloablative conditioning regimen in the haploidentical transplant setting.

Primary engraftment failure: failure to achieve ANC of ≥500/uL prior to day +28 Late engraftment failure: Initial engraftment achieved with ANC ≥500/uL by day +28 followed by loss of graft Autologous Cells Infused: achieved hematologic recovery following infusions of autologous stem cells Second Haploidentical Transplant: re-transplantation utilizing an alternative haploidentical donor, 28 days|Number of Days Until Engraftment Criteria Were Met, Utilize non-myeloablative conditioning regimen in the haploidentical transplant setting. Engraftment is defined as achieving an absolute neutrophil count ≥ 500 by 28 days post-transplant; platelets and red blood cells will also be measured up to 28 days:

* Neutrophils: ≥500/uL for 3 days
* Platelets: ≥20 K/uL for 3 days without transfusion
* Red blood cells: the date of the last RBC transfusion after achieving transfusion independence Results are reported as number of days until engraftment criteria was met, per neutrophil, platelet and red blood cell measurements, above., 28 days|Mortality Rate, Mortality rate at 100 days post-transplant., 100 days post-transplant
NK Expression Levels, Natural Killer (NK) cell expression levels will be explored. Blood samples will be collected at months 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12., Up to 12 months|Association Between Parental KIR Genotypes and NK Cell Cytotoxicities, NK cells express killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) and have cytotoxic activity. The association between NK cell cytotoxicity over time and KIR genotypes will be examined. Blood samples will be collected at months 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12., Day 60|Analysis of NK Cell KIR Expression Over Time, NK cell KIR expression over time will be examined. Blood samples will be collected at months 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12., Up to 12 months
This study will assess the feasibility of utilizing a reduced intensity conditioning regimen, in the setting of haploidentical transplantation, for patients with recurrent acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), AML and high risk or refractory solid tumors. In addition, the feasibility and safety of administering post-transplant NK cell infusions will be evaluated. Data obtained from this study will help determine the efficacy of allogeneic HSCT in the treatment of pediatric sarcomas and add to the small body of literature utilizing haploidentical HSCT to treat acute leukemia in pediatric patients. This study will also further elucidate the role of NK cells in mediating a graft vs. tumor effect in allogeneic HSCT. The main benefit to society is that this study will explore a novel therapy for children with highly refractory cancer who are felt to be incurable with conventional approaches. If feasibility is demonstrated, and there is evidence of anti-tumor activity, then this will open up a new area of clinical research to better define the efficacy of this approach for specific childhood malignancies.