Safety, Effectiveness, and Pharmacokinetics of BNT327 in Combination With Chemotherapy and Other Investigational Agents for Lung Cancer
This is a Phase 2/3, multisite, randomized, open-label study in participants with first-line non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

This study includes two substudies (substudy A and substudy B) that will recruit participants according to histological subtypes due to differences in chemotherapy choice for standard-of-care and type of NSCLC.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: BNT327|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Phase 2 - Occurrence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE) (including Grade ≥3), adverse events of special interest (AESIs), treatment-related TEAEs, treatment-emergent serious adverse events (SAE), and treatment-related treatment emergent SAEs, For substudies A and B. AEs graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 in the combination treatment regimen., From the first dose of the investigational medicinal product (IMP) to the 90-day Follow-Up Visit|Phase 2 - Occurrence of dose interruption, reduction, and discontinuation of IMP due to TEAEs (including related TEAEs), For substudies A and B., From the first dose of IMP to the 90-day Follow-Up Visit|Phase 2 - Objective response rate (ORR) - unconfirmed, For substudies A and B. ORR is defined as the proportion of participants in whom a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 \[RECIST v1.1\] based on the investigator's assessment) is observed as best overall response., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 2 - Best percentage change from baseline in tumor size, For substudies A and B. Based on investigator's tumor assessment according to RECIST 1.1., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 3 - Progression free survival (PFS) assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR), For substudies A and B PFS defined as the time from randomization to first documented tumor progression (progressive disease per RECIST v1.1), or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 5 years|Phase 3 - Overall survival (OS), For substudies A and B. OS defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, Up to approximately 5 years
Phase 2 - ORR - confirmed, For substudies A and B. ORR defined as the proportion of participants whom a CR or PR (per RECIST v1.1) is observed as best overall response with confirmation., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 2 - Duration of Response (DOR), For substudies A and B. DOR defined as the time from first objective response (CR or PR per RECIST v1.1) to first occurrence of objective tumor progression (progressive disease per RECIST v1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 2 - Disease Control Rate (DCR), For substudies A and B. DCR defined as the proportion of participants in whom a CR or PR or stable disease (per RECIST v1.1, stable disease assessed at least 6 weeks after randomization) is observed as best overall response., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 3 - PFS assessed by investigator, For substudies A and B. PFS defined as the time from randomization to first documented tumor progression (progressive disease per RECIST v1.1), or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 5 years|Phase 3 - ORR assessed by BICR and by the investigator, For substudies A and B. ORR defined as the proportion of participants in whom a CR or PR (per RECIST v1.1) is observed as best overall response with confirmation., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 3 - DOR assessed by BICR and by the investigator, For substudies A and B. DOR defined as the time from first objective response (CR or PR per RECIST v1.1) to first occurrence of objective tumor progression (progressive disease per RECIST v1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 3 - DCR assessed by BICR and by the investigator, For substudies A and B. DCR defined as the proportion of participants in whom a CR or PR or stable disease (per RECIST v1.1, stable disease assessed at least 6 weeks after randomization) is observed as best overall response., Up to approximately 2 years|Phase 3 - PFS rate as assessed by BICR, For substudies A and B., At 6, 12, and 18 months|Phase 3 - PFS rate as assessed by investigator, For substudies A and B., At 6, 12, and 18 months|Phase 3 - OS rate, For substudies A and B., At 6, 12, 18, 24 months|Phase 3 - Change from baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-life-Core 30 Questionnaire (QLQ-C30), For substudies A and B. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is the most widely used cancer-specific, health related Quality-of-Life (QoL) instrument containing a total of 30 items and measures 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, and pain), 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties), and a global health status/QoL scale. All the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100 with a high scale score representing a higher response level (e.g., high score for functional scale is high/healthy level of functioning; high score for global health status/QoL is high QoL: high score for symptom scale/item is high symptomatology or problems)., Up to approximately 5 years|Phase 3 - Change from baseline in EORTC Lung Cancer-Specific QoL Questionnaire (QLC-LC29), For substudies A and B. The EORTC QLQ-LC29 is a disease-specific supplementary health related QoL questionnaire module to be employed in conjunction with the QLQ-C30. It comprises of 29 items and measures 5 multi-item scales (coughing, shortness of breath, side effects, tumor progression/existential issues, surgery-related symptoms) and 5 single items (coughing up blood, pain in chest, arm/shoulder and other parts of the body, and weight loss). All the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100 with a high score for the scales and single items representing a high level of symptomatology or problems., Up to approximately 5 years|Phase 3 - Change from baseline in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Symptom Assessment Questionnaire (NSCLC-SAQ) total score and domain score, For substudies A and B. The NSCLC-SAQ is a 7-item patient reposted outcome (PRO) measure for use in adults to assess symptoms of advanced non-small cell lung cancer. It contains 5 domains and accompanying items that were identified as symptoms of non-small cell lung cancer: cough (1 item), pain (2), dyspnea (1), fatigue (2), and appetite (1). The (total) lowest score possible is 0, and the highest (total) score possible is 20. Higher scores indicate more severe symptoms., Up to approximately 5 years|Phase 3 - Occurrence of TEAEs including Grade ≥3, serious, and fatal TEAEs by relationship, For substudies A and B. AEs graded according to CTCAE v5.0., From the first dose of IMP to the 90-day Follow-Up Visit|Phase 3 - Occurrence of dose interruption, reduction, and discontinuation of IMP due to TEAEs (including related TEAEs), For substudies A and B., From the first dose of IMP to the 90-day Follow-Up Visit
Each substudy contains a Phase 2 part followed by a Phase 3 part. Participants will be randomized to one of two dose levels of BNT327 plus chemotherapy for the Phase 2 part of each substudy. After the analysis of the Phase 2 data (efficacy, safety, and exposure-response), an internal review committee (IRC) will decide whether participants will be treated with BNT327 at dose level 1 or 2 in the Phase 3 part of the substudies. After dose selection, the selected dose will be used for all participants in the study. For the Phase 3 parts of both substudies, an independent data monitoring committee (IDMC) will be established as needed to provide independent review of the data during the study.

The sponsor may decide not to perform or stop recruiting participants in the Phase 2 part of the study depending on data generated in the BNT327-01 (NCT06449209) and BNT327-02 (NCT06449222) studies. The sponsor may also choose not to continue all substudies.