Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Resected Colon Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug is a way to kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to determine the effectiveness of uracil, tegafur,and leucovorin compared with fluorouracil plus leucovorin in patients with resected stage II or stage III colon cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: tegafur|DRUG: uracil
Compare the relative efficacy of UFT + LV with that of 5-FU + LV in prolonging disease-free survival and survival
evaluate the prognostic significants of proposed biomarkers, alone or in combination, in patients treated with 5-FU + LV or UFT + LV|Evaluate the relationships of various biomarkers to each other and to evaluate their association with patient and tumor characteristics|Compare quality of life in patients with stage II and III carcinoma of the colon treated with either 5-FU + LV or UFT + LV regimen
OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the relative efficacy of oral uracil/tegafur (UFT) with leucovorin (CF) vs. fluorouracil (5-FU) with CF in prolonging overall and disease-free survival in patients with potentially curatively resected stage II/III adenocarcinoma of the colon. II. Compare the prognostic significance of several biomarkers alone or in combination, including DNA mismatch repair gene mutations, p53, deleted colon cancer gene, proliferation status, and thymidylate synthase, in patients treated with UFT/CF vs. 5-FU/CF. III. Evaluate the relationships of various biomarkers to each other and their association with patient and tumor characteristics. IV. Compare quality of life in patients treated with UFT/CF vs. 5-FU/CF.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by number of positive lymph nodes and participating institution. For the quality-of-life portion of the study, patients are stratified by age, sex, and ethnicity. Treatment begins within 6 weeks after curative resection and within 1 week of randomization. Patients are randomly assigned to one of two groups. The first group receives intravenous leucovorin followed by intravenous fluorouracil weekly for 6 weeks. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for a total of 3 courses. The second group receives oral uracil/tegafur, and oral leucovorin every 8 hours for 28 days. Treatment repeats every 5 weeks for a total of 5 courses. No concurrent halogenated antiviral agents (e.g., sorivudine) are permitted. After completing treatment, patients complete quality-of-life questionnaires at one year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 1,500 patients will be entered over 3 years to provide 1,452 evaluable patients.