Microwave Ablation Combined With TACE in the Treatment of Unresectable Huge Hepatocellular Carcinoma Huge
The purpose of this study was to prospectively evaluate the efficacy and safety of TACE combined with MWA in patients with huge unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable|Transarterial Chemoembolization|Microwave Ablation
PROCEDURE: TACE|PROCEDURE: MWA|DEVICE: MWA system|DRUG: Chemoembolization
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be defined as the elapsed time from the enrollment to death from any cause. For surviving patients, follow-up will be censored at the date of last contact (or last date known to be alive). Follow-up for OS will occur every 12 weeks (±1 month) until death or withdrawal of consent from the study., up to 3 years
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as the elapsed time from the first date of study treatment until documented disease progression (as per mRECIST) or death from any cause, whichever is earlier. For patients who remain alive without progression, follow-up time will be censored at the date of last disease assessment., up to 3 years|Adverse event rate, Adverse event rate will be defined as the rate of patients who developed adverse event., up to 3 years|Distant metastasis-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as the elapsed time from the first date of study treatment until documented distant metastasis (as per RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause, whichever is earlier. For patients who remain alive without progression, follow-up time will be censored at the date of last disease assessment ., up to 3 years
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer worldwide. Despite the widespread application of surveillance programs in high-risk populations, patients continue to present with huge (≥ 10 cm) HCCs.And it's still a challenge to treat huge HCC nowadays.Surgical resection is currently the only curative treatment for huge HCCs ; however, only a minority of patients are candidates for curative resection. Sorafenib is recommended for the treatment of advanced HCCs, including huge HCCs, but the usage is severely limited by high adverse event rates and low efficiency. Thus, transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is considered the first choice for huge unresectable HCCs. Several studies have concluded that TACE effectively improves the overall survival of patients with huge HCCs. Meanwhile, microwave ablation (MWA) now has been shown to be safe and effective for local tumor control in HCC patients. However, neither MWA nor TACE alone can achieve complete control of large HCCs . Therefore, the combination of TACE and MWA (TACE+MWA) is an appealing approach to treat HCCs. TACE+MWA now has been shown to improve overall survival rates compared with TACE alone in patients with small to large HCCs. But little data is available on TACE+MWA in patients with huge unresectable HCCs. Thus, the study was designed.