A Clinical Study Aims to Assess the Consistency of Clinical Efficacy in Colorectal Cancer Treatment and Drug Susceptibility Outcomes Using a Novel Drug Susceptibility Testing Method
The study is a real-world observational clinical study. Patients diagnosed as colorectal cancer through histopathology were screened and enrolled. Before anti-tumor treatment, colonoscopy biopsy tissue specimens, surgical specimens, and malignant pleural effusion or ascites specimens, etc. are collected. The investigators will perform a drug sensitivity testing based on a novel drug susceptibility testing method to test the commonly used anti-tumor treatment regimens. Patients were given conventional anti-tumor treatment according to the medical judgment of the doctors. Finally, the investigator will evaluate the consistency of clinical efficacy in colorectal cancer treatment and drug susceptibility outcomes.
Colorectal Cancer|Organoids
Disease-free survival, An Indicator of efficacy of postoperative adjuvant therapy, From date of surgery until the date of first documented recurrence，up to 3 years|Sensitivity, Cases in which drug susceptibility results are sensitive to the antineoplastic regimen as apercentage of the cases that are effective in clinical evaluation, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Specificity, Cases in which drug susceptibility results are resistance to the antineoplastic regimen as apercentage of the cases that are ineffective in clinical evaluation, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
The study is a real-world observational clinical study. Patients diagnosed as colorectal cancer through histopathology were screened and enrolled. Before anti-tumor treatment, colonoscopy biopsy tissue specimens, surgical specimens, and malignant pleural effusion or ascites specimens, etc. are collected. The investigators will perform a drug sensitivity testing based on a novel drug susceptibility testing method to test the commonly used anti-tumor treatment regimens. Patients were given conventional anti-tumor treatment according to the medical judgment of the doctors. Finally, the investigator will evaluate the consistency of clinical efficacy in colorectal cancer treatment and drug susceptibility outcomes.