Dynamic Perfusion Computed Tomography in Patients With Localized Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies the changes in dynamic perfusion computed tomography images before, during, and after stereotactic body radiation therapy in patients with stage I-II non-small cell lung cancer that has not spread to other parts of the body. Diagnostic imaging procedures, such as dynamic perfusion computed tomography, measure blood flow through tumors. Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a specialized radiation therapy that sends x-rays directly to the tumor using smaller doses over several days and may cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving dynamic perfusion computed tomography images before, during, and after stereotactic body radiation therapy may help better understand how radiation therapy works to stop tumor growth in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Stage IA Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IB Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIA Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIB Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
DEVICE: Computed Tomography Perfusion Imaging|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Change in blood flow (mL/min/100 g) as measured on perfusion CT, Descriptive statistics including mean and standard deviation or median and range, will be used to summarize the distribution of perfusion parameters (blood flow, blood volume, mean transit time and permeability), as well as their changes from baseline to the time-points after SBRT. Precision of the estimated means will be provided. Line graphs will be used to display the changes in the parameters over time. If the distribution of the data permits, mixed-effect linear regression analysis will be performed to examine the patterns of the pre- vs. post-SBRT change in the endpoints., Baseline to up to 3 months post SBRT|Change in blood volume (mL/100 g) as measured on perfusion CT, Descriptive statistics including mean and standard deviation or median and range, will be used to summarize the distribution of perfusion parameters (blood flow, blood volume, mean transit time and permeability), as well as their changes from baseline to the time-points after SBRT. Precision of the estimated means will be provided. Line graphs will be used to display the changes in the parameters over time. If the distribution of the data permits, mixed-effect linear regression analysis will be performed to examine the patterns of the pre- vs. post-SBRT change in the endpoints., Baseline to up to 3 months post SBRT|Change in mean transit time (seconds) as measured on perfusion CT, Descriptive statistics including mean and standard deviation or median and range, will be used to summarize the distribution of perfusion parameters (blood flow, blood volume, mean transit time and permeability), as well as their changes from baseline to the time-points after SBRT. Precision of the estimated means will be provided. Line graphs will be used to display the changes in the parameters over time. If the distribution of the data permits, mixed-effect linear regression analysis will be performed to examine the patterns of the pre- vs. post-SBRT change in the endpoints., Baseline to up to 3 months post SBRT|Change in permeability (mL/min/100 g) as measured on perfusion CT, Descriptive statistics including mean and standard deviation or median and range, will be used to summarize the distribution of perfusion parameters (blood flow, blood volume, mean transit time and permeability), as well as their changes from baseline to the time-points after SBRT. Precision of the estimated means will be provided. Line graphs will be used to display the changes in the parameters over time. If the distribution of the data permits, mixed-effect linear regression analysis will be performed to examine the patterns of the pre- vs. post-SBRT change in the endpoints., Baseline to up to 3 months post SBRT
Clinical tumor response assessed by CT scans as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria version 1.1, Descriptive statistics will also be used in the analyses of the secondary endpoints. Correlations between the endpoints will be examined with scatter plots and/or box plots. Patient's response status will be correlated with tumor perfusion parameters., Up to 24 months post SBRT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe perfusion computed tomography (CT) parameters and their changes in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumors prior to, during, 1 month after, and 3 months after stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate tumor perfusion parameters with clinical tumor response on follow up per standard of care.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate changes in serum levels of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation and circulating tumor cell (CTC) with clinical response rates and perfusion parameters.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo dynamic perfusion computed tomography (DPCT) at baseline, during SBRT (after 2 of 3 fractions or 3 of 5 fractions), and then at 1 and 3 months post stereotactic body radiation therapy.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.