A Study of Niraparib (GSK3985771) Maintenance Treatment in Participants With Advanced Ovarian Cancer Following Response on Front-Line Platinum-Based Chemotherapy
This study aims to assess efficacy of Niraparib (GSK3985771) as maintenance treatment in participants with Stage III or IV ovarian cancer. Participants must have completed front-line platinum based regimen with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Data collection for Secondary Outcome measures is ongoing and the approximate duration of the study will be 7 years.
Ovarian Neoplasms
DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Placebo
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival was defined as the time from the date of treatment randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause in the absence of documented progression, whichever occurs first. It was assessed by the blinded independent central review (BICR). Median and 95% confidence interval (CI) are presented., Up to 34 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death by any cause. Median and 95% CI are presented for overall survival interim analysis., Up to 34 months|Time to First Subsequent Therapy (TFST), Time to first subsequent therapy was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first subsequent anti-cancer therapy or death, whichever occurs first. Median and 95% CI are presented., Up to 34 months|Progression-Free Survival-2 (PFS2), PFS2 was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of progression on the next anti-cancer therapy following study treatment or death by any cause, whichever occurs first. Median and 95% CI are presented., Up to 34 months|Change From Baseline in Participant Reported Outcome (PRO): Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian Symptom Index (FOSI), FOSI is a validated, 8-item measure of symptom response to treatment for ovarian cancer. Participants responded to their symptom experience over the past 7 days using a 5-point Likert scale scored from "not at all" (0) to "very much" (4). FOSI score was calculated as (sum of item scores)\*8 divided by (number of items answered). The FOSI score ranged from 0 (severely symptomatic) to 32 (asymptomatic). A higher score indicated a better quality of life (QoL). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1 pre-dose)., Baseline (Day 1, Pre-dose) and Up to Week 24|Change From Baseline in PRO: European Quality of Life Scale, 5-dimensions, 5-levels of Severity (EQ-5D-5L) Utility Score, The EQ-5D-5L is a well-validated general preference-based, health-related QoL instrument. The five-item measure has 1 question assessing each of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression and 5 levels for each dimension including 1=no problems, 2=slight problems, 3=moderate problems, 4=severe problems and 5=extreme problems. The health state is defined by combining the levels of answers from each of the 5 questions. Each health state is referred to in terms of a 5 digit code. Health state 5 digit code is translated into utility score, which is valued up to 1 (perfect health) with lower values meaning worse state. EQ-5D-5L utility score ranges from -0.281 to 1. Higher scores indicate better health. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1 pre-dose)., Baseline (Day 1, Pre-dose) and Up to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Functional Scales of European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30), EORTC-QLQ-C30 incorporates 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea/vomiting), a global health status/QoL scale (global health status, QoL), and 6 single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulty) assessing additional symptoms commonly reported by participants with cancer. Five functional scales had total 15 items (physical-5, role-2, cognitive-4, emotional-2, and social-2). Each functional scales score was calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (1 minus \[average score minus 1\] divided by 3\*100). All of the functional scales range in score from 0 to 100. Higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1 pre-dose)., Baseline (Day 1, Pre-dose) and Up to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Global Health Status/QoL of EORTC-QLQ-C30, EORTC-QLQ-C30 incorporates 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea/vomiting), a global health status/QoL scale (global health status, QoL), and 6 single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulty) assessing additional symptoms commonly reported by participants with cancer. A global health status/QoL scale had total 2 items. Each global health status/QoL scales score was calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (\[average score minus 1\] divided by 6\*100). The global health status/QoL scales range in score from 0 to 100. Higher score represents a higher ("better") level of health status/QoL. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1 pre-dose)., Baseline (Day 1, Pre-dose) and Up to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Symptoms Scales and Symptoms Items (Dyspnea, Appetite Loss, Insomnia, Constipation, Diarrhea and Financial Difficulty) of EORTC-QLQ-C30, EORTC-QLQ-C30 incorporates 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea/vomiting), a global health status/QoL scale, and 6 single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulty) assessing additional symptoms commonly reported by participants with cancer. Symptom scale had total 7 items (fatigue-3, pain-2, nausea/vomiting-2). Each symptoms scales and 6 single additional symptoms items score was calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (\[average score minus 1\] divided by 3\*100). All of the symptoms scales and 6 single additional symptoms scales range in score from 0 to 100. Higher score represents a higher ("worse") level of symptoms. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1 pre-dose)., Baseline (Day 1, Pre-dose) and Up to Week 24|Change From Baseline in Functional Scales of European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Ovarian Cancer Module (EORTC-QLQ-OV28), EORTC-QLQ-OV28 is supplement to EORTC-QLQ-C30. It includes 3 functional scales (body image, sexuality, attitude to disease/treatment) and 5 symptom scales/items (abdominal/gastrointestinal \[GI\] symptoms, peripheral neuropathy, hormonal/menopausal symptoms, other chemotherapy side-effects, and hair loss). Functional scales score (body Image and attitude to disease/treatment) was calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (1 minus \[average score minus 1\] divided by 3\*100). Functional scales score (sexuality) was calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (\[average score minus 1\] divided by 3\*100). All of the functional scales range in score from 0 to 100. Higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1 pre-dose)., Baseline (Day 1, Pre-dose) and Up to 34 months|Change From Baseline in Symptoms Scale of EORTC-QLQ-OV28, EORTC-QLQ-OV28 is supplement to EORTC-QLQ-C30. It includes 3 functional scales (body image, sexuality, attitude to disease/treatment) and 5 symptom scales/items (abdominal/GI symptoms, peripheral neuropathy, hormonal/menopausal symptoms, other chemotherapy side-effects, and hair loss). Symptoms scales score was calculated by averaging scores of all scale items and transforming average scores linearly (\[average score minus 1\] divided by 3\*100). All of the symptoms scales range in score from 0 to 100. Higher score represents a higher ("worse") level of symptoms. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value. Baseline was defined as the latest pre-dose assessment (Day 1 pre-dose)., Baseline (Day 1, Pre-dose) and Up to 34 months
Number of Participants With Any Non-serious Adverse Event (Non-SAE) or Any SAE, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with study treatment. Any untoward event resulting in death, life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly or birth defect or any other situation according to medical or scientific judgment was categorized as SAE., Up to 34 months|Area Under the Curve (AUC) From 0 to the Last Quantifiable Concentration (AUC[0-last]), Blood samples were planned to be collected for assessment of AUC(0-last)., Up to 34 months|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Blood samples were planned to be collected for assessment of Cmax., Up to 34 months|Number of Participants With Positive HRD Test, Number of participants with positive HRD test was planned to be assessed., Up to 34 months
This study aims to assess efficacy of Niraparib (GSK3985771) as maintenance treatment in participants with Stage III or IV ovarian cancer. Participants must have completed front-line platinum based regimen with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Data collection for Secondary Outcome measures is ongoing and the approximate duration of the study will be 7 years.