7-Days Water-Only Fasting Trial in Prostate Cancer
Activating the immune system to kill cancer cells is a promising therapeutic strategy for some patients with cancer. Unfortunately, current immune-targeting treatments do not work for patients with prostate cancer. In animal models of cancer, fasting can reprogram the body's metabolism and immune cell function to help immune cells kill cancer cells. The purpose of this study is to determine whether 7 days of water-only fasting or a very low-calorie diet is safe and feasible for patients with metastatic prostate cancer. This will help the investigators develop future studies to test whether incorporating periods of fasting or very low calorie diets into treatment plans for prostate cancer can improve outcomes from this disease.
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Fasting
Number of adverse events and serious adverse events (SAEs), Number of adverse events and serious adverse events (SAEs) assessed according to CTCAE v5.0, 1 year|Number patients who complete 7 days of fasting or the ketogenic very low-calorie diet of all enrolled patients, Number patients who complete 7 days of fasting or the ketogenic very low-calorie diet of all enrolled patients, 1 year
Changes in quality of life and function using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G) survey, Changes in quality of life and function during the study based on the change in score of a daily modified FACT-G survey. Score range 0-108 with a higher score indicating better quality of life and function., Screening and daily from Day 1 to Day 10|Changes in quality of life and function based on number of steps, Changes in quality of life and function during the study based on the number of steps per day by an activity tracker., Daily from Day 1 to Day 10
Seven days of water-only fasting is safe and feasible in healthy adults. Fasting enhances anti-tumor immunity in animal models of cancer. The primary objective of this study is to determine if 7 days of water-only fasting or a ketogenic very low-calorie diet is safe and feasible in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Patients with metastatic prostate cancer will be instructed to perform a 7-day water-only fast followed by a 3-day refeeding protocol to evaluate safety and feasibility. Eligible patients are those with metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma. Patients will perform a 7-day water-only fast followed by a 3-day refeeding protocol. Patients will be monitored by regular labs and a clinic visit on Day 3. Patients may deviate to a ketogenic very low-calorie diet at any time between Day 1 and Day 7.