SB939 in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: SB939 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of SB939 in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: HDAC inhibitor SB939|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: immunologic technique|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: liquid chromatography|OTHER: mass spectrometry|OTHER: pharmacological study
Recommended phase II dose, Assess for safety, tolerability, toxicity profile and dose limiting toxicities, Each dose level
Safety, Safety, tolerability, toxicity profile, dose limiting toxicities of SB939., Each dose level|Pharmacokinetic profile, Samples collected over multiple timepoints, Cycle 1 day 1 and 15|SB939 effects on histone H3 acetylation, Levels of AcH3 will be determined using wetern Blot, immunohistochemistry or Elisa method., Cycle 1 days 1 and 15
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the recommended phase II dose of oral SB939 in patients with solid tumors.

Secondary

* To determine the toxic effects of SB939 and its association with dose and pharmacokinetics.
* To assess the pharmacokinetic profile of SB939.
* To assess preliminary evidence of antitumor effects of SB939 in patients with measurable disease as documented by objective response.
* To establish proof-of-principle for SB939 effects on histone acetylation by evaluation of histone acetylation and other biomarkers in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) at all dose levels.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral SB939 once daily on days 1-5 and 15-19. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically during course 1 for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. Samples are analyzed for levels of SB939 via LC-MS/MS method and levels of acetylated histone 3 (AcH3), target effect, downstream consequences, and tumor response via western blot, immunohistochemistry, or ELISA methods.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.