Diet Modification in pAtients With Luminal Early Breast Cancer Candidate for Primary Surgery
to analyze the feasibility for patients with early luminal breast cancer to be compliant with a diet modification - ketogenic or proteins restricted diet - during 9 +/- 1 days, before breast cancer surgery.

It's a Pilot study, monocentric, randomized
Breast Cancer|Surgery
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: iso-caloric ketogenic diet|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: protein restricted diet
study of the compliance of patients to the two proposed diets. The proportion of compliant patients to the proposed diet according to the dietary survey realized during 3 days, A patient is considered compliant to the diet if the caloric intake is equal +/- 25% to the caloric intake of the proposed diet AND For the ketogenic diet : the carbohydrate intake is equal +/- 25% to the carbohydrate intake of the proposed diet; i.e. a carbohydrate intake between 7.5 and 12.5% of the total energy intake For the protein restricted diet, the protein intake is equal +/- 25% to the protein intake proposed for this diet; i.e. a reduction between 15 and 25% compared to the previous protein intake, during 3 days before the primary surgery
study of the molecular consequences of diet modifications on cancer cells and their microenvironment, analyse markers of cell proliferation in cancer and immune cells with blood sample and tumor sample. Evaluation of markers involved in carbohydrate mitochondrial and lipid metabolism, and markers of the Pi3K-Akt-mTOR and the IGF-R pathways, At the inclusion visit and the day of surgery|study of the molecular consequences of diet modifications on cancer cells and their microenvironment, determine the activity of the anti-tumoral immune surveillance with blood sample and tumor sample. Correlation between the cancer response and antitumoral immune with diet programm, At the inclusion visit and the day of surgery|evaluation of patient's tolerability to those diet modifications, in terms of weight status, Weight surveillance (in kilograms), From the inclusion visit until the Day 45 post surgery|evaluation of patient's tolerability to those diet modifications, in terms of adverse events, monitoring of adverse events related to diet (with CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) version 5.0), From the inclusion visit until the Day 45 post surgery|assessment of the acceptance of study participation and reasons for refusal, Rate of patients who agreed to participate in the study compared to the total number of patients to whom the study was proposed. Collection of reasons for refusing to participate to the study, During 45 days before the surgery|determination of the impact of diet modification on patient's quality of life, Result of the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire) questionnaire, From the inclusion visit until the Day 45 post surgery|evaluation of the impact of patient's beliefs about diet and cancer on the compliance to the proposed diet., Result of the questionnaire of Beliefs about diet and cancer OPINELE (Opinions concernant l'alimentation, la santé et le cancer), From the inclusion visit until the Day 45 post surgery|evaluation of the impact of the patient's anxiety and depression level on the compliance to the proposed diet, Scores obtained on the HADS scale (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale) (if score or = 9, result is no significant, if sore is between 10 and 12, result is limit, if result is \> or = 13, result is significant, From the inclusion visit until the Day 45 post surgery
Many patients are modifying their diet after the diagnosis of cancer. There is a supposedly benefit, among the general public, of starving cancer cells with several diet deprivations.

Due to the lack of coherent scientific data, no evidence base recommendations can be made regarding the optimal diet during cancer and its effect on cancer growth.

The objective of this trial is to analyze the feasibility for patients with early luminal breast cancer to be compliant with a diet modification - ketogenic or proteins restricted diet - during 9 +/- 1 days, before breast cancer surgery.

The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the compliance to the proposed diet.

The study will be conducted in patients with luminal early breast cancer, candidate to primary surgery, in order to study an homogeneous population of patients, with good performance status and without nutritional deprivation.

Metabolic changes on the main metabolic pathways and the potential antitumor effects related to these metabolic changes following the diet will be analyzed as secondary objectives of the study. We hope to find biological hypotheses to further test in a next larger prospective trial.

The impact of the patient's beliefs, anxiety and/or depression on the compliance will be analyzed as well.