Urine-based Molecular Testing vs Cystoscopy for Surveillance of Nonmuscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate patient-reported preference for urine based molecular testing (CxBladder Monitor) compared to cystoscopy for patients on surveillance for Nonmuscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC). Urine based molecular testing involves noninvasive testing of a urine sample for biomarkers associated with disease recurrence. Cystoscopy is an examination of the bladder and urethra using a thin tube like instrument that is inserted into the urethra.
Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CxBladder Monitor|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Cystoscopy
Preference for CxBladder Monitor compared to cystoscopy, Patient preference will be assessed based on the Preference Questionnaire (PQ) after completion of the study cross-over period (after both methods of testing have been experienced)., Up to 6 months
Patient satisfaction, Patient satisfaction will be assessed based on the Satisfaction Questionnaire (SQ) after completion of each test at 3 and 6 months., Up to 6 months|Change in symptoms and function - EORTC NMIBC-24, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer (EORTC NMIBC-24) will be used to assess Health-related quality of life. The questionnaire consists of 24 items scored on a four-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much), with the exception of the global health status items, which employ a seven-point scale ranging from 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). Higher scores are interpreted as more symptom burden, with exception of the sexual function and sexual enjoyment sections, where higher scores represent better functioning., Up to 6 months|Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory- Short Form (FCRI-SF), Health-related quality of life will be assessed based on the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory- Short Form (FCRI-SF) at baseline, 3 months (within 1 week of test), and 6 months (within 1 week of test). The nine-item FCRI evaluates the presence and severity of intrusive thoughts associated with FCR. Each item is rated on a Likert scale ranging from 0 ("not at all" or "never") to 4 ("a great deal' or "all the time"). A higher score indicates higher levels of FCR., Up to 6 months|Financial costs, Assessed by patient responses to questions about missed work and time missed from usual activities., Up to 6 months|Error rate identifying recurrent nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC), Error rate for CxBladder is defined as the proportion of patients who have a negative CxBladder at 3 months but have a recurrence identified on cystoscopy at 6 months for patients in arm A. The error rate for cystoscopy is defined as the proportion of patients who have a negative cystoscopy at 3 months but have a positive CxBladder at 6 months that is subsequently confirmed by cystoscopy for patients in arm B., Up to 6 months
The purpose of this study is to evaluate patient-reported preference for urine based molecular testing (CxBladder Monitor) compared to cystoscopy for patients on surveillance for Nonmuscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC). Urine based molecular testing involves noninvasive testing of a urine sample for biomarkers associated with disease recurrence. Cystoscopy is an examination of the bladder and urethra using a thin tube like instrument that is inserted into the urethra.