Lenvatinib Plus SIRT vs Lenvatinib in TACE-Refractory HCC
This study is conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib plus SIRT (LEN+SIRT) compared with lenvatinib (LEN) alone for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) refractory to transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Lenvatinib plus SIRT|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective response rate (ORR), The percentage of patients who had a best overall tumor response rating of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to mRECIST, 3 years
Disease control rate (DCR), The percentage of patients who had a tumor response rating of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) according to mRECIST., 3 years|Progression free survival (PFS), The time from initiation of treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 3 years|Time to response (TTR), The time from treatment initiation to first tumour remission (mRECIST), 3 years|Duration of response (DOR), Time from first tumor response to first disease progression (mRECIST) or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), 3 years.|Overall survival (OS), The time from date of treatment initiation to death due to any cause, 4 years.|Adverse Events (AEs), Number of patients with AEs assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0., 3 years.
This is a prospective, non-randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of LEN+SIRT versus LEN alone for patients with TACE-refractory HCC.

78 patients (39 in each arm) with TACE-refractory HCC will be enrolled in this study. The patients will receive either LEN+SIRT or LEN.

Lenvatinib (body weight ≥ 60 kg, 12mg P.O. QD; body weight \< 60 kg, 8mg P.O. QD) will be administered to the patients and last until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. For patients in the LEN+SIRT arm, lenvatinib will be started at 3-7 days after SIRT.

The primary end point of this study is objective response rate (ORR). The secondary endpoints are disease control rate (DCR), progression-free survival (PFS), time to response (TTR), duration of response (DOR), overall survival (OS), and adverse events (AEs).