Perioperative Immunonutrition in Colorectal Cancer Patients Undergoing Abdominal Surgery
The immune system plays an important role in helping to kill and prevent cancers. Cells of the immune system, such as natural killer (NK) cells and T cells, do not work as well following surgery. Arginine, an amino acid, is fundamental in metabolic processes of the body. Surgery has shown to cause a reduction of arginine in the body. In turn, this deficiency causes NK cell suppression. In this study, we want to look at the effects of arginine supplementation before and after surgery on NK cell function in surgery patients. In this study, we will be using a nutritional supplement containing arginine and a placebo drink (provided by Enhanced Medical Nutrition) that will be taken by colorectal cancer patients 5 days before surgery and 5 days after surgery. Using patient blood samples, we will measure NK cell levels, arginine levels and also arginase activity.
ColoRectal Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Immunonutrition with arginine|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Immunonutrition without Arginine
NK cell killing as measured on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) between the control (placebo) and experimental cohorts, using a standard NK cell killing assay., Baseline (before surgery), post-operative day 1
Decrease in postoperative serum arginine levels between the control (placebo) and experimental cohorts, Baseline (before surgery), post-operative day 1, 3, 5 and 35|Compliance with perioperative arginine supplementation, 5 days preoperatively to 5 days postoperatively
The immune system plays an important role in helping to kill and prevent cancers. Cells of the immune system, such as natural killer (NK) cells and T cells, do not work as well following surgery. Arginine, an amino acid, is fundamental in metabolic processes of the body. Surgery has shown to cause a reduction of arginine in the body. In turn, this deficiency causes NK cell suppression. In this study, we want to look at the effects of arginine supplementation before and after surgery on NK cell function in surgery patients. In this study, we will be using a nutritional supplement containing arginine and a placebo drink (provided by Enhanced Medical Nutrition) that will be taken by colorectal cancer patients 5 days before surgery and 5 days after surgery. Using patient blood samples, we will measure NK cell levels, arginine levels and also arginase activity.