Bevacizumab and Intravenous or Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Stage II-III Ovarian Epithelial Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies bevacizumab and intravenous (given into a vein) chemotherapy to see how well they work compared with bevacizumab and intraperitoneal (given into the abdominal cavity) chemotherapy in treating patients with stage II-III ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, carboplatin, and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not yet known whether giving bevacizumab together with intravenous chemotherapy is more effective than giving bevacizumab together with intraperitoneal chemotherapy in treating patients with ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Malignant Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Stage II Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage II Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Ovarian Cancer AJCC V6 and v7|Stage IIB Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIC Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIC Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIB Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Median Progression-free Survival, Estimate the median duration of progression-free survival in months. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria (RECIST v1.0) as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Progression-free survival is measured from date of randomization until first indication of progression based on RECIST criteria or death from any cause, or if progression-free at last contact, the date of last disease assessment up to 10 years.
Patients With Adverse Events by Treatment Group, as Defined by NCI CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0) Version 3.0, Eligible and treated patients. CTCAE includes grades 1-5. Grade refers to the severity of the adverse event. Grades 0 listed should be interpreted to mean there were no subjects in the arm with a toxicity to report. Grade 1 toxicities are mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms. Grade 2 toxicities are moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated. Grade 3 toxicities are severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening. Grade 4 toxicities are life threatening. Grade 5 is death related to adverse event., During treatment and up to 30 days after end of treatment|Overall Survival, Estimate the median duration of overall survival in months., Up to 10 years|Patient Reported Quality of Life (QOL), QOL was measured with the FACT-O TOI score. Means at baseline are raw means. Scores are reported at all time points in the outcome measure table. FACT-O TOI is Trial outcome index (TOI) of the Functional assessment of cancer therapy (FACT) for ovarian cancer (FACT-O). The FACT-O TOI is composed of three subscales; Physical Well Being (PWB) ( 7 items), and Ovarian Cancer subscale (OCS) (12 items). Each item in the FACT-O TOI are scored using a 5 point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat;3=quite a bit;4=very much). A subscale score is computed as long as more thatn 50% of subscale items have been answered. A total score of the FACT-O items provide valid responses and all three subscales have valid scores. A score of the FACT-) TOI is ranged 0-104 with a larger score indicating a more preferred state of health-related quality of life (HRQOL)., Time points: Baseline, prior to cycle 4, prior to cycle 7, prior to cycle 13, prior to cycle 21, up to 84 weeks post starting treatment|Patient Reported Neurotoxicity (Ntx), The FACT/GOG-NTX subscale (short version) contains 4 items measuring sensory neuropathy. Each item is scored using a 5 point Likert scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit;2=somewhat;3=quite a bit; 4=very much). For each item, reversal was performed prior to score calculation so that a large score suggests less symptoms. According to the FACIT measurement system, the subscale score was calculated as the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of a subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the subscale. The Ntx subscale score ranges from 0-16 with a large subscale score suggesting less symptom or better QOL., Time points: Baseline, prior to cycle 4, prior to cycle 7, prior to cycle 13, prior to cycle 21, 84 weeks post starting treatment|Patient Reported Fatigue, Patient reported fatigue as measured with the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy- Fatigue scale (FACIT-Fatigue). The FACIT-Fatigue contains 13 items. Each item was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). For the negative items, reversal was performed prior to score calculation. According to the FACIT measurement system, the Fatigue score was the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the scale. The FACIT-Fatigue score ranges 0-52 with a large score suggesting less fatigue., Time points: Baseline, prior to cycle 4, prior to cycle 7, prior to cycle 13, prior to cycle 21, 84 weeks post starting treatment|Patient Reported Nausea, Nausea was measured with the a single item ,' I have nausea' from the FACT-O TOI, and was scored using a 5 point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat;3=quite a bit;4=very much), Time points: Baseline, prior to cycle 4, prior to cycle 7, prior to cycle 13, prior to cycle 21, 84 weeks post starting treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if one or both of the proposed intraperitoneal chemotherapy regimens improves the progression-free survival (PFS) event rate compared to standard intravenous chemotherapy for first-line treatment of patients diagnosed with advanced stage ovarian, peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

II. If both intraperitoneal (IP) regimens significantly improve the PFS event rate compared to the standard regimen, then a second study objective is to determine whether IP cisplatin and intravenous (IV) paclitaxel on day one plus IP paclitaxel on day eight improves the PFS event rate when compared to the IP carboplatin and IV paclitaxel.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if intraperitoneal chemotherapy reduces the overall death rate compared to standard intravenous chemotherapy.

II. To assess the frequency and severity of adverse events as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0.

III. To compare the patient-reported outcomes on: Quality of Life (Function Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian-Trial Outcome Index \[FACT-O-TOI\]), Neuropathy (FACT-Gynecologic Oncology Group/Neurotoxicity \[GOG/NTX4\] scale), Abdominal discomfort (FACT-GOG/AD scale), Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue scale), and Nausea (item from FACT-O-TOI).

IV. To assess the frequency and the reasons for early discontinuation of the study treatments.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To bank deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from whole blood for research and examine the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and measures of clinical outcome including overall survival, progression-free survival and adverse events.

II. To bank archival tumor for research and examine the association between tumor markers and measures of clinical outcome including overall survival, progression-free survival and adverse events.

III. Patients will be encouraged to enroll on the companion translational research protocol (CEM0703 under development).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 in courses 2-6. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone in courses 7-22 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel as in Arm I and carboplatin IP on day 1. Patients also receive bevacizumab as in Arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone as in Arm I.

ARM III: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1, cisplatin IP on day 2, and paclitaxel IP on day 8. Patients also receive bevacizumab as in Arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone as in Arm I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.