Enasidenib for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients With an IDH2 Mutation
This phase II trial studies the side effects of enasidenib and sees how well it works in treating pediatric patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back after treatment (relapsed) or has been difficult to treat with chemotherapy (refractory). Patients must also have a specific genetic change, also called a mutation, in a protein called IDH2. Enasidenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the mutated IDH2 protein, which is needed for leukemia cell growth.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Enasidenib|DRUG: Enasidenib Mesylate
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities of enasidenib, Frequencies (%) of patients with cycle 1 dose limiting toxicity stratified by dose level., Up to 28 days|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve of enasidenib, A descriptive analysis of the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve of enasidenib during cycle 1 at pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose including median, minimum and maximum stratified by dose level., Up to 2 days|Total plasma clearance of enasidenib, A descriptive analysis of the total plasma clearance of enasidenib during cycle 1 at pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose including median, minimum and maximum by dose level., Up to 2 days|Elimination half-life of enasidenib, A descriptive analysis of the elimination half-life of enasidenib during cycle 1 at pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose including median, minimum and maximum by dose level., Up to 2 days|Maximum concentration of enasidenib, A descriptive analysis of the maximum concentration of enasidenib during cycle 1 at pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose including median, minimum and maximum by dose level., Up to 2 days
Plasma 2-HG levels of enasidenib, A descriptive analysis of the plasma 2-HG levels observed pre-dose at day 0, 28, and 84 of enasidenib including median, minimum and maximum by dose level., Up to 84 days|Overall Response Rate of enasidenib, Frequency (%) of patients with at least partial response by dose level., Up to 2 years|Composite complete remission rate (complete remission [CR]/ CR with incomplete hematologic recovery [CRi]), Will be reported in a table as frequency of response (%) for total overall response rate (ORR) stratified by dose level., Up to 2 years|Time to response of enasidenib, Median time to response with 95% confidence interval stratified by dose level., Up to 2 years|Time to complete remission of enasidenib, Median time to remission with 95% confidence interval stratified by dose level., Up to 2 years|Duration of response of enasidenib, Median duration of response with minimum and maximum stratified by dose level., Up to 2 years|Duration of complete response of enasidenib, Median duration of remission with minimum and maximum stratified by dose level., Up to 2 years|Event-free survival of enasidenib, Median time to event with 95% confidence interval stratified by dose level., Up to 2 years|Overall survival of enasidenib, Median time to death with 95% confidence interval stratified by dose level., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of treatment with enasidenib mesylate (enasidenib) administered at continuous daily oral dosing for a 28-day cycle up to 12 cycles in pediatric patients with IDH2-mutant relapsed/refractory (R/R)-acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

II. To characterize the plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of enasidenib in pediatric patients with IDH2-mutant R/R-AML.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the pharmacodynamic (PD) relationship of oncogenic metabolite 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) to enasidenib treatment in pediatric patients with IDH2-mutant R/R-AML.

II. To describe the clinical activity of enasidenib in pediatric patients with IDH2-mutant R/R-AML.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive enasidenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy and collection of blood on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then periodically up to 1 year.