Fulvestrant With or Without Ganetespib in HR+ Breast Cancer
Ganetespib is a drug that may stop cancer cells from growing. This drug has been used in other research studies and laboratory experiments. It has also been studied in phase I trials, where the appropriate dosing has been determined. Ganetespib is considered an "HSP90 inhibitor". By blocking HSP90, ganetespib is thought to reduce the ability of cancer cells to become resistant to treatment.

Fulvestrant is a hormonal therapy that works by attaching to estrogen receptors. In doing so, it can block the effect of estrogen on cancer cells. In addition, fulvestrant causes a decrease in the number of estrogen receptors. Fulvestrant is a drug that is approved by the FDA for treatment of metastatic, hormone receptor positive breast cancer, based upon the results of phase III clinical trials.

In the laboratory, adding ganetespib to fulvestrant appears to improve its effectiveness. It is not known whether this is true in humans. In this research study, we are evaluating the effect of the addition of ganetespib to fulvestrant in participants with hormone receptor-positive, metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Ganetespib
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on Kaplan-Meier is defined as the time from study entry to the earliest documentation of disease progression (PD) or death. Participants alive without evidence of PD are censored at the date of last disease assessment. Participants who receive non-protocol anti-cancer therapy before disease progression are censored at time of last disease assessment., Disease was assessed radiographically every 2 cycles for year 1 and every 2-4 cycles longer-term. Participants in this study cohort were followed for survival up to 4 years from treatment end.
Grade 3-4 Toxicity Rate, All grade 3-4 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events version 4 (CTCAEv4) as reported on case report forms were counted to calculate the percentage of participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3 or 4 AE of any type on treatment., AEs were assessed every cycle on treatment (weeks 2-3 on cycle 1). Median treatment duration was 4 cycles/~4 months on each arm. Maximum treatment duration was 41 cycles (Arm A) and 42 cycles (Arm B) which approximates 38 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with measurable disease at baseline achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Disease was assessed radiographically every 2 cycles for year 1 and every 2-4 cycles thereafter on treatment. Maximum treatment duration was 41 cycles (Arm A) and 42 cycles (Arm B) which approximates 38 months.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was defined as the percentage of participants with measurable disease at baseline achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) for 24 weeks or longer based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD of target lesions (smallest sum LD reference), new lesions, and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Stable disease (SD) is defined as any condition not meeting the above criteria. SD needed to be a minimum 24 weeks in duration., Disease was assessed radiographically every 2 cycles for year 1 and every 2-4 cycles thereafter on treatment. Maximum treatment duration was 41 cycles (Arm A) and 42 cycles (Arm B) which approximates 38 months.|Overall Survival (OS), OS based on Kaplan-Meier is defined as the time from study entry to death or date last known alive or censored at date last known alive., Participants were followed long-term for survival every 3 months from the end of treatment until death, lost to follow-up or up to 4 years from treatment end. Median survival follow-up was 28 months for the study cohort.
Because no one knows which of the study options is best, you will be "randomized" into one of the study groups: Arm A: Fulvestrant or Arm B: Fulvestrant plus Ganetespib. You will have a one-third chance of being placed in Arm A and a two-thirds chance of being placed in Arm B.

If you are initially placed in Arm A but your disease progresses, you will have the option of receiving the combination of fulvestrant plus ganetespib as part of Arm C.

You will undergo the following procedures during the research study: study drug(s), blood tests, clinical exams and scans/imaging tests.