STUDY02001740;22SCH740: Estradiol For ER+ Advanced Breast Cancer (ESTHER)
Determine whether subjects harboring ESR1-mutant/amplified breast cancer have a higher rate of clinical benefit from 17b-estradiol therapy than subjects with ESR1-wild-type breast cancer
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Estradiol
Clinical Benefit Rate, The clinical benefit rate (complete responses + partial responses + stable disease at 24 weeks) will be ascertained and compared between subjects treated with 17b-estradiol harboring amplified/mutant ESR1 and wild-type ESR1., 12 months
Objective response rate, The objective response rate (complete + partial responses) to the first 8 weeks of treatment with 17b-estradiol will be ascertained and compared between subjects harboring amplified/mutant ESR1 and wild-type ESR1., 8 weeks|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival with 17b-estradiol treatment will be ascertained and compared between subjects harboring amplified/mutant ESR1 and wild-type ESR1., 12 months|Tumor Metabolic response, Tumor metabolic response will be defined as the best response at any time point per PERCIST. The metabolic response rate (complete + partial metabolic response) will be ascertained and compared between subjects treated with 17b-estradiol harboring amplified/mutant ESR1 and wild-type ESR1., 12 months|Adverse event profiles, The number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 will be collected, 12 months
Patients with endocrine-resistant breast cancer are eligible. Treatment Phase: Patients will be treated with 17b-estradiol until disease progression. At this point, the patient will end protocol therapy. Clinical benefit, progression-free survival, objective response, tumor metabolic response, and toxicity will be determined. Observational Phase (optional): After disease progression on 17b-estradiol, patients will be treated at their oncologist's discretion. Clinical benefit, progression-free survival, and objective response will be measured during this line of treatment of physician's choice until another instance of disease progression. In consented subjects who undergo a clinically indicated tumor biopsy of recurrent or metastatic disease prior to the start of 17b-estradiol treatment, when feasible, acquisition of additional tumor tissue is requested for research purposes. Optional: patients will be asked to provide tumor tissue via a research biopsy on Day 3-4 of 17b-estradiol treatment. Archived tumor tissue and clinical-grade tumor and plasma DNA/RNA sequencing results will be used for research purposes. Blood samples will be obtained at baseline, on Day 3-4 of 17b-estradiol therapy (optional), and upon disease progression on 17b-estradiol. Plasma and buffy coat will be extracted and frozen. Tumor tissue and plasma specimens will be analyzed to identify molecular biomarkers predictive of sensitivity/resistance to 17b-estradiol therapy