RSV Vaccination in Immunocompromised Patients.
Respiratory syncytial Virus (RSV) causes respiratory infections worldwide and typically presents with a seasonal pattern peaking in autumn/winter in temperate climate zones. Apart from infants and elderly individuals, patients with underlying substantial respiratory, cardiovascular, endocrinological diseases and immunocompromised patients are at increased risk to develop lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) requiring intensive care associated with increased mortality. For certain risk groups such as patients after hematologic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in-hospital mortality may be as high as 70 %. A causally related, RSV specific treatment does not exist and treatment is therefore usually supportive and non-specific.

The study is aiming to determine if immunocompromised patients benefit from two doses of a RSV subunit vaccine as opposed to one dose. The additional dose will be administered off label.
RSV Infection
BIOLOGICAL: Arexvy powder and suspension for injection
To assess the mean geometric increase of RSV-A and RSV-B neutralizing antibodies after second vaccine dose over first vaccine dose with the adjuvanted RSV subunit vaccine Arexvy in immunocompromised patients ≥ 18 YoA., Fold increase of RSV-A and -B-specific neutralizing titers 30-60 days (V5) after the second dose relative to titers 30-60 days (V3) after the first dose in immunocompromised patients per group., up to 14 months per participant
The aim of this study is to assess immunogenicity and safety of the adjuvanted RSV vaccine Arexvy in different cohorts of immunocompromised patients. These data are needed as a basis for RSV vaccine recommendations.

Currently, one dose of the RSV vaccine is recommended for the elderly (≥ 60 years) according to the SmPC and national recommendations. However, it is not clear yet, whether in immunocompromised patients such as those with solid tumors, hemato-oncological malignancies with and without hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) or those with biological treatments one dose of RSV vaccine would be sufficient to induce immune responses or if these patients would benefit from a second dose.

It is planned to evaluate immune responses after one and two doses with the adjuvanted RSV vaccine Arexvy in immunocompromised study groups compared to responses of healthy, elderly individuals receiving one vaccine dose only. Our analysis plan will include humoral and cellular immune responses after the first and second dose in immunocompromised patients belonging to different study groups compared to responses after one vaccine dose in controls.