Genetically Modified T Cells in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer or Mesothelioma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of genetically modified T cells in treating patients with stage III-IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) or mesothelioma. Many types of cancer cells, including NSCLC and mesothelioma, but not most normal cells, have a protein called Wilms tumor (WT)1 on their surfaces. This study takes a type of immune cell from patients, called T cells, and modifies their genes in the laboratory so that they are programmed to find cells with WT1 and kill them. The T cells are then given back to the patient. Cyclophosphamide and aldesleukin may also stimulate the immune system to attack cancer cells. Giving cyclophosphamide and aldesleukin with laboratory-treated T cells may help the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells.
Advanced Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma|HLA-A*0201 Positive Cells Present|Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Recurrent Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma AJCC v7|WT1 Positive
BIOLOGICAL: Aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: Autologous WT1-TCRc4 Gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn Lymphocytes|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 6 months after the first T cell infusion|Count of Patients for Which T Cells Are Successfully Generated and Infused and Whether Only TN or TCM Could be Generated, There were products generated for 11 participants and 10 participants were treated on the study. 8 participants received an infusion with Tn and Tcm cells. 1 participant received infusions with only Tn cells. 1 participant received their last infusion with only Tcm cells. The one participant that was not treated did successfully have Tn and Tcm cells generated but they were not treated due to their condition worsening., Up to 4 weeks|Persistence of Transduced T Cells, In vivo persistence of cells generated from the TN subset with cells generated from the TCM subset will be directly compared within each patient by high throughput T-cell receptor (TCR) beta sequencing. The one-sample T test will be used to assess the difference in mean persistence between groups, in which the outcome for each patient is the time to disappearance of infused cytotoxic T lymphocytes., Up to 100 days after the last T cell infusion
Frequency of Transferred T Cells at Biopsied Tumor Sites Between the T Cell (Tn) and Memory T Cell (Tcm) Groups, Frequency of transferred T cells at biopsied tumor sites between the Tn and Tcm groups will be assessed., Up to 15 years|Functional Capacity of Transferred Cells, Measured by Production of Intracellular Cytokines, Tetramer+ cells from peripheral blood, if detectable and available in sufficient number, evaluated for production of intracellular cytokines including interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and IL-2. Intranuclear Ki-67 expression assessed on recovered tetramer+ T cells. Based on available numbers, ex vivo proliferative capacity after infusion assessed by labeling cells with carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester dye and measuring dilution in response to peptide stimulation. Phenotype of tetramer+ antigen-specific cells assessed using established immunophenotyping, Up to 15 years|Time to Progression (TTP) Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria and RECIST 1.1 Mesothelioma Modified, The potential efficacy of the infused cells will be assessed and the substrate cell (TN or TCM) that is most effective based on the TTP of patients who have persisting TN cells to that of patients who have persisting TCM cells 3 months after the last infusion will be determined., 3 months after last infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety, and potential toxicities associated with treating patients with metastatic NSCLC and mesothelioma with polyclonal autologous central memory and naive cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific T-cell receptor (TCR) (Arm 1 and Arm 2).

II. Determine the feasibility of treating patients with metastatic NSCLC and mesothelioma with polyclonal autologous central memory and naive CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific TCR (Arm 1 and Arm 2).

III. Determine and compare the in vivo persistence in blood and tumor of transferred polyclonal autologous central memory and naive CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific TCR (Arm 1 and Arm 2).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the antitumor efficacy for patients with metastatic NSCLC and mesothelioma (Arm 1), as measured by time to progression (TTP) based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria.

II. Determine the in vivo functional capacity of adoptively transferred polyclonal autologous CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific TCR, and assess the acquisition of phenotypic characteristics associated with T cell exhaustion (Arm 1 and Arm 2).

III. Determine the migration to tumor sites of adoptively transferred polyclonal autologous CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific TCR (Arm 2).

IV. Evaluate the tumor response and T cell infiltration in tumors of patients with stage IIIA NSCLC treated in the neo-adjuvant setting.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn lymphocytes followed by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I, STAGE I: Patients receive autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn lymphocytes intravenously (IV) on days 0 and 14, cyclophosphamide IV on days 11 and 12, and aldesleukin (IL-2) subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) for 14 days. Patients who have received radiation to the chest/lung tissue may receive T lymphocytes 90 days after completion of radiation.

ARM I, STAGE II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2, autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn lymphocytes IV on day 0, and aldesleukin SC BID for 14 days.

ARM II: Patients receive autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn lymphocytes IV between 24-96 hours after the last dose of chemotherapy and receive aldesleukin SC BID for 14 days. Patients then undergo surgery within 3-4 weeks after the T-cell infusion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months and then annually for 14 years.