Osimertinib Alone or With Chemotherapy for EGFR-Mutant Lung Cancers
This study will compare the effectiveness of osimertinib alone with the combination of osimertinib and chemotherapy (carboplatin and pemetrexed) in people with metastatic lung cancer that has a change (mutation) in the gene EGFR. Osimertinib alone is the usual treatment for metastatic EGFR-mutant lung cancer. Researchers think adding chemotherapy to osimertinib could possibly add to the anticancer effects of the usual treatment and help stop cancer from growing or spreading.
Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Osimertinib|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Determine the progression-free survival, As the primary endpoint for the treatment comparison, it is the duration of time from randomization to the time of disease progression (in the CNS or systemically) or death. In addition, as a secondary endpoint, PFS is measured from the start of treatment to disease progression or death. Intracranial progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from time of randomization to time of progression (in the CNS) or death, whichever occurs first. Overall survival (OS) is defined as the duration of time from first treatment to time of death., 2 years
overall response rate, Best overall response rate (confirmed partial and complete responses) will be assessed as part of this study. All responses must be confirmed on subsequent scan to be considered a true response. Tumor response will be assessed using RECIST 1.1. For patients enrolled in the randomized treatment portion of study. Confirmation of baseline measurable disease for all patients will be determined via investigator review., 2 years
Screening portion:

Patients will begin on single agent osimertinib obtained commercially at the standard dose of 80mg orally daily. Osimertinib monotherapy is currently standard of care first-line treatment for patients with metastatic EGFR-mutant lung cancers. During the screening portion of the study, patients will be treated per standard practice as decided by the treating physician using the guidance of the osimertinib product label. The patient will proceed with three cycles (21 days per cycle) of single agent osimertinib. Patients will be seen on C1D1 for osimertinib start (telemedicine visits for C1D1 assessments are acceptable)

Randomization/treatment portion:

Patients will be randomized to continue osimertinib alone (Arm A) or addition of carboplatin/pemetrexed chemotherapy to osimertinib (Arm B).Randomization will be accomplished by the method of random permuted block and patients will be stratified by type of EGFR mutation (EGFR exon 19/EGFR L858R or other) and presence of CNS metastases (absent, present). Randomization will occur after data is available to identify the patients with persistent EGFR ctDNA detected in the C2D1 plasma sample; only patients with persistent EGFR ctDNA will be randomized. Subject's eligibility prior to randomization will be at the discretion of the individual sites enrolling the patients. EGFR mutation can be confirmed at outside institutions: while pathology confirmation will occur at the enrolling institution, the required documentation of EGFR can occur internal or external to the enrolling institution. For those patients without detectable ctDNA at C2D1, the end of treatment assessments will not include CT scan or ctDNA sampling.