Azacitidine and Arsenic Trioxide in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes or Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine and arsenic trioxide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving azacitidine together with arsenic trioxide works in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.
Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: arsenic trioxide|DRUG: azacitidine
Response rate (overall and confirmed) as measured by International Working Group (IWG) standardized criteria for MDS at day 113 and then every 4 weeks until completion of study treatment
Time to treatment failure as assessed by the Kaplan-Meier method at completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival as assessed by the Kaplan-Meier method at completion of study treatment|Toxicity as assessed by the Kaplan-Meier method and NCI-CTCAE version 3.0 during treatment until 30 days after completion of study treatment
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the response rate in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia treated with azacitidine and arsenic trioxide.

Secondary

* Determine time to treatment failure in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the tolerability and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, study.

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously once daily on days 1-5 and arsenic trioxide IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, and 23. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients are evaluated for response on day 113 (week 17). Patients with disease progression or no response are removed from the study. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses of therapy and then undergo observation. Patients achieving a partial response receive 2 additional courses of therapy and then receive arsenic trioxide alone twice weekly in the absence of CR, disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for at least 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-41 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.