A Study of Long-Term Rituximab (MabThera) Maintenance Therapy in Participants With Advanced Follicular Lymphoma
This study will evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of long-term maintenance therapy with rituximab in participants with advanced follicular lymphoma who have had a positive response to first-line treatment with a rituximab-containing regimen. The anticipated time on study treatment is 2 years, and the target sample size is 124 individuals.
Lymphoma, Follicular
DRUG: Rituximab
Event-free Survival, Event-free survival (EFS) was defined as the time from baseline (Week 0) to the time to progression, relapse, death from any cause, or institution of a new treatment, whichever occurs first. Mean EFS was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier estimation and provided with their 95% confidence interval. ITT population (patients who received at least one maintenance MabThera infusion) was used for this analysis., From randomization to the time to progression, relapse, death from any cause, or institution of a new treatment, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An adverse event (AE) was considered any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A serious adverse event (SAE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or causes prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, requires intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage, or results in death, Up to 27 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival, defined as the time between baseline (Week 0) and the date of death irrespective of the cause of death. Mean OS was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier estimation and provided with their 95% confidence interval. ITT population was used for this analysis., From randomization until death, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression (TTP) defined as time from baseline to disease progression or relapse, death from the follicular lymphoma or institution of a new regimen because of the follicular lymphoma. Mean TTP was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier estimation and provided with their 95% confidence interval. ITT population was used for this analysis., From baseline (Week 0) to disease progression, relapse, death from the follicular lymphoma or institution of a new regimen, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Next Anti-lymphoma Treatment (TTNLT), Time to next anti-lymphoma treatment (TTNLT) defined as time from baseline to institution of a new antilymphoma regimen (including chemo-, radio- or immunotherapies). Mean TTNLT was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier estimation and provided with their 95% confidence interval., From baseline (Week 0) to institution of a new antilymphoma regimen, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of Response (DR), Duration of Response (DR) defined as time from first documented response to induction treatment to relapse or progression or death from the follicular lymphoma. Mean DR was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier estimation and provided with their 95% confidence interval., From first documented response to induction treatment to relapse or progression or death, assessed up to 5 years|Disease-free Survival (DFS), Disease free survival (DFS) being defined as time from first documented complete response to induction treatment to relapse or progression or death from the follicular lymphoma. Mean DFS was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier estimation and provided with their 95% confidence interval., From first documented complete response to induction treatment to relapse or progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years
This study will evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of long-term maintenance therapy with rituximab in participants with advanced follicular lymphoma who have had a positive response to first-line treatment with a rituximab-containing regimen. The anticipated time on study treatment is 2 years, and the target sample size is 124 individuals.