ESK981 and Nivolumab for the Treatment of Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects of ESK981 and nivolumab and to see how well they work for the treatment of castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). ESK981 is an investigational drug that targets several important pathways that are believed to play a role in the spread of cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. This study is being done to see if giving ESK981 and nivolumab together works better in treating metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer compared to usual treatments.
Castration Levels of Testosterone|Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Carcinoma Metastatic in the Bone|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Pan-VEGFR/TIE2 Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor CEP-11981|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) >= 50% Response Rate (PSA50), Will assess PSA decline of \>= 50% from baseline (PSA50), using the Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria. Two-sided Wilson type 95% confidence interval (CI) estimates will be calculated., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months
Time to PSA Response (TTPR), Descriptive statistics of TTPR will be used to summarize the time to PSA response. These descriptives will include N, median, mean, standard deviation (SD), interquartile range (IQR), minimum, and maximum., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months|Duration of PSA Response (PRD), The censored distributions will be summarized with the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) survivorship estimate. A graph of the K-M curve will be generated along with the Hall-Wellner 90% confidence band, and a display of the number of patients at risk at several time points, below the X-axis. Summary statistics (6-month rate, 12-month rate, median, etc.) will be calculated from the K-M life table, each one with its respective 80% CI., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time from start of treatment to death due to any cause., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months
Somatic and Germline Mutations, Will assess the proportion of patients with TP53 mutations, AR amplifications, and ETS-fusions, mutations in the PTENPI3K-AKT pathway as well as germline and somatic events in the DNA repair pathway with exceptional response/resistance to pan-VEGFR/TIE2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor CEP-11981 (ESK981)., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months|ETS/Kinase Gene Fusions, Will assess the proportion of patients with ETS/kinase gene fusions with exceptional response/resistance to ESK981., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months|Androgen Receptor (AR) Signaling, Will assess the correlation of AR signaling as a predictor of exceptional response to ESK981., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months|Metastatic Kinome Activity Profiles as Predictive Biomarkers for Response to ESK981, Will assess the correlation of Metastatic kinome activity profiles as a predictor for exceptional response to ESK981, From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months|Circulating and Disseminated Tumor Cells as Pharmacodynamic Biomarkers of ESK981 Response, Will assess the correlation of circulating and disseminated tumor cells as a predictor for exceptional response to ESK981 ., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months|Pathological Assessment of Phenotypic Tumor and Host Responses to ESK981 Treatment, Will assess the correlation of IHC % staining as a predictor for exceptional response to ESK981 ., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 27 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the prostate specific antigen (PSA) \>= 50% response rate (PSA50) from baseline using the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria to pan-VEGFR/TIE2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor CEP-11981 (ESK981) plus nivolumab in men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who have progressed on enzalutamide (an oral androgen-receptor inhibitor) and/or abiraterone acetate (an androgen synthesis inhibitor) and chemotherapy (docetaxel and/or cabazitaxel).

II. To assess the safety and tolerability of ESK981 plus nivolumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the time to PSA response (TTPR) in patients with mCRPC. II. To determine the duration of PSA response (PRD) in patients with mCRPC. III. To determine PSA progression rates as defined by the PCWG3 criteria. IV. To determine PSA progression free survival (PPFS) as defined by the PCWG3 criteria.

CORRELATIVE/EXPLORATORY/TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess exploratory biomarkers from blood and tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ESK981 orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 5 consecutive days per week, followed by a 2-day break. Patients also receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 5 years.