Minimally Invasive Therapy Versus Open Radical Hysterectomy for Management of Early Stage Cervical Cancer
Radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection (+/- aortic lymph node dissection) is the standard treatment for early stage cervical cancer. And minimally invasive surgery has been successfully and safely demonstrated in the treatment of early stage cervical cancer. This study aims to compare total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy and total abdominal radical hysterectomy in terms of disease-free survival and overall survival. Rates and characteristics of recurrence, incidence of complications and morbidity, impact on quality of life and cost-effectiveness will also be determined.
Cancer of Cervix|Laparoscopic Surgery
PROCEDURE: radical hysterectomy
Disease-Free Survival, the time from randomization to disease recurrence or death from cervical cancer, 5 year|Overall Survival, the time from randomization to disease recurrence or death from any cause, 5 year
Recurrence Pattern, Recurrences will be described in detail and recorded according to date and location of first recurrence. The location can be designated as local, vault, pelvis or distal metastasis., 5 years|Intraoperative and Postoperative Complications, * Intraoperative complications - hemorrhage; injury to bladder, ureter, bowel; vascular injury; nerve injury
* Perioperative complications (from post-surgery to discharge from hospital) - genitourinary (urinary tract infection, urinary retention), gastrointestinal (ileus), cardiac (myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation), pulmonary (edema, atelectasis, pneumonia), renal and cerebrovascular morbidity. Wound and vault complications (infection, breakdown and dehiscence). Septicemia and thromboembolic complications (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism). Lymphocyst and abscess formation.
* Early postoperative complications (\<4 weeks from surgery): Wound and vault complications (infection, dehiscence). Urinary retention, urinary incontinence. Lymphocyst, lymphedema, abscess formation, or fistula formation.
* Long term morbidity (4 weeks to 12 months from surgery): Urinary retention, urinary incontinence. lymphedema, incisional hernia formation, vaginal evisceration., 1 year|Impact on Quality of Life, Change in quality of life using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Cervical (FACT-Cx) between baseline (pre-surgery) and 6 months after surgery. The FACT-CX comprises 42 items with 5 domains and a score range of 0-168., 6 months
Radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection (+/- aortic lymph node dissection) is the standard treatment for early stage cervical cancer. Laparotomy has been the surgical method of choice for a considerable length of time. While it is an accepted effective treatment, laparotomy is highly invasive and is associated with increased risk of tissue trauma, intraoperative and postoperative complications, and longer hospital stay.

Minimally invasive surgery has been successfully and safely demonstrated in the treatment of early stage cervical cancer. Retrospective studies have shown that oncologic outcomes in terms of recurrence rates and patterns of recurrence are similar in patients who had a laparoscopic or an open approach to radical hysterectomy. There is reduction of overall postoperative complications, treatment-related morbidity and length of hospital stay. However, there are two studies stating poorer survival of women treated by minimally invasive surgery. An epidemiologic study using two large US databases (National Cancer Database and Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database) showed a reduction in overall survival of patients undergoing minimally invasive radical hysterectomy. Furthermore, in a prospective, multi-center, open-label randomized clinical trial, minimally invasive radical hysterectomy (both total laparoscopic and total robotic radical hysterectomy) was associated with significantly worse disease-free survival and overall survival compared to open abdominal radical hysterectomy among women with early stage cervical cancer. Recurrence rates were also higher in the minimally invasive group.

This study aims to compare total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy and total abdominal radical hysterectomy in terms of disease-free survival and overall survival. Rates and characteristics of recurrence, incidence of complications and morbidity, impact on quality of life and cost-effectiveness will also be determined.