Using Traditional Acupuncture in the Management of Cancer Treatment Related Lymphoedema
RATIONALE: Acupuncture and moxibustion may improve well-being and quality of life in patients with lymphedema caused by breast cancer or head, neck, and throat cancer.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well acupuncture given together with moxibustion works in improving well-being and quality of life in patients with breast cancer or head, neck, and throat cancer who are undergoing standard treatment for lymphedema.
Breast Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Lymphedema
OTHER: Acupuncture and moxibustion
Change From Baseline in Patient-specified and Reported Symptoms on the Measure Yourself Medical Outcome Profile (MYMOP), MYMOP is a questionnaire widely used for evaluating interventions based on holistic and participative principles. It enables respondants to specify and measure the treatment outcomes that are important to them., Before 7th acupuncture treatment|Change From Baseline in Patient-specified and Reported Symptoms on the Measure Yourself Medical Outcome Profile, MYMOP is a questionnaire widely used for evaluating interventions based on holistic and participative principles. It enables respondants to specify and measure the treatment outcomes that are important to them., Before the 13th acupuncture treatment
OBJECTIVES:

* To test the acupuncture and moxibustion treatment strategies to obtain a first measure of response for the approach(es) used in patients with breast cancer or head, neck, and throat cancer undergoing standard treatment for secondary lymphedema.
* To assess whether this treatment is an acceptable intervention to cancer patients with secondary lymphedema and to their health care professionals.
* To disseminate the data to begin to build the evidence base for using this treatment in the management of lymphedema.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo acupuncture and moxibustion therapy once weekly for 7 treatment (Series 1). After completion of therapy, patients may choose to continue treatment for an additional 6 treatments (Series 2).

Patients complete a set of 4 questionnaires (i.e., sociodemographic, Short-Form-36, Positive and Negative Affect Scale (PANAS), and Measure Yourself Medical Outcome Profile (MYMOP)) at the first treatment and then periodically during study. Patients also complete a series of follow-up questionnaires designed to elicit feedback about their acupuncture experience.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 and 3 months.