Daratumumab, Ixazomib, & Dexamethasone or Daratumumab, Bortezomib, & Dexamethasone in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well daratumumab, ixazomib, and dexamethasone with or without bortezomib work in treating patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as daratumumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ixazomib, dexamethasone, and bortezomib, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether giving daratumumab, ixazomib, and dexamethasone with or without bortezomib may work better in treating patients with multiple myeloma.
Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ixazomib
≥ Very good partial response (VGPR) response rate, This will be defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a response of VGPR or better (stringent complete response \[sCR\], complete response \[CR\], or VGPR) after induction cycle 8 treatment. Response will be determined by modified International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria., After cycle 8 (224 days)
Stem cell mobilization, This will be defined as the proportion of subjects with successful stem cell mobilization after induction cycle 3. A successful stem cell mobilization is defined as the ability to collect a total of at least 2 x 10⁶ cluster of differentiation 34+ (CD34+) cells/kg., After cycle 3 (84 days)|Best response on study, Best response on study refers to the best response prior to discontinuation of all study therapy., Up to 5 years after study start|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate will be defined as the proportion of treated subjects who achieve a best response of CR, sCR, VGPR, or partial response (PR) using the IMWG criteria., Up to 5 years after study start|Minimal residual disease (MRD), The achievement of minimal residual disease will be evaluated and reported on patients that achieve a complete response. Next-Generation sequencing will be performed to evaluate MRD., Up to 5 years after study start|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from first dose of study drug until documented progression or death. A subject who neither progresses nor dies will be censored on the date of his or her last tumor assessments., Up to 5 years after study start|Time to response, Time to response is defined as the time from first dose of study drug to the first documentation of response PR or better. This analysis will be restricted to subjects whose best response is PR or better., Up to 5 years after study start|Duration of response (DOR), Duration of response is the time from first response (PR or better) until a progression event (documented progression or death). Only subjects who ever achieved a response of PR or better will be considered. Subjects who neither progress nor die will be censored on the date of their last tumor assessment., Up to 5 years after study start
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the ≥ very good partial response (VGPR) rate after 8 cycles in subjects treated with daratumumab, ixazomib and dexamethasone (DId) versus (vs) daratumumab, bortezomib and dexamethasone (DVd) followed by DId among newly diagnosed myeloma patients (NDMM).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the proportion of subjects with successful stem cell mobilization after receiving 3 cycles of treatment in both arms (DId x 8 vs DVd x 3 then DId x 5).

II. To establish safety among patients receiving the combination of DId and DVd then DId.

III. To obtain anti-tumor activity (best response rates: overall response rate \[ORR\], VGPR, complete response \[CR\], stringent complete response \[sCR\] and minimal residual of disease \[MRD\] negativity) in patients treated with these combinations.

IV. Progression free survival (PFS), progression free survival 2 (PFS2), duration of response (DOR), time to progression (TTP), determine the time to next therapy (TTNT).

V. Overall survival (OS).

VI. Engraftment parameters among the autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) group.

VII. Determine whether tumor response and PFS may change in subgroups with different prognosis according to current prognostic factors.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I:

INDUCTION: Patients receive dexamethasone intravenously (IV) and orally (PO) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, daratumumab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1-2 and on days 1 and 15 of cycles 3-8, and ixazomib PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Eligible patients then undergo stem cell transplant per standard of care. Patients who have at least stable disease after induction and patients who have undergone transplant continue to Maintenance.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive dexamethasone IV and PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, daratumumab IV on day 1, and ixazomib PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II:

INDUCTION CYCLES 1-3: Patients receive dexamethasone IV and PO on days 1, 8, and 15, daratumumab IV on days 1, 8, and 15, and bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

INDUCTION CYCLES 4-8: Patients receive dexamethasone IV and PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, daratumumab IV on days 1 and 15, and ixazomib PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Eligible patients then undergo stem cell transplant per standard of care. Patients who have at least stable disease after induction and patients who have undergone transplant continue to Maintenance.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive dexamethasone IV on day 1, daratumumab IV on day 1, and ixazomib PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.