Study of Tinostamustine, First-in-Class Alkylating HDACi Fusion Molecule, in Relapsed/Refractory Hematologic Malignancies
This study evaluates the efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetics of tinostamustine (EDO-S101) in patients with relapsed/refractory hematologic malignancies. All patients will receive tinostamustine.
Hematological Malignancies|Multiple Myeloma|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Tinostamustine
Overall response rate, Determine overall response rate, 10-20 months from beginning of stage 2|Clinical benefit rate by cohort, Determine clinical benefit rate by cohort, 10-20 months from beginning of stage 2
Time to objective response, Evaluate time to objective response by cohort, 10-20 months after beginning stage 2|Duration of response, Evaluate duration of response, 10-20 months after beginning stage 2|Progression free survival (PFS), Determine time to progression free survival time for patients who received the RP2D, 32-36 months after beginning stage 2|Overall Survival (OS), Determine the overall survival time for patients who received the RP2D, 32-36 months after beginning stage 2
Tinostamustine is a First-in-Class Alkylating Histone Deacetylase Inhibition (HDACi) Fusion Molecule. It is anticipated that tinostamustine may have activity in various hematological malignancies and solid tumors.

This study is a multi-centre, open-label phase 1 study of single agent EDO-S101 in subjects with relapsed/refractory haematological malignancies and for whom no other therapies are available.

The study consists of 2 stages and 1 sub-study:

* Stage 1: Dose Escalation to determine Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) at the optimal infusion time and the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles; is expected to enroll between 21 and 48 patients. Stage 1 has now been completed.
* Stage 2: Expansion in five Cohorts, in which approximately 12-16 patients will be enrolled per cohort, for a maximum of 70 patients.

In Stage 1, tinostamustine doses were escalated following the standard 3+3 design. The decision to escalate to the next dose level occurred after all cohort patients completed 3 weeks (21 days) of observation and have been evaluated for safety and toxicity. The starting dose was a 1 hour infusion of 20 mg/m2, and the maximum dose level was 150 mg/m2. Reduced infusion times of 45 minutes and 30 minutes were assessed once the maximum tolerated dose at a 1-hour infusion was determined.

In Stage 2, five cohorts of patients (with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM); relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma; relapsed/refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL); relapsed/refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL); and relapsed/refractory T-cell Prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) will be enrolled and treated at the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) based on results of Stage 1. For MM patients, treatment will occur on Day 1 and Day 15 of a 28 day cycle. For lymphoma patients, treatment will occur on Day 1 of a 21 day cycle. Patients in each stage of the study are expected to receive a median of four Cycles of therapy, and the maximum number of treatment Cycles allowed is 12.

A sub study portion was added to the protocol as an amendment. In the sub study 6-12 patients will be treated with 100mg/m2 tinostamustine infusion delivered over 100 minutes.