Attitudes Toward Physical Activity and Nutrition Intervention During Cancer Treatment
Twenty-five women will be followed through their breast cancer treatment. The women will be asked to provide their opinions and desires for lifestyle intervention at different times throughout treatment. In addition, basic clinical data will be collected . The primary goal of this pilot study is to investigate the physical and behavioral changes that occur in patients receiving treatment for breast cancer.
Breast Neoplasms|Body Weight Changes
Perceived attitudes towards lifestyle interventions, Qualitative data collected via semi-structured interview, 9 months
Diet, 24 hour recall (ASA24) to assess food intake changes throughout treatment, 9 months|Physical Activity, Wrist worn Actigraph accelerometer to assess activity changes throughout treatment, 9 months|Body Weight, Body weight change throughout treatment, 9 months
In this cross sectional, longitudinal, observational study, 25 women will be followed through their treatment for stage I-III breast cancer. The women will be asked to provide their opinions and desires for lifestyle intervention at four timepoints throughout treatment. In addition to qualitative data, basic clinical data will be collected (anthropometrics, vital signs, dietary intake, and physical activity). The primary goal of this pilot study is to investigate the anthropometric and behavioral changes that occur in patients undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer.

Aim 1: To better understand patients' attitudes toward and perceived barriers to nutrition and physical activity interventions during neoplastic treatment.

Hypothesis: Patients' reported attitudes, motivation, and perceived barriers will change throughout treatment.

Aim 2: To measure the physical and metabolic changes that occur throughout neoplastic treatment for breast cancer.

Hypothesis: Over 50% of the participants will gain body weight during treatment and metabolic parameters will trend with body weight change.