Multicenter Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma Evaluation
Target population:

Patients with (1) newly diagnosed or (2) past history of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGL) or (3) carrier of genetic mutations in known PPGL susceptibility genes.

International multicenter prospective cohort study with randomized intervention (special care follow-up vs. standard care follow-up).

All patients will receive instructions about follow-up at the time point of study inclusion. Patients randomized to the standard care follow-up group will be advised to return annually for follow-up according to current routine practice (without active re-scheduling). In contrast, patients randomized to the special care follow-up group will also be advised to return annually for follow-up but these patients will be actively invited, re-scheduled and reminded by the centers to meet scheduled follow-up appointments.
Pheochromocytoma|Paraganglioma
OTHER: Contact by clinical center
Morbidity, to investigate whether standardized follow-up for patients at risk for PPGL improves long-term outcome, 18 years
Time to recurrence, Time to recurrence, 18 years|Size of recurrent tumors, Size of recurrent tumors, 18 years|Numbers of metastases, Numbers of metastases, 18 years|Biomarker indices of disease burden, Surrogate biomarker indices of disease burden (such as hormonal measures), 18 years|Metabolic parameter - blood glucose, fasting blood glucose, 18 years|Metabolic parameter - HbA1c, Hb1Ac, 18 years|Metabolic parameter - cholesterol, fasting cholesterol (total, LDL, HDL), 18 years|Hormonal parameters, hormonal profiles including metanephrines, normetanephrines and metoxytyramine (that will allow for sub-group specification of PPGLs), 18 years|Blood pressure profiles, Measurement of 24h blood pressure and ambulatory blood pressure measurments, 18 years|Cardiac function, Leftventricualr ejection fraction, 18 years|Disease specific mortality, Disease specific mortality, 18 years|Overall mortality, Overall mortality, 18 years
The long-term goal of the research planned under this protocol is to reduce morbidity and mortality of patients with PPGLs by improving approaches for management, follow-up and therapy of affected patients. As a first step towards attaining this goal, the primary objective of this protocol is to investigate whether standardized follow-up results in improved long-term outcome in terms of less morbidity and mortality as compared. The central hypothesis is that pro-active, structured and periodic disease screening and management of patients at risk for developing PPGLs and other neoplasms can lead to earlier detection of tumors and reduce adverse outcomes associated with cardiovascular, metabolic and oncologic complications of the tumors than standard care follow-up. The underlying rationale is that establishing improved outcomes for patients at risk for PPGLs will enable evidence-based recommendations for disease follow-up and management, thereby establishing wider acceptance and use of outlined practices with ensuing improvements in the health and quality of life of affected patients and their families.

In addition to the primary objective directed at establishing whether standardized and structured follow-up of patients with an increased risk for new events of PPGL (recurrent tumor, new tumor, or metastases) will result in improved longterm outcome, this protocol will enable several secondary objectives to be addressed using clinical (e.g. age, mode of presentation), biochemical, metabolic and genetic characteristics. These include:

1. to identify prognostic markers of disease progression
2. to assess whether clinical presentation, cardiovascular, metabolic and biochemical phenotype, genetic background and tumor characteristics (location, size, recurrence, pathology) are useful for development of personalized follow-up strategies.
3. to investigate whether standardized follow-up affects quality of life