CV301 Combined With PD-1/L1 Blockade in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Urothelial Bladder Cancer
This is a Phase 2, single-arm, multi-institutional clinical trial designed to study the combination of CV301 with atezolizumab in the first-line treatment of UC not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy (Cohort 1) and in the second-line treatment of UC previously treated with standard first-line cisplatin-based chemotherapy (Cohort 2).
Bladder Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: CV301|BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is the proportion of subjects in the analysis population with a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) based on best overall RECIST v1.1 evaluations as performed by the investigator. According to RECIST v1.1, the sum of the longest diameters of non-nodal target lesions and short axis of nodal target lesions are used to evaluate tumor response. Maximum of 2 target lesions per organ and 5 target lesions are used for the measurement. CR means disappearance of all known disease, confirmed at 4 week, lymph nodes must be \< 10 mm short axis. PR means \>=30% decrease from baseline measurement, confirmed at 4 week., up to 24 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), The time interval from first treatment to objective tumor progression or death of any cause. Subjects without death or progression are censored at the date when the last assessment determined a lack of progression. The time interval from first vaccination to death of any cause, up to 4 years for each subject or discontinuation of the study by sponsor., The time from day of first treatment to the start of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, or the last assessment date if there is a lack of progression, up to 24 months for each subject or discontinuation of the study by sponsor.|Overall Survival (OS), Time interval from first treatment to death of any cause. Subjects are censored at their date of last contact if they did not meet the survival endpoint by the outcome measure time frame., The time interval from first vaccination to death of any cause, up to 24 months for each subject or discontinuation of the study by sponsor.|Duration of Response, The time from objective response (CR or PR, whichever comes first) to investigator assessed progression using RECIST v1.1 or death, up to 24 months|Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, An Overall Summary of Subjects with any Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and TEAEs Categories. TEAEs Categories include Related Adverse Events, \>=Grade 3 Adverse Events, Related \>= Grade 3 Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events, Related Serious Adverse Events, Adverse Events of Special Interest and Related Adverse Events of Special Interest. TEAEs are considered as related when the investigator-assessed relationship of the corresponding trial treatment is "possible", "probable", "definite" or missing. Per CTCAE v5, Grade 1=Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms. Grade 2=Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated. Grade 3=Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated. Grade 4=Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5=Death related to AE. Immune Mediated Adverse Events (IMAE) and Cardiac events are considered AESIs., up to 24 months|Toxicity Grade Shift From Baseline in Laboratory Results, Toxicity grades are based on CTCAE v5 scales for hematology and chemistry laboratory parameters. Grade 0=Normal, Grade 1=Mild, Grade 2=Moderate, Grade 3=Severe, Grade 5=Life-threatening, and Grade 5=Death. Toxicity grade shift is defined to evaluate categorical changes from baseline results to post-treatment results with respect to dichotomized CTCAE v5 grading value (\<= Grade 2, \>= Grade 3)., Overall Study up to 24 months|Vital Signs Results - Pulse Rate, Vital signs results assessed throughout the study., Overall study up to 24 months|Vital Signs Results - System Blood Pressure, Vital signs results assessed throughout the study., Overall study up to 24 months|Vital Signs Results - Diastolic Blood Pressure, Vital signs results assessed throughout the study., Overall study up to 24 months|Vital Signs Results - Temperature, Vital signs results assessed throughout the study., Overall study up to 24 months|Vital Signs Results - Respiratory Rate, Vital signs results assessed throughout the study., Overall study up to 24 months
This is a Phase 2, single-arm, multi-institutional clinical trial designed to study the combination of CV301 with atezolizumab in the first-line treatment of UC not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy (Cohort 1) and in the second-line treatment of UC previously treated with standard first-line cisplatin-based chemotherapy (Cohort 2). The trial will be performed using an optimal two-stage design within each cohort.

Stage 1, Cohort 1: Enroll 14 subjects. If objective response is not achieved in at least four patients, the cohort will be stopped for futility. If objective response is achieved in at least four subjects, the cohort will proceed to stage 2. If any patient is not evaluable for the primary endpoint, the patient may be replaced.

Stage 1, Cohort 2: Enroll 13 subjects. If objective response is not achieved in at least three patients, the cohort will be stopped for futility. If objective response is achieved in at least three subjects, the cohort will proceed to stage 2. If any patient is not evaluable for the primary endpoint, the patient may be replaced.

Stage 2, Cohort 1: Enroll an additional 19 subjects. If any patient is not evaluable for the primary endpoint, the patient may be replaced until a total of 33 patients are evaluable for the primary endpoint.

Stage 2, Cohort 2: Enroll an additional 22 subjects. If any patient is not evaluable for the primary endpoint, the patient may be replaced until a total of 35 patients are evaluable for the primary endpoint.