A Trial to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of KRN23 in Epidermal Nevus Syndrome (ENS)
KRN23 is a fully human immunoglobulin monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to and inhibits the activity of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), leading to an increase in serum phosphorus levels. There are multiple disorders that result in unusually high circulating levels of FGF23, which in turn result in renal phosphate wasting and reduced levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D (1,25\[OH\]2D). Across these disorders the clinical symptoms are similar and often include osteomalacia (and, in children, rickets), muscle weakness, fatigue, bone pain, and fractures. KRN23 has been studied in one of these disorders, X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH). In single- and repeat-dose clinical studies in subjects with XLH, subcutaneous (SC) administration of KRN23 consistently increased and sustained serum phosphorus levels and tubular reabsorption of phosphate (TRP) without a major impact on urine calcium levels or vitamin D metabolism. Positive results were also observed in a nonclinical pharmacology model of XLH. It is hypothesized that KRN23 may provide clinical benefit in this patient due to the common underlying feature in this patient and in patients with XLH - abnormally elevated FGF23 in the context of low age -adjusted serum phosphorous levels. The primary objective is to study the effect of KRN23 treatment on normalizing age-adjusted fasting serum phosphorous levels in a single pediatric patient with Epidermal Nevus Syndrome associated hypophosphatemic rickets.
Epidermal Nevus Syndrome
DRUG: Crysvita (burosumab-twza) Treatment
The Participant Will Achieve Normal Age-adjusted Phosphorous Levels as Tested by Fasting Serum Lab Values, Checking PO4 levels every two weeks and adjusting doses every 4 weeks in blood, every 2 week, from baseline to 52 weeks.
Participant Will Achieve Improving Vitamin D Levels as Measured by Serum Blood Tests., check Vitamin D 1,25 in blood every 3 months, 1 year|Participant Will Achieve Improving iPTH Levels as Measured by Serum Blood Tests., measure PTH levels approximately every 3 months, every 3 months, From Baseline to 52 weeks|Participant Will Achieve Improving Calcium Levels as Measured by Serum Blood Tests., measure Calcium level every 3 months, every 3 months, From Baseline to 52 weeks|Participant Will Achieve Improvement of Underlying Skeletal Disease/Rickets as Assessed by Standard Radiographs., DEXA (dual energy X-ray Absorbometry) scans and whole body x-rays will be taken at baseline. A lower Z score is indicative of poor results. Z score compares the standard deviations of the reading with matched aged persons. The normal range is +2 to - 2 Standard deviations and those are what we call Z scores. A Z score of 0 is the population mean., baseline scans prior to drug administration|Participant Will Achieve Improving Levels of Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP), obtain Alkaline phosphatase in blood every 3 months, every 3 months, From baseline to 52 weeks
KRN23 is a fully human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to and inhibits the activity of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), leading to an increase in serum phosphorus levels. There are multiple disorders (each with a unique underlying cause) that result in unusually high circulating levels of FGF23, which in turn result in renal phosphate wasting and reduced (or aberrantly normal in relationship to elevated FGF23) levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D (1,25\[OH\]2D). Across these disorders the clinical symptoms are similar and often include osteomalacia (and, in children, rickets), muscle weakness, fatigue, bone pain, and fractures. KRN23 has been studied in one of these disorders, X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH). In single- and repeat-dose clinical studies in subjects with XLH, subcutaneous (SC) administration of KRN23 consistently increased and sustained serum phosphorus levels and tubular reabsorption of phosphate (TRP) without a major impact on urine calcium levels or vitamin D metabolism. Positive results were also observed in a nonclinical pharmacology model of XLH. It is hypothesized that KRN23 may provide clinical benefit in this patient due to the common underlying feature in this patient and in patients with XLH - abnormally elevated FGF23 in the context of low age -adjusted serum phosphorous levels.