Axitinib (AG-013736) For the Treatment of Metastatic Renal Cell Cancer
The study is designed to demonstrate that axitinib (AG-013736) is superior to sorafenib in delaying tumor progression in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer.
Kidney Neoplasms
DRUG: Axitinib (AG-013736)|DRUG: Sorafenib
Progression Free Survival (PFS): First-Line Participants, Time in months from randomization to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. PFS calculated as (first event date minus date of randomization plus 1)/30.4. Tumor progression determined from oncologic assessment data (where it meets criteria for progressive disease \[PD\]), or from adverse event (AE) data (where outcome was "Death"). Progression using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) is \>= 20 percent (%) increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; measurable increase in non-target lesion; appearance of new lesions., Baseline until disease progression or death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 107)|Progression Free Survival (PFS): Second-Line Participants, Time in months from randomization to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. PFS calculated as (first event date minus date of randomization plus 1)/30.4. Tumor progression determined from oncologic assessment data (where it meets criteria for progressive disease \[PD\]), or from adverse event (AE) data (where outcome was "Death"). Progression using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) is \>= 20 percent (%) increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; measurable increase in non-target lesion; appearance of new lesions., Baseline until disease progression or death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 103)
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR): First-Line Participants, Percentage of participants with OR based on assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to RECIST. Confirmed response were those that persisted on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target). PR were those with at least 30 percent decrease in sum of the longest dimensions of target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions, with non target lesions not increased or absent., Baseline until disease progression or death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 107)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR): Second-Line Participants, Percentage of participants with OR based on assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to RECIST. Confirmed response were those that persisted on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR was defined as disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target). PR were those with at least 30 percent decrease in sum of the longest dimensions of target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions, with non target lesions not increased or absent., Baseline until disease progression or death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 103)|Duration of Response (DR): First-Line Participants, Time in months from the first documentation of objective tumor response that is subsequently confirmed to objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Duration of tumor response was calculated as (the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1) divided by 30.4. DR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., Baseline until disease progression or death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 107)|Duration of Response (DR): Second-Line Participants, Time in months from the first documentation of objective tumor response that is subsequently confirmed to objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Duration of tumor response was calculated as (the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1) divided by 30.4. DR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., Baseline until disease progression or death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 103)|Overall Survival (OS): First-Line Participants, Time in months from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (the death date minus the date of randomization plus 1) divided by 30.4. Death was determined from adverse event data (where outcome was death) or from follow-up contact data (where the participant current status was death)., Baseline until death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 107)|Overall Survival (OS): Second-Line Participants, Time in months from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (the death date minus the date of randomization plus 1) divided by 30.4. Death was determined from adverse event data (where outcome was death) or from follow-up contact data (where the participant current status was death)., Baseline until death (assessed on Week 6, Week 12 and thereafter every 8 weeks up to Week 103)
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Kidney Symptom Index-15 (FKSI-15): First-Line Participants, FKSI-15 questionnaires (lack of energy, side effects, pain, weight loss, bone pain, fatigue, enjoying life, short of breath, worsened condition, appetite, coughing, bothered by fevers, ability to work, hematuria, sleep) was used to assess quality of life (QoL) for those diagnosed with renal cell cancer. Questions answered on 5-point Likert scale: 0 to 4 (0= not at all, 1= little bit, 2= somewhat, 3= quite a bit, 4= very much). Total FKSI score 0 to 60; higher scores=better health states (Individual questions may be reversed coded, as appropriate)., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C23, end of treatment (up to Week 107), follow-up (28 days after last dose)|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Kidney Symptom Index-15 (FKSI-15): Second-Line Participants, FKSI-15 questionnaires (lack of energy, side effects, pain, weight loss, bone pain, fatigue, enjoying life, short of breath, worsened condition, appetite, coughing, bothered by fevers, ability to work, hematuria, sleep) was used to assess quality of life (QoL) for those diagnosed with renal cell cancer. Questions answered on 5-point Likert scale: 0 to 4 (0= not at all, 1= little bit, 2= somewhat, 3= quite a bit, 4= very much). Total FKSI score 0 to 60; higher scores=better health states (Individual questions may be reversed coded, as appropriate)., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C21, end of treatment (up to Week 103), follow-up (28 days after last dose)|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Kidney Symptom Index -Disease Related Symptoms (FKSI-DRS): First-Line Participants, FKSI-DRS: subset of FKSI which is FACT-Kidney Symptom Index questionnaire used to assess QoL for participants diagnosed with renal cell cancer. FKSI contains 15 questions and FKSI-DRS 9 questions (lack of energy, pain, losing weight, bone pain, fatigue, short of breath, coughing, bothered by fevers, hematuria) each ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). FKSI-DRS total score 0 to 36; higher scores associated with better health states (Individual questions may be reversed coded, as appropriate)., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C23, end of treatment (up to Week 107), follow-up (28 days after last dose)|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Kidney Symptom Index -Disease Related Symptoms (FKSI-DRS): Second-Line Participants, FKSI-DRS: subset of FKSI which is FACT-Kidney Symptom Index questionnaire used to assess QoL for participants diagnosed with renal cell cancer. FKSI contains 15 questions and FKSI-DRS 9 questions (lack of energy, pain, losing weight, bone pain, fatigue, short of breath, coughing, bothered by fevers, hematuria) each ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). FKSI-DRS total score 0 to 36; higher scores associated with better health states (Individual questions may be reversed coded, as appropriate)., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C21, end of treatment (up to Week 103), follow-up (28 days after last dose)|Euro Quality of Life Questionnaire- 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) Index Score: First-Line Participants, EQ-5D: participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single utility score. Health State Profile component assesses level of current health for 5 domains: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, and anxiety and depression; 1 indicates better health state (no problems); 3 indicates worst health state ("confined to bed"). Scoring formula developed by EuroQol Group assigns a utility value for each domain in the profile. Score is transformed and results in a total score range -0.594 to 1.000; higher score indicates a better health state., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C23, end of treatment (up to Week 107), follow-up (28 days after last dose)|Euro Quality of Life Questionnaire- 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) Index Score: Second-Line Participants, EQ-5D: participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single utility score. Health State Profile component assesses level of current health for 5 domains: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, and anxiety and depression; 1 indicates better health state (no problems); 3 indicates worst health state ("confined to bed"). Scoring formula developed by EuroQol Group assigns a utility value for each domain in the profile. Score is transformed and results in a total score range -0.594 to 1.000; higher score indicates a better health state., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C21, end of treatment (up to Week 103), follow-up (28 days after last dose)|Euro Quality of Life Questionnaire- 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) Visual Analog Scale (VAS): First-Line Participants, EQ-5D: participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single index value. The VAS component rates current health state on a scale from 0: worst imaginable health state to 100: best imaginable health state; higher scores indicate a better health state., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C23, end of treatment (up to Week 107), follow-up (28 days after last dose)|Euro Quality of Life Questionnaire- 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) Visual Analog Scale (VAS): Second-Line Participants, EQ-5D: participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single index value. The VAS component rates current health state on a scale from 0: worst imaginable health state to 100: best imaginable health state; higher scores indicate a better health state., Baseline (Pre-dose on Cycle [C]1 Day [D]1), D1 of each cycle until C21, end of treatment (up to Week 103), follow-up (28 days after last dose)
The study is designed to demonstrate that axitinib (AG-013736) is superior to sorafenib in delaying tumor progression in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer.