Can Four Weeks-check Cystoscopy and Urine Cytology After Primary Complete Resection of T1 Bladder Cancer Replace Repeat Biopsy?
The primary objective of this prospective study is to evaluate the clinical performance of combined check cystoscopy and urine cytology findings 4 weeks after initial primary complete resection of T1 BC for detection of residual malignancy at repeat biopsy.
Bladder Cancer
PROCEDURE: Outpatient check cytoscopy|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Urine cytology
Rate of positive repeat biopsy for malignancy, The primary outcome include evaluation of the clinical performance of combined urine cytology and outpatient check cystoscopy 4 weeks after primary complete resection of T1BC as a predictive tool for possible residual malignancy at repeat biopsy., 4 weeks
Tumor recurrence rate, The secondary outcome includes the evaluation of predictive capacity of combined urine cytology and outpatient check cystoscopy for early tumor recurrence in the study participants., 1 year
Non muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) represents the vast majority (70%-80 %) of bladder cancer (BC) patients. T1 disease accounts for 15% to 30 % of NMIBC and is defined as invasion of the lamina propria without invasion of the muscularis propria.

Complete primary transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) is considered a crucial initial step not only to establish the diagnosis but also to achieve good prognosis and to guard against early recurrence due to missed lesions. Most current guidelines recommend repeat biopsy at 2 to 6 weeks after initial complete resection of T1 BC before initiation of adjuvant intravesical instillation of bacillus of Calmette and Guerin (BCG).

Repeat biopsy after presumable complete primary TURBT of T1 disease is quite helpful to confirm complete resection; in addition, it can provide additional pathological information as residual T1/Ta disease in 33%-55% of patients and T2 disease (upstaging) in 3%-10% of patients.

However, repeat biopsy is still an invasive procedure adding further cost and risk of anesthetic as well as surgical complications. In addition, it was shown in a recent published report by Adam and colleagues that repeat biopsy alters further patient management in a minority of patients and delay adjuvant intravesical BCG in 90% of patients.

Therefore, ensuring adequate primary complete resection by less invasive tools might be a helpful step to spare large proportion of T1 BC patients the added cost and morbidity of repeat biopsy, and to prioritize patients for intervention in systems with long waiting times, as well.

Urine cytology is a useful noninvasive method for detection of urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder. It has been established as a useful adjunct in both the diagnosis and follow-up especially for high grade tumor, and carcinoma in situ (CIS).

Urine cytology after complete primary resection of NMIBC had been investigated in previous reports as a determinant factor of possible overlooked tumors after primary resection.

On the other hand, check outpatient cystoscopy under local anesthesia remains the gold standard tool of initial diagnosis and surveillance of NMIBC. However, it lacks the sensitivity to detect flat lesions (more likely CIS).

In this context, the investigators assume that combined check outpatient cystoscopy and urine cytology 4 weeks after initial complete resection of T1 BC can provide reliable information about possibility of residual tumor/s that necessities repeat biopsy.

In the current study, the investigators aim at evaluating the clinical performance of combined check cystoscopy and urine cytology findings 4 weeks after initial primary complete resection of T1 BC for detection of residual malignancy at repeat biopsy.