Ribociclib and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors or Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride in treating patients with solid tumors or lymphoma that have spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment. Ribociclib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ribociclib together with gemcitabine hydrochloride may work better in treating patients with solid tumors or lymphoma.
Lymphoma|Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Ribociclib
MTD of ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride, defined as the maximum dose level at which =< 1/6 patients have dose limiting toxicities, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated for the dose estimated to be the MTD., 21 days|Recommended Phase II dose of ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride, using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (NCI CTCAE v4.0), 21 days
CDK2/4/6, cyclin D1 and cyclin D3 amplification and RB, P16 expression in tumor tissue, Will be correlated with treatment response., Baseline|Disease free survival, Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Incidence of adverse events (AEs) of ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride, using the NCI CTCAE v4.0, AEs will be coded and evaluated for severity using NCI-CTCAE, version 4.0 and will be summarized by system organ class and preferred term. The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and cycles., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Objective response rate (ORR), calculated as the number of patients with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the total number of patients, using the RECIST 1.1, Tumor response will be summarized for the evaluable patient population, and the 95% confidence interval for ORR (CR+PR) will be presented. Objective tumor response will be tabulated overall (and by dose level if appropriate)., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Overall survival, From the start of treatment until death for any reason, assessed up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|PK interactions, including maximum plasma concentration, maximum concentration (Cmax), clearance (CL), half-life, area under the curve (AUC) from 0 to infinity, and AUC from 0 to the last measurable time point (recommended Phase II dose cohort), Pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours post-dose on days 1 and 8 of course 1, and pre-dose on day 14 of course 1|PK/pharmacodynamic parameters of the combination of ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual AUCs or CL of ribociclib in combination with gemcitabine. The effect of the combination on pharmacokinetic of each drug will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC, as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the dose-limiting toxicities and identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase II dose of the combination of LEE011 (ribociclib) and gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) in patients with advanced solid tumors or lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the safety and tolerability of the combination of LEE011 and gemcitabine.

II. To describe the pharmacokinetic (PK) of LEE011 in combination with gemcitabine.

III. To describe preliminary evidence of efficacy of the combination of LEE011 and gemcitabine.

IV. To evaluate the correlation of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) amplification (testing by fluorescence in situ hybridization \[FISH\]), retinoblastoma (RB) and P16 expression (by immunohistochemistry) in archived and biopsied tumor tissue with treatment response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive ribociclib orally (PO) on days 1-14 and gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.