Ultrasound Guided Quadratus Lumborum Block Versus Transversus Abdominis Plane Block as Postoperative Analgesia in Patients Undergoing Abdominal Cancer Surgery.
Abdominal surgery is usually associated with severe postoperative pain. The transverse abdominal plane (TAP) block is considered an effective means for pain control in such cases. The quadratus lumborum (QL) block is another option for the management of postoperative pain.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of quadrates lumborum blocks and Transversus abdominis plane blocks for pain management after abdominal cancer surgery.
Abdominal Cancer
OTHER: quadratus lumborum|OTHER: transversus abdominis plane
The total dose of morphine, amount of morphine in mg, in the first 24 hours after surgery
visual analog score, ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 no pain and 10 maximum pain, postoperatively at 30 min and 2, 4, 6, 12, and 24 hours|visual analog score, ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 no pain and 10 maximum pain, postoperatively 2 hours|visual analog score, ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 no pain and 10 maximum pain, postoperatively at 4 hours|visual analog score, ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 no pain and 10 maximum pain, postoperatively at 6 hours|visual analog score, ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 no pain and 10 maximum pain, postoperatively at 12 hours|visual analog score, ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 no pain and 10 maximum pain, postoperatively at 24 hours
Postoperative pain is severe in patients undergoing abdominal surgery, and severe pain not only affects the rate of recovery of patients but also induces a series of pathophysiological reactions. Therefore, it is very important for perioperative patients to have a safe and effective pain management model. Although classic postoperative analgesia methods can provide effective pain relief after surgery, their administration has a well-defined risk of side effects. Recently, with the rise in enhanced recovery after surgery, nerve blocks have become the key link in multimodal analgesic regimes.

As effective constituents of multimode analgesia, quadratus lumborum (QL) block and transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block are mainly used for postoperative analgesia in abdominal surgery.

Aim of this study is to compare between the analgesic effecacy of quadrates lumborum block and transverses abdominal plane block