Testing Video Information About Mammography Screening
This study examines how video information about mammography screening effect participants knowledge opinions and choice about screening.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Video information about mammography screening|OTHER: Video information about smart energy systems
Choice: proportion of participants in favor of mammography screening, The primary outcome in the study is choice. A possible effect of the intervention on choice will be examined by comparing the proportion of participants in favor of screening (on the individual level and societal level respectively) between the intervention arm and the control arm. One question addressing the societal choice and one question addressing the individual choice is included in our questionnaire., One month
Response duration: time, Response duration is registered for all participants in the online survey. Mean response duration will be calculated in both the intervention arm and control arm., One month|Acceptability of the video: percentage of participants finding the video to be neutral, in favor of or against mammography screening., Percentages of the participants finding the video to be neutral, in favor of or against mammography screening will be calculated in the intervention arm., One month
This study will be conducted as a single site parallel-arm, 1:1 randomized controlled trial (RCT) through a web-based quantitative survey uploaded in online forums. Participants will be randomized to either the intervention group (video information about mammography screening followed by a survey about mammography screening) or the control group (video information about energy systems followed by the same survey). The survey computer programme will randomly assign each respondent to either the intervention arm or the control arm in the beginning of the survey.

The allocation will be concealed from the researchers. The survey computer programme will deliver the intervention right after randomization. Participants will be aware of the allocation. However, they do not know about the study design. Data analysts will be kept blinded to the allocation.

Choice, knowledge and opinions related to mammography screening will be compared between the control group and the intervention group at one timepoint.