Copanlisib in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Endometrial Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well copanlisib works in treating patients with endometrial cancer that has not decreased or disappeared, and the cancer may still be in the body despite treatment (persistent) or has come back (recurrent). Copanlisib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Mixed Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Metastatic Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Cancer
DRUG: Copanlisib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Frequency of Objective Response Defined by RECIST 1.1 Criteria, Confirmed complete and partial tumor response by RECIST 1.1. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, approximate study duration 1 year 9 months
Percentage of Participants Alive and Progression-free at 6 Months, Percentage of participants who are progression free at 6 months. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Up to 6 months from enrollment|Median Progression-Free Survival Using RECIST 1.1 Criteria, The median progression-free survival time, Up to 2 years from enrollment|Median Overall Survival, Median time of overall survival, up to 2 years from enrollment|The Frequency and Severity of CTCAE v4 Graded Adverse Events, Maximum grade of physician assessed adverse events reported during treatment, approximately 1 year 9 months
Mutation Subtypes and Clinical Outcomes, Associations between mutation subtypes and clinical outcomes will be explored using standard statistical methods for categorical and time to event data., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the activity of copanlisib (BAY 80-6946) in patients with persistent or recurrent endometrial carcinoma harboring phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha (PI3KCA) hotspot mutations with the frequency of objective response.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate 6 month progression-free survival (PFS) and median PFS. II. To estimate the distribution of the duration of overall survival (OS). III. To assess the safety profile of copanlisib in endometrial cancer patients.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To systematically evaluate by sequencing the site (i.e., exome) and characteristics of PIK3CA mutations in endometrial cancer patients and correlate such mutations to overall response (OR), PFS, and OS in patients treated with copanlisib.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive copanlisib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.