Safety Study of Radiofrequency Ablation of Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of the study is to determine the safety of radiofrequency ablation of locally advanced pancreatic cancer that can not be surgically removed with the current standard procedures. Complications after the operation will be registered. Moreover a pain score will be determined, length of hospital stay, chemotherapy, survival, progression free survival and a tumour marker.
Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: radiofrequency ablation (RFA)
Safety, The safety will be specified as the percentage of patients with complications directly related to RFA and the routinely performed double-bypass procedure, requiring re-intervention (i.e. endoscopy, radiology, or surgery). This is also known as a complication of grade III or higher in the Clavien-Dindo classification (internationally accepted classification for surgical complications). Moreover all in-hospital complications or complications developed within 30 days after the RFA procedure will be evaluated according to the Clavien-Dindo classification., Within 30 days after the RFA procedure
survival, 2 years after RFA procedure|VAS pain score, 3 months|length hospital stay, 3 months|progression free survival, 2 years after RFA procedure|CA19-9 response, 2 years after RFA procedure|Chemotherapy, Type, frequency, dosage and duration of chemotherapy will be registered., 2 years
Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer related death in the Western world. At time of diagnosis, 20% of patients present with a resectable tumour, 40% with an irresectable locally advanced tumour (without metastases) and 40% with metastatic disease. The median survival of patients with irresectable locally advanced pancreatic cancer is only 6 months. Currently, there is no effective treatment for these patients. Therefore, there is an urgent need for new therapies. Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is a technique that has been demonstrated to be effective in the treatment of several irresectable tumours. RFA produces local tumour destruction through high frequency alternating current flowing from an electrode implanted directly into the tumour and causing frictional heating. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety of RFA-pancreas in patients with non-metastasized, irresectable, locally advanced pancreatic cancer.