A Study of Tarceva (Erlotinib) to Compare Two Different Doses in in Currently Smoking Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (CURRENTS)
This prospective, double-blind, randomized study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of two dose levels of erlotinib \[Tarceva\] on progression-free survival, response and disease control rates and overall survival in patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after failure of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients must be current smokers and not intending to stop smoking during the study. Patients will be randomized to receive either 150 mg or 300 mg of study drug as single daily oral doses. Treatment will continue until disease progression.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib [Tarceva]
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the date of first occurrence of disease progression or death. For target lesions, Progressive Disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD was defined as the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Randomization to Clinical Cutoff: 28 October 2013 (Up to 36.5 Months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at the End of Study, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the date of first occurrence of disease progression or death. For target lesions, Progressive Disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD was defined as the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Randomization to End of Study: 14 October 2010 - 7 February 2014 (Up to 39.8 months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Randomization to Clinical Cutoff: 28 October 2013 (Up to 36.5 months)|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response was assessed by the investigator using computer tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. A participant was defined as a responder if they sustained a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) for at least 4 weeks during randomized treatment (confirmed response). Patients with no tumor assessment after the start of study treatment were to be considered as non-responders. The percentage of participants in each best response category is presented., Randomization to Clinical Cutoff: 28 October 2013 (Up to 36.5 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Tumor response was assessed by the investigator using computer tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. Disease control rates were measured according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria. A participant was defined as having controlled disease if they sustained a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) for at least 4 weeks during randomized treatment (confirmed response), or Stable Disease (SD) for at least 6 weeks. Patients with no tumor assessment after the start of study treatment were considered as having uncontrolled disease. The percentage of participants with Disease Control is presented., Randomization to Clinical Cutoff: 28 October 2013 (Up to 36.5 months)|Time to Progression (TTP), Tumor response was assessed by the investigator using computer tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria. Time to progression (TTP) in weeks was defined as the time from randomization to the date of disease progression. Participants without event were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment when the patient was known to be progression free., Randomization to Clinical Cutoff: 28 October 2013 (Up to 36.5 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) at the End of the Study, An adverse event was considered any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. Preexisting conditions that worsened during the study were reported as adverse events.

A serious adverse event is any experience that suggests a significant hazard, contraindication, side effect or precaution that: results in death, is life-threatening, required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is medically significant.

Adverse Events in the following categories are presented: Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events, AEs leading to withdrawal from treatment and AEs leading to death., Randomization to End of Study: 14 October 2010 - 7 February 2014 (Up to 39.8 months)|Overall Survival (OS) at the End of Study, OS defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Randomization to End of Study: 14 October 2010 - 7 February 2014 (Up to 39.8 months)
This prospective, double-blind, randomized study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of two dose levels of erlotinib \[Tarceva\] on progression-free survival, response and disease control rates and overall survival in patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after failure of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients must be current smokers and not intending to stop smoking during the study. Patients will be randomized to receive either 150 mg or 300 mg of study drug as single daily oral doses. Treatment will continue until disease progression.