Nivolumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent and/or Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well nivolumab works in treating patients with nasopharyngeal cancer that has returned after a period of improvement (recurrent) and/or has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may block tumor growth in different ways by targeting certain cells.
Nasopharyngeal Nonkeratinizing Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasopharynx Carcinoma|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Confirmed Response Rate (Complete Response or Partial Response) Based on RECIST Version 1.1, Confirmed response rate is defined as either a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) based on RECIST version 1.1. \> To be consider a CR, there must be a disappearance of all target lesions and each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm.\> \> To be considered a PR, at least a 30% decrease in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the baseline value.\>

\> The confirmed response rate is reported as the number of patients reporting a CR or PR divided by the total number of evaluable patients multiplied by 100 (reported as a percentage)., Up to 3 years
Adverse Events, Adverse events were collected and recorded according to the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns. For this outcome measure, we summarize the worst graded adverse event regardless of treatment attribution per patient. All reported adverse events are reported in the Adverse Events section of this report., Up to 3 years on treatment|Tumor Response to Nivolumab Based on the Immune Response Criteria (IRC), The Immune Response Criteria (IRC) is a response criteria derived from the WHO criteria., Up to 3 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response defined as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented, assessed according to RECIST version 1.1., Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on RECIST Version 1.1, Progression Free Survival is defined as the time from registration to the time of death or progression, whichever occurs first. The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the first of either death due to any cause or progression, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from registration to the time of death. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
Clearance of EBV DNA, Plasma EBV DNA half-life during the first 6 weeks of treatment will be correlated with RECIST-response to nivolumab., Up to 6 weeks of treatment|Intratumoral Expression of PD-1 and PD-L1, PD-1 and PD-L1 expression will be associated with treatment outcomes. The Chi-Square (or Fisher's Exact test) will be used to assess the association of categorical clinical data with categorical biomarker data. Time-to-event clinical data (PFS, OS) will be correlated with biomarker data using Kaplan-Meier methodology and Cox regression models. Logistic regression models will also be used to predict binary clinical data with baseline biomarker data. Finally, graphical methods and descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the data as well., Baseline|Change in Serum Absolute Lymphocyte Count, The Chi-Square (or Fisher's Exact test) will be used to assess the association of categorical clinical data with categorical biomarker data. Time-to-event clinical data (PFS, OS) will be correlated with biomarker data using Kaplan-Meier methodology and Cox regression models. Logistic regression models will also be used to predict binary clinical data with baseline biomarker data. Finally, graphical methods and descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the data as well., Baseline and up to 3 years|Expression of PD-1 in CD8+ T Cells in TIL, The Chi-Square (or Fisher's Exact test) will be used to assess the association of categorical clinical data with categorical biomarker data. Time-to-event clinical data (PFS, OS) will be correlated with biomarker data using Kaplan-Meier methodology and Cox regression models. Logistic regression models will also be used to predict binary clinical data with baseline biomarker data. Finally, graphical methods and descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the data as well., Baseline|Functional MRI Parameters, Graphical methods and descriptive statistics will be used., Up to 16 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Objective tumor response to nivolumab in patients with previously treated recurrent and/or metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Tumor response to nivolumab based on immune-related response criteria (IRC). II. Duration of response. III. Progression-free survival and overall survival. IV. Safety and tolerability.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the effect of nivolumab on tumor burden by analyzing the clearance of plasma Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) during the first 4-6 weeks of treatment.

II. To investigate the association between treatment outcome and immunological markers: a) Intratumoral expression of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) and programmed cell death-ligand (PD-L1) in archived NPC tissues (mandatory); b) Serum absolute lymphocyte count at baseline and post-treatment (mandatory); and c) Plasma cytokine levels at baseline and serially during the first 8 weeks of treatment; d) Expression of PD-1 in cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T cells in tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) at baseline (optional).

III. To investigate functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences as an early predictor of response to nivolumab (optional only at Chinese University of Hong Kong \[CUHK\]).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over approximately 60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.