Effect of Non-estrogenic Pollen Extract PCC-100 on Hot Flushes
Many postmenopausal women have vasomotor symptoms during adjuvant hormonal treatment for breast cancer. PCC-100 is a pollen extract used for alleviation of postmenopausal symptoms. In a randomised, double blinded study pollen extract PCC-100 will be used to treat vasomotor complaints in postmenopausal women under adjuvant hormonal treatment and also in menopausal women without a history of breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Hot Flashes|Postmenopausal Symptoms
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: non-estrogenic pollen extract PCC-100|OTHER: placebo
Daily frequency of hot flashes, Daily frequency of hot flashes as mentioned in the daily diary the subjects need to complete during 12 weeks. The patient indicate in the diary the number, intensity (mild, moderate, severe) of hotflashes every day, 12 weeks
Menopause symptoms, Symptoms related to menopause will be asked to the patients by using the Menopause Rating Scale (MRS), this is a questionnaire with 11 questions about menopause and you can scale every question from 1 (no complaints) to 4 (severe)., 6-8 weeks after randomisation and 12 weeks after randomisation|Menopause symptoms, Symptoms related to menopause will be asked to the patients by using the Green Climacteric Scale. This is a questionnaire of 21 questions about menopause. Every question can be scored from no complaints to very severe., 6-8 weeks after randomisation and 12 weeks after randomisation|Influence of hot flashes on daily life, Influence of hot flashes on daily life will be asked by using a questionnaire: Hot-Flash Related daily interference scale. This 10-item scale measures a woman's perceptions of the degree to which hot flashes interfere with nine daily life activities; the tenth item measures interference with overall quality of life, 6-8 weeks after randomisation and 12 weeks after randomisation
Many postmenopausal women have vasomotor symptoms during adjuvant hormonal treatment for breast cancer. PCC-100 is a pollen extract used for alleviation of postmenopausal symptoms. In a randomised, double blinded study pollen extract PCC-100 will be used to treat vasomotor complaints in postmenopausal women under adjuvant hormonal treatment and also in menopausal women without a history of breast cancer.