Prevention of Caries in Head and Neck Cancer Survivors Who Underwent Radiotherapy
One of the long-term side effects of head and neck radiotherapy (RT) is radiation-induced tooth decay. Hyposalivation, associated with radiation therapy, further increases caries susceptibility and caries progression, due to the lack of salivary protective effects and of tooth minerals useful for remineralization processes, especially calcium phosphate (CaP). Dental extractions that could be required in case of severe tooth decay expose the patient to the risk of osteoradionecrosis of the jaws (i.e. the necrosis of the bone tissue following a local trauma, including surgical trauma). This protocol aims at verifying the effectiveness of CaP mousse in the prevention of carious lesions, added to topical fluoride. A randomized controlled clinical trial will be performed comparing CaP + fluoride treatment versus no treatment in head and neck cancer patients, who received radiotherapy. The hypothesis is that CaP, which is lacking in the mouth of these patients due to hyposalivation, can combine with fluoride to promote remineralization, reducing the risk of carious lesions.
Caries,Dental|Head and Neck Cancer|Radiotherapy; Complications
OTHER: Application of CaP dental mousse
Number of new cavitated caries per each patient (incidence of caries), Identification of new carious lesion using International Caries Detection and Assessment System from score 0 initial lesions to 6 large cavitated lesions (ICDAS; 4-6), Assessment every 3 months up to 2 years
Number of extracted teeth per patient (incidence of extracted teeth), Number of new teeth extracted, Assessment every 3 months up to 2 years|Number of patients with a diagnosis of osteoradionecrosis (incidence of osteoradionecrosis), Number of new areas of bone necrosis, Assessment every 3 months up to 2 years|Number of dental surfaces with caries or filling, and missed teeth, Recording of the diseased, missed, filled surfaces (DMFS) index, Assessment every 3 months up to 2 years|Rate of dentinal hypersensitivity per patient, Dentine Hypersensitivity Experience Questionnaire: the higher the score, the greater the impact of dentin sensitivity on daily life (items have coded responses on 7-point Likert scales: 1 = "strongly disagree", 2 = "disagree", 3 = "agree a little", 4 = "neither agree nor disagree", 5 = "disagree a little", 6 = "disagree" and 7 = "strongly disagree"; a total score is then calculated), Assessment every 12 months up to 2 years|Rate of dental surface with plaque per patient, Recording of full mouth plaque score (FMPS) (from 0 no plaque to 100% all dental surfaces with plaque), Assessment every 3 months up to 2 years|Rate of bleeding gingival sites per patient, Recording of full mouth bleeding score (FMPS) (from 0 no plaque to 100% all gingival sites bleeding), Assessment every 3 months up to 2 years
One of the long-term side effects of head and neck radiotherapy (RT) is radiation-induced tooth decay. Hyposalivation, associated with radiation therapy, further increases caries susceptibility and caries progression, due to the lack of salivary protective effects and of tooth minerals useful for remineralization processes, especially calcium phosphate (CaP). Dental extractions that could be required in case of severe tooth decay expose the patient to the risk of osteoradionecrosis of the jaws (i.e. the necrosis of the bone tissue following a local trauma, including surgical trauma). This protocol aims at verifying the effectiveness of CaP mousse in the prevention of carious lesions, added to topical fluoride. A randomized controlled clinical trial will be performed comparing CaP + fluoride treatment versus no treatment in head and neck cancer patients, who received radiotherapy. The hypothesis is that CaP, which is lacking in the mouth of these patients due to hyposalivation, can combine with fluoride to promote remineralization, reducing the risk of carious lesions.