Acolbifene in Preventing Cancer in Premenopausal Women at High Risk of Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well acolbifene works in preventing cancer in premenopausal women at high risk of breast cancer. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming. The use of acolbifene may stop cancer from growing or coming back.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: acolbifene hydrochloride
Change in the Percentage of Breast Epithelial Cells Expressing Ki-67, From Baseline to 6 Months, Change in proliferation as measured by Ki-67 immunocytochemical expression in breast epithelial cells obtained by random periareolar fine needle aspiration at baseline and at 6 months., Baseline to 6 months
Change in Mammographic Breast Density, Change in mammographic density from baseline to 6 months, The Percent Breast Density is estimated using the Cumulus computer-assisted program to define a region that is at greater density than the remainder of the breast., Baseline to 6 months|Change in Serum Estradiol Concentration, Change in serum concentration of estradiol from baseline to 6 months, Baseline to 6 months|Change in Serum Concentration of Bioavailable Estradiol, Change in serum concentration of bioavailable estradiol (adjusted for concentration of Sex Hormone Binding Globulin), from baseline to 6 months, Baseline to 6 months|Change in Serum Concentration of Testosterone, Change in serum concentration of Testosterone from baseline to 6 months, Baseline to 6 months|Reports of Hot Flashes as Assessed by the Loprinzi Hot Flash Scoring System, Problems with hot flashes were assessed by average number per day and intensity., Baseline to up to 2 weeks post-treatment|Reports of Muscle/Joint Complaints as Assessed by the Validated HAQ II Questionnaire, The Health Assessment Questionnaire II (HAQ-II) measures interference in daily activities from arthralgias and joint pain. Range 0 - 4. A higher score indicates greater (i.e., "worse") interference., Baseline to up to 2 weeks post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on Ki-67 in high risk premenopausal women with baseline hyperplasia +/- atypia and Ki-67 positivity of \>= 2%..

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on mammographic breast density in high risk premenopausal women.

II. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on serum levels of follicular phase bioavailable estradiol, and luteal phase progesterone, testosterone, and fasting IGF-1/IGFBP-3.

III. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene 20 mg/day on epithelial cell cytomorphology and molecular markers such as ER, PgR, and pS2.

IV. To determine the effect of six months of acolbifene on markers of cardiovascular risk (C-reactive protein, functional AntiThrombin III, and fasting lipid profile) and bone turnover markers associated with bone mineral density gain or loss (serum osteocalcin and N-telopeptide crosslinks).

V. To assess any increase in reported hot flashes, menstrual cycle irregularities, pelvic pain, musculoskeletal complaints, and fatigue from baseline.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral acolbifene hydrochloride once daily for 6 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo symptom assessment (hot flashes, menstrual abnormalities, pelvic pain, muscle and joint pain, and fatigue) at baseline, 6-8 weeks, monthly for 6 months, and then at 2 weeks after completion of study treatment.

Patients undergo random periareolar fine needle aspiration between days 1-10 of menstrual cycle at baseline and at 6 months. Patients also undergo blood sample collection between days 1-10 and days 20-24 of menstrual cycle at baseline and at 6 months. Samples taken between days 1-10 of menstrual cycle are analyzed for Ki-67 expression, cytomorphology, molecular markers (estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and pS2 expression), and bioavailable estradiol levels. Samples taken between days 20-24 of menstrual cycle are analyzed for progesterone, testosterone, IGF-1, IGFBP-3, lipid profile, bone-turnover markers (osteocalcin and N-telopeptide crosslinks), C-reactive protein, and functional antithrombin III.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 2 weeks.