Long-term Improvement of Quality of Life in Breast Cancer Patients With Quality of Life Diagnosis and Therapy
The purpose of the study is the long-term implementation of a system with quality of life diagnosis and tailored therapeutic options in order to improve quality of life of patients with breast cancer during follow-up.
Quality of Life|Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: quality of life pathway
proportion of patients with a need for QoL therapy, a need for QoL therapy is defined as a score \<50 points in at least one of eleven QoL dimensions of the EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BR23 (scales: global quality of life, physical, role, emotional, cognitive, social functioning, pain, fatigue, financial situation, body image, arm symptoms); scores in each dimension are uniformly transformed to dimensions ranging from 0 to 100, with 0 denoting the negative (low functioning, high symptom burden) and 100 the positive end (high functioning, low symptom burden) of the continuum., 6 months after the date of surgery for breast cancer
proportions of patients with a need for QoL therapy in each dimension of the QoL profile, a need for QoL therapy is defined as a score \<50 points on each single QoL dimension of the EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BR23 (scales: global quality of life, physical, role, emotional, cognitive, social functioning, pain, fatigue, financial situation, body image, arm symptoms); scores in each dimension are uniformly transformed to dimensions ranging from 0 to 100, with 0 denoting the negative (low functioning, high symptom burden) and 100 the positive end (high functioning, low symptom burden) of the continuum., 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months after the date of surgery for breast cancer|patient evaluation, semistructured, self-created questionnaire composed of quantitative and qualitative questions to evaluate clinical relevance of the QoL pathway for patients; for each single question answers are analyzed dichotomously (yes/no) and reported as absolute and relative frequencies, 6 and 24 months after the date of surgery for breast cancer|physician evaluation, semistructured, self-created questionnaire composed of quantitative and qualitative questions to evaluate clinical relevance of the QoL pathway for physicians; for each single question answers are analyzed dichotomously (yes/no) and reported as absolute and relative frequencies, 6 and 24 months after the date of surgery for breast cancer
The implementation of quality of life (QoL) concepts in routine care is still an open matter. A pathway with QoL diagnosis and therapeutic options for patients with breast cancer and colorectal cancer has been designed, implemented, and evaluated as guided by the Medical Research Council framework for developing and testing complex interventions. It could be demonstrated that patients with breast cancer and colorectal cancer profited from the diagnosis of QoL deficits and tailored therapeutic options in their treatment.

The next step is the long-term implementation of the QoL pathway into routine care. In a prospective, single-arm study 200 patients with breast cancer are planned to be recruited. QoL is measured (EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-BR23) after surgery (baseline) and during aftercare (3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24 months). Results of QoL measurements are automatically processed via an electronic data processing (EDP)-aided system and are directly presented to the coordinating practitioner (physician who cares for the patient during aftercare) and the patient in a QoL profile that can be discussed during the current medical appointment. The profile consists of eleven dimensions on scales of 0-100. A cutoff score \<50 points defines a need for QoL therapy. Specific therapeutic options for the treatment of QoL have been identified: psychotherapy, social counseling, pain therapy, physiotherapy, nutrition counseling, and fitness. To provide continuous medical education, quality circles for each therapy option have been founded. Coordinating practitioners receive a list with addresses of all quality circle members.

The primary endpoint of the study is the proportion of patients with a need for QoL therapy 6 months after surgery as well as the evaluation of clinical relevance of the QoL pathway by patients and physicians.