Phase 2 Study of Neoadjuvant PEMbrolizumab Before Radical PROstatectomy in High-risk Prostate Cancer Patients
This is a phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, single-arm study in patients with high-risk PCa diagnosed with prostate biopsy and undergoing RP and ePLND. Pembrolizumab will be administered at the dose of 200 mg intravenously, every 3 weeks, for a total of 3 cycles prior to RP and ePLND. Local, nodal and systemic staging with prostate mpMRI, abdominal and chest CT, PSMA-PET/CT and bone scans will be performed before the administration of pembrolizumab. Surgery will be planned at the time of study inclusion to be done within 3 weeks of the last dose of study drug (screening: 3 weeks; cycle 1 followed by 3 weeks; cycle 2 followed by 3 weeks; cycle 3 followed by 3 weeks to surgery = 12 weeks from inclusion to surgery). Patients will receive 3 cycles of pembrolizumab at 200mg 3 weekly prior to RP and ePLND. Surgery will take place within 3 weeks after the last dose of the study drug. After surgery, patients with the evidence of aggressive disease features (namely, pathologic grade group 4-5; pT3b-4 and/or LNI) will be managed according to local guidelines (adjuvant radiotherapy with or without ADT will be allowed). Further Anti PD-1 therapy will not be given post-operatively. PD-L1 status will be retrospectively assessed on both tumour cells and immune cells in tissue specimens from for all patients enrolled in the study.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Lymph node invasion, Reduction by 50% of the rate of lymph node invasion, 12 months
Pathologic response or presence of minimal residual disease, Absence of morphologically identifiable carcinoma in the prostatectomy specimen or the presence of minimal residual disease (i.e., ≤3 mm maximum diameter of residual tumour in the prostatectomy specimen), 12 months|Radiological response, Radiological response will be defined as a tumour reduction of 30% in the maximum diameter of the index lesion as measured by mpMRI, 12 months|Positive surgical margins, Positive surgical margins at final pathology, 12 months|PSA persistence or early biochemical recurrence, Postoperative PSA ≥0.1 ng/ml at 6-8 weeks after surgery or two consecutive PSA values ≥0.2 ng/ml within 2 years after surgery, 36 months|Rate of adverse events, Safety, 36 months
This is a phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, single-arm study in patients with high-risk PCa diagnosed with prostate biopsy and undergoing RP and ePLND. Screening assessments should be performed no more than 3 weeks prior to the start of study treatment. Local, nodal and systemic staging with prostate mpMRI, abdominal and chest CT, PSMA-PET/CT and bone scans will be performed before the administration of pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab will be administered at the dose of 200 mg intravenously, every 3 weeks, for a total of 3 cycles prior to RP and ePLND. Following the screening assessment, subsequent assessments will be carried out after the 3 administrations of the study drug prior to RP and ePLND. If an unscheduled assessment is performed and the patient has not progressed, the results should be reported at the next scheduled visit. After the last cycle of pembrolizumab, mpMRI and PSMA-PET/CT scan will be performed to re-stage the tumour. Progressive disease will be defined as an increase of 20% in the maximum diameter of the index lesion at multiparametric MRI or as the onset of nodal or distant metastases at imaging or onset of symptoms and skeletal related events. In the case of symptomatic disease progression (i.e., de novo onset of symptomatic distant metastases), the patient will not complete the 3 cycles of pembrolizumab and will be considered for immediate imaging (i.e., bone scan, mpMRI and PSMA-PET/CT scan) to re-stage the tumour and for treatment according to clinical guidelines. After RP, patients will be managed according to clinical guidelines. PDL-1 status will be assessed on all samples of patients enrolled on the study. Tissue and blood samples will be collected before and after the administration of pembrolizumab. The presence of biomarkers predictive of radiological and pathological response to neoadjuvant administration of pembrolizumab will be assessed. Patients will be monitored carefully for the development of adverse events and will be monitored for clinical evidence of disease progression according to usual standards of clinical practice. Adverse events will be evaluated according to criteria outlined in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. There will be no intrapatient dose escalation in this study. For individual patients that experience dose-limiting toxicities, no criteria for dose modification of pembrolizumab will be applied, but only criteria for dose delays as detailed in the protocol. Patients will be treated with a maximum of 3 cycles of therapy until surgery (i.e. RP and ePLND), provided that no dose-limiting toxicities will occur throughout the treatment course for each individual patient.