Gemcitabine Pharmacokinetics After Preoperative Chemoradiation Therapy
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if gemcitabine given during surgery can enter pancreas cancer cells in patients who have already received chemotherapy and radiation.

Gemcitabine is a drug used to treat pancreatic cancer. However, it has not previously been studied if gemcitabine can enter pancreatic cancer cells. Gemcitabine is designed to block the growth of cancer cells, which may cause cancer cells to die.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine
To Quantifiably Assess Intratumoral Gemcitabine Levels in Human Pancreatic Cancer Tissue After a Single Intraoperative Infusion in Patients., The quantification of serum, PBMC, and cancer tissue levels of gemcitabine from frozen samples will be assessed using standardized techniques in high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectometry (HPLC/MS)., through study completion, up to 2 years and 6 months
To Measure Intra-DNA Gemcitabine (dFdC) Levels Using a Novel Assay Liquid Chromatography-mass Spectometry (LC/MS/MS)., Gemcitabine incorporation in DNA will be quantified by a proprietary LC/MS/MS method developed by Eli Lilly and performed by Advion BioServices. DNA extracted from the tissue samples to be sent to Advion., through study completion, up to 2 years and 6 months|To Assess and Validate Previously Described Markers That May be Predictive of Gemcitabine Sensitivity or Resistance., The mRNA level is measured using real time PCR and protein expressed by IHC, Gene expression level will be correlated to the gemcitabine measurements. Additionally measure markers of proliferation and apoptosis by p21and ki67 IHC and fluorescent TUNEL analysis., through study completion, up to 2 years and 6 months|To Measure the Impact of Microvessel Density and the Molecular Expression Level of the Hh Signaling Pathway on Gemcitabine Delivery and DNA Incorporation., The mRNA and protein expression of SHH, Gli, and SMO will be measured by RT-PCR and IHC method, respectively., through study completion, up to 2 years and 6 months|To Correlate Intratumoral Gemcitabine Levels and Its Tumoricidal Activity With Ki67 Index and Intratumoral Apoptosis., Measure markers of of proliferation and apoptosis by p21 and ki67 IHC and fluorescent TUNEL analysis., through study completion, up to 2 years and 6 months
Surgery:

If you agree to take part in this study, your surgery will be performed in the same way as it would be even if you were not taking part in this study. You will sign a separate consent form for surgery. The length of the surgery and the time you are under anesthesia will not be changed by taking part in the study.

During surgery, you will have routine procedures to learn if the disease has spread to other areas. If the disease has spread beyond the pancreas, surgical removal will not be possible.

If there are no signs of spread or other reasons the cancer cannot be removed, the surgeon will begin the process of removing the disease.

Study Drug Administration:

You will receive gemcitabine by vein during surgery. Gemcitabine will be given through an infusion catheter that is placed in your arm or chest in the operating room after you are asleep.

The infusion catheter is a standard-of-care procedure for all participants who are having this surgery. You will be asked to sign a separate consent form for the infusion catheter.

The infusion will take either 50 or 75 minutes, depending upon when you joined the study. The first 5 participants will receive gemcitabine over 50 minutes and the rest of the participants will receive gemcitabine over 75 minutes.

Blood and Tissue Collection:

Up to 8 blood samples (about 1 tablespoon each time) will be drawn over 70-95 minutes for pharmacokinetic (PK) testing on the day of surgery. PK testing measures the levels of study drug in your blood at different time points. The blood will also be used for biomarker testing. Biomarkers are chemical markers found in the blood and tissue that may be related to your reaction to the study drug.

Some of the tumor tissue and normal tissue removed during surgery will be collected to learn if gemcitabine is able to enter the tissue cells and for biomarker testing.

Length of Participation:

If for any reason during the surgery the surgeon decides that removal of the pancreas is not possible, you will not receive gemcitabine and your participation in this study will end.

Your active participation in this study will be over once you have had surgery and completed the follow-up.

Follow-Up:

One (1) time each day while you are in the hospital recovering from the surgery and then at the time of a routine clinic visit or by phone call at least 1 time a week, for up to 30 days after surgery, you will be asked if you have had any side effects.

This is an investigational study. Gemcitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Its use during surgery is investigational.

Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.