A Canadian Trial of Bicalutamide in Patients Receiving Maintenance Avelumab for Metastatic Urothelial Cancer.
This is a Phase II, multi-center, placebo-controlled randomized controlled trial of standard of care (SOC) avelumab versus SOC avelumab with bicalutamide for patients with metastatic or locally advanced urothelial carcinoma.
Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Bicalutamide 150 mg|DRUG: Placebo
Rate of bladder tumor recurrence, The primary outcome will be to the time to investigator-assessed progression on avelumab therapy., 30 months
Urothelial carcinoma (UC) is the second most common urological cancer after prostate cancer. Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) is the most common form (\~75%). Muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) is found at presentation in \~25% of patients, with 10-20% of NMIBC eventually becoming MIBC. Risk groups for NMIBC are based on number of tumours, stage and size. Almost half of patients with MIBC eventually progress to metastatic disease.

Treatments for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) have evolved rapidly over the last several years. Pembrolizumab demonstrated benefit as second line therapy for locally advanced and metastatic UC. Subsequently, the landmark Phase III randomized JAVELIN trial showed that the addition of avelumab as maintenance therapy following a response to chemotherapy for mUC significantly prolonged overall survival relative to best supportive care (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.69; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.56-0.86; P = 0.001). Overall survival and progression-free survival were 21.4 months (18.9 to 26.1) and 5.5 (4.2 to 7.2) months, respectively. This trial established avelumab as the SOC treatment and initial immunotherapy for mUC following chemotherapy.

The investigators have selected a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized study design to be able to assess the pragmatic endpoint of investigator-assessed clinical progression. Randomization will assign patients 2:1 to bicalutamide 150mg daily plus SOC avelumab or placebo plus SOC avelumab. Patients will be followed every 3 months after avelumab treatment has started and until progression.