Magnesium and Intraoperative Blood Loss in Meningioma Surgery
Meningioma is the most common central nervous system tumor and craniotomy with tumor removal was associated with moderate blood loss and blood transfusion. Magnesium has hypotensive effect and probably reduce intraoperative blood loss. Whether or not magnesium sulphate can reduce intraoperative blood loss and improve postoperative cognitive function is still inconclusive. So the investigators conduct the randomized control trial to compare the effect of magnesium with placebo control in blood loss and cognitive function in meningioma patient undergoing craniotomy.
Meningioma
DRUG: Magnesium group|DRUG: Normal saline group
Intraoperative Blood Loss, We measure the amount of blood loss in the operative room in suction box, gauze and plastic bag. The unit measure is millimeter., Intraoperative period from skin was incised to the skin was closure, an average 5 hours.
Intraoperative Packed Red Cell (PRC) Transfusion, The amount of blood transfusion in patient who required PRC transfusion intraoperatively., Intraoperative period from skin was incised to the skin was closure, an average 5 hours.|Postoperative MOCA Score, MOCA or Montreal Cognitive Assessment is a screening instrument used to facilitate the assessment of cognitive impairment.

MOCA scores range between 0-30, do higher values represent a better outcome. A score of 26 or over is considered to be normal. We measure Montreal assessment score for assess cognitive function after operation at postoperative day 3-7., Postoperative day 3-7|Sevoflurane Requirement, Amount of sevoflurane agents usage during surgery. The unit of measurement of volatile agent is minimum alveolar concentration (MAC). 1 MAC-hour was defined as 2% of sevoflurane for 1 hour duration., Intraoperative period from skin was incised to the skin was closure, an average 5 hours.|Fentanyl Requirement, Amount of fentanyl usage during surgery, Intraoperative period from skin was incised to the skin was closure, an average 5 hours.|Cis-atracurium Requirement, Amount of cis-atracurium usage during surgery, Intraoperative period from skin was incised to the skin was closure, an average 5 hours.|Patient Received Intraoperative Packed Red Cell (PRC), Number of patients who required Intraoperative PRC transfusion, Intraoperative period from skin was incised to the skin was closure, an average 5 hours.
The investigators enroll 120 patient who admitted for craniotomy for meningioma removal. Then, the patients will be divided into two groups. The first group or group Mg will receive magnesium sulphate 40 mg/kg infuse for 30 min (started at skin incision), and then infuse magnesium sulphate 10 mg/kg/hr until the dura will be closed. The another group or normal saline group will receive the same amount of 0.9% sodium chloride. The anesthesia and surgery are standardized. The recorded data include patient demographic data, intraoperative blood loss, hemodynamics and pre and postoperative Montreal cognitive assessment score.