Neoadjuvant Dalpiciclib Plus Letrozole for HR+/HER2- Breast Cancer
In this single arm, open label, phase 2 trial, operable patients with stage IIB-III HR+/HER2- breast cancer will be enrolled and receive six cycles of adjuvant dalpiciclib plus letrozole. This study aims to assessed the biological effects and safety of dalpiciclib in combination with letrozole for HR+/HER2- breast cancer in the neoadjuvant setting.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: dalpiciclib plus letrozole
Complete cell-cycle arrest at C1D15, defined as ki67≤2.7%, From the date into this study(signed ICF) to C1D15,defined as ki67≤2.7%, up 2 years
residual cancer burden, The percentage of residual tumors after neoadjuvant therapy is assessed according to breast tumor bed tumors and regional lymph nodes, up 2 years|objective response rate, The rate of CR and PR,determined using RECIST v1.1 criteria, up 2 years|change in Ki67 from baseline to 2 weeks of treatment, change in Ki67 from baseline（From the date into this study(signed ICF) ） to 2 weeks of treatment, up 2 years|preoperative endocrine prognostic index, Prognostic indicators of preoperative endocrine therapy, including mass size after neoadjuvant endocrine therapy, lymph node status, ki67 levels, and estrogen receptor (ER) status, up 2 years|pathologic complete response, After neoadjuvant therapy, there are no residual invasive tumors in the primary focus and regional lymph nodes of breast cancer, but ductal carcinoma in situ may be present(ypT0/is ypN0), up 2 years|breast-conserving surgery rate, The number of cases that actually underwent breast-conserving surgery after surgery accounted for the percentage of all breast cancer patients who underwent surgery, up 2 years|safety profile, Adverse events (AE) and severe adverse events (SAEs) are recorded. Refer to NCI-CTC AE 5.0 standard, up 2 years
This is a single arm, open label, phase 2 trial aimed to investigate the biological effects and safety of neoadjuvant dalpiciclib in combination with letrozole for HR+/HER2- breast cancer. A total of 35 patients with stage IIB-III HR+/HER2- breast cancer will be enrolled. Six 4-week cycles of adjuvant therapy will be administrated. In each cycle, patients use dalpiciclib orally, 150mg, day 1-21, and letrozole orally, 2.5 mg, day 1-28. Premenopausal or perimenopausal patients should combine ovarian function suppression, including bilateral oophorectomy or treatment with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists. The primary endpoint is complete cell-cycle arrest at C1D15, defined as ki67≤2.7%. The secondary endpoints include residual cancer burden, overall response rate, change in Ki67 from baseline to 2 weeks of treatment, preoperative endocrine prognostic index, pathologic complete response, breast-conserving surgery rate and safety profile.