Novel Combination of Belantamab Mafodotin and Elotuzumab to Enhance Therapeutic Efficacy in Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this research study is to determine if two drugs approved for treating multiple myeloma, belantamab mafodotin and elotuzumab, are safe and more effective when used together.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Elotuzumab|DRUG: Belantamab mafodotin
Maximum tolerated dose of elotuzumab in combination with belantamab mafodotin in subjects, Study patients will be enrolled and treated in cohorts of size 4 with maximum of 12 patients in the Phase I portion of the trial with possible dose de-escalation of belantamab mafodotin plus a fixed level of elotuzumab. Starting dose of belantamab mafodotin will be 1.9 mg/kg q4w. If the DLT rate hits de-escalation boundary (≥ 29.8%), four more patients will be enrolled for lower dose level with 1.9 mg/kg q8w; further dose reduction to 1.4mg/kg every 8 weeks will be planned for ongoing toxicity. Otherwise next cohort of 4 will be treated at same dose. The MTD will be determined once the maximum sample size of 12 for phase I portion is reached or stop the trial if 8 patients are treated at the initial dose without need of de-escalation., 28 days|Number of Participants who Experienced Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLT is defined as Grade 3 or greater febrile neutropenia lasting \>48 h despite adequate treatment, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia less than 25 accompanied by clinically significant bleeding, any Grade 3 or greater non-hematologic toxicity (other than corneal events) which is more severe than expected for an individual agent or which does not resolve with appropriate supportive treatment within 48 hours, any Grade 3 or greater non-hematologic laboratory value if the abnormality leads to hospitalization, grade 4 Keratopathy Visual Acuity (KVA) Scale, and liver toxicity meeting prespecified liver stopping criteria, 28 days
Preliminary evaluation of clinical efficacy/response rate, Clinical efficacy and response rate will be determined by the MM labs and bone marrow biopsy . The options for overall response rate (ORR) will be: stable disease (SD) partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR) and stringent complete response (sCR) according to the 2016 International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG). Response evaluated with MM labs each cycle and bone marrow biopsy at C3D1., Every 28 day cycle until progression up to 2 years|To evaluate progression free survival (PFS), To evaluate progression free survival (PFS), MM labs (SPEP, serum IFE, serum free light chains/ratio, immunoglobulins, UPEP/IFE) will be conducted every cycle to evaluate disease. Progressive disease will be assessed by standard IMWG response criteria., Followed for progression free survival until progression up to 2 years|To evaluate overall survival (OS), To evaluate overall survival (OS), patients will be followed for overall survival under loss of follow-up, withdrawal of consent, death from any cause, or termination of study, Followed until loss of follow-up, withdrawal of consent, death from any cause, or termination of study up to 2 years|To evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) by multi-parameter flow cytometry and by next-generation sequencing (NGS), To evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) by multi-parameter flow cytometry and by next-generation sequencing (NGS) via bone marrow biopsy at follow-up visit (30 days +/- 3 after discontinuation), At follow-up visit (30 days +/-3 after discontinuation)
Patients with RR MM beyond two-three lines of therapy have inferior outcomes. They have to cycle through the available lines of treatment options and ultimately succumb to progressive disease. Despite improvements in modern treatments this subset of MM patients has a grim prognosis and thus represent a population with unmet need. Hence, further advances in combination therapies are required. MM is associated with both qualitative and quantitative T cell dysfunction owing to variety of mechanisms including increased expression of inhibitory immune checkpoint molecules. Elotuzumab enhances NK cell cytotoxicity via SLAMF7 ligation and has an established role in therapy of RR MM in combination with immunomodulatory agents (iMIDs). On the other hand, BCMA has emerged as one of the best therapeutic targets to eradicate plasma cells in MM. Therapeutic success with anti-BCMA ADC belantamab mafodotin is readily evident based on the results of recent trials DREAMM 1 and DREAMM2 in relapsed/refractory MM, leading to its Breakthrough Therapy Designation awarded by US FDA in 2017. Bela has demonstrated the potential to induce immunogenic cell death (ICD) in a BCMA-expressing MM cells. Tumor cells undergoing ICD induced an antigen-specific T cell response, enhancing anti-tumor effects. Generally, in myeloma, success in therapy has always been achieved by multifaceted treatment approach, targeting several pathways concurrently. To combat antigen loss and resistance, combining monoclonal antibodies with different targets is proposed. In this study, we propose immune-stimulatory therapy with anti-SLAMF7 antibody elotuzumab in combination with belantamab mafodotin in subjects with RR MM. Administration of elotuzumab would enrich NK cells and together with belantamab mafodotin would further intensify anti-tumor immunity against MM. This combination would provide a novel all-immune targeted therapy with potentially increased efficacy.

The investigators expect that this unique combination of an antibody drug conjugate and an immune-stimulatory monoclonal antibody, targeting two very relevant pathways in MM will result in significant clinical benefit for patients with RR MM. From the standpoint of safety, each one of these immune-pharmaceutical drugs separately is well-tolerated, and in combination are not expected to display overlapping toxicity. Thus, the investigators believe, the adverse event profile of this combination would be favorable.

The phase I portion of the study was completed successfully. Phase II portion of the study is actively enrolling.