Research Study to Determine if an Experimental Agent, LLME Can Decrease the Incidence and Severity of Graft-Versus-Host-Disease (GVHD) Following Blood (Hematopoietic) Stem Cell Transplantation
The purpose of this research study is to determine if an experimental agent, LLME can decrease the incidence and severity of Graft-Versus-Host-Disease (GVHD) following blood (hematopoietic) stem cell transplantation
Hematologic Malignancies
DRUG: L-leucyl-L-leucine Methyl Ester (LLME)|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Mesna|BIOLOGICAL: Granulocyte Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF)|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT)
Safety of CD34+ Stem Cell Infusions Followed by LLME as Measured by 100-Day Mortality, Determine the safety of CD34+ stem cell infusions followed by the LLME treated CD34- fraction. This includes monitoring the patients for any side effects associated with the LLME treated cell infusion or any other unexpected adverse events.

This regimen will be gauged as to its safety using 100 day mortality as the measured endpoint. Deaths from all causes will be included., Through 100 days post-transplant or death
Rate of Engraftment of Non-Myeloablative Transplants, Determine the engraftment rate of non-myeloablative transplants using CD34+ stem cells and LLME treated CD34- products., Through 30 days post-transplant|Incidence of Grade II-IV Acute Graft-Versus-Host-Disease (GVHD), Determine the incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD after administration of grafts when combined with Cyclosporine/Mycophenolate Mofetil for GVHD prophylaxis. GVHD assessments occur daily as an in patient and at each out patient visit., Through 24 months post-treatment|Rate of Serious Infectious Complications, Determine the rate of serious infectious complications. A serious infection will be defined as any requiring hospitalization or parenteral therapy.

CD4 counts will be measured monthly for the first 3 months after transplant., Through 3 months post-transplant|Number of Patients Who Achieve a CD4 Count > 200/Micro-liters, Determine the number of patients who achieve a CD4 count \> 200/micro-liters by 60 days after transplant., Through 60 Days Post Transplant
We believe that the risks of allogeneic transplant can be drastically reduced if the following criteria can be met: (1) consistent engraftment, (2) little or no GVHD with the ability to rapidly withdraw immune suppression, (3) rapid recovery of CD4 counts to levels greater than 200 cells/micro liter. Our prior (ongoing) trial attempts to address how LLME treated T cells given as donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) can address points 2 and 3 above. The current study addresses how treatment of the CD34- fraction of the graft attempts to address points 1 and 2 (and to a lesser extent point 3) above. We believe that if these points can be consistently achieved that the mortality of allogeneic HSCT may be reduced to levels more akin to those of autologous HSCT. We propose to test the hypothesis that LLME-treated T cells will be safe with regard to reducing GVHD or other infusion related toxicities and that their administration as part of the transplant will facilitate engraftment. We believe that this approach will ultimately be an important step in a variety of transplant settings ranging from matched siblings to haplodisparate donors.