AML Therapy With Irradiated Allogeneic Cells
This pilot clinical trial studies if cells donated by a close genetic relative can help maintain acute myeloid leukemia (AML) complete remission (CR). Eligible patients will receive a standard induction chemotherapy. If a complete remission results they will receive irradiated allogeneic cells from a HLA haploidentical relative. Only patients who obtain a CR after the standard induction chemotherapy are eligible for the experimental therapy (irradiated haploidentical cells).
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: cytarabine|BIOLOGICAL: donor lymphocytes|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|DRUG: G-CSF
Adverse Events Related to Experimental Therapy, Patients will be observed for incidence of adverse events related to experimental therapy, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0.

Of the 6 patients enrolled, all were ineligible to enter the experimental treatment phase of the study because of failure to reach complete remission. None of the enrolled patients received experimental therapy (allogeneic donor lymphocyte therapy). The one death occurred while receiving standard therapy prior to eligibility for experimental allogeneic therapy. The remained of patients were ineligible for experimental therapy because they did not obtain a complete remission after standard induction chemotherapy., Up to 2 years|Response Rate, Determined by Allogeneic Cell Therapy-related Mortality, Patients' response rate will be determined by allogeneic cell therapy-related mortality. Of the 6 patients enrolled, all were ineligible to enter the experimental treatment phase of the study for failure to reach complete remission. Hence no outcomes are available., Up to 2 years|Response Rate, Determined by Duration of Complete Remission, Patients will be scored as being in continuous remission at 2 years or having relapsed sooner. Of the 6 patients enrolled, all were ineligible to enter the treatment phase of the study for failure to reach complete remission for allogenic treatment., Up to 2 years
Progression Free Survival Probability for CR, Calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimation method. Corresponding 95% confidence interval will be provided. Of the 6 patients enrolled, all were ineligible to enter the experimental treatment phase of the study for failure to reach complete remission. Hence no outcomes are available., At 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Toxicity of haploidentical allogeneic cellular therapy in patients in complete remission (CR) (or CR with incomplete platelet recovery \[CRp\]) after induction chemotherapy with fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate)-cytarabine.

II. Efficacy of haploidentical allogeneic cellular therapy in patients in CR (or CRp) after induction chemotherapy with fludarabine-cytarabine (remission rates at 6, 12, 18, 24 months).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Immunologic parameters before and after haploidentical therapy: host anti-leukemia T cells; host regulatory T cells.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 1 hour once daily (QD) for 5 days and cytarabine IV over 4 hours for 5 days. Treatment may continue for 1 or 2 courses at the discretion of the treating physician.

ALLOGENEIC CELLULAR THERAPY: Patients undergo irradiated donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) of 3 x 10\^8 cluster of differentiation (CD)3+ cells/kg at 8 weeks. Patients with stable disease may repeat irradiated DLI every 8-12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 2 years.