Intraoperative Identification and Stimulation of the Glossopharyngeal Nerve
Published data suggest that the glossopharyngeal nerve innervates pharyngeal musculature important for maintenance of upper airway patency. The investigators propose a study examining the anatomic variation of the glossopharyngeal nerve and the effect of electrical stimulation on muscle recruitment and upper airway patency.
Head and Neck Cancer|Obstructive Sleep Apnea
DEVICE: Nerve stimulation using nerve stimulation device and sterile wire electrode.
Change in variation in the conformation of the glossopharyngeal nerve, The natural variation in the conformation of the glossopharyngeal nerve will be measured by length, diameter, and conformation of the common trunk and its dependent branches to the Stylopharyngeus Muscle (SP) and Pharyngeal Constrictor Muscles (PC), measured in mm with a flexible ruler., Collected during a single operative procedure, taking about 15 minutes.
Change in Airway cross-sectional diameter, Change in airway cross-sectional diameter will be measured throughout the operative procedure via flexible fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy., Collected during a single DISE procedure, taking about 15 minutes.|Change in airflow, Airflow (L/min) will be measured throughout the operative procedure via a pneumotachometer applied to the nose., Collected during a single DISE procedure, taking about 15 minutes.|Change in upper airway pressure, Upper airway pressure changes (cmH20) will be measured throughout the operative procedure via a pneumotachometer applied to the nose., Collected during a single DISE procedure, taking about 15 minutes.|Change in respiratory effort, Respiratory effort data (mV) will be measured throughout the operative procedure via two respiratory inductance plethysmography belts., Collected during a single DISE procedure, taking about 15 minutes.
This is a single-arm physiology study. Consenting patients undergoing parapharyngeal space (PPS) surgery for tumor extirpation will undergo dissection of the glossopharyngeal nerve branches to the stylopharyngeus and pharyngeal constrictor muscles. Fine-wire electrodes will be placed on these nerve branches. For each patient, if the target nerve branches can be identified and electrodes successfully placed, they will additionally undergo drug-induced sleep endoscopy (DISE) immediately following PPS surgery.

Per routine care, an incision is made across the neck to provide surgeons access to parapharyngeal space for tumor extirpation. During this dissection, the branch(es) of the glossopharyngeal nerve innervating the stylopharyngeus (SP) and pharyngeal constrictor (PC) muscles are exposed. For this study, measurements and photos/videos of the nerve will be taken. A fine-wire electrode will be placed on either or both successfully identified nerves and stimulated to assess muscle activation and changes in upper airway patency.