Study of SIRPant-M in Participants With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The goal of this study is to test SIRPant-M (RB-1355) , an autologous cell therapy, alone or in combination with focal external-beam radiotherapy in participants with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Two dose levels of SIRPant-M are being tested. The main question this study aims to answer is if SIRPant-M alone or in combination with radiotherapy is safe and well-tolerated.
Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Relapsed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: SIRPant-M|RADIATION: External-beam radiotherapy (XRT)
Incidence of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and adverse events (AEs), Includes evaluation of frequency and severity of AEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), TEAEs, and adverse events of special interest (AESIs), including injection site reactions and abnormalities in clinical laboratory assessments, vital signs, or physical examination findings. Graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0., Day -42 through Day 364
Recommended phase 2 dose of autologous SIRPant-M +/- 2.5 Gy ×3 focal XRT, Based on review of safety, pharmacodynamic, and efficacy data., Day 1 through Day 364|Objective response rate (ORR), Based on number of participants with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Determined by positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) and evaluated per the Lugano classification., Day 1 through Day 364
This is an open-label phase 1 study of SIRPant-M studied in serial cohorts either alone (monotherapy), or combined with low-dose focal external-beam radiotherapy (XRT) in patients with relapsed- or refractory Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Both B-cell and certain T-cell NHL (select PTCL; CTCL) are eligible. The primary objective of the study is to assess the safety and tolerability of autologous SIRPant-M, delivered by 3 intra-tumoral injection, given either alone or combined with 2.5 Gy focal XRT.

A course (cycle) of SIRPant-M (RB-1355) is prepared from a single mononuclear apheresis, and comprises 3 equal ITI doses, administered at 2-day intervals. A low dose (90x10\^6 cells split over 3 injections), an intermediate dose (300x10\^6 cells split over 3 injections) and a high dose (600x10\^6 cells split over 3 injections) of SIRPant-M are evaluated. In cohorts receiving supplemental radiation, each cell injection will be followed by 2.5 Gy radiation directed at the injected tumor site (7.5 Gy total). At the highest dose level only, alternate day IT-dosing (Day 1, 3, 5) will be compared with Weekly IT-dosing (W1, 2, 3).

Patients with PR or sustained clinical benefit (at least SD) after 1 cycle may receive a 2nd cycle of treatment, using cells prepared and frozen following the initial apheresis.

Dose escalations will be staggered using the 3+3 Phase 1 design, and safety will be monitored by the Safety Review Committee (SRC). The SRC may direct additional- or intermediate dose levels to be evaluated, as guided by emerging data.