Combination of Sorafenib With Standard Therapy in Newly Diagnosed Adult CBF AML
Core-binding factor acute myeloid leukemia accounts for 10-15% of AML and is categorized as favorable-risk AML. However, the 5-year CIR was up to 40% in this group of patients. Emerging data show that a high frequency of mutations and/or high expression of KIT in CBF AML. Sorafenib is a multitargeted TKI, thus the purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of sorafenib combined with standard therapy in CBF AML.
Core Binding Factor Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Idarubicin|DRUG: Cytarabine
CMR (Complete Molecular Remission), CMR in BM after 4 cycles of chemotherapies, 1 year
Overall survival, 3 year|Leukemia-free survival, 3 year|Cumulative incidence of relapse, 3 year|Adverse effects, 1 year
Core-binding factor acute myeloid leukemia is characterized by t(8;21) or inv(16) and accounts for 10-15% of AML. Because of the high CR rate of nearly 90% and a 5-year OS of almost 50%, CBF-AML is categorized as favorable-risk AML. However, the 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) was up to 40% in this group of patients after high-dose cytarabine consolidation following CR. Therefore, more effective therapeutic approaches are needed.

Emerging data show that a high frequency of mutations and/or high expression of KIT in CBF AML likely result in aberrant tyrosine kinase activity, leukemia cell growth and survival, and treatment resistance. Thus, pharmacologic inhibition of KIT would lead to significant antileukemia activity if combined with an optimized chemotherapy regimen in patients with CBF AML. Recent mechanistic findings also support the potential clinical benefit of KIT inhibition in CBF AML.

Sorafenib is a first-generation type-II multitargeted tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor (TKI) that suppresses various signaling pathways associated with the development of AML, such as RTK (FLT3, c-KIT), RAS/RAF, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of sorafenib combined with standard therapy in CBF AML.