Clear Me: Interception Trial to Detect and Clear Molecular Residual Disease in Patients With High-risk Melanoma
Clear-Me is a biomarker-driven phase II study that tests whether the combination anti- lymphocyte-activation gene-3 (LAG3)/anti-programmed cell death protein 1(PD-1) inhibition Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS986213) is superior to anti-PD-1 inhibition in patients with detectable circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) following definitive surgery for high risk melanoma. Patients will be allocated to either Arm A or Arm B via the process of randomization. The randomization process will be stratified according to stage (Stage 2A/2B/3A/3B/3C/3D or 4), to ensure absolute balance between stage groups. The investigators are choosing only 1 stratification factor, disease stage, as the investigators consider stage being the most significant prognosticating variable. Each stage represents a biologically distinct entity with varying recurrence rate outcomes. Block randomization will be performed to ensure equal sample sizes in the combination and monotherapy arms. At least 54 patients will be included in the randomized part of the study. The investigators are expecting approximately 20% of the patients to have detectable ctDNA after definite surgery. Therefore, approximately 270 patients are expected to be enrolled and tested for ctDNA in the entire study.
Cutaneous Melanoma|Melanoma Stage IV|Mucosal Melanoma
DRUG: Opdualag|DRUG: Nivolumab
Clearance of ctDNA at 12 months after starting adjuvant treatment. ctDNA clearance is defined as no detection of plasma ctDNA, 12 months after starting adjuvant treatment.
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), Measured at 12 months and 36 months.|Number and severity of treatment related adverse events according to CTCAE v5.0., Through study completion, maximum of 6 years.
Clearance of ctDNA, at month 18 after randomization.|Measured changes of biomarker ctDNA, at 12-week intervals after randomization and up until month 18 after randomization.|Methylation patterns of biomarker ctDNA using circulating free methylated DNA immunoprecipitation and sequencing (cfMeDIPseq) assay and correlation with ctDNA total variant allele frequency (VAF) detection., Through study completion, maximum of 6 years.|Quality of life assessment using Quality of Life Questionnaire, patient reported outcomes using 'European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer' (EORTC) 'Quality of Life Questionnaire' (QLQ-C30) will be investigated. The score ranges from 1 to 4, with 1 being the worst outcome and 4 being the best. Mean score of individual item numbers of interest will be analyzed with descriptive and mixed effect model methods., Performed at pre-dose cycle 1 and 6 (each cycle is 28 days) and end of treatment (within 2 weeks of the subject coming off study therapy)
Clear-Me is a biomarker-driven phase II study that tests whether the combination anti- lymphocyte-activation gene-3 (LAG3)/anti-programmed cell death protein 1(PD-1) inhibition Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS986213) is superior to anti-PD-1 inhibition in patients with detectable circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) following definitive surgery for high risk melanoma. Patients will be allocated to either Arm A or Arm B via the process of randomization. The randomization process will be stratified according to stage (Stage 2A/2B/3A/3B/3C/3D or 4), to ensure absolute balance between stage groups. The investigators are choosing only 1 stratification factor, disease stage, as the investigators consider stage being the most significant prognosticating variable. Each stage represents a biologically distinct entity with varying recurrence rate outcomes. Block randomization will be performed to ensure equal sample sizes in the combination and monotherapy arms. At least 54 patients will be included in the randomized part of the study. The investigators are expecting approximately 20% of the patients to have detectable ctDNA after definite surgery. Therefore, approximately 270 patients are expected to be enrolled and tested for ctDNA in the entire study.