Alisertib in Treating Young Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors or Leukemia
This phase II trial is studying the side effects of and how well alisertib works in treating young patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumors or leukemia. Alisertib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Hepatoblastoma|Previously Treated Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Kidney Neoplasm|Recurrent Childhood Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Alisertib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Number of Participants With Overall Response, For patients with recurrent solid tumors a patient who experienced a complete or partial response according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria is considered a responder. For patients with recurrent acute lymphoblastic leukemia a patient who experiences a bone marrow evaluation with \< 5% blast cells on morphological evaluation of bone marrow will be considered a responder. For patients with recurrent acute myelogenous leukemia a patient who experiences a complete remission or complete remission with partial recovery of platelet count according to the AML International Working Group Criteria will be considered a responder., From first dose of alisertib through 6 cycles of protocol therapy or until removal from protocol therapy whichever occurred first.
Number of Patients Cycles With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Event, The number of patient-cycles in which the adverse event considered grade 3 or higher AE according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 considered by the treating physician to be possibly, probably or definitely related to alisertib., Up to 24 months|Serum Concentration of Alisertib Prior to the First Day of Administration, Serum concentration of alisertib prior to the first day of administration in nanograms/milliliter., day 1 of protocol therapy|Serum Concentration of Alisertib on the First Day of Administration One Hour After Administration, Serum concentration of alisertib on the first day of administration one hour after administration in nanograms/milliliter., day 1 of protocol therapy|Serum Concentration of Alisertib on the First Day of Administration Three Hours After Administration, Serum concentration of alisertib on the first day of administration three hours after administration in nanograms/milliliter., day 1 of protocol therapy|Serum Concentration of Alisertib on the First Day of Administration Six Hours After Administration, Serum concentration of alisertib on the first day of administration six hours after administration in nanograms/milliliter., day 1 of protocol therapy|Serum Concentration of Alisertib on the Fourth Day of Administration Prior to the Administration of the Day 4 Dose, Serum concentration of alisertib on the fourth day of administration prior to the administration of the day 4 dose in nanograms/milliliter., day 4 of protocol therapy|Serum Concentration of Alisertib on the Seventh Day of Administration Prior to the Administration of the Day 7 Dose., Serum concentration of alisertib on the seventh day of administration prior to the administration of the day 7 dose in nanograms/milliliter., day 7 of protocol therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate to MLN8237 (alisertib) in children with relapsed or refractory solid tumors and leukemias, administered once daily for 7 days every 21 days.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further define and describe the toxicities of MLN8237 administered on this schedule.

II. To further characterize the pharmacokinetics of MLN8237 in children with refractory cancer.

III. To evaluate aurora A kinase expression using immunohistochemistry in solid tumors and leukemic blasts from tissue obtained at diagnosis and, if available, at relapse.

IV. To explore the relationship between polymorphic variations in the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase gene UGT1A1 and exposure to MLN8237, and to assess 2 common polymorphic variants in the aurora A kinase gene, Phe31Ile and Val57Ile.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to type of tumor (measurable neuroblastoma vs neuroblastoma with metaiodobenzylguanidine \[MIBG\]-positive lesions vs osteosarcoma vs Ewing sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor \[PNET\] vs rhabdosarcoma vs non-rhabdomyosarcoma \[RMS\] soft tissue sarcoma vs hepatoblastoma vs malignant germ cell tumor vs Wilms tumor vs acute myeloid leukemia \[AML\] vs acute lymphoblastic leukemia \[ALL\] vs rhabdoid tumors).

ARM I (NEUROBLASTOMA- MEASURABLE): Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (NEUROBLASTOMA-MIBG EVALUABLE): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III (RHABDOMYOSARCOMA): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IV (OSTEOSARCOMA): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM V (EWING SARCOMA/ PERIPHERAL PNET): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM VI (NON-RMS SOFT TISSUE SARCOMA): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM VII (HEPATOBLASTOMA): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM VIII (MALIGNANT GERM CELL TUMOR): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IX (WILMS TUMOR): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM X (ACUTE LYMPHOBLASTIC LEUKEMIA): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM XI (ACUTE MYELOGENOUS LEUKEMIA): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM XII (RHABDOID MALIGNANCY): Patients receive alisertib PO QD on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Plasma samples are collected from all patients at baseline and periodically during course 1 for pharmacokinetic and other studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 5 years.