Tislelizumab Consolidation Therapy After Radiotherapy or Sequential Chemoradiation in Locally Advanced NSCLC Patients
The current standard of care for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is concurrent chemoradiation and consolidation immunotherapy. In real world clinical practice, patients who cannot tolerate concurrent chemoradiation generally received radiotherapy alone or sequential chemoradiation. These patients are more likely to develop distant metastases and therefore may require tolerable systemic consolidation regimens. However, there is a lack of evidence from clinical studies on consolidation immunotherapy after radiotherapy alone or sequential chemoradiation. The aim of the study is to explore the efficacy and safety of Tislelizumab consolidation therapy after radiotherapy or sequential chemoradiation in locally advanced NSCLC patients who are intolerable of concurrent concurrent chemoradiation.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Consolidation Immunotherapy|Radiotherapy or Sequential Chemoradiation
DRUG: Tislelizumab
Progression-free survival, Defined from the date of enrollment to the date of death or any recurrence., 6 months after enrollment
Overall survival, Defined from the date of enrollment to the date of death., From date of enrollment to maximum of 3 years or death|Objective response rate, Defined as the occurrence of a complete or partial response per RECIST 1.1 criteria., From date of enrollment to maximum of 3 years or death|Treatment-related adverse events, Graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, Duration of treatment and follow up until death or 3 years after enrollment
The current standard of care for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is concurrent chemoradiation and consolidation immunotherapy. In real world clinical practice, patients who cannot tolerate concurrent chemoradiation generally received radiotherapy alone or sequential chemoradiation. These patients are more likely to develop distant metastases and therefore may require tolerable systemic consolidation regimens. However, there is a lack of evidence from clinical studies on consolidation immunotherapy after radiotherapy alone or sequential chemoradiation. The aim of the study is to explore the efficacy and safety of Tislelizumab consolidation therapy after radiotherapy or sequential chemoradiation in locally advanced NSCLC patients who are intolerable of concurrent concurrent chemoradiation.