Testing the Addition of an Anti-cancer Drug, Sapanisertib, to the Usual Chemotherapy Treatment (Cabozantinib) in Metastatic Liver Cell Cancer With a Change in Genes for the Protein β-Catenin, The SAPHIRE Trial
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of sapanisertib when given together with cabozantinib, and to see how well they work in treating patients with liver cancer that has spread from where it first started to other places in the body (metastatic) and contains a mutation (change) in the β-catenin gene. Sapanisertib and cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving sapanisertib and cabozantinib together may work better than giving cabozantinib alone in treating β-catenin-mutated metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|PROCEDURE: Imaging Procedure|DRUG: Sapanisertib
Dose-limiting toxicities and incidence of adverse events, Dose limiting toxicities and adverse events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be tabulated for each dose level., From registration to disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Treatment response will be assessed based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. PFS will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, along with 95% confidence regions. Median PFS will also be calculated along with its 95% confidence intervals (CI)., From registration to disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of patients with complete response or partial response. ORR will be estimated along with its exact 95% CI., From registration to disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, along with 95% confidence regions. Median OS will also be calculated along with its 95% CI., From registration to disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be tabulated according to CTCAE version 5.0 type, grade and relation to treatment in combination and in the control arm. The worst grade of adverse event will be determined for each participant, Baseline up to 2 years|Whole exome sequencing on archival tissue, Mutations with a focus on the MET pathway; TERT promoter mutations, NEFL2; TSC1/2; TERT; ARID1a; ARID2; CTNNB1; TP53; AXIN1-2, APOB, ALB, MLL2, and others as well as somatic mutation burden will be assessed in archival tissue and we will evaluate any relations with peculiar response., At pre-treatment for phase II|Sapanisertib and cabozantinib pharmacokinetics (PK), Sapanisertib and cabozantinib exposure will be described and compared to historical controls, From pre dose on cycle 1 day 8 to pre dose on cycle 3 day 1 for phase I and II
Tumor signatures in archival bulk RNAseq, For mTOR, Met and NRF2. After correction for batch effect (limma R package), gene set variation analysis scores for each gene set described will be calculated for each patient tumor sample. For sapanisertib, we propose to use 19-gene signature as well as 28-gene signature previously identified as a biomarker of Nrf2 pathway activation and used by us. For cabozantinib, we will be using signatures derived from KAPOSI_LIVER_CANCER_MET_UP" consisting of 18 genes which we have used earlier. We will evaluate any relations with peculiar response., During phase II|Change in variant allele frequencies (VAF) of tumor mutations in circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA), The detectable VAFs will be assessed and trended during the course of treatment. VAF change will be assessed categorically for each patient (increased or decreased at cycle 3 as compared to pre-treatment). The association of VAF change with objective response will be tested using the Fisher's test, where p\<0.05 will be considered statistically significant, Pre-treatment to cycle 3|Sapanisertib and cabozantinib PK and toxicity/response, Sapanisertib and cabozantinib exposure will be exploratorily correlated with toxicity and response with non-parametric tests at a significance level of 0.05 (PK endpoints in patients with vs without presence of toxicity or response endpoints). Cabozantinib PK as single agent versus in combination with sapanisertib will be compared with a paired non-parametric test at a significance level of 0.05, From pre dose on cycle 1 day 8 to pre dose on cycle 3 day 1 for phase I and II
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of sapanisertib and cabozantinib in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. (Safety Lead-In \[Phase I\]) II. To determine the activity by progression free survival (PFS) of the combination of sapanisertib and cabozantinib versus (vs) cabozantinib alone in advanced β-catenin mutated HCC patients. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the activity by objective response rate (ORR) of the combination of sapanisertib and cabozantinib versus cabozantinib alone in advanced β-catenin mutated HCC patients.

II. To determine the activity by overall survival (OS) of the combination of sapanisertib and cabozantinib vs cabozantinib alone in advanced β-catenin mutated HCC patients.

III. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of sapanisertib and cabozantinib.

IV. To identify molecular subpopulations associated with response. V. To explore the pharmacokinetics (PK) for sapanisertib and cabozantinib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with response. II. To evaluate circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) as a predictor for treatment response to therapy.

III. To explore the exposure response relationships for sapanisertib and cabozantinib.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of sapanisertib and cabozantinib followed by a phase II randomized study. Patients in Phase I receive treatment as in Arm I. Patients in Phase II are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive sapanisertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and cabozantinib PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood collection and imaging scans throughout the study.

ARM II: Patients receive cabozantinib PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood collection imaging scans throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.