Pd-1 Antibody Combined Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer
Cervical cancer is one of the major health problems for chinese women. Besides surgery and radiotherapy, neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been proved to be an effective program by many studies. However, not all patients respond well to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. This is an open-label, single-arm, multi-center clinical trial to evaluate whether PD-1 in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy will achieve better objective response rate.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasm|Uterine Cervical Cancer|Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Cisplatin+Albumin-bound paclitaxel (1 cycle) and PD-1 monoclonal antibody+Cisplatin+Albumin-bound paclitaxel (2 cycles)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of the participants in the ITT population who have a Complete Response or Partial Response. The ORR will be assessed by a blind independent central reviewer per RECIST 1.1, 3 months
Pathological response rate, Pathological response rate is defined as the percentage of the participants in the ITT population who have complete pathologic remission or the infiltration depth of cervical lesions was \< 3mm in histological examination., 3 months|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS defined as the time interval from the date of participation to disease progression, local or distant recurrence (in patients undergoing surgery), or death due to any cause., 5 years|Overall survival （OS）, OS is defined as the time from the date of participation until death., 5 years
Subjects will receive therapy Q3W until evaluation of efficacy. The first cycle include cisplatin and albumin-bound paclitaxel. A combination of anti-PD-1 antibody (SHR-1210) with cisplatin and albumin-bound paclitaxel would be given in second and third cycles. Patients who have demonstrated complete or partial tumour responses （CR/PR）will receive surgery and receive postoperative adjuvant therapy in accordance with NCCN guideline. Patients who have demonstrated stable disease or progressive disease （SD/PD）will receive concurrent radiochemotherapy.