Self-monitoring and Reminder Texts to Increase Physical Activity After Cancer II
There is a critical need for physical activity interventions in colorectal cancer (CRC). The investigators have developed a digital health physical activity intervention, Smart Pace, which includes a wearable tracker (Fitbit) and text messaging and aims to have patients build up to 150 min/wk of moderate activity. In this study, the investigators propose to expand and improve Smart Pace, including: 1) enrolling patients during chemotherapy; 2) tailoring text messages to individual preferences and treatment timing; and 3) adding resources to support home-based exercise. The study is a 12-week pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the feasibility of this novel digital health physical activity intervention among 48 CRC patients on chemotherapy. The specific aims are to: 1) Determine the feasibility of the intervention via adherence and attrition, and determine the acceptability of the intervention via questionnaires and semi-structured interviews . 2) Estimate the effect of the intervention vs. usual care on physical activity, QOL, and symptoms at 12-weeks . And 3) Explore the impact of the intervention vs. usual care on fitness, weight, waist circumference, and blood pressure at 12-weeks.
Colorectal Cancer|Colon Cancer|Rectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Fitbit and Text Messages
Fitbit wear time, Number of study days Fitbit is worn, up to 12 weeks from study start|Acceptability of the intervention, Acceptability will be assessed with an investigator created questionnaire among participants in the intervention arm., At 12 weeks from study start|Text message response rate, up to 12 weeks from study start
Objective physical activity, Minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity per week measured by accelerometer, At 0 weeks and 12 weeks from study start|Fatigue, Lee Fatigue Scale, At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Cardiorespiratory fitness, 6 minute walk test, At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Anthropometrics, Waist circumference, At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Anthropometrics, Body weight, At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Sleep quality, Will be assessed by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, providing a score ranging from 0 to 21, where lower scores denote a healthier sleep quality., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Health-related quality of life in cancer patients, Will be assessed via the European Organization for Research and Treatment (EORTC) of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30, At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Health-related quality of life in colorectal cancer patients, Will be assessed via the European Organization for Research and Treatment (EORTC) of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 29, At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Neuropathy, Will be assessed by the Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy 20 (CIPN20) questionnaire, a 20-item quality of life questionnaire., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Anxiety, Will be assessed by the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventories (STAI), consisting of 40 questions on a self-report basis. Scores range from 20 to 80, with higher scores correlating with greater anxiety., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Depression, Will be assessed by the Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale (CES-D), a brief self-report questionnaire which consists of 20 questions. Scores on the CES-D range from 0 to 60, in which higher scores suggest a greater presence of depressive symptoms., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Leisure-time physical activity, Will be assessed via the Harvard Health Professionals Follow-up Study (HPFS) physical activity questionnaire., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Perceived barriers to physical activity, Modified from the Project Graduate Ready for Activity Daily(GRAD) survey - 24 items plus a write-in option., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Exercise Confidence, Modified from the Project GRAD (Graduate Ready for Activity Daily) survey - 11 items., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start|Social support, Modified from the Project GRAD (Graduate Ready for Activity Daily) survey - 13 items asked about social support., At 0 and 12 weeks from study start
There is a critical need for physical activity interventions in colorectal cancer (CRC). The investigators have developed a digital health physical activity intervention, Smart Pace, which includes a wearable tracker (Fitbit) and text messaging and aims to have patients build up to 150 min/wk of moderate activity. In this study, the investigators propose to expand and improve Smart Pace, including: 1) enrolling patients during chemotherapy; 2) tailoring text messages to individual preferences and treatment timing; and 3) adding resources to support home-based exercise. The study is a 12-week pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the feasibility of this novel digital health physical activity intervention among 48 CRC patients on chemotherapy. The specific aims are to: 1) Determine the feasibility of the intervention via adherence and attrition, and determine the acceptability of the intervention via questionnaires and semi-structured interviews . 2) Estimate the effect of the intervention vs. usual care on physical activity, QOL, and symptoms at 12-weeks . And 3) Explore the impact of the intervention vs. usual care on fitness, weight, waist circumference, and blood pressure at 12-weeks.