Belinostat and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer That Did Not Respond to Carboplatin or Cisplatin
This phase II trial is studying how well giving belinostat together with carboplatin works in treating patients with recurrent or persistent ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer that did not respond to carboplatin or cisplatin. Belinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving belinostat together with carboplatin may kill more tumor cells.
Brenner Tumor|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Clear Cell Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mixed Epithelial Carcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: belinostat|DRUG: carboplatin
Objective Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria (Version 1.1), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria (version 1.1): Complete Response (CR) is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm; Partial Response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Increasing Disease is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions); Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest, From study entry, up to 5 years|Frequency and Severity of Observed Adverse Effects Graded According to NCI CTCAE Version 3.0, Every cycle during treatment and 30 days after the end of treatment|Progression Free Survival at 6 Months, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle for 6 months
Duration of Progression-free Interval for All Patients, up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the antitumor activity of belinostat and carboplatin in patients with persistent or recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer, measured by objective response rate and the frequency of progression- free survival at 6 months.

II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of belinostat in combination with carboplatin in this cohort of patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive belinostat IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who are clinically responding or who, in the opinion of their physician, would continue to benefit from treatment may continue treatment beyond 6 courses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.