Establishment of Cohort Under the Guidance of the Pathogenesis of Cancer Toxin in Traditional Chinese Medicine
The study aims to investigate the potential mechanisms by which the interaction between the microbiota and tumors leads to the occurrence and development of cancer by collecting clinical information and biological samples from healthy individuals and cancer patients.
Cancer
OTHER: No intervention was carried out
16S rDNA, 16S rDNA detection is a commonly used method in microbial molecular biology for identification and classification of bacteria. It can identify and classify bacteria., 2 years (from enrollment to disease progression).
microbiota metagenomics, Metagenomic Sequencing is a technique that studies the total genetic material of all microorganisms in environmental samples. This method does not rely on traditional microbial isolation and cultivation, but instead directly extracts total DNA from environmental samples to obtain new functional genes and bioactive substances by constructing and screening metagenomic libraries., 2 years (from enrollment to disease progression).|Untargeted metabolomics, Untargeted Metabolomics is a research method that does not rely on prior knowledge of specific metabolites. Instead, it explores the overall patterns and changes of metabolites by analyzing all detectable metabolites in biological samples., 2 years (from enrollment to disease progression).
Study Design Types: A prospective, multicenter, observational study.

Observation Content:1.Healthy Individuals:General Information (Demographic Data), Traditional Chinese Medicine Physical Quality Scale, Biological Samples (Fecal, Blood, Tongue Coating, Tongue Appearance Photos, Tissues). 2.Malignant Tumor Patients: General Information (Demographic Data, Disease Information, ECOG Performance Status Score, MDASI Anderson Symptom Inventory), Traditional Chinese Medicine Cancer Toxin Syndrome Scale, Traditional Chinese Medicine Physical Quality Scale, Laboratory and Examination Data, Biological Samples (Fecal, Blood, Tongue Coating, Tongue Appearance Photos, Tissues).

Observation Time Points:1.Healthy Individuals: At the time of enrollment. 2.Malignant Tumor Patients: At the time of enrollment, 1 month after enrollment, every 3 months thereafter until tumor progression.