Weekly IV Topotecan and Cisplatin With Radiation in Cervical Carcinoma
There will be approximately 14,000 new patients with invasive cervical cancer diagnosed in the United States in 2003 with about 4,000 deaths from this disease. This accounts for approximately 17% of all deaths due to gynecologic cancers. Radiation has been the primary treatment modality for locoregionally advanced cervical cancer. Recent trials of concomitant systemic cisplatin chemotherapy and radiation have shown high response rates (RR) with improvements in durable remissions and overall survival. Though the incidence and mortality in the U.S. dropped steadily from years 1940 to 2000, there has recently been a plateau, arresting the decline. With the routine addition of systemic Cisplatin (CDDP) chemotherapy to local regional radiation, mortality from advanced cervical cancer in the United States is expected to further decrease. However, further advances in this disease are needed.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Cisplatin
Number of Participants in which topotecan improves response rate (RR) when added to cisplatin in treating metastatic and recurrent cervical cancer, Topotecan improves response rate (RR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) when added to cisplatin in treating metastatic and recurrent cervical cancer. The objective of this study was to assess the feasibility of adding weekly topotecan to cisplatin in patients with primary, locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix receiving pelvic irradiation., 5 years
Number of Participants in which topotecan improves progression-free survival (PFS) when added to cisplatin in treating metastatic and recurrent cervical cancer., Patients will be followed clinically for evidence of tumor progression. Progression-free survival will be defined as the time from Day 1 to the date of progression or death due to any cause. Overall survival time will be measured from Day 1 until death., 5 years|Number of Participants in which topotecan improves overall survival (OS) when added to cisplatin in treating metastatic and recurrent cervical cancer., OS will be assessed by clinical laboratory tests, physical examinations, vital sign measurements and the incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs)., 5 years
All eligible patients with invasive squamous cell, adenocarcinoma, or adenosquamous carcinoma of the cervix, Stages I-B2, II-B, III-B, and IV-A, will experience clinical staging as permitted by FIGO staging criteria.

Primary Objective:

Feasibility and toxicity of administering weekly Topotecan among patients with carcinoma of the cervix receiving concurrent pelvic radiation and Cisplatin.

Secondary Objective(s):

To assess the efficacy of administering weekly Topotecan to patients with carcinoma of the cervix receiving concurrent pelvic radiation and Cisplatin on:

* progression-free survival,
* overall survival, and
* local control

Statistic This is a feasibility study. A two phase accrual will be utilized. If none or 1 of the 6 patients in the first Stage of accrual finish the prescribed therapy in over 8 weeks, then the second Stage of accrual (an additional 6 patients) will increase the Topotecan dose to 3 mg//m2 on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29 and once during parametrial boost (6 cycles). If 2 or 3 of the patients in the first stage of accrual finish the prescribed therapy in over 8 weeks, the dose of the Topotecan will remain the same in the second Phase of accrual. If 4 or more of the patients in the first stage of accrual finish the prescribed therapy in over 8 weeks, there will be no second phase of accrual.