Focal Therapy in Localized Prostate Cancer: a Prospective Registry
The principal aim of the registry is to collect data on focal therapy (FT) for the treatment of intermediate-risk prostate cancer across Europe. Data will be gathered on cancer absence following treatment, survival rates, and the absence of disease failure or progression. Information will be collected from as many centers as possible over the next 5 years to enhance understanding of when focal therapy should be used, which energy types are most effective, and how patients respond to treatment, including its side effects and impact on quality of life.

This Europe-wide data collection will contribute to improving care by informing the development of enhanced national and international guidelines for prostate cancer treatment with focal therapy.
Prostate|Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Focal Therapy
Rate of Negative Histological Findings for Prostate Cancer (PCa) on Target-Guided Biopsy of the Treated Area, The rate of negative histological findings for PCa (any ISUP grade) on target-guided biopsy of the treated area at 12 months post-FT (target or partial gland ablation) among patients who underwent biopsy (for any reason) among the cohort of 1,000 patients with intermediate-risk PCa enrolled., 12 months
Overall Survival (OS), Time from the date of focal therapy (FT) to the date of death from any cause., 12-, 24-, 36-, 48- and 60-months after FT treatment|Cancer-Specific Survival (CSS), The time from the date of focal therapy (FT) to the date of death due to prostate cancer., 12-, 24-, 36-, 48-, and 60-months after FT treatment|Metastasis-Free Survival (MFS), The time from the date of focal therapy (FT) to the date of the first imaging-confirmed distant metastasis., 12-, 24-, 36-, 48-, and 60-months after FT treatment|FT Impact on Erectile Function, Changes from baseline to 12 months after FT in erectile function, as measured by the Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM). SHIM is a validated 5-item questionnaire with a total score ranging from 1 to 25, where higher scores indicate better erectile function.

The questionnaire is included in the "Functional Assessment" (FA) and will be administered throughout the entire follow-up period., Baseline and at 12 months after FT treatment (optional: every 12 months until 60 months post-treatment)|FT Impact on Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms, Changes from baseline to 12 months after FT in urinary symptoms, as measured by the International Prostate Symptoms Score (IPSS). IPSS is a validated 7-item questionnaire with a total score ranging from 0 to 35, where higher scores indicate more severe urinary symptoms.

The questionnaire is included in the "Functional Assessment" (FA) and will be administered throughout the entire follow-up period., Baseline and at 12 months after FT treatment (optional: every 12 months until 60 months post-treatment)|FT impact on Ejaculatory Function, Changes from baseline to 12 months after FT in ejaculatory function, as measured by the 1st and 4th items of the Male Sexual Health Questionnaire-Ejaculatory Dysfunction Short Form (MSHQ-EjD SF). Scores for the 1st item range from 0 to 5, with higher scores indicating better ejaculatory function. Scores for the 4th item range from 0 to 5, with higher scores indicating greater bother related to ejaculatory dysfunction as perceived by the patient.

The questionnaire is in included in the "Functional Assessment" (FA) and will be used during the whole follow-up., Baseline and at 12 months after FT treatment (optional: every 12 months until 60 months post-treatment)|FT impact on Quality of Life, Changes from baseline to 12 months after FT in quality of life related to prostate cancer, as measured by the Overall Prostate Cancer QoL Score of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice (EPIC-CP). Scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating worse quality of life.

The questionnaire is in included in the "Functional Assessment" (FA) and will be used during the whole follow-up., Baseline and at 12 months after FT treatment (optional: every 12 months until 60 months post-treatment)|Complications, Complications related to the FT treatments will be recorded using a text-free module that includes the option to select specific types of common complications (e.g., untreated bacteriuria, urinary tract infection (UTI) treated with antibiotics, acute urinary retention, bleeding, pain not relieved by common painkillers, or severe hematoma). In all cases, the Clavien-Dindo classification will be applied to categorize any post-operative complications recorded., at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and then annually until 60 months after treatment.|Prostate Failure-Free Survival (pFFS), Time from the date of focal therapy until the occurrence of an ISUP 2 PCa or higher in the treated area and/or untreated area found during the follow up.

The success of FT is evaluated based on the absence of clinically significant prostate cancer throughout the entire prostate (prostate-based approach). The presence of clinically significant prostate cancer in either the untreated and/or treated areas will be considered a failure., 12-, 24-, 36-, 48- and 60-months after FT treatment|Area Treated Failure-Free Survival (aFFS), "Time from the date of focal therapy until the occurrence of an ISUP 2 PCa or higher in the treated area, as identified during follow-up. The success of FT is evaluated based solely on the treated area (area-treated-based approach), and only the presence of clinically significant prostate cancer within the treated area will be considered a failure., 12-, 24-, 36-, 48- and 60-months after FT treatment|Progression free survival (PFS), Will be calculated using the time from the date of focal therapy (FT) to the date progression is reported. Progression is defined as the requirement for whole-gland treatments, including salvage radical prostatectomy, salvage external beam radiotherapy, salvage brachytherapy, salvage whole gland ablation, and systemic therapy (androgen deprivation therapy, chemotherapy, anti-androgens, PARP inhibitors, AKT inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors, and radiopharmaceutical therapy)., 12-, 24-, 36-, 48- and 60-months after FT treatment|Salvage Treatments Rate, The rate of salvage treatments, including Active Surveillance, Watchful Waiting strategy, Salvage Radical Prostatectomy, Salvage External Beam Radiotherapy, Salvage Brachytherapy, Salvage Whole Gland Ablation, and Systemic Therapies (e.g., androgen deprivation therapy, chemotherapy, anti-androgens, PARP inhibitors, AKT inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors, and radiopharmaceutical therapy), will be recorded for each patient., 12-, 24-, 36-, 48- and 60-months after FT treatment|Rate of complications associated with Salvage Treatments, Complications associated with Salvage Treatments will be recorded using a text-free module that includes the option to select specific types of common complications (e.g., untreated bacteriuria, urinary tract infection (UTI) treated with antibiotics, acute urinary retention, bleeding, pain not relieved by common painkillers, or severe hematoma). In all cases, the Clavien-Dindo classification will be applied to categorize any post-operative complications recorded., at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and then annually until 60 months after treatment.
Focal Therapy has been introduced and evaluated as a minimally invasive treatment aimed at improving management strategies for localized prostate cancer. This technique consists of ablating the dominant lesion while preserving as much of the non-cancerous tissue as possible, and treating only the areas that require intervention.

The aim of the Jupiter Registry is to establish a registry for patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer undergoing FT. The registry will prospectively gather standardized data from multiple European centers.

The goal is to collect data from as many centers as possible over a 5-year follow-up period to inform clinical practices on FT indications, energy type selection, and patient outcomes, including efficacy, complications, and quality of life. This Europe-wide, reliable data will help develop national and international recommendations and guidelines to improve patient care.

This registry will subsequently enable the development of Jupiter Studies, a series of registry-based studies designed to analyze specific research questions regarding focal therapy in patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. The aim is to generate robust evidence on various aspects (efficacy, safety, functional impact, oncological impact) of focal therapy in a real-world evidence context.

Data such as PSA levels, MRI results, and biopsy outcomes will be collected during patient follow-up.

Additionally, data on salvage treatments will be documented, including the type and complications of any salvage treatments performed during follow-up up to 60 months post-FT.

Although the registry provides a uniform data collection on the population of patients with intermediate-risk localized prostate cancer who have undergone FT in accordance with EMA recommendations (Guideline on registry-based studies EMA/426390/2021), the principal and secondary aims defined below will subsequently enable the realization of the Jupiter Studies.