Treatment of Malignant Ascites Caused by Advanced Epithelial Solid Tumors With M701 Bispecific Antibody
A Randomized, Controlled, Multi-Center Phase III Clinical Study to Compare the Efficacy and Safety of Recombinant Anti-EpCAM and Anti-CD3 Human-Mouse Chimeric Bispecific Antibody (M701) for Intraperitoneal Injection to Paracentesis alone in Patients with Malignant Ascites Caused by Advanced Epithelial Solid Tumors.
Malignant Ascites
DRUG: M701|PROCEDURE: paracentesis
PuFS, Defined as the time from the end of C1V4 ascites drainage to the next drainage (based on the time of puncture) or the time of death is recorded as the PuFS., Time from the end of drainage of C1V4 ascites to the start of the next drainage or death (up to 6 months).
OS, Time from randomization to death from any cause, Time from randomization to death from any cause (up to 6 months).
TTNP, Time from the end of drainage of C1V4 ascites to the beginning of the next drainage (as the time of drainage), Time from the end of drainage of C1V4 ascites to the beginning of the next drainage (up to 6 months).|The score of quality of life, The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30 V3.0) was used to evaluate the quality of life of the subjects. This questionnaire is a 30 item instrument meant to assess some of the different aspects that define the quality of life of cancer patients. For the first 28 questions, the score is from 1-4, the lower score represents the better quality. For the last 2 quesionts, the score is from 1-7, the higher score represents the better health and quality of life., Time from randomization to end of treatment. (up to 6 months).|1-month and 2-month PuFS rates, 1-month and 2-month PuFS rates, 1st and 2nd month from randomization|6-month survival rate, 6-month survival rate, 6th month from randomization|Indidence of Adverse events, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, ≥grade 3 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events and Treatment-Related Adverse Events., From the time of first dosing (Day 1) until one month after the end of treatment|Positive rate of ADA and Nab in serum, The positive rate of Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) and Neutralizing antibody (Nab) in the serum during the study, Time from screening to end of treatment (up to 6 months).|The EpCAM expression in ascites, Measure the count of EpCAM postive cells in the ascites before and after M701 treatment, From the time of first dosing (Day 1) until the end of treatment (up to 6 months).
The phase III study is a controlled, open-label trial designed to assess the effectiveness and safety of M701 intra-peritoneal infusion for controlling malignant ascites in patients with Malignant Ascites Caused by Advanced Epithelial Solid Tumors who are also receiving systemic therapy.

A total of 270 patients with malignant ascites caused by Malignant Ascites Caused by Advanced Epithelial Solid Tumors will be randomly assigned to two treatment arms in a 2:1 ratio. These patients must have experienced disease progression or intolerance after receiving at least two lines of systemic therapy.

Both treatment arms will receive the systemic therapy as per the investigator's instructions. The test arm will receive paracentesis and intra-peritoneal infusion of M701, while the control arm will receive paracentesis alone.

The primary endpoint of the study is the puncture-free survival, which evaluates the efficacy of M701 in controlling malignant ascites. Secondary endpoints include the overall survival (OS),Time to next puncture (TTNP), Patient-reported outcome (PRO) score, 6-month survival rate,1-month and 2-month puncture-free survival rate, safety profiles,and Anti-m701 antibody (ADA) and Neutralizing antibody (NAb).