A Study to Select Rational Therapeutics Based on the Analysis of Matched Tumor and Normal Biopsies in Subjects With Advanced Malignancies
An open non-randomized study using biology driven selection of therapies. WINTHER study will explore matched tumoral and normal tissue biopsies and will use a novel method for predicting efficacy of drugs. The aim is to provide a rational personalized therapeutic choice to all (100 %) patients enrolled in the study, harboring oncogenic events (mutations/ translocations/ amplifications, etc.) or not. The total number of patients treated in the study will be two hundred across all participating cancer centers (European countries -France; Spain-, Israel, USA and Canada). All centers will realize the same study independently.
Metastatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Progression Free Survival, To assess the individual outcome of patients with advanced malignancies, by comparing the progression-free survival (PFS) using a treatment regimen selected by a molecular analysis of a patient's tumor with the PFS for the most recent regimen on which the patient had experienced progression

* ARM A : PFS2/PFS1 \>1.5 in 50% of patients
* ARM B : PFS2/PFS1 \>1.5 in 40% of patients

The primary endpoint of the study is the ratio of the PFS of the current treatment (PFS2) versus the previous treatment (PFS1). Because patients will be enrolled in the study while they are still on treatment (before progression), we expect that PFS for the previous treatment is fully observed. If patients withdrew from the treatment due to treatment related toxicity and lost to follow-up, it is considered that the PFS endpoint is reached. If patients are lost to follow up due to other reasons, PFS is censored at the time of last follow up., Up to 6 months
An open non-randomized study using biology driven selection of therapies. WINTHER study will explore matched tumoral and normal tissue biopsies and will use a novel method for predicting efficacy of drugs. The aim is to provide a rational personalized therapeutic choice to all (100 %) patients enrolled in the study, harboring oncogenic events (mutations/ translocations/ amplifications, etc.) or not. The total number of patients treated in the study will be two hundred across all participating cancer centers (European countries -France; Spain-, Israel, USA and Canada). All centers will realize the same study independently.