Lenvatinib Plus Tislelizumab and CapeOX as First-Line Treatment for Advanced GC/GEJC With Positive PD-L1 and Low TMEscore
This is a multicenter, prospective, phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of intensive treatment with lenvatinib plus tislelizumab and CapeOX as first-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma with PD-L1 positive and low TMEscore. A total of 92 subjects are randomly divided into study group and control group according to 1:1 ratio. Tislelizumab 200mg, iv, d1+ oxaliplatin 130mg/m2, iv, d1+ capecitabine 1000mg/m2, bid po, D1-14, q3w ± Lenvatinib 8mg, qd po regimen are received, respectively (3 weeks as a cycle, a maximum of 8 cycles of treatment). Then the maintenance treatment phase with tislelizumab ± lenvatinib is entered, and the specific dosage is the same as the treatment period. Effectiveness is assessed every 9 weeks (±7 days) until disease recurrence, metastasis, death, or loss of follow-up. The primary endpoint of this study was PFS, and secondary endpoints were OS, ORR, DoR, and DCR.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: lenvatinib and tislelizumab plus CapeOX chemotherapy|DRUG: tislelizumab plus CapeOX chemotherapy
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time between the onset of PD or death when a patient first receives the study drug, whichever occurs first, 3 years
Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time between the patient's first receipt of the study drug to death, 3 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of patients who achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), 3 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as the proportion of patients achieving CR, PR, or stable disease (SD)., 3 years|Duration of response (DoR), Defined as the time between when a patient first reaches CR or PR to PD, 3 years
This is a multicenter, prospective, phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of intensive treatment with lenvatinib plus tislelizumab and CapeOX as first-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma with PD-L1 positive and low TMEscore. A total of 92 subjects are randomly divided into study group and control group according to 1:1 ratio. Tislelizumab 200mg, iv, d1+ oxaliplatin 130mg/m2, iv, d1+ capecitabine 1000mg/m2, bid po, D1-14, q3w ± Lenvatinib 8mg, qd po regimen are received, respectively (3 weeks as a cycle, a maximum of 8 cycles of treatment). Then the maintenance treatment phase with tislelizumab ± lenvatinib is entered, and the specific dosage is the same as the treatment period. Effectiveness is assessed every 9 weeks (±7 days) until disease recurrence, metastasis, death, or loss of follow-up. The primary endpoint of this study was PFS, and secondary endpoints were OS, ORR, DoR, and DCR.