T-DM1 and Tucatinib Compared with T-DM1 Alone in Preventing Relapses in People with High Risk HER2-Positive Breast Cancer, the CompassHER2 RD Trial
This phase III trial studies how well trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) and tucatinib work in preventing breast cancer from coming back (relapsing) in patients with high risk, HER2 positive breast cancer. T-DM1 is a monoclonal antibody, called trastuzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug, called DM1. Trastuzumab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as HER2 receptors, and delivers DM1 to kill them. Tucatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving T-DM1 and tucatinib may work better in preventing breast cancer from relapsing in patients with HER2 positive breast cancer compared to T-DM1 alone.
Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC V8|HER2 Positive Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Multifocal Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Synchronous Bilateral Breast Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Emtansine|DRUG: Placebo Administration|DRUG: Tucatinib|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Modified invasive disease-free survival (iDFS), A Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival curves and a stratified log-rank test will be used to compare the invasive disease-free survival (iDFS) of the two arms. A stratified Cox model will be used to estimate the hazard ratio. If there appears to be clinically significant imbalances of baseline variables between the treatment arms, a secondary analysis of the primary endpoint will use stratified Cox model to compare the treatment effects that include the variables that are deemed imbalanced between the arms as adjusting variables. The randomization stratification variables will be the stratified variables in the model., From randomization to one of the following events: invasive local, regional or distant recurrence, invasive contralateral breast cancer or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years
Unmodified invasive disease-free survival (iDFS), Will be defined as the time from randomization to one of the following events: invasive local, regional or distant recurrence, invasive contralateral breast cancer secondary primary invasive cancer (other than basal or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin, or carcinoma in situ of the cervix), or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years. A Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival curves and a stratified log-rank test will be used to compare the iDFS of the two arms. A stratified Cox model will be used to estimate the hazard ratio., Up to 10 years|Breast cancer-free survival, Will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier curves and compared between the arms using a stratified log-rank test and stratified Cox model. If there are clinically significant imbalances in baseline characteristics between the treatment arms, a second analysis will be done using a stratified Cox model with the variables that are imbalance added as adjusting variables., From randomization to invasive local, regional, or distant recurrence, or invasive contralateral breast cancer, assessed up to 10 years|Distant recurrence-free survival, Will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier curves and compared between the arms using a stratified log-rank test and stratified Cox model. If there are clinically significant imbalances in baseline characteristics between the treatment arms, a second analysis will be done using a stratified Cox model with the variables that are imbalance added as adjusting variables., From randomization to the first incidence of distant recurrence, assessed up to 10 years|Brain metastases-free survival, Will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier curves and compared between the arms using a stratified log-rank test and stratified Cox model. If there are clinically significant imbalances in baseline characteristics between the treatment arms, a second analysis will be done using a stratified Cox model with the variables that are imbalance added as adjusting variables., From randomization to documentation of involvement of the central nervous system by metastatic cancer including parenchymal brain and spinal cord metastases as well as leptomeningeal carcinomatosis, assessed up to 10 years|Overall survival, Will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier curves and compared between the arms using a stratified log-rank test and stratified Cox model. If there are clinically significant imbalances in baseline characteristics between the treatment arms, a second analysis will be done using a stratified Cox model with the variables that are imbalance added as adjusting variables., From randomization until death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Incidence of brain metastases, An incident of brain metastases is documentation of involvement of the central nervous system by metastatic cancer including parenchymal brain and spinal cord metastases as well as leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. The cumulative incidence of brain metastases will be determined as the crude cumulative incidence as well as with incidence with competing risks where the competing event is death., Up to 10 years
Quality of life, Will be assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Breast Cancer (B) Trial Outcome Index questionnaire. The mixed model will compare the cycle 9 day 1 and cycle 14 day 1 time points between randomized arms. In addition to a randomized arm covariate, the model will include a randomized arm-by-time interaction term and will use the planned cycle of assessment as the categorical time value. Unstructured covariance will initially be used, though alternative covariance structures will be investigated with the final covariance structure selected based on minimization of the Akaike information criterion. A contrast will be used to compare mean change from baseline at cycle 9 day 1 between arms. If the two-sided 95% confidence interval excludes a difference of 5 favoring the trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) + placebo arm, then non-inferiority will be concluded., Up to 8 cycles of treatment (each cycle is 21 days)|Quality of life, Will be assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Breast Cancer (B) Trial Outcome Index questionnaire. The mixed model will compare the mean change from baseline at cycle 14 day 1 between arms. If the two-sided 95% confidence interval excludes a difference of 5 favoring the T-DM1 + placebo arm, then non-inferiority will be concluded at this time point., Up to 13 cycles of treatment (each cycle is 21 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if the invasive disease-free survival (iDFS) with T-DM1 and tucatinib is superior to the iDFS in the control arm (T-DM1 + placebo) when administered to high risk patients with HER2-positive breast cancer and residual disease after neoadjuvant HER2-directed therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether treatment with tucatinib plus T-DM1 compared to treatment with T-DM1 alone (T-DM1 plus placebo) improves the following:

Ia. Breast cancer free survival (BCFS). Ib. Distant recurrence-free survival (DRFS). Ic. Brain metastases-free survival (BMFS). Id. Overall survival (OS). II. To evaluate whether treatment with tucatinib plus T-DM1 compared to treatment with T-DM1 alone (T-DM1 plus placebo) reduces the incidence of brain metastases.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive T-DM1 intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and placebo orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 14 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive T-DM1 IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and tucatinib PO BID on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 14 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 6 months for 10 years.