Standard and High Dose Irinotecan Based on UGT1A1 Genotype for First-line Treatment of Locally Advanced Colon Cancer
In the current treatment of colon cancer, the definition of locally advanced colon cancer (LACC) is controversial, and the clinical trial evidence which support treatment for LACC is not clear. Irinotecan (CPT-11) combined with fluoropyrimidine (5FU, capecitabine) is main chemotherapy regimen for patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Whether this regimen also could be effectively applied for patients with locally advanced colon cancer? It is worthy of clinicians to conduct research. In recent studies, the literature indicated that the the uridine diphosphate glucuronide transfer enzyme (UGT1A1) is an important metabolic enzymes associated with drug metabolism of CPT-11. The gene polymorphism of UGT1A1 is related to delayed diarrhea and neutropenia caused by irinotecan. Irinotecan dose-exploration study found that the maximum tolerated dose for irinotecan in patients with UGT1A1\*28 homozygous variant genotypes was significantly lower compared with the wild genotype. The studies based on Asian patients suggested that the gene variant of UGT1A1\*6 also have similar impacts. At present, the studies of irinotecan dose adjustment based on the UGT1A1 gene polymorphisms has not yet come to the consistency of conclusions. The frequency of UGT1A1 gene polymorphisms between different races is significant different, irinotecan dose exploratory study based on Chinese patients has not been carried out.

This study focus on prospectively adverse reactions, optimal efficacy and R0 resection rate of the patients with LACC who treated by dose-adjusted irinotecan based on the genotypes of UGT1A1.
Colonic Neoplasms
DRUG: Irinotecan
R0 resection rate, one year
disease free survival, one year
adverse reactions, one year
In the current treatment of colon cancer, the definition of locally advanced colon cancer (LACC) is controversial, and the clinical trial evidence which support treatment for LACC is not clear. Irinotecan (CPT-11) combined with fluoropyrimidine (5FU, capecitabine) is main chemotherapy regimen for patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Whether this regimen also could be effectively applied for patients with locally advanced colon cancer? It is worthy of clinicians to conduct research. In recent studies, the literature indicated that the the uridine diphosphate glucuronide transfer enzyme (UGT1A1) is an important metabolic enzymes associated with drug metabolism of CPT-11. The gene polymorphism of UGT1A1 is related to delayed diarrhea and neutropenia caused by irinotecan. Irinotecan dose-exploration study found that the maximum tolerated dose for irinotecan in patients with UGT1A1\*28 homozygous variant genotypes was significantly lower compared with the wild genotype. The studies based on Asian patients suggested that the gene variant of UGT1A1\*6 also have similar impacts. At present, the studies of irinotecan dose adjustment based on the UGT1A1 gene polymorphisms has not yet come to the consistency of conclusions. The frequency of UGT1A1 gene polymorphisms between different races is significant different, irinotecan dose exploratory study based on Chinese patients has not been carried out.

This study focus on prospectively adverse reactions, optimal efficacy and R0 resection rate of the patients with LACC who treated by dose-adjusted irinotecan based on the genotypes of UGT1A1.