Personalized Cellular Vaccine for Glioblastoma (PERCELLVAC)
Dendritic cell-based cellular vaccine for tumor therapy has shown efficacy. This study is designed to perform a personalized clinical trial by first analyzing the expression of tumor associated antigens in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma and then immunizing the patients with personalized DC-based cellular vaccine. Immune responses to tumor antigens will be monitored. Safety and efficacy will be observed in the study.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Personalized cellular vaccine
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events and severe adverse events [safety and Tolerability], Incidence of adverse events and severe adverse events to measure safety and tolerability of mRNA-TAA pulsed autologous DC cellular vaccine, 3 years since the beginning of the first vaccine
Antitumor antigen specific T cell response, The frequency of peripheral CD8+ and CD4+ T cell response to the vaccine., 4 weeks after the last vaccine|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival will be monitored for 1year., 12 months since the beginning of the first vaccine.|Overall survival, Overall survival will be monitored for 3 years., 3 years since the beginning of the first vaccine
This is an open label, single-arm, single-institution, Phase I study designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of personalized cellular tumor vaccine for patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM). Newly diagnosed GBM patients will undergo tumor resection. The tumors will be analyzed for the expression of a panel of glioma-associated antigens and immune-related genes. Post surgical treatment will be 6 weeks standard chemotherapy with temozolomide and concurrent radiotherapy and continue cycles of temozolomide within a 28-day window. Patients will undergo leukapheresis either after surgery or after concurrent radio/chemotherapy. Based on individual tumor antigen expression, in vitro transcribed mRNA will be generated and used to pulse in vitro generated DCs. The patients will be immunized i.d. and i.v. biweekly with DC cellular vaccines. Safety and efficacy will be monitored. The primary objective is to assess the safety of the personalized cellular vaccines. The secondary objective is to assess the specific T cell response to immunized vaccines. In addition, the antitumor efficacy of the vaccines will be measured using iRANO criteria, progression-free survival and overall survival.