Neuradiab® Combined With Bevacizumab (Avastin) Therapy in Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme
Bradmer Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Bradmer) is requesting approval to study the safety of Neuradiab® when combined with Bevacizumab (Avastin) therapy given at a minimum of 30 days after Neuradiab administration in patients with a first or second recurrence of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), in an attempt to manage life threatening recurrence of Grade IV malignant glioma.
Brain Tumors
DRUG: Neuradiab in combination with Bevacizumab (Avastin)
The safety of Neuradiab® when followed by Avastin therapy will be assessed based on Investigator reported symptomatic toxicity findings on physical exam, and Adverse Events., One year
Overall survival (OS). Data will be reported based on a dataset of 60 patients., One year|Time to progression (TTP). Data will be reported based on a dataset of 60 patients., One year
At present there are no satisfactory therapies for these patients with recurrent GBM and the practitioner is left with best effort combination therapy for this disease. At present a number of chemotherapeutic agents, including nitrosoureas, carboplatin, bevacizumab, etoposide, irinotecan, and imatinib, have been used as salvage therapy either alone or in combination. Additional trials with a variety of agents are underway, but preliminary results from single-agent studies have been disappointing. Currently, only nitrosoureas (lomustine and carmustine), including Gliadel® Wafer (carmustine) as adjunct to surgery, are approved for use in previously treated GBM. At present the treatment of recurrent disease with any available agent results in median survival in the ranges of 22-44 weeks. The historical data from previous human exposure with Neuradiab is highly suggestive of a benefit to patient survival.

Since Neuradiab® has shown promising efficacy in patients with recurrent disease with acceptable risk-benefit ratio, and since there is no substantial survival benefit from currently available agents used to treat this patient population, Neuradiab® is being proposed as an experimental alternative to recurrent GBM patients under a Single-Center Phase II Trial. Recurrent GBM is a serious and immediately life-threatening disease, for which there is no comparable or satisfactory alternative drug or other therapy available to treat that stage of the disease. Overall, survival data indicate a need for more effective treatments for recurrent GBM.