Tissue Collection to ID TCRs From Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma Patients Responding to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
T Cell Receptor-engineered T-cell therapy (TCR T-cell therapy) offers a potentially transformative approach to treating cancer, but is currently limited by the lack of known targets (Maus and June, 2016; Ping et al., 2018). Arguably the most clinically meaningful way to discover new targets and TCRs for TCR T-cell therapy is to study the tumorinfiltrating lymphocytes of patients that are actively responding to immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy. These T cells are clonally expanded as a result of checkpoint inhibition and are responsible for the patient's clinical response. The goal of this study is to acquire tumor and blood samples from up to 40 patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) malignancies who respond to ICI therapy. T cells will be isolated from these samples and the targets of their TCRs determined using TScan's genome-wide, high-throughput target ID technology. The expected outcome of this study is the discovery of a collection of new targets for TCR T-cell therapy, along with associated TCRs that will then be developed as novel therapies for patients with similar malignancies.
Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma
Single Cell Sequencing, Number of patients, through single-cell sequencing, displaying the TCR repertoire of these tumor and blood samples with new targets, 1 year
T Cell Receptor-engineered T-cell therapy (TCR T-cell therapy) offers a potentially transformative approach to treating cancer, but is currently limited by the lack of known targets (Maus and June, 2016; Ping et al., 2018). Arguably the most clinically meaningful way to discover new targets and TCRs for TCR T-cell therapy is to study the tumorinfiltrating lymphocytes of patients that are actively responding to immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy. These T cells are clonally expanded as a result of checkpoint inhibition and are responsible for the patient's clinical response. The goal of this study is to acquire tumor and blood samples from up to 40 patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) malignancies who respond to ICI therapy. T cells will be isolated from these samples and the targets of their TCRs determined using TScan's genome-wide, high-throughput target ID technology. The expected outcome of this study is the discovery of a collection of new targets for TCR T-cell therapy, along with associated TCRs that will then be developed as novel therapies for patients with similar malignancies.