CT Scan Guide Percutaneous Biopsy of Lytic Bone Metastases of Lung Cancer : Contribution in Pathology Diagnosis and Molecular Biology
In case of primary lung cancer, bone metastases biopsy can be done in initial diagnosis or follow-up.

Nevertheless, any study focus on rentability and biopsy complications of lytic bone lesion for the context of lung cancer.

This study aims to demonstrate that CT scan guide percutaneous biopsy of lytic bone lesion help to anatomopathologic diagnosis and molecular biology with a low complication rate inasmuch a lung cancer is suspected.

This study is observational, retrospective, one center
Image-Guided Biopsy - Carcinoma, Bronchogenic / Diagnosis- Outpatients
PROCEDURE: CT scan guide percutaneous biopsy of lytic bone metastases of lung cancer
Rentability of biopsy of lytic bone lesion in anatomopathologic analysis, Rentability of biopsy of lytic bone lesion = 100x (number of sample wich analysed by anatomopathologic /total number of biopsy of lytic bone lesion done), Analysis between january 2018-september 2018
Rentability of biopsy of lytic bone lesion in molecular biology analysis inas much non small cell epidermoid lung cancer is diagnosed, Rentability of biopsy of lytic bone lesion in molecular biology analysis inas much non small cell epidermoid lung cancer is diagnosed

- =100x (number of sample wich analysed by molecular biology /total number of biopsy of lytic bone lesion sent to molecular biology analysis), Analysis between january 2018-september 2018|Cell quality in sample of biopsy of lytic bone lesion in molecular biology analysis inas much non small cell epidermoid lung cancer is diagnosed, Cell quality in sample of biopsy of lytic bone lesion in molecular biology analysis inas much non small cell epidermoid lung cancer is diagnosed

* average percentage of tumour cells in samples, Analysis between january 2018-september 2018|Complication rate linked to gesture of biopsy of lytic bone lesion, Complication rate linked to gesture of biopsy of lytic bone lesion and descriptive analysis, Analysis between january 2018-september 2018|Impact assessement of biopsy of lytic bone lesion on patient care, Modification of management of lung cancer between before biopsy and after biopsy results, Analysis between january 2018-september 2018
Current progress in thoracic oncology require to be able to carry out analysis by molecular biology. So biopsies are done several times during cancer progression. But risk is high for a lung biopsy with enough sample, so a CT scan guide percutaneous biopsy of lytic bone metastases of lung cancer can be an alternative.

In case of primary lung cancer, bone metastases biopsy can be done in initial diagnosis or follow-up. But this contribution in diagnostic (anatomopathologic an molecular biology) is poorly understood. It is demonstrated that to sample on lytic bone lesion have a failure rate lower than on calcified osseous lesion. Nevertheless, any study focus on rentability and biopsy complications of lytic bone lesion for the context of lung cancer.

this study aims to demonstrate that CT scan guide percutaneous biopsy of lytic bone lesion help to anatomopathologic diagnosis and molecular biology with a low complication rate inasmuch a lung cancer is suspected.

This study is observational, retrospective, descriptive, one-center Patient's records selection will be done by keyword search on the CHU Grenoble Alpes radiology software. Only records with bone biopsy register between January 2010 and June 2017 will be included.