Spine Radiosurgery for Symptomatic Metastatic Neoplasms
The purpose of this study is to compare three types of radiation therapy for cancer that has spread to the spine. The two types of radiation therapy used in this trial are External Beam Radiation Therapy (EBRT) and Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT). EBRT delivers tightly targeted radiation beams from outside the body. SBRT is a specialized type of radiation therapy that allows high doses of radiation to small targets. This study will include standard dose SBRT and higher dose SBRT. Each participant will be randomly assigned to either EBRT, standard dose SBRT, or higher dose SBRT.
Metastatic Neoplasm to the Spine|Metastatic Neoplasm
RADIATION: Conventional external beam radiation therapy dose (EBRT)|RADIATION: Spine radiosurgery/stereotactic body radiation therapy standard dose|RADIATION: Spine radiosurgery/stereotactic body radiation therapy high dose
Pain freedom based on BPI score difference, Freedom from pain at 3 months defined as pain freedom following spine SBRT/EBRT per the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), which is a scale of 1-10. The complete response for pain freedom is defined as a "worst" pain score of 0 on the BPI. Partial pain freedom is defined as a "worst" pain score of 2 points on the BPI., 3 months
Pain freedom based on BPI score difference, Freedom from pain at 6 months defined as pain freedom following spine SBRT/EBRT per the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), which is a scale of 1-10. The complete response for pain freedom is defined as a "worst" pain score of 0 on the BPI. Partial pain freedom is defined as a "worst" pain score of 2 points on the BPI., 6 months|Local Control, 6-month local control, defined as an actuarial 6-month rate of any new, recurrent or progressing (as defined by SPINOcriteria) tumor within the planning target volume on any post-treatment MRI by 6 months. Follow-up MRIs will be fused with the planning scan for this assessment, 6 months|Vertebral compression fracture rate, 6-month vertebral compression fracture rate, assessed by post-treatment MRI by 6 months, 6 months|Survival, Overall participant survival, 6 months|Vertebral compression fracture rate, 12-month vertebral compression fracture rate, assessed by post-treatment MRI at 12 months, 12 months|Demographic disparities, Demographic disparities (by race, ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, insurance status) following spine SBRT/EBRT access and outcomes at 3 months, 3 months|Demographic disparities, Demographic disparities (by race, ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, insurance status) following spine SBRT/EBRT access and outcomes at 6 months, 6 months
Metastatic spine cancer incidence is increasing; the primary treatment is radiation therapy. Metastatic spine disease has been historically treated with external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) with conventional fractionation, yielding relatively limited durability in pain control. The increased lifespan of patients with metastatic cancer has resulted in an increase in the incidence of spine metastases, which has led to a need for more durable treatment results. Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)/Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) of the spine has exponentially increased, with the theoretical advantages of higher tumoricidal dose and more rapid fall off between tumor and surrounding normal tissue compared with EBRT. The goal of this study is to compare three types of radiation therapy to draw conclusions on what is an effective treatment to reduce pain and increase pain freedom rates.