Genetic Predictors of Benefit to Pembrolizumab
The primary objective is to determine if mutation load underlies sensitivity to pembrolizumab alone and in combination with chemotherapy. This will be a 3-arm, multi-center, open-label, non-randomized biomarker trial in patients with advanced, treatment-naive NSCLC. Patients will receive 1 of 3 possible cohorts as per investigator's discretion. Patients with non-squamous histology may receive any of the 3 cohorts; patients with squamous histology may receive either cohorts 1 and 2.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Number of Subjects With NSCLC Who Achieved DCB, Objective response to study treatment will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 by a study radiologist. Partial and complete responses will be confirmed by a repeat imaging occurring at least 4 weeks after the initial identification of response; unconfirmed responses will be considered stable or progressive disease dependent on results of the second CT scan. Durable clinical benefit (DCB) will be defined as stable disease (Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study), OR complete response (disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.), OR partial response (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters) lasting longer than 6 months., Up to 2 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as participants with a partial (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters) or complete response (Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm) as assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria., Up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The length of time from treatment initiation to progression of disease (at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression) as assessed by RECIST 1.1., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from the start of treatment to death., Up to 28 months
Somatic mutations leading to cancer are related to endogenous or exogenous DNA damaging processes. The resultant mutations can be separated into two categories - (i) mutations that provide selective advantage for clonal expansion and (ii) mutations that do not result in growth advantage. The latter have been termed passenger mutations, while the former are referred to as driver mutations. It is widely believed that the number of driver mutations in a cancer sample is limited to a handful, usually two or more but less than ten. In contrast, the genome of a cancer can harbor more than a million somatic mutations most of which are considered to be passengers.

Several studies have shown that the passenger mutations may not be oncogenic drivers but may be of importance in adaptive immune resistance of a tumor. In particular the relevant mutations are likely to be the nonsynonymous exonic mutations in tumors; these may give rise to novel proteins that differ from their wild type counterparts and are immunogenically more relevant. The study will explore if there is a relationship between the genetic mutations and the success of pembrolizumab.