Safety And Efficacy Study Of Avelumab Plus Chemotherapy With Or Without Other Anti-Cancer Immunotherapy Agents In Patients With Advanced Malignancies
This is a Phase 1b/2, open label, multicenter, safety and clinical activity study of avelumab in combination with chemotherapy as first-line treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. Initially, avelumab will be evaluated in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin in patients with advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (Cohort A1) and in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with cisplatin-eligible urothelial (bladder) cancer (UC) (Cohort A2). As more information is learned about other anti-cancer immunotherapy agents, in future portions of the study, avelumab may be combined with chemotherapy and other anti-cancer immunotherapy agents in patients with these same or different tumor types.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Urothelial Cancer
DRUG: Avelumab 800 mg in combination with pemetrexed / carboplatin|DRUG: Avelumab 800 mg in combination with gemcitabine / cisplatin.|DRUG: Avelumab 1200 mg in combination with pemetrexed/carboplatin|DRUG: Avelumab 1200 mg in combination with gemcitabine/cisplatin
Phase 1b Lead-in: Number of Participants With Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLT), DLTs=occurrence of any AEs attributable to study treatment in first 2 treatment cycles:Hematologic: grade(G)4 neutropenia lasting \>7days;febrile neutropenia with body temperature \>=38 degree Celsius for \>1hour; G\>=3 neutropenic infection(absolute neutrophil count \<1.0\*10\^9/L),G\>=3 thrombocytopenia (platelet count\<50.0-25.0\*10\^9/L)with bleeding;G4 thrombocytopenia(PC\<25.0\*10\^9/L),G4 anemia(life-threatening).Non-hematologic: any G4 toxicities;G3 toxicities persisting for \>3days despite medical treatment(nausea,vomiting,diarrhea)except endocrinopathies controlled with hormonal therapy;ALT/AST \>3\*upper limit of normal(ULN)if normal at baseline or 2\*Baseline(\>ULN at baseline)with total bilirubin \>2\*ULN and alkaline phosphatase \<2\*ULN;G3 QTcF prolongation after correction of any reversible cause(electrolyte abnormalities/hypoxia).Delay of \>=3weeks in scheduled administration/failure to deliver 75% of doses due to toxicities attributable to any study treatment. DLT-evaluable analysis set., Day 1 up to Week 6 (first 2 treatment cycles; 1 cycle = 21 days)|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Objective Response (OR) as Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v) 1.1 by Investigator Assessment, OR: complete response(CR) or partial response(PR)determined by investigator according to RECIST v1.1 from date of first dose of study treatment until date of first documentation of progressive disease(PD),confirmed by repeat assessments performed no less than 4 weeks after first response. CR: disappearance of target and non-target lesions, with exception of nodal disease and normalization of tumor markers. All nodes, target and non-target must have short axis measures less than (\<)10 millimeter(mm). PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of measures (longest diameter for tumor lesions and short axis measure for nodes) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-PD. PD: \>=20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to relative increase of 20%, sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm, appearance of one or more new lesions was considered PD., From start of the treatment until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (maximum up to 3.5 years approximately)
Serum Concentration of Avelumab, The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) for avelumab was 0.2 micrograms per milliliter. Pharmacokinetic concentration analysis set was subset of safety analysis set and included participants who had at least one concentration measurement for avelumab or other study drugs which they were assigned to receive. Treatment groups with same dose and administration frequency were combined as pre-specified in reporting and analysis plan., Pre-dose, 1 hour post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2, 3, 6, 10, 14; 336 hours post-dose on Day 15 of Cycle 1, 2, 3 (each cycle of 21 days)|Absolute Value of Tumor Mutational Burden (TMB) in Tumor Tissue, Mutational load within tumor tissue was defined as number per megabase of the genome, coding, base substitution, and indel mutations present in the sample. Mutational load was determined in whole blood samples using next generation deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequencing followed by computational analysis., Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious TEAEs, Adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a participants who received any study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. Serious adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose resulted in any of following outcomes/deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial /prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly/birth defect. TEAEs were those events with onset dates occurring during the on-treatment period. On-treatment period was defined as time from first dose of any study treatment and up to 30 days after last dose or start day of new anti-cancer drug therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first., From start of the treatment up to 30 days after last dose or start of new anticancer therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Number of Participants With Treatment Related TEAEs, A treatment related AE included AEs related to at least one study drug in the combination. TEAEs were those events with onset dates occurring during the on-treatment period. On-treatment period was defined as time from first dose of any study treatment and up to 30 days after last dose or start day of new anti-cancer drug therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first. Relatedness to study drug was assessed by the investigator., From start of the treatment up to 30 days after last dose or start of new anticancer therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher TEAEs Based on National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v 4.03, AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received any study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs were those events with onset dates occurring during the on-treatment period. On-treatment period was defined as time from first dose of any study treatment and up to 30 days after last dose or start day of new anti-cancer drug therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first. TEAEs were graded by the investigator using NCI CTCAE v 4.03 as Grade 1 = mild; Grade 2 = moderate; Grade 3 = severe; Grade 4 = life-threatening; Grade 5 = death. In this outcome measure, number of participants with grade 3 or higher TEAEs were reported., From start of the treatment up to 30 days after last dose or start of new anticancer therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Laboratory Abnormalities by CTCAE Grade, Participants with laboratory abnormalities of any Grade as per NCI CTCAE toxicity grading v4.03 were summarized:hematology(anemia,hemoglobin increased,lymphocyte count decreased,lymphocyte count increased, neutrophil count decreased,platelet count decreased and white blood cell decreased)and clinical chemistry(alanine aminotransferase increased,alkaline phosphatase,increased,aspartate,aminotransferase increased,blood bilirubin increased,cholesterol high,creatinine phosphokinase\[cpk\] increased,creatinine increased,gamma-glutamyl transferase\[ggt\] increased,hypercalcemia,hyperglycemia,hyperkalemia, hypermagnesemia,hypernatremia,hypertriglyceridemia,hypoalbuminemia,hypocalcemia,hypoglycemia,hypokalemia,hypomagnesemia,hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia,serum amylase increased and lipase increased).As per NCI CTCAE toxicity grading v4.03, Grade1=mild;Grade2=moderate;Grade3=severe;Grade4=life-threatening;Grade 5=death.Parameters with at least 1 participant with abnormal value are reported., From screening up to 90 days after last dose of study drug (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Number of Participants With Positive Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) and Neutralizing Antibodies for Avelumab, Blood samples were collected for assessment of avelumab ADAs using a tiered assay and confirmed positive samples were tested for neutralizing antibodies (nAb)., From first dose of study drug up to last dose of study drug (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Per RECIST v 1.1 by Investigator Assessment, PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of the first documentation of PD per RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: \>=20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to relative increase of 20%, sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm, appearance of one or more new lesions was considered PD. The median duration of PFS was not derived for less than (\<) 10 participants., From start of treatment until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to the date of death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive were censored at the date of last contact. The median duration of OS was not derived for less than (\<) 10 participants., From first dose of study treatment until death due to any cause (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Duration of Response (DOR) as Per RECIST v 1.1 by Investigator Assessment, DOR was defined as time from first documentation of objective response (confirmed CR or PR) to the date of first PD documentation or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. CR: disappearance of target and non-target lesions, with exception of nodal disease and normalization of tumor markers. All nodes, target and non-target must have short axis measures less than (\<)10 millimeter(mm). PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of measures (longest diameter for tumor lesions and short axis measure for nodes) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-PD. PD: \>=20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to relative increase of 20%, sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm, appearance of one or more new lesions was considered PD. Median DOR was not derived for \< 5 participants., From date of first documented response to date of first documented PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Time-to-Tumor Response (TTR) as Per RECIST v 1.1 by Investigator Assessment, TTR was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study treatment to the first documentation of objective response (CR or PR) as assessed by investigator according to RECIST v 1.1. CR: disappearance of target and non-target lesions, with exception of nodal disease and normalization of tumor markers. All nodes, target and non-target must have short axis measures less than (\<)10 millimeter(mm). PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of measures (longest diameter for tumor lesions and short axis measure for nodes) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-PD., From first dose of study treatment until first documentation of CR or PR (maximum up to 5 years approximately)|Number of Participants With Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Expression, PD-L1 expression was determined using the Ventana PD-L1 SP263 IHC assay. PD-L1-positive status in UC cohorts was defined using an algorithm that combines assessments of PD-L1 staining on tumor and immune cells scored by pathologists and in NSCLC cohorts was defined as PD-L1 expression on \>=1% of tumor cells. PD-L1 expression at baseline and on-treatment were reported in this outcome measure., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 8 (each cycle of 21 days)
This is a Phase 1b/2, open label, multicenter, safety, clinical activity, pharmacokinetic (PK), and pharmacodynamics (PD) study of avelumab in combination with chemotherapy with or without other anti-cancer immunotherapies, as first-line treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. Initially, avelumab will be evaluated in combination with pemetrexed and carboplatin in patients with advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (Cohort A1) and with gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with cisplatin-eligible urothelial cancer (UC) (Cohort A2).

Given the growing preclinical and clinical indications that combinations of anti-cancer immunotherapies potentially improve patient outcomes compared to results seen with single agents, in portions of the study to be added in the future, avelumab will be evaluated in combination with both standard-of-care chemotherapy and other anti-cancer immunotherapies in patients with advanced malignancies. Each cohort in the study will consist of a Phase 1b lead-in portion to evaluate safety and a Phase 2 cohort expansion to evaluate safety and efficacy.

In the Phase 1b safety lead-in portion, up to 12 patients will be enrolled into each cohort and evaluated for dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) during the first 2 cycles of treatment. If investigational products administration in a cohort is deemed safe in the Phase 1b lead-in, enrollment may be expanded into the Phase 2 cohort expansion. Up to approximately 40 patients in each cohort (including those enrolled in the Phase 1b lead-in and those enrolled in the Phase 2 cohort expansion) will be enrolled and treated with avelumab plus chemotherapy in the initial portion of the study and, in future portions of the study, with avelumab plus chemotherapy with or without other anti-cancer immunotherapies.

In the Phase 1b lead-in portions of NSCLC Cohort A1 and UC Cohort A2, avelumab is dosed at 800 mg fixed dose every 3 weeks. Under Protocol Amendment 4, avelumab is dosed at 1200 mg fixed dose every 3 weeks in the Phase 1b lead-in portions of NSCLC Cohort A3 and in UC Cohort A4, in combination with the same standard-of-care chemotherapy doublets used in Cohort A1 and Cohort A2, respectively. For each tumor type, the study treatment combination with the highest avelumab dose determined to be safe may be advanced into Phase 2 cohort expansion.