A Research of Berberine Hydrochloride to Prevent Colorectal Adenomas in Patients With Previous Colorectal Cancer
Experimental studies in animals and observational studies in humans suggest that fusobacterium nucleatum is associates with stages of colorectal neoplasia development, and Berberine Hydrochloride could rescue Fusobacterium nucleatum-induced colorectal tumorigenesis by modulating the tumor microenvironment. Whether regular Berberine Hydrochloride use may decrease the risk of colorectal adenomas, the precursors to most colorectal cancers is worth to further study.
Colorectal Adenomas
DRUG: Berberine hydrochloride|DRUG: Placebo
Cumulative the colorectal adenoma incidence rate during Berberine hydrochloride or placebo treatment in patients with a history of colorectal cancer, The proportion of patients in whom one or more colorectal adenomas were investigated during the period from one year after randomization through the anticipated surveillance follow-up examination. The development of colorectal adenomas was assessed with an Olympus flexible video colonoscopy. One endoscopic investigator, who did not review the records of previous examinations, made all the assessments., From baseline to 3 years.
Cumulative the numbers or diameters of those new colorectal adenomas during Berberine hydrochloride or placebo treatment in patients with a history of colorectal cancer, The numbers or diameters of those new colorectal adenomas were analyzed during the period from one year after randomization through the anticipated surveillance follow-up examination. The endoscopic investigator, who did not review the records of previous examinations, counted the total number of colorectal adenomas, and the examination was recorded on videotape. The diameter of those colorectal adenomas was measured in millimeters with a graduated scale passed through the colonoscopy biopsy channel., From baseline to 3 years.
The prevalence of colorectal adenomas is high in our country, as is the incidence of colorectal cancer. It is well-known that colorectal adenomas are the precursor of colorectal cancer and that removing them will prevent colorectal cancer. Because most colorectal cancers arise from benign adenomas, adenomas have been used as surrogate end points in prevention trials. Berberine hydrochloride, which is an alkaloid extracted from Rhizoma coptidis, has been traditionally used in Chinese medicine to treat gastrointestinal infections, due to its antimicrobial properties. Previous clinical research and animal studies have demonstrated the anti-tumor action of Berberine hydrochloride. Persons with a history of colorectal cancer might constitute a group at higher risk for adenomas and thus be particularly suitable for a study of the chemopreventive effects of Berberine hydrochloride. Here, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was designed to determine whether the daily use of 300 mg of berberine hydrochloride could decreases the occurrence of new colorectal adenomas among patients with a history of colorectal cancer.