Prospective Multicenters Clinical Cohort Study of Stratified Treatment of Chinese Children With BL/DLBCL
The trial SCCCG-BL/DLBCL-2017 is a collaborative prospective, multicenters, non-randomized, observational, cohort clinical study with participating centers of the South China Children's Cancer Group-Non-Hodgkin lymphoma group(SCCCG-NHL). The aim of the study is to evaluate efficacy and safety of stratified treatment based on risk factors of childhood and adolescents Burkitt lymphoma(BL)/diffuse large B-cell lymphoma(DLBCL) patients in china.
Rituximab|Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|Pediatric Cancer
Event-free survival (EFS), EFS is defined as time from start of treatment/randomization up to event or to date of last contact for patients without event. The following occurrences are defined as an event: non-response, progressive disease or relapse, treatment related death, death of any other cause or diagnosis of secondary malignancies., through study completion, maximal eight years|Immune reconstitution rate (only in intermediate/high risk patients, Immune reconstitution rate is defined as percentage of patients achieving age adjusted serum immunoglobulin levels 12 months after start of treatment., 12 months after start of treatment
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as time from start of treatment/randomization up to death of any, through study completion, maximal eight years|Relapse-free survival (RFS), RFS is defined as time from start of treatment/randomization up to event or to date of last contact for patients without event. The following occurrences are defined as an event: non-response, progressive disease, or relapse., through study completion, maximal eight years|Response rate (RR), Complete response, partial remission, objective effect, stable disease or progressive disease, on an average 3 weeks after finish of treatment|Adverse event rate, Rate of patients with acute toxicity defined as grade III/IV/V AE, from the first day of protocol defined treatment until two years after start of protocol defined treatment|Rate of patients achieving normal immunoglobulin level 12 months after start of treatment, Rate of patients achieving normal immunoglobulin level 12 months after start of treatment, 12 months after start of treatment|Time interval to normal immunoglobulin level, Time interval to normal immunoglobulin level, through study completion, maximal eight years
Research purposes:

1. To investigate the efficacy and safety of SCCCG-BL/DLBCL-2017 in children with BL and DLBCL.
2. To investigate the effect of rituximab combined with chemotherapy on the survival rate of children with high-risk BL/DLBCL.
3. To investigate the effect of rituximab on immune function in children with high-risk BL/DLBCL.
4. To explore the correlation between MRD detection and the efficacy and survival of children with BL/DLBCL.
5. To explore the role of PET/CT in evaluating residual lesions in children after BL/DLBCL treatment.