High Definition Single Cell Analysis in Colorectal Cancer
This research clinical trial studies high definition single cell analysis in blood and tissue samples from patients with colorectal cancer which has spread to the liver. High definition single cell analysis allows doctors to study the properties of cancer cells that are sometimes found in the blood of patients and to determine how the genes and proteins in them may change over time. Studying samples from patients with colorectal cancer in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about how cancer spreads, as well as how to predict the disease outcomes in patients with cancer.
Metastatic Carcinoma in the Liver|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure
HD-SCA liquid biopsy biosignatures assessed by cell morphology, protein expression, and whole genome CNV profiles, Biosignatures will be compared between cells from tumor tissue within the same patient, cells from blood samples within the same patient, cells from tumor tissue and blood samples within the same patient, cells from tumor tissue and blood samples across different patients. Upon these comparisons, biosignatures will be established which represent liquid and solid biopsy correlations for each patient and for the patient population. Descriptive statistics will be used to determine means, correlations, and variability of biosignatures between different specimens and time points, and within and acr, Up to 2 years|HD-SCA solid tumor biosignatures assessed by cell morphology, protein expression, and whole genome CNV profiles, Biosignatures will be compared between cells from tumor tissue within the same patient, cells from blood samples within the same patient, cells from tumor tissue and blood samples within the same patient, cells from tumor tissue and blood samples across different patients. Upon these comparisons, biosignatures will be established which represent liquid and solid biopsy correlations for each patient and for the patient population. Descriptive statistics will be used to determine means, correlations, and variability of biosignatures between different specimens and time points, and within and acr, Up to 2 years
HD-SCA biosignatures in pre-resection liquid biopsy samples assessed by cell morphology, protein expression, and whole genome CNV profiles, The technical validity and reproducibility of the biosignatures will be demonstrated by comparing two pre-resection liquid biopsy samples. This reflects a change in the timing of specimen collection from the original protocol. Descriptive statistics will be used to determine means, correlations, and variability of biosignatures between different specimens and time points, and within and across patients., Up to day 1 of surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the level of correlation between solid tumor touch preparations and liquid biopsies (circulating tumor cells \[CTCs\]) from patients with surgically resected colorectal cancer (CRC) metastases to the liver using single-cell high-content analysis, including gene copy number variation (CNV) and to establish one or more bio-signatures that represent the liquid and solid biopsy correlation for each patient and for the patient population.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate the technical validity and reproducibility of the bio-signatures by comparing the two pre-resection liquid biopsy samples drawn one week prior to and on the day of surgery.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare biosignatures between pre-surgical and post-surgical blood samples. II. Compare biosignatures between resected metastatic liver tumor tissue, primary colon tumor tissue (if available), and pre-surgical blood samples.

III. Compare biosignatures between blood samples prior to resection with those obtained after resection and at the time of recurrence.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo blood collection 1 week prior surgery, before and after surgery on the same day, and 1 week and 3 months after surgery. Patients also undergo tissue collection during the surgery. Blood and tissue samples are processed for high definition single cell analysis including whole-genome CNV profiles, protein expression, and cell morphology.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.