RLC Followed by CR-CHOP in Elderly Patients with Newly-diagnosed DEL
This is a prospective, single-arm, multicenter clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of chidamide, rituximab combined with lenalidomide sequential immunochemotherapy in the treatment of newly diagnosed elderly double-expressor diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Double-expressor Lymphoma
DRUG: RLC-CRCHOP
PFS, Progression Free Survival, From date of first day of treatment until the date of first documented date of disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months
ORR, overall response rate, 21days after the end of treatment|CRR, complete response rate, 21days after the end of treatment|OS, Overall Survival, : From date of first day of treatment until the date of first documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|AE and SAE, Adverse event and serious adverse event, From date of first day of treatment until 30 day after last treatment|Performance status, Assess the patient's performance status according to the Barthel index. Patients will be classified into 5 scales with the score ranging from 0 to 100: 0-20 points=extremely severe functional impairment; 25-45 points=severe functional impairment; 50-70 points=moderate functional impairment; 75-95 points=mild functional impairment; 100 points=normal. Higher scores mean a better outcome., At screening period, after 2 cycles of ZR2 regimen(each cycle is 21 days), after 2 cycles of RCHOP regimen(each cycle is 21 days) and 21days after the end of treatment
It is divided into 4 stages: screening period, induction therapy period, immunochemotherapy period and maintenance therapy period. The screening period was 28 days before the first dose. Introduction treatment period: Enrolled subjects received RLC regimen every 21 days for a cycle of 2 cycles. Immunochemotherapy phase: CR-miniCHOP regimen was administered after the completion of the introduction therapy phase. Every 21 days for a cycle, treatment for 4 cycles. Patients who achieved CR with induction therapy entered the maintenance treatment period, receiving 20 mg of chidamide d1,4,8,11 recommended 8 cycles. Patients who did not achieve CR were discontinued from the study and treated at the discretion of their physician.