Abiraterone Acetate Trial in African American Prostate Cancer Patients
This is a pilot study of abiraterone acetate in African American/Black patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer. The primary objective is to determine the correlation between germline polymorphisms and antitumor activity (as defined by a decline in PSA of ≥ 30%) in African American patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with abiraterone acetate. Patients will receive abiraterone acetate until the time of disease progression, in the absence of prohibitive toxicities. Patients will be followed for disease progression and survival.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate
Number of Participants With ≥ 30% Change in PSA, The primary objective of this study is to determine a correlation between inherited genetic polymorphisms and antitumor activity (as defined by a decline in PSA of ≥ 30%) in AA patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with Abiraterone. The primary endpoint is the percent change in PSA from baseline to 12 weeks. A decline of ≥ 30% will be correlated with germline SNPs., baseline and 12 weeks
Response Assessment, Post-treatment changes in measurable disease by RECIST - Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions, up to 12 weeks|Time to Progression, post-treatment changes in measurable disease by time to disease progression (as per PCWG2 guidelines), up to 12 weeks|Bone Scan, post-treatment changes in bone scans (as per PCWG2 guidelines) ("no new lesions" versus "new lesions."), up to 12 weeks|Safety of Abiraterone, To determine the safety of abiraterone Adverse events as defined by CTCAE v4. Number of participants with serious adverse events grade 4 or 5, up to 12 weeks|Testosterone, Post-treatment changes in testosterone, up to 12 weeks
This is a pilot study of abiraterone acetate in African American/Black patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer. The primary objective is to determine the correlation between germline polymorphisms and antitumor activity (as defined by a decline in PSA of ≥ 30%) in African American patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer treated with abiraterone acetate. Patients will receive abiraterone acetate until the time of disease progression, in the absence of prohibitive toxicities. Patients will be followed for disease progression and survival.