Study of Lenvatinib (E7080) in Unresectable Biliary Tract Cancer (BTC) Who Failed Gemcitabine-based Combination Chemotherapy
This is a multicenter, single arm, open-label study in participants with unresectable BTC and disease progression or failure following one prior gemcitabine-based doublet chemotherapy regimen (combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin, or gemcitabine and other platinum agent/fluoropyrimidine agent). This study contains 3 phases: a Pre-treatment phase that will last within 21 days; a Treatment phase that will consist of study treatment cycles and tumor assessment conducted every 6-8 weeks; and a Follow-up phase that will begin immediately after the Off-Treatment Visit and will continue as long as the participant is alive, unless the participant withdraws consent, or until the End of Study.
Biliary Tract Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was assessed by the investigator based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Confirmation of CR or PR was performed at least 28 days following the initial achievement of the response., From the date of first dose of study drug to the date of last documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 1 year 1 month)
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate at 12 Weeks, PFS was assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1. PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of last documentation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS rate was cumulative probability for event-free participants at 12 weeks. PFS rate at 12 weeks was calculated using Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of first dose to the date of last documentation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first (up to Week 12)|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1. PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of last documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurred first. For participants who did not have an event, PFS were censored. PFS was calculated using Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of first dose of study drug to the date of last documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 3 years 4 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause. For the participants who were alive or unknown, OS was censored on the last date participant was known to be event-free or date of data-cut-off. OS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of first dose of study drug to the date of death from any cause (up to approximately 3 years 4 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1. DCR was defined as the percentage of participants whose BOR was CR, PR or SD., From the date of first dose of study drug to the date of last documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 3 years 4 months)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1.CBR was defined as percentage of participants with BOR of CR, PR or durable SD. Durable SD: Durable SD: duration of SD greater than or equal to (\>=23) weeks., From the date of first dose of study drug to the date of the last documentation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 3 years 4 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), From signing of informed consent form to 30 days after the decision to discontinue study treatment or 30 days after last dose of study drug, whichever comes later (up to approximately 3 years 4 months)|Plasma Concentrations of Lenvatinib, Cycle 1 Day 1: 0.5-2 hours post dose (Cycle length is 28 days)
This is a multicenter, single arm, open-label study in participants with unresectable BTC and disease progression or failure following one prior gemcitabine-based doublet chemotherapy regimen (combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin, or gemcitabine and other platinum agent/fluoropyrimidine agent). This study contains 3 phases: a Pre-treatment phase that will last within 21 days; a Treatment phase that will consist of study treatment cycles and tumor assessment conducted every 6-8 weeks; and a Follow-up phase that will begin immediately after the Off-Treatment Visit and will continue as long as the participant is alive, unless the participant withdraws consent, or until the End of Study.