Persistence of MR3 in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) After a 2nd Stop of TKI Treatment
This study will enroll CML patients who have failed a first TKI stopping attempt. After failure and at least a year of TKI treatment, patients will proceed to dasatinib treatment for another 2 years. If MR4 or better is re-achieved and maintained for at least one year, patients will be eligible for a second stop. After verification of MR4, TKI treatment will be stopped and patients followed in the same manner as after first stop. If MMR is lost (BCR-ABL \>0.1% (IS)), TKI treatment will once again be restarted.
CML, Relapsed
DRUG: Dasatinib
successful MMR maintenance, The proportion of patients maintaining MMR at 12 months after discontinuing TKI a second time (survival without loss of major molecular response, MMR, defined as BCR-ABL1 \> 0.1% on IS at one time point)., one year
correlates with succesful stop, Assessment of clinical and biological factors correlating with persistence of MMR or better after second TKI stop., 1 year|reachievement of MR4, Number of patients who re-achieved stable MR4, and were offered study participation., 1 year|Time to reachievement of MR4, Time to reachievement of MR4 after second loss of MMR., 1 year|Adverse events after TKI withdrawal, Adverse events related to second TKI stop, clinical and biological factors correlated to development of these AEs., 1 year|Overall survival, Overall survival, 1 year|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival, 1 year|TKI restart without prior molecular relapse, Occurrence of a restart of TKI without prior molecular relapse., 1 year
The DASTOP2 study aims to retreat patients who relapse in the Euro-SKI study (or who stopped TKI treatment outside trials but according to EURO-SKI procedures), with TKI for at least another 3 years, out of last two years with dasatinib. If MR4 or better is re-achieved and maintained for at least one year, patients will be eligible for a second stop. After verification of MR4, TKI treatment will be stopped and patients followed in the same manner as after first stop. If MMR is lost (BCR-ABL \>0.1% (IS)), TKI treatment will once again be restarted.

Patients exhibiting hematological relapse after first stop attempt will not be offered a second stop within this study. The same applies to patients in whom TKI was restarted prematurely (without loss of MMR).