Pilot Study of Preoperative Tarceva (Erlotinib) for Stages I/II Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to see if Tarceva® (erlotinib) is effective in shrinking tumors. A high resolution CT scan (CT scanner that can view 3 dimensional images of the tumor) will be used to measure the tumor before and after treatment with Tarceva®(erlotinib) . This type of CT scan will measure the tumor by volume and by standard measurement (length and width). Both methods will be compared to find out whether standard measurement or measurement by tumor volume is more accurate.
Carcinoma, Non-small Cell Lung
DRUG: Tarceva (Erlotinib)
Response Rate Defined as the Percentage of Subjects Achieving at Least 50% Tumor Volume Reduction., High resolution CT scans for response assessment were obtained at baseline and within 1 week after completion of erlotinib treatment. Volumetric and maximum diameter (RECIST) response criteria was determined by a radiologist blinded to the sequence of treatment. Response rate (RR) is defined as the percentage of subjects achieving at least 50% tumor volume reduction., High resolution CT scans for response assessment will be obtained after 3 weeks of treatment with Tarceva®.
Number of Participants With Grade 3, 4, or 5 Treatment Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v3.0., Safety will be measured by describing the incidence of AEs, including SAEs and discontinuation of study drug due to AEs, and incidence of abnormal clinical laboratory values from day 1 of treatment.

Grade 3 - Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL.

Grade 4 - Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 - Death related to AE., From Day 1 until 30 days after the last study drug dose,|Time-to-progression (TTP), Defined as the time from surgical resection to the time of recurrent disease in the primary or in metastatic sites., Every 3 months for the first 6 months, then yearly for 2 years.|Disease-free Survival (DFS), Defined as the time from the start of treatment to the time of recurrent disease in the primary or in metastatic sites., From date of erlotinib start date until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 25 months.
Tarceva® (erlotinib) is a drug that blocks a receptor called the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) on certain cells including tumor cells. Blocking this receptor has been shown to shrink tumors in some patients. Tarceva®(erlotinib) is approved for commercial use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treatment of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) after failure of at least one chemotherapy treatment. However, it is not approved for the first treatment of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), which is the treatment used in this study.

Patients with early stage non-small cell lung cancer will receive daily Tarceva® (erlotinib) at 150 mg/day for 3 weeks followed by surgical resection at week 4. High resolution CT scans for tumor response assessment will be obtained at baseline and after 3 weeks of treatment with Tarceva® (erlotinib). Post-operative 2-year treatment with Tarceva® (erlotinib) will be offered to patients who had at least a 50% (half) decrease in size of their tumor after treatment with Tarceva® (erlotinib)and/or patients with tumors that were found to have the receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), on their tumor cells at the time of their surgery.

Post-operative chemotherapy will be administered at the discretion of the treating physician to patients with stages IB and II. Patients who receive post-operative chemotherapy will begin Tarceva (erlotinib)no sooner than 3 weeks from Day 1 of the last chemotherapy cycle and no longer than 6 months after surgery. Follow-up for recurrence and survival will continue for 2 years.