Motivational Interviewing for Colonoscopy
The purpose of this study is to begin to examine the efficacy of a motivational interviewing intervention to increase African Americans' screening colonoscopy rates. The results from this pilot study will allow us to estimate the magnitude of the intervention and mediation effect sizes.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Motivational Interviewing|BEHAVIORAL: Attention Control
Screening colonoscopy completion, Medical chart review will be conducted 6 months after the primary care appointment in which the participants received a referral for a screening colonoscopy, 6 months
Psychological mediators, Psychological mediators (drawn from Self Determination Theory) Participants will complete questionnaires immediately before and after the intervention/attention control session., 5 minutes before intervention|Psychological mediators, Psychological mediators (drawn from Self Determination Theory) Participants will complete questionnaires immediately before and after the intervention/attention control session., 5 minutes after intervention
Compared to other racial groups, African Americans have the highest colorectal cancer (CRC) morbidity and mortality rates. Screening colonoscopy can aid in the early detection and prevention of CRC. A motivational interviewing (MI) intervention holds strong promise to increase African Americans' screening colonoscopy adherence and, by doing so, decrease CRC disparities. There is a great need to conduct a randomized clinical trial (RCT) that tests the efficacy of an MI intervention to increase screening colonoscopy adherence in African Americans. The first critical and necessary step in this line of research is to pilot test such an RCT.

Objective/hypotheses: The primary objective of the proposed study is to conduct pilot testing for a future RCT which will formally test the effects of MI on screening colonoscopy adherence in African Americans. The results from this pilot study will directly inform the development of a future RCT.

Specific aims: 1) To estimate the magnitude of the MI intervention effect size; and 2) To estimate the magnitude of the mediation effect sizes (drawn from Self Determination Theory).