Assessment of the Implementation of an Investigational Multi-Cancer Early Detection Test Into Clinical Practice
PATHFINDER is a prospective, multi-center study in which approximately 6,200 participants will be enrolled. An investigational multi-cancer early detection test, developed by GRAIL, will be ordered by and results returned to a study investigator. In cases with a "signal detected" test result (with a predicted or indeterminate tissue of origin (TOO)), the diagnostic work-up will not be dictated by the protocol, but will instead be coordinated by the ordering and treating medical team at the enrolling sites based on the participant's clinical condition, recommendations by each institution's clinical practices, and in consultation with the study investigator and interdisciplinary care team, as necessary. Additionally, proposed clinical care pathways, developed based on a review of guidelines from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), American College of Radiology (ACR) and other professional organizations, should be referenced by the medical team to determine the diagnostic work-up. The number and types of diagnostic procedures required to achieve diagnostic resolution will be assessed. Performance of multi-cancer early detection test will be evaluated. Additionally, participant-reported outcomes will be collected at several time points to assess participants' perceptions about the multi-cancer early detection test. Participants will be followed for approximately 12 months from the time of enrollment. Cancer status will also be assessed at the 12 month time point.
Cancer
DEVICE: Multi-Cancer Early Detection Test
Per participant count of the number and types of diagnostic tests required to achieve diagnostic resolution following a "signal detected" multi-cancer early detection test result., Until diagnostic resolution or 12 months, whichever occurs first|Per participant time required to achieve diagnostic resolution following a "signal detected" multi-cancer early detection test result., Until diagnostic resolution or 12 months, whichever occurs first
Positive Predictive Value defined as the proportion of participants with cancer diagnosis out of all participants with "signal detected" multi-cancer early detection test result., Up to 12 months|Negative Predictive Value defined as the proportion of participants with no cancer diagnosis out of all participants with "signal not detected" results and completed EOS assessment., Up to 12 months|Specificity defined as the proportion of participants with "signal not detected" results out of all participants with no cancer diagnosis and completed end of study (EOS) assessment., Up to 12 months|Tissue of origin (TOO) accuracy defined as the proportion of correct TOO predictions in participants with determinate TOO returned by the multi-cancer early detection test and cancer diagnosis., Up to 12 months|Perceptions of the multi-cancer early detection test result assessed by Adapted Multidimensional Impact of Cancer Risk Assessment (Adapted MICRA). Higher scores represent worse outcomes from 0-95., Up to 12 months|Changes in health-related quality of life following the multi-cancer early detection test assessed by Short Form Health Survey (SF-12v2)., The SF-12v2 is a measure of health related quality of life. Higher values represent better health e.g. Physical Component Summary (PCS) range from 4.62 to 76.36 and Mental Component Summary (MCS) range from 1.32 to 79.48., Up to 12 months|Changes in anxiety following the multi-cancer early detection test result: Patient-reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety., Assessed by Patient-reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety. Range in score from 4 to 20 with higher scores indicate greater severity of anxiety., Up to 12 months|Satisfaction with the multi-cancer early detection test: scores, Range in score from 0-100 with higher scores indicating higher satisfaction., Up to 12 months
PATHFINDER is a prospective, multi-center study in which approximately 6,200 participants will be enrolled. An investigational multi-cancer early detection test, developed by GRAIL, will be ordered by and results returned to a study investigator. In cases with a "signal detected" test result (with a predicted or indeterminate tissue of origin (TOO)), the diagnostic work-up will not be dictated by the protocol, but will instead be coordinated by the ordering and treating medical team at the enrolling sites based on the participant's clinical condition, recommendations by each institution's clinical practices, and in consultation with the study investigator and interdisciplinary care team, as necessary. Additionally, proposed clinical care pathways, developed based on a review of guidelines from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), American College of Radiology (ACR) and other professional organizations, should be referenced by the medical team to determine the diagnostic work-up. The number and types of diagnostic procedures required to achieve diagnostic resolution will be assessed. Performance of multi-cancer early detection test will be evaluated. Additionally, participant-reported outcomes will be collected at several time points to assess participants' perceptions about the multi-cancer early detection test. Participants will be followed for approximately 12 months from the time of enrollment. Cancer status will also be assessed at the 12 month time point.