Promoting Informed Decisions About Cancer Screening in Older Adults
This project aims to examine the impact of different interventions designed to help individualize colorectal cancer (CRC) screening decisions in adults aged 76-85. Clinicians will be assigned by chance to one of two arms. In the Intervention arm, clinician participants will complete a training course and will also be notified of patients in the target age group who are due for a discussion about CRC screening. In the Comparator arm, clinician participants will be notified of their patients in the target age group with an upcoming visit who are due for a discussion about CRC screening. The investigators expect that patients seen by clinicians in the intervention arm will report more involvement in the decision making process, be more knowledgeable about the risks and benefits of CRC screening, and will have better quality decisions. Further, the investigators expect that the physicians in the intervention arm will have greater confidence in and demonstrate more skills for conducting shared decision making conversations as compared to those in the control arm.
Colorectal Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: Notification|BEHAVIORAL: Training
Shared Decision Making Process (SDMP) Scale Score, The SDMP scale is a short, patient-reported scale that asks patients about discussion of options, pros and cons of colonoscopy and discussion of patients' preferences. Total scores range from 0-4, with higher scores indicating more shared decision making., About 1 week after the physician visit
Patients' Colorectal Cancer Screening Knowledge Score, Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Screening Knowledge will be assessed with multiple choice knowledge items adapted from the CRC Decision Quality Instrument. A total score from 0-100% will be calculated based on the number of correct answers, with higher scores indicating higher knowledge., 1 week after physician visit|Percentage of Patients Who Received Preferred Approach to Colorectal Cancer Testing, Colorectal Cancer Screening Preference assessed with 1 item adapted from the CRC Decision Quality Instrument will be compared with the screening approach followed (assessed via chart review and patient report) to determine the percentage of patients who received preferred approach to testing., 1 week after physician visit (preference); 12 months after physician visit (testing)|Physician's Shared Decision Making Skills, The transcripts from the simulated patient interactions will be scored by two coders using Braddock's Informed Decision Making framework. Total scores range from 0-9 with higher scores indicating more shared decision making elements in the interaction., Baseline|Colorectal Cancer Screening Rates, The chart review results of cancer screening rates for patients enrolled in the study., 1 year|Clinician Satisfaction With the Visit, The percentage of study patient visits where the clinicians' reported that they were 'extremely or very satisfied' will be compared across arms., 1 week post visit
Companion SDM Process Scale Score, Companions will complete an adapted version of the SDM Process survey to provide a different perspective on the conversation and involvement of the patient. A total score will range from 0-4, with higher scores indicating more shared decision making., About a week after physician visit|Clinician Attitude Toward Shared Decision Making, The investigators will use five items to assess clinicians' confidence in Shared Decision Making Skills and Barriers to SDM. A total confidence score (0-20) with higher scores indicating higher confidence and a barrier score (0-8) higher scores indicating more barriers will be calculated., Baseline
This study will advance understanding of how to engage and inform older adults in decisions about whether to continue or stop colorectal cancer (CRC) screening. The study will randomly assign about 50 primary care clinicians from 5 different sites to one of two different arms. In the Intervention arm, clinician participants will complete a training course and will also be notified of patients aged 76-85 with an upcoming visit who are due for a discussion about CRC screening. In the Comparator arm, clinician participants will be notified of their patients in the target age group with an upcoming visit who are due for a discussion about CRC screening. The study staff will collect surveys from about 500 eligible patients of participating physicians shortly after their visit to determine the impact of the intervention on patient-reported measures including the amount of shared decision making, knowledge, and preferences for cancer screening. Study staff will follow patients to track colorectal cancer screening tests in the 12 months following the visit and will survey some patients again at 12 months to examine any barriers to follow through with their preferred approach. The study will also assess physician's ability to demonstrate shared decision making skills for cancer screening decisions in simulated patient interactions. Caregivers, if identified by a patient participant, will also complete a short survey evaluating the visit.