Pilot Study Dara-CyBorD in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Patients With Renal Failure
The goal of this study is to assess the efficacy of induction treatment with daratumumab-hyaluronidase (dara SC) with cyclophosphamide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone (Dara-CyBorD) for four cycles in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who have new onset renal failure. This study will also investigate the difference responses in African American (AA) patients versus non-African American patients.

The primary questions this study aims to answer are:

1. To evaluate the very good partial response rate (VGPR) after 4 cycles of Dara-CyBord.
2. To evaluate the renal response rate (RRR) after 4 cycles of Dara-CyBord.
Multiple Myeloma|Renal Failure
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Daratumumab-hyaluronidase in Combination with Bortezomib, Cyclophosphamide, and Dexamethasone
VGPR, Very good partial response rate (VGPR) or better after 4 cycles of Dara-CyBorD, 4 months|Renal Response Rate (RRR), Renal response rate (RRR, defined as \> 30% improvement in creatinine clearance - CrCl from baseline at the point of study entry) after 4 cycles of Dara-CyBorD, 4 months
Overall response rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) after 4 cycles of Dara-CyBorD, 4 months|VGPR, CR, & MRD, Proportion of patients achieving VGPR, CR, and measurable residual disease negativity \<10-5 (MRD-), if applicable, after 4 cycles of Dara-CyBorD, 4 months|Duration of response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR), defined from the date response achieved to the date of disease relapse, 2 years|Time to renal response, Time to renal response, defined as the number of days from starting treatment to \>30% improvement of CrCl from CrCl at study entry or achieving dialysis independence, 2 years|Dialysis independence, Proportion of participants who achieved dialysis independence after four cycles of Dara-CyBorD, 4 months|autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT), Proportion of patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) after 4 cycles of Dara-CyBorD induction, 4 months
Acute renal impairment (RI) is a myeloma emergency. Diagnosis should be established as fast as possible, and antimyeloma therapy should be started immediately after confirmation of the diagnosis to restore renal function rapidly. The incidence of RI at diagnosis ranges from 20% to 50%. Patients with RI had more advanced disease than the others, a lower response rate to treatment than those with normal renal function, and shorter survival. Overall survival is significantly longer among those with baseline CrCl ≥30 mL per minute than those with CrCl \<30 mL per minute.

This is a prospective, interventional pilot study for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) who have new onset renal failure. The study will implement a planned enrollment strategy to focus on the African American (AA) patient population, with an accrual goal of 50% of all participants. All participants will be assigned to receive induction treatment with daratumumab-hyaluronidase (dara SC) with cyclophosphamide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone (Dara-CyBorD) for four cycles of 28 days, followed by restaging with repeat PET-CT, bone marrow evaluation, and myeloma serological testing. After induction with Dara-CyBorD, further treatment as per standard guidelines will be determined at the physician's discretion based on transplant eligibility to either an additional 2 cycles of Dara-CyBorD followed by maintenance therapy (if transplant ineligible) or autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) followed by maintenance therapy (if transplant eligible). Maintenance therapy will consist of lenalidomide with dara SC for 2 years. Participants will be followed every three months for up to 2 years per the standard guidelines or until disease progression or the start of a new line of therapy to assess the duration of response.

The use of novel antimyeloma agents resulted in a substantial increase in the survival of patients with MM with RI. MM patients with RI are generally excluded from clinical trials. Clinical trials for MM patients with RI are an unmet need. Bortezomib-based regimens remain the cornerstone of the management of myeloma-related RI, with high-dose dexamethasone, with the addition of a conventional chemotherapy agent (cyclophosphamide).