Multisite Implementation of COMPRENDO
COMPRENDO (ChildhOod Malignancy Peer Research NavigatiOn) is a multi-site randomized clinical trial (RCT) that uses a Hybrid Type 1 design, to test the effects of a clinical intervention on patient-level outcomes, while exploring multilevel implementation factors that can inform real-world setting implementation. This study will test the impact of COMPRENDO, a peer-navigation intervention, vs. usual care on accrual to childhood cancer therapeutic clinical trials and parental informed consent outcomes. COMPRENDO will be delivered by trained peer navigators in 4 visits. A mixed methods (surveys, individual interviews) implementation evaluation will examine implementation factors that can inform the use of peer navigation in clinical practice, integrating data from clinicians, navigators, administrators, and parents pre and post the RCT.
Pediatric Cancer
OTHER: COMPRENDO Peer Navigation Intervention
Accrual, Measured by a higher proportion of children enrolled in therapeutic trials whose parents are randomized to COMPRENDO vs. the proportion of children enrolled in therapeutic trials whose parents are randomized to usual care., 12 weeks
Informed Consent Comprehension, Informed Consent Comprehension will be assessed using the Quality of Informed Consent (QuIC), a valid 20-item instrument that assesses objective understanding of the basic elements of Informed Consent. The summary score potentially ranges from 0 to 100. The highest the summary score, the highest the comprehension., 12 weeks|Voluntariness, Voluntariness will be assessed using the Decision-making Control Instrument (DMCI), a 9-item, Likert-format scale, which is used in parents who make decisions about research, including cancer. The instrument score range from 9-54, the higher score equals to higher perception of voluntariness., 12 weeks|Decision-Making Self-Efficacy, Decision-Making Self Efficacy will be assessed with the 11-item Decision Self-Efficacy Scale (DSE), a 5-point scale which measures self-confidence in decision making (shared decision making, decision conflict, feeling informed and supported). Score range from 0 \[not at all confident\] to 100 \[very confident\]. A score of 0 means extremely low self efficacy and a score of 100 means extremely high self efficacy., 12 weeks|Decisional Regret, The 5-item Decisional Regret Scale will measure regret after health-care decisions. Score range is from 0 to 100. A score of 0 means no regret; a score of 100 means high regret., 12 weeks|Satisfaction with informed consent, Satisfaction with informed consent will be measured with a 24-item satisfaction questionnaire to evaluate parents' perceptions of overall satisfaction with the IC discussion (satisfaction with ICs explanation, quantity of information, utility of the IC, affective responses).The score ranges from 7-21. A score of 7 meaning least satisfied; a score of 21 most satisfied., 12 weeks
Acceptability (parents), Acceptability of COMPRENDO will be assessed in parents the 9-item Patient Satisfaction with Navigator (PSN-I). The score ranges from 9-45. A higher score on the PSN-I indicates higher satisfaction with their interpersonal relationship with the patient navigator. Our acceptability goal is \>80%, Year 1-Year 5|Acceptability (clinicians), Acceptability of COMPRENDO will be assessed in clinicians with the 6-item Intervention Credibility Scale. The score ranges from 4-20. Higher scores indicate greater acceptability. Our acceptability goal is \>80%, Year 1-Year 5|Feasibility, Feasibility will be assessed by 4-item Feasibility of Intervention measure. The score ranges from 4-20. Higher scores indicate greater feasibility. Our feasibility goal is \>80%., Year 1-Year 5|Fidelity, Fidelity will be assessed by measuring adherence to the fidelity navigator checklist. Our fidelity goal is \>90%., Year 1-Year 5
Aim 1:

Test the effectiveness of COMPRENDO vs. usual care to increase clinical trial accrual in a multisite RCT.

Aim 2:

Determine the impact of COMPRENDO vs. usual care on parental outcomes (informed consent, comprehension, voluntariness, decision-making self-efficacy, satisfaction with informed consent and decisional regret).

Aim 3:

Evaluate multisite implementation of COMPRENDO, focusing on acceptability, feasibility, and fidelity. We will use mixed methods with a minimum of 50 stakeholders: 22 clinicians, (17 oncologists, 3 psychologists, 2 social workers), 4 navigators, 4 administrators and 20 parents to identify implementation factors.

Within each site, eligible participants will be randomized 1:1 to the intervention vs. usual care (informed consent discussion with the oncologist only), resulting in ≈200 participants randomized to each arm.