Envafolimab Combined With Endostar and Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy for Locally Advanced Primary Cervical Cancer
The goal of this study is to determine efficacy and safety of envafolimab combined with Endostar and concurrent chemoradiation in the treatment of locally advanced primary cervical cancer.

Thirty participants will be divided into control group (n = 15) and experimental group (n = 15). The control group received concurrent chemoradiation, and the experimental group received envafolimab combined with endostar and concurrent chemoradiation.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: cis-platinum|RADIATION: radiation|DRUG: Envafolimab Injection|DRUG: Recombinant Human Endostatin Injection
Objective response rate, ORR was assessed by the site Investigator using RECIST 1.1 and was defined as the percentage of patients with a confirmed overall response of CR or PR., From Baseline to 2 years
Disease control rate, DCR was assessed by the site Investigator using RECIST 1.1 and was defined as the percentage of patients with a confirmed overall response of CR or PR or SD., From Baseline to 2 years|progression-free survival, the time of all participants from the start of the treatment to tumor progression, From Baseline to 2 years|overall survival, the time from the start of the treatment to the death of any cause., From Baseline to 2 years|The adverse events according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0, Safety (according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0), From the start of treatment until 30 days after the last study drug administration
This study was a single-center, prospective cohort study. Thirty Participants will be non-randomized in a 1:1 ratio divided into control group (n = 15) and experimental group (n = 15).

The control group: chemoradiation;

The experimental group: envafolimab combined with endostar and concurrent chemoradiation.

Concurrent chemoradiation:

Cisplatin 40 mg/m2, day1, 7 days as a cycle, 6 cycles in total; External beam radiotherapy was performed using IMRT/VMAT radiotherapy with pelvic and/or extended field irradiation at a total dose of 45-50.4 Gy;1.8-2.0 Gy/f,25- 28 f. In patients with pelvic lymph node metastasis, para-aortic lymph node metastasis, and retroperitoneal lymph node metastasis, local lesions were simultaneously boosted to 60 Gy. In FIGO stage IIIB, simultaneous or late course boost to 60 Gy was given parametrially.

Brachytherapy: High dose rate (HDR) afterloading brachytherapy was used, with a total dose of 30-40 Gy and a cumulative dose of 80-85 Gy at point A/HRCTV D90; if the tumor diameter was ≥ 4cm, the cumulative dose of ≥ 87 Gy at point A/HRCTV D90. Brachytherapy combined with external beam radiation therapy was completed within 8 weeks.

Envafulimab,150mg, subcutaneous, QW. Maintenance therapy until disease progression, or intolerable toxicity, or up to 1 year; Endostar, administered at a dose of 75 mg/day, QW, was administered by intravenous pump on day 1 of each cycle, and the first dose was administered on the first day of radiotherapy, 6 cycles in total.