Head and Neck Cancer Survivorship Ototoxicity Screening (SOS)
To evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility, acceptability, and appropriateness of an ototoxicity screening protocol among head and neck (H\&N) cancer patients followed in survivorship clinic that received cisplatin-based chemoradiation therapy (CRT).
Head and Neck Cancer Survivors|Cancer of the Head and Neck Surviors
OTHER: Ototoxicity Screening Protocol
Rate of participants who complete audiologic follow-up, Through completion of follow-up (estimated to be 6 months)
Feasibility of ototoxicity screening protocol as measured by the Feasibility of Intervention Measure, -Contains 4 statements about the proposed intervention that are scored on a five-point Likert scale (1 indicates the participant "completely disagrees", 5 indicates "completely agrees"). A score greater than or equal to 4 will indicate the intervention is feasible., Before survivorship clinic visit (Day 1)|Acceptability of ototoxicity screening protocol as measured by the Acceptability of Intervention Measure, -Contains 4 statements about the proposed intervention that are scored on a five-point Likert scale (1 indicates the participant "completely disagrees", 5 indicates "completely agrees"). A score greater than or equal to 4 will indicate the intervention is acceptable., Before survivorship clinic visit (Day 1)|Appropriateness of ototoxicity screening protocol as measured by the Intervention Appropriateness Measure, -Contains 4 statements about the proposed intervention that are scored on a five-point Likert scale (1 indicates the participant "completely disagrees", 5 indicates "completely agrees"). A score greater than or equal to 4 will indicate the intervention is appropriate., Before survivorship clinic visit (Day 1)|Functional hearing loss of participants as measured by the Situational Management Questionnaire (SESMQ), -This questionnaire contains 20 situations. Participants rate each situation according to their ability to hear in the given situation (hearing ability scale; SESMQH) and their confidence in managing the given situation (confidence scale; SESMQC). The score for each situation ranges from 0 (poor hearing/low confidence) to 10 (normal hearing/high confidence), totaling 200 points for each scale. The higher the score indicates less hearing loss to the participant., After survivorship clinic visit (Day 1)|Quality of life of participants as measured by the University of Washington Quality of Life Questionnaire (UW-QOL), -This questionnaire contains 16 items on morbidities associated with H\&N cancer treatment. Twelve items are graded on a 5-point Likert scale. One question lists treatment-related morbidities and ask participants to identify their top three most important issues. The last three questions evaluate global QoL. It is scored on a scale from 0 (worst) to 100 (best). However, UW-QOL does not include symptoms of ototoxicity. Therefore, the investigators will modify it to include tinnitus and hearing loss as additional 5-point Likert scale questions and morbidities in the rank order question., After survivorship clinic visit (Day 1)|Functional social support as measured by the Duke-UNC Functional Social Support Questionnaire, It has been validated for use in populations of cancer patients and cancer survivors. 5 questions are presented using a Likert scale from 0-2, with higher scores indicating a higher level of social support., After survivorship clinic visit (Day 1)
To evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility, acceptability, and appropriateness of an ototoxicity screening protocol among head and neck (H\&N) cancer patients followed in survivorship clinic that received cisplatin-based chemoradiation therapy (CRT).