Sorafenib Tosylate and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Liver Cancer
This phase Ib/II trial studies how well sorafenib tosylate and pembrolizumab work in treating patients with liver cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving sorafenib tosylate and pembrolizumab may work better in treating patients with liver cancer.
Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Child-Pugh Class A|Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IIIB Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IIIC Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IV Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IVA Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IVB Hepatocellular Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate
Overall Response Rate Defined as Partial or Complete Response Per Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, The response rate will be estimated as the binomial proportion of responders among evaluable patients, and supported by Jeffreys? 95% confidence interval., Up to 6 months
Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of study enrollment to the time of death from any cause, assessed up to 3 year|Time to Tumor Progression, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, where the median will be estimated with a 95% confidence interval., From the date of study enrollment to the first observation of progressive disease, assessed up to 3 years
Change in Functional Activity of Effector T Cells, The effect of treatment will be quantified as the post/pre-treatment mean ratio of the expression measurements, assessed using a two-sided one sample t-test., Up to 3 years|Change in Levels of Immunosuppressive Cells, The effect of treatment will be quantified as the post/pre-treatment mean ratio of the expression measurements, assessed using a two-sided one sample t-test., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) related to the combination of sorafenib tosylate (sorafenib) + pembrolizumab in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess time to tumor progression in patients who received the combination therapy of sorafenib + pembrolizumab compared to historical data on sorafenib only treatment in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain data on changes in immune cell function and in the tumor microenvironment pre- and post-treatment to screen for potential biomarkers that may be able to predict clinical benefit.

- All patients will be followed for survival

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -28 to -1 and 1-21. Patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for up to 1 year, then every 6 months thereafter.