Extralevator Versus Standard Abdominoperineal Resection For Rectal Adenocarcinoma
This is a study that compares two types of surgery for rectal cancer. There are two procedures that can be used during this surgery, conventional abdominal resection (APR) and extended (or extralevator) APR. The investigators are doing this research to see whether the extralevator APR increases the likelihood that the edge of the tissue that is removed will be more likely to be free from cancer cells compared with the conventional APR surgery. At this time there is no evidence that one type of procedure is better at this than the other. The objective of this research is to determine whether extralevator APR is more likely to have clean margins (free of cancer) compared to the standard APR surgery.
Rectal Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: extralevator APR|PROCEDURE: APR
measurement of circumferential resection margin, Measurement in millimeters (mm) of the circumferential resection margin., 0-10 minutes post surgery
operative time, operative time from skin incision to skin closure, 4-6 hours|hospital stay, duration of hospital stay (defined as from beginning of surgery to time of discharge, measured in hours), from beginning of surgery through discharge, usually 4-5 days|estimated blood loss, estimated blood loss (ml) recorded by the anesthesiologist (not by the surgeon), 4-6 hours
This is a study that compares two types of surgery for rectal cancer. There are two procedures that can be used during this surgery, conventional abdominal resection (APR) and extended (or extralevator) APR. The investigators are doing this research to see whether the extralevator APR increases the likelihood that the edge of the tissue that is removed will be more likely to be free from cancer cells compared with the conventional APR surgery. At this time there is no evidence that one type of procedure is better at this than the other. The objective of this research is to determine whether extralevator APR is more likely to have clean margins (free of cancer) compared to the standard APR surgery.