A Study in Patients With Myasthenia Gravis in China
This study is a multi-center, prospective cohort study designed to characterize current clinical practice, clinical and patient-reported outcomes (PROs), disease prognosis, treatment patterns and healthcare resource utilization for Chinese patients with myasthenia gravis (MG). This study will enroll patients with MG as diagnosed by physician. Approximately 1,200 MG patients are intended to be recruited from approximately 40 sites across majority of regions in China. The clinical and PROs included MGFA class, MGFA PIS, MG-ADL (Activities of Daily Living), QMG (Quantitative MG score), MG QOL-15R, EQ-5D etc. All MG patients enrolled will be followed up every 6 months until end of 2027.
Myasthenia Gravis
Clinical outcome, MGFA classification (e.g I, II, III, IV, V), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Treatment method, Targeted treatment methods (list of methods, including medication, immunoglobulin, plasma exchange, surgery etc. ), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Patient-reported outcome, MG-Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL, aggregated value in a scale, ranged 0- best to 24- worst), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Clinical outcome, MGFA Post-intervention Status (e.g. CSR, PR, MM), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Clinical outcome, Quantitative MG score (QMG, aggregated value in a scale, ranged 0- best to 39-worst), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Clinical outcome, Physician-reported MG crisis, Every 6 months up to 3 years|Clinical outcome, Death, Every 6 months up to 3 years|Patient-reported outcome, MG-Quality of Life 15-Revised (MG-QoL15-r, aggregated value in a scale for quality of life, ranged 0- best to 60- worst), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Patient-reported outcome, EuroQol-5D (separate value for five dimensions in a scale for quality of life), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Treatment duration, Therapies start and end date, Every 6 months up to 3 years|Treatment dose, Dose (e.g. mg), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Treatment frequency, Frequency (e.g. times/day), Every 6 months up to 3 years
Demographic factors, 1. Age (years)
2. Gender (male, female)
3. Residence place (rural, urban)
4. Education
5. Household income, Baseline|Healthcare resource utilization, MG-related hospitalization (days), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Cormobidity, Comorbidities (list of related diseases, e.g. autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes etc.), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Healthcare resource utilization, MG-related healthcare costs, Every 6 months up to 3 years|MG diagnosis history, MG first time diagnosis date, Every 6 months up to 3 years|Vital sign - blood pressure, Blood pressure (mmHg), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Laboratory test - blood cell test, Blood cell counts by cell type tests (e.g. counts/L), Every 6 months up to 3 years|Laboratory tests etc.) - MG-related antibodies, MG-related antibodies including AChR, MuSK, LRP4 etc. (positive or negative)., Every 6 months up to 3 years|Vital sign - pulse, Pulse (count/minute), Every 6 months up to 3 years
This study is a multi-center, prospective cohort study designed to characterize current clinical practice, clinical and patient-reported outcomes (PROs), disease prognosis, treatment patterns and healthcare resource utilization for Chinese patients with myasthenia gravis (MG). This study will enroll patients with MG as diagnosed by physician. Approximately 1,200 MG patients are intended to be recruited from approximately 40 sites across majority of regions in China. The clinical and PROs included MGFA class, MGFA PIS, MG-ADL (Activities of Daily Living), QMG (Quantitative MG score), MG QOL-15R, EQ-5D etc. All MG patients enrolled will be followed up every 6 months until end of 2027.