Perioperative Risk of Immunotherapy Based Neoadjuvant and Conversion Therapy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This study aims to retrospectively collect a cohort of participants with hepatocellular carcinoma who received immunotherapy-based neoadjuvant/translational treatment. A multi-dimensional and multi-method analysis plan will be adopted. The goal is to provide solutions for better application of neoadjuvant immunotherapy and to offer better evidence for conducting prospective clinical research on hepatocellular carcinoma.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular|Immunotherapy
Perioperative risk, The criteria for perioperative risk include four aspects: operation time, transfusion, postoperative hospital stay, and complication. Operation time \>200min is counted as 3 points, transfusion is counted as 2 points, postoperative hospital stay \>8 days is counted as 2 points, and complication is counted as 1 point. The total score range is 0-8 points. Participants with a score of 3 or lower are considered to have a low perioperative risk, while those above 3 are considered to have a high perioperative risk., From enrollment to the end of surgery at 4 weeks
Progression free survival time, The time between the end of surgery and tumor progression ( in any way ) or death ( for any reason ), From enrollment to the end of surgery at 12 months|Overall survival time, The time from the end of surgery to death ( for any reason ), From enrollment to the end of surgery at 36 months
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is indeed a significant health concern, especially in regions like China where its incidence and mortality rates are notably high. Radical resection is the main method for curing HCC. However, about 64% of HCC participants are diagnosed at mid to late stages, making surgical resection unsuitable as the first choice. Additionally, the short-term recurrence rate after HCC surgery is relatively high, with a five-year recurrence and metastasis rate reaching 70%. Therefore, increasing the radical resection rate and reducing the postoperative recurrence rate are key measures to improve prognosis.

With the development of tumor genomics and immunology, systematic treatment based on immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has shown remarkable efficacy in improving HCC prognosis. The application of ICIs in perioperative treatment of solid tumors can effectively reduce tumor burden while expanding the immune effect of tumor antigens, thereby increasing resection rates and reducing recurrence rates.

Currently, neoadjuvant immunotherapy has achieved good treatment outcomes in lung cancer, esophageal cancer, and gastric cancer. However, the increased antitumor treatment may lead to potential treatment side effects. For neoadjuvant immunotherapy in solid tumors, preoperative treatment can pose perioperative risks such as tissue edema, adhesions, and excessive bleeding during surgery. Due to the hidden effects of some immune therapy adverse reactions, these perioperative risks require particular attention and research.

Neoadjuvant immunotherapy for HCC is still in its infancy, with a limited number of cases reported by various centers, and there are currently no large-sample clinical studies available.

The investigators intend to establish a cohort of HCC participants undergoing neoadjuvant/conversion treatment. It will employ a multidimensional and multi-method analysis plan to systematically investigate the perioperative risks associated with immunotherapy in these participants, aiming to provide solutions for better application of neoadjuvant immunotherapy in HCC, while also offering improved evidence for the conduct of prospective clinical research in HCC.