Self-Administered Nitrous Oxide (SANO) During Transrectal Prostate Biopsy to Reduce Patient Anxiety and Pain
Transrectal prostate biopsy is a commonly performed ambulatory procedure for diagnosing prostate cancer. Prostate biopsy are associated with pain or anxiety. Nitrous oxide (or laughing gas) is a well-known inhaled anesthetic which is frequently used in dental offices and for pediatric procedures to alleviate a patient's anxiety and pain. This study seeks to determine whether administration of nitrous oxide at the time of prostate biopsy will improve a patient's experience of care.
Prostate Disease|Malignancy|Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia|Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Anxiety and Fear|Pain
DRUG: Self-Administered Nitrous Oxide|OTHER: Oxygen
Post-biopsy Pain (VAS-P), Pain experienced immediately following prostate biopsy as measured by a Visual Analog Scale for Pain (VAS-P) (range: 0 \[no pain\] - 10 \[worst pain\]), 5-minutes after prostate biopsy|Post-biopsy Anxiety (VAS-A), Anxiety experienced immediately following prostate biopsy as measured by a Visual Analog Scale for Anxiety (VAS-A) (range: 0 \[no anxiety\] - 10 \[worst anxiety\]), 5-minutes after prostate biopsy|Post-biopsy Anxiety Traits (STAI), Anxious traits exhibited after prostate biopsy as measured by the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) (range: 6-36; 36 being 'worst' anxiety)., 5-minutes after prostate biopsy
Time of Prostate Biopsy, Length of procedure will be compared between arms to assess whether SANO significantly lengthens prostate biopsy, Length of prostate biopsy; up to 30 minutes|Operator Assessment of "Tolerating Insertion of Rectal Probe", Operating urologist filled out a survey to assess their perception of patient: Tolerating Insertion of rectal probe. Responses were scored on a 3-point Likert scale as 1 (worse than expected), 2 (as expected), or 3 (better than expected)., Immediately after prostate biopsy; within 5 minutes after completion of biopsy.|Operator Assessment of "Patient Maintenance of Positioning", Operating urologist filled out a survey to assess their perception of patient: Patient maintenance of positioning. Responses were scored on a 3-point Likert scale as 1 (worse than expected), 2 (as expected), or 3 (better than expected)., Immediately after prostate biopsy; within 5 minutes after completion of biopsy.|Operator Assessment of "Patient Tolerance of Procedure", Operating urologist filled out a survey to assess their perception of patient: Patient Tolerance of Procedure. Responses were scored on a 3-point Likert scale as 1 (worse than expected), 2 (as expected), or 3 (better than expected)., Immediately after prostate biopsy; within 5 minutes after completion of biopsy.
Nitrous oxide is a well-tolerated inhaled anesthetic that has been used for decades in pediatric and adult populations and is largely viewed as effective and safe. In addition to analgesic effect, nitrous oxide also produces a dissociative euphoria and amnesia that could potentially improve patients' anxiety and experience of cancer care. When used as a single agent at concentrations ≤50%, the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classifies nitrous oxide as Minimal Sedation, producing a state in which a patient responds normally to verbal commands, maintains airway reflexes, and spontaneous ventilation. Over the past several decades nitrous oxide has become less common due to concerns of nitrous oxide environmental exposure to the care team. There are now Federal Drug Administration (FDA)-approved systems that allow patient self-administered nitrous oxide (SANO), and importantly, include a scavenger system to eliminate exhaled environmental nitrous oxide. These systems are rapidly being adopted throughout the United States in Urology practices, but to date, there have been no studies evaluating patient outcomes and possible risks with the adjunct use of SANO. This study is a prospective, randomized, controlled trial to assess patient perceived pain and anxiety related to prostate needle biopsy with or without SANO, and the frequency of complications associated with SANO. A secondary aim will be to demonstrate that the SANO at the time of prostate biopsy does not significantly increase burden on Urologist productivity, nor increase the difficulty of operator ease in performing the prostate needle biopsy.