Talazoparib in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery and Liver or Kidney Dysfunction
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of talazoparib in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced) or have spread to other places in the body (metastatic) and cannot be removed by surgery and liver or kidney dysfunction. Talazoparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Estrogen Receptor Negative|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|HER2/Neu Negative|Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Progesterone Receptor Negative|Solid Neoplasm|Stage III Mesothelioma|Stage IIIA Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIA Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIIB Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIB Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIIC Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Mesothelioma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Talazoparib
Incidence of toxicity, graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 4.03, Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest. Adverse events will be summarized using all adverse events experienced, although a sub-analysis may be conducted including only those adverse events in which the treating physician deems possibly, probably or definitely attributable to study treatment., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|Recommended phase 2 dose of talazoparib, graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 28 days|Tolerability of talazoparib in patients with varying degrees of hepatic and renal dysfunction, Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
Biomarkers associated with response or resistance to talazoparib, Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|Objective response, graded according to RECIST version 1.1, If no objective responses are observed in a dose expansion cohort with a minimum of 10 patients evaluable for response, there is \>= 89% probability to exclude a true objective response rate of \>= 20%., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|PK profiles of talazoparib in patients with varying degrees of hepatic and renal dysfunction, Attempts to model associations between pharmacokinetic data with toxicity profiles will be performed primarily using descriptive statistics; however, logistic regression may be used if warranted., Pre-dose, and 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours post-dose on day 1 of course 2, and pre-dose on day 1 of courses 3 and 4|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be investigated using logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards regression and/or generalized estimating equations as appropriate. Potential predictors include clinical predictors and molecular correlates. Descriptive statistics and plotting of data will also be used to better understand potential relationships., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|Response rate, Response rate will be investigated using logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards regression and/or generalized estimating equations as appropriate. Potential predictors include clinical predictors and molecular correlates. Descriptive statistics and plotting of data will also be used to better understand potential relationships., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
The pharmacodynamic effects of talazoparib, Up to day 2 of course 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine safety, tolerability and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of talazoparib in patients with varying degrees of hepatic and renal dysfunction.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe preliminary antitumor activity of talazoparib in patients with cancers that commonly harbor defects in homologous recombination repair.

II. To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of talazoparib in patients with varying degrees of hepatic and renal dysfunction.

III. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of talazoparib. IV. To evaluate biomarkers associated with response or resistance to talazoparib.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 6 cohorts based on the degree of hepatic or renal dysfunction.

Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.