Phase I Trial of Apalutamide Plus Abiraterone Acetate, Docetaxel, and Prednisone in Patients With mCRPC
This is a multi-center, Phase I study of apalutamide in combination with abiraterone acetate, docetaxel and prednisone in patients with metastatic mastrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).

This study is designed to determine the dose that apalutamide can be administered safely in combination with abiraterone acetate, docetaxel and prednisone.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: Abiraterone acetate|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Prednisone
Number of participants with dose limiting toxicities (DLT), Dose limiting toxicities will be measured by using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events or CTCAE version 4.0 which uses a grading scale from 1-5., From the time of study drug administration till PSA progression or study completion (~36 months)
Change in the number of subjects with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response, Starting after 12 weeks, at the beginning of Week 4 of combination therapy with docetaxel, apalutamide, abiraterone acetate plus prednisone until PSA progression or study completion (~36 months)|Change in PSA response, PSA response will be captured through blood sample collection and radiographic scans, At the start of treatment until PSA progression or study completion (~36 months)|Change in the time to PSA progression, PSA progression will be determined by protocol-specific/modified Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria, At the start of treatment until PSA progression or study completion (~36 months)|Change is radiographic progression-free survival, Radiographic progression will be determined via scans metric of CT, MRI and Bone scans, Images will be collected at baseline, 12 weeks and at end of study, an average of 100 months|Change in CellSearch circulating tumor cells (CTC) enumration, CTCs will be collected via blood sample collection, Collected at baseline, 12 weeks and at end of study, an average of 100 months
Subjects are enrolled in up to three 3-6-subject cohorts and are administered combination (apalutamide, abiraterone acetate and docetaxel plus prednisone) according to a dose-escalation schedule. The first dose of docetaxel infusion begins on Day 1 Cycle 1. Daily oral apalutamide, abiraterone acetate plus twice-daily oral prednisone begins on Day 1 Cycle 1. Docetaxel 1-hour infusions are administered intravenously every 3 weeks (Q3W), preceded by oral dexamethasone. While a subject is receiving chemotherapy, a treatment cycle is defined as 21 days. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) determination is based on toxicities observed within the initial 2 cycles defined as 6 weeks. DLT will be assessed before the start of the third docetaxel infusion. Once a combination dose is determined to be safe (i.e. no more than 2 of 6 subjects experience DLT), the next cohort will enroll. Subjects remain at their allocated combination dose until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.

The primary objective is to determine a safe dose combination of apalutamide plus abiraterone acetate, docetaxel, prednisone in subjects with mCRPC.