Selinexor, Cyclophosphamide and Prednisone in Myeloma
The trial is designed as a randomised, controlled, open, parallel group, multi-centre phase II trial to evaluate clinical efficacy of selinexor in combination with cyclophosphamide and prednisone.
Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Prednisone
Progression free survival at 6 months, To determine whether the addition of selinexor to cyclophosphamide and prednisone may lead to an increased progression free survival, 6 months
Number of SAEs, SARs, SUSARs, Safety will be reported based on the number of safety events seen, 3 1/2 years|Progression free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomisation to first documented evidence of disease progression or death. Participants who have not progressed at the time of analysis will be censored at the last date they were known to be alive and progression-free., 6 and 12 months|Maximum response, Response to treatment is assessed as per the Modified IWG Uniform Response Criteria given in Appendix 1. Maximum response is defined as the proportion of participants achieving each of the response categories sCR, CR, VGPR, PR, MR or SD as their maximum response to treatment. Participants who do not have at least one post-baseline response assessment will be excluded from the analysis of this endpoint., 6 and 12 months|Time to maximum response, Time to maximum response is defined as the time from randomisation until the participant achieves any of the categories sCR, CR, VGPR, PR, MR or SD as their maximum response. Participants who do not achieve a maximum response will either be classed as having had a competing risk or censored at the time of disease progression or death, whichever is earlier, 6 and 12 months|Duration of response, Response duration is defined as the time from the first observation of at least PR until disease progression. Participants who die due to causes other than progression will be censored at the time of death. Participants who, at the time of analysis, have not progressed, will be censored at the date last known to be alive and progression-free. Participants not achieving at least a PR are not included in this analysis., 6 and 12 months|Compliance to therapy, Compliance to therapy will be summarised by mean dose, number of doses missed and number of dose reductions and delays throughout the treatment period. The reasons for missed and dose modifications will also be summarised., 6 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE 4.0 (time frame: 3 ½ years), Toxicity analyses will summarise by trial arm and show the proportion of participants experiencing each grade of toxicity overall, and during each treatment cycle. For more detailed summaries, this information will also be broken down into the different types of toxicity., 3 1/2 years
The trial is designed as a randomised, controlled, open, parallel group, multi-centre phase II trial to evaluate clinical efficacy of selinexor in combination with cyclophosphamide and prednisone. Selinexor is the first-in-class selective inhibitor of nuclear export (SINE). Selinexor forms slowly reversible adducts with the substrate binding pocket of Exportin and has been demonstrated to lead to effective cell kill by causing accumulation pro-apoptotic proteins in the nucleus of myeloma cells. To maximise response to this novel drug in a relapsed-refractory setting, Selinexor will be combined with low-dose cyclophosphamide and prednisone. Lower, continuous doses of cyclophosphamide and intermittent doses of prednisone have been chosen to limit toxicity for the triplet regimen in the elderly myeloma patient population. A calibration group will receive cyclophosphamide plus prednisone alone, and will be used to evaluate the validity of the outcome in the experimental group.

Participants will be randomised on a 3:1 basis to receive either selinexor + cyclophosphamide + prednisone (SCP) or cyclophosphamide + prednisone (CP).

A maximum of 60 participants will be recruited (45 participants in the SCP arm, and 15 participants in the CP arm).

Participants who experience disease progression on the CP arm, may receive SCP, once progression has been confirmed by the CTRU and the participant has been deemed eligible to receive SCP. Patients randomised to SCP have no further trial treatment stipulated following SCP therapy. The analysis of the treatment switch phase of the trial is exploratory.

Participants will be recruited from approximately 10 NHS Hospitals throughout the UK.