NY-ESO-1 Vaccine in Combination With Ipilimumab in Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma
This was a Phase 1, open-label, non-randomized study of the combination of NY-ESO-1 plus ipilimumab in patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma for whom treatment with ipilimumab was indicated. Patients must have had evidence of NY-ESO-1 or LAGE-1 tumor positivity and radiologically measurable disease by the immune-related Response Criteria (irRC). Primary study objectives were to determine the safety and tolerability of the combination and to evaluate humoral and cellular immune response. Secondary objectives were to evaluate tumor response and immunological changes in the tumor microenvironment.
Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: NY-ESO-1 Protein Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: NY-ESO-1 OLP4 Vaccine with Poly-ICLC and Montanide|BIOLOGICAL: NY-ESO-1 OLP4 Vaccine with Poly-ICLC
Number of Patients With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Toxicity was graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported based on clinical laboratory tests, physical examinations, and vital signs from pre-treatment through the study period. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as any ≥ Grade 3 hematologic or non-hematologic toxicity that was definitely, probably, or possibly related to the administration of the NY-ESO-1 vaccine or as any toxicity that was definitely, probably, or possibly related to ipilimumab and required permanent discontinuation of ipilimumab in accordance with local prescribing information. DLT assessments were based on the combination of all vaccine components, not on the components individually., Continuously for up to 6 months
Number of Patients With Immune-related Tumor Response at the Last Assessment, Immune-related tumor response was evaluated using the imaging techniques considered appropriate by the Investigators at Baseline, Week 13, and at the end of the study (Week 20 ± 1 week). Tumor response was designated according to the immune-related Response Criteria (irRC) (Wolchok et al. Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:7412-20) into the following categories: immune-related complete response (irCR) requires disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart; immune-related partial response (irPR) requires ≥ 50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart; immune-related stable disease (irSD) is assigned when neither a 50% decrease from baseline tumor burden nor a 25% increase in tumor burden from nadir can be established; immune-related progressive disease (irPD) requires a ≥ 25% increase from nadir in tumor burden at any single time point in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart., Up to 5 months
Patients were enrolled sequentially, alternating among 3 treatment arms. Study treatment comprised ipilimumab 3 mg/kg administered intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses followed by the NY-ESO-1 vaccine administered subcutaneously (SC). Arm A received the NY-ESO-1 recombinant protein mixed with polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid-poly-L-lysine carboxymethylcellulose (Poly-ICLC) and Montanide; Arm B received NY-ESO-1 overlapping long peptides 4 (OLP4) mixed with Poly-ICLC and Montanide; and Arm C received NY-ESO-1 OLP4 mixed with Poly-ICLC (without Montanide). The vaccine was administered immediately following the ipilimumab infusion, and patients were observed for 1 hour following administration. No dose adjustments or delays were permitted.

Because the study treatment regimens had not been previously investigated in humans, the first patient in each treatment arm was followed for 28 days and evaluated for any regimen-limiting toxicity (RLT), defined as any dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) that could not be attributed solely to either the vaccine or ipilimumab and was therefore considered to be related to the combination. If an RLT was observed in the first patient, the second patient was to be evaluated for 28 days before the third patient was enrolled. If at any point ≥ 2 RLTs were observed in a treatment arm, accrual to that arm was to be terminated and the combination in that arm was to be declared unsafe.

Patients were monitored for safety, immune and tumor response, and immunological changes in the tumor microenvironment for the duration of study participation, which may have been up to 6 months.