A Study of Sovilnesib in Subjects with Ovarian Cancer
This is a randomized, phase 1b study to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and efficacy of sovilnesib at different dose levels to establish the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of sovilnesib in subjects with high grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC).
High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma of Ovary|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Chromosomal Instability
DRUG: Sovilnesib
Determination of the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of Sovilnesib, Up to 24 months|Frequency and duration of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 24 months|Frequency and duration of Treatment-related Adverse Events (AEs) graded per NCI-CTCAE version 5.0, Up to 24 months|Frequency and duration of Treatment-Emergent AEs (TEAEs) graded per NCI-CTCAE version 5.0, Up to 24 months|Frequency of Dose Interruptions and Permanent Treatment Discontinuations, Up to 24 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, Up to 24 months
Duration of Response (DOR) as assessed by RECIST version 1.1, Up to 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) as assessed by RECIST version 1.1, Up to 24 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) as assessed by RECIST version 1.1, Up to 24 months|Evaluation of CA-125 response by Gynecologic Cancer InterGroup (GCIG) criteria, Up to 24 months|Plasma level of Sovilnesib, Up to 24 months
This is a randomized, phase 1b dose optimization study of sovilnesib in subjects with platinum-resistant HGSOC. The focus of the proposed clinical study is to establish the RP2D of sovilnesib in HGSOC.

An adaptive multi-cohort design will be used to assess the safety, tolerability, PK, and efficacy of multiple dose levels in parallel to establish the RP2D of sovilnesib. The study will be conducted in 2 parts.

Part 1: 10 subjects will be randomized to each of the open dose levels to generate preliminary PK, pharmacodynamic (PD), safety, tolerability and efficacy data. Early stopping rules for safety based on a Bayesian Toxicity Monitoring Design will be applied.

Part 2: Based on review of the data from Part 1, 20-30 additional subjects will be randomized to 2 or more dose levels examined in Part 1. At the end of Part 2, PK, PD, safety, tolerability and efficacy data will be used to determine the RP2D. Early stopping rules for safety based on a Bayesian Toxicity Monitoring Design and for futility based on a Bayesian Efficacy Monitoring via Predictive Probability Design will be applied.

Sovilnesib will be given orally in 28-day cycles at selected dose levels of interest. Dosing will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or other stopping criteria are met.