Testing Anti-Cancer Drugs Erdafitinib With or Without Atezolizumab in Patients With Localized Bladder Cancer Not Able to Receive Cisplatin Chemotherapy, NERA Trial
This phase II trial compares the effect of erdafitinib alone to using the combination of erdafitinib and atezolizumab in treating patients with bladder cancer whose tumor invades the muscular bladder wall (muscle invasive)and who are ineligible for treatment with a chemotherapy drug called cisplatin. This trial also determines whether these treatment approaches are better than the usual approach for treating this type of cancer. The usual approach for treatment of someone with muscle invasive bladder cancer is chemotherapy with a drug called cisplatin followed by surgery (most common), or chemoradiation (radiation combined with chemotherapy) to the bladder (in some patients). However, half of the patients cannot get cisplatin due to safety concerns. This study has a screening step. The purpose of this step is to test patient's tumor to find out if it has a specific change (alteration) in the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) gene to determine patient's eligibility for this trial. Alteration of the FGFR gene causes bladder cancer cells to grow and divide abnormally. Erdafitinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of an abnormal FGFR protein. This may help keep cancer cells from growing and may kill them. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving erdafitinib alone or in combination with atezolizumab may help to shrink tumor cells at the time of surgery better than the usual treatment in muscle invasive bladder cancer.
Bladder Carcinoma|Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Muscle Invasive Bladder Carcinoma|Renal Pelvis and Ureter Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage II Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Urothelial Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Cystoscopy|DRUG: Erdafitinib|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Pathological complete response (pCR), Will be compared between the two arms using one-sided Z test with unpooled variance. Proportions with 95% confidence intervals will be provided for the two treatment arms. To avoid potential bias, the primary analysis will include all randomized, eligible patients even if they do not receive treatment., Up to 2 years
Rate of pathologic downstaging (=< pT1N0M0) among all patients who receive radical cystoscopy (RC), Time until death due to bladder, assessed up to 2 years|Clinical complete response (cCR) rate among patients who do not undergo RC, cCR is defined as no residual disease beyond low grade Ta disease on cystoscopy and tumor bed bladder biopsy (week 10), computed tomography (CT) chest abdomen pelvis post study treatment. Response will be presented using summary statistics. Response may be assessed by investigators and by an Independent Radiologic Review Committee., At week 10|Pathologic complete response (pCR) + clinical complete response (cCR) rate, Response will be presented using summary statistics. Response may be assessed by investigators and by an Independent Radiologic Review Committee., At week 10|Disease-free survival (DFS), DFS events include local recurrence, distant recurrence, and bladder cancer-related death. Will be presented with 95% confidence intervals for estimated medians. Kaplan-Meier method will be conducted., Time until death due to bladder cancer, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS) rate, Will be presented with 95% confidence intervals for estimated medians. Kaplan-Meier method will be conducted., Time from treatment start date until death, assessed at 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, The incidence of adverse events will be tabulated and reviewed and graded according the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0. Will be presented using summary statistics., After the first dose of study drug, through the Treatment Phase, and for 30 days following the last dose of study drug, assessed up to 2 years
FGFR 3/2 alteration type (mutation versus [vs.] fusion), Fisher exact test and Wilcoxon rank sum test will be conducted for correlation., Up to 2 years|FGFR signature, Fisher exact test and Wilcoxon rank sum test will be conducted for correlation., Up to 2 years|Clinical staging (cT2N0 vs. cT3/T4 or N), Fisher exact test and Wilcoxon rank sum test will be conducted for correlation., Up to 2 years|Histology (pure urothelial vs. presence of nonurothelial variant histology), Fisher exact test and Wilcoxon rank sum test will be conducted for correlation., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate pathologic complete response (pCR) rates at radical cystectomy (RC) following neoadjuvant erdafitinib with or without atezolizumab in cisplatin-ineligible patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) and susceptible FGFR3/2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of pathologic downstaging (=\< pT1N0M0) among patients who receive RC.

II. To determine the clinical complete response (cCR) rate in patients who do not undergo planned RC.

III. To determine pCR + cCR. IV. To evaluate 2-year disease-free survival (DFS). V. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) rate at 2 years. VI. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of study treatment as well as surgical complications in the RC group.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate the reduction of plasma circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) during study treatment and the surveillance period with disease outcomes (pCR and cCR, pathologic downstaging, 2-year DFS and OS).

II. To correlate tumor response with baseline tissue, ctDNA FGFR3/2 mutation status, and molecular signature.

III. To characterize the baseline tumor tissue immune profile of FGFR3/2-aberrant tumors including programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression, tumor mutational burden (TMB), and T cell infiltration (PD-L1 expression, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC), T cell receptor \[TCR\] repertoire).

IV. To characterize the changes in the above tumor tissue immune profile following study treatment.

V. To correlate baseline tumor tissue TMB with disease outcomes (pCR and cCR, pathologic downstaging, 2-year DFS and OS).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive erdafitinib orally (PO). Patients undergo collection of blood and computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at various time points throughout the trial and colposcopy at baseline.

ARM II: Patients receive erdafitinib PO and atezolizumab intravenously (IV). Patients undergo collection of blood and CT/MRI at various time points throughout the trial and colposcopy at baseline.