Targeted Therapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia or Acute Myelogenous Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well targeted therapy works in treating patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or acute myelogenous leukemia that has come back after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Testing patients' blood or bone marrow to find out if their type of cancer may be sensitive to a specific drug may help doctors choose more effective treatments. Dasatinib, sunitinib malate, sorafenib tosylate, ponatinib hydrochloride, pacritinib, ruxolitinib, and idelalisib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving targeted therapy based on cancer type may be an effective treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia or acute myelogenous leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
OTHER: Antitumor Drug Screening Assay|DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: Idelalisib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pacritinib|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Ponatinib|DRUG: Ponatinib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate|DRUG: Sunitinib|DRUG: Sunitinib Malate
Clinical Activity, Will be defined as defined as a decrease of at least 25% in bone marrow blast counts or peripheral blood blast. The proportion of patients achieving the endpoint along with its 95% exact binomial confidence interval will be presented., Up to 28 days
Overall Objective Response Rates (Complete and Partial), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in AML or ALL: Complete Response (CR), at least \<5% bone marrow blasts; Partial Response (PR), reduction of \>=50% bone marrow blasts; Overall Response (OR)= CR + PR.

The proportion of patients achieving the endpoint along with its 95% exact binomial confidence interval will be presented., Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival curve., From the start of study drug treatment to death, regardless of cause of death, or date of disease progression defined as a >= 50% increase in leukemic bone marrow blasts, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival curve., From the date of subject registration to death, regardless of causes of death, assessed up to 3 years|Clinical Activity, Will be defined as a decrease of at least 25% in bone marrow blast counts or in peripheral blood blasts in subjects who have failed the initial inhibitor but are then treated with another inhibitor identified on repeat pre-clinical activity testing. The proportion of patients achieving the endpoint along with its 95% exact binomial confidence interval will be presented., Up to 28 days
Presence of Active/Aberrant Kinase Pathways, Presence of active/aberrant kinase pathways will be determined using a small molecule kinase inhibitor screen, to rapidly identify therapeutic tyrosine kinase targets in leukemia patients while simultaneously providing individualized therapeutic options. Will be correlated with treatment response, mutational analysis using next generation sequencing, and characterization of aberrant gene expression in primary leukemia samples., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the clinical activity of kinase inhibitors using pre-clinical (in-vitro) activity to select individual therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall objective response rates (complete response plus partial response).

II. Determine overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS).

EXPLORATORY/CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. Prioritize active/aberrant kinase pathways using an in vitro inhibitor screen using individual primary leukemia samples.

II. Measure "on target" in vivo kinase inhibition and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-5 phosphorylation and correlate with response to treatment.

III. Perform next generation sequencing (whole exome sequencing) for complete mutational analysis.

IV. Identify aberrant gene expression in primary leukemia samples from study subjects.

V. Evaluate pharmacokinetics for each individual kinase inhibitor during therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 7 treatment groups based on pre-clinical kinase inhibitor activity.

GROUP I: Patients receive dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients receive sutinib malate PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP III: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP IV: Patients receive ponatinib hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP V: Patients receive pacritinib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP VI: Patients receive ruxolitinib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP VII: Patients receive idelalisib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.