Virtual Reality Therapy for Cancer-Treatment Associated Symptoms
We propose an innovative approach to symptom management in cancer patients following cancer treatments, utilizing a Multimodal Integrative Therapy (MIT) delivered via Virtual Reality (VR) program, authorized by the US Food and Drug Administration for in-home use. Our primary goal is to generate pilot data on the effects of MIT-VR program on pain, fatigue, sleep, depression, and anxiety in participants suffering from chronic cancer symptoms following cancer treatments.
Cancer|Cancer Pain|Virtual Reality
DEVICE: Relievrx|OTHER: Audio Mp4
VR effect on perceived pain, During daily intervention sessions (VR), participants will be required to do a pre-intervention and post-intervention survey regarding their pain (REDCAP visual analog pain survey). The post-surveys will be compared to the pre-surveys to determine VR's effect on participant pain. The surveys incorporate the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) from 0-100, 0 being no pain experienced and 100 being the most pain experienced., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|VR effect on perceived fatigue, Participants will take the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) fatigue prior to intervention, and weekly throughout 4 week study period. Each follow-up survey will be compared to the baseline survey to determine VR's effect on participant fatigue. The PROMIS fatigue scale ranges from 0-50, 0 being no fatigue and 50 meaning the most fatigue., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|VR effect on perceived anxiety, Participants will take the PROMIS anxiety prior to intervention, and weekly throughout 4 week study period. Each follow-up survey will be compared to the baseline survey to determine VR's effect on participant anxiety. The PROMIS anxiety scale ranges from 7-35, 7 being the least anxious and 35 being the most anxious., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Audio effect on perceived pain, During daily intervention sessions (audio), participants will be required to do a pre-intervention and post-intervention survey regarding their pain (REDCAP visual analog pain survey). The post-surveys will be compared to the pre-surveys to determine audio MP4's effect on participant pain. The surveys incorporate the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) from 0-100, 0 being no pain experienced and 100 being the most pain experienced., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Audio effect on perceived fatigue, Participants will take the PROMIS fatigue prior to intervention, and weekly throughout 4 week study period. Each follow-up survey will be compared to the baseline survey to determine audio MP4's effect on participant fatigue. The PROMIS fatigue scale ranges from 0-50, 0 being no fatigue and 50 meaning the most fatigue., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Audio effect on perceived anxiety, Participants will take the PROMIS anxiety prior to intervention, and weekly throughout 4 week study period. Each follow-up survey will be compared to the baseline survey to determine audio MP4's effect on participant anxiety. The PROMIS anxiety scale ranges from 7-35, 7 being the least anxious and 35 being the most anxious., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Difference in effect of VR vs audio MP4 intervention on pain, Scores from the daily pre and post pain surveys of each group with be compared to examine whether audio or VR had a greater impact on pain. The surveys incorporate the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) from 0-100, 0 being no pain experienced and 100 being the most pain experienced., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Difference in effect of VR vs audio MP4 intervention on fatigue, Scores from the baseline and weekly PROMIS fatigue surveys will be compared between VR and audio MP4 groups to determine if there was a differential effect on fatigue. The PROMIS fatigue scale ranges from 0-50, 0 being no fatigue and 50 meaning the most fatigue., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Difference in effect of VR vs audio MP4 intervention on anxiety, Scores from the baseline and weekly PROMIS anxiety surveys will be compared between VR and audio MP4 groups to determine if there was a differential effect on anxiety. The PROMIS anxiety scale ranges from 7-35, 7 being the least anxious and 35 being the most anxious., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|VR effect on perceived depression, Participants will take the PROMIS depression prior to intervention, and weekly throughout 4 week study period. Each follow-up survey will be compared to the baseline survey to determine VR's effect on participant depression. The PROMIS depression scale ranges from 4-20, 4 being the least depressed and 20 being the most depressed., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Audio effect on perceived depression, Participants will take the PROMIS depression prior to intervention, and weekly throughout 4 week study period. Each follow-up survey will be compared to the baseline survey to determine audio MP4's effect on participant depression. The PROMIS depression scale ranges from 4-20, 4 being the least depressed and 20 being the most depressed., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)|Difference in effect of VR vs audio MP4 intervention on depression, Scores from the baseline and weekly PROMIS depression surveys will be compared between VR and audio MP4 groups to determine if there was a differential effect on depression. The PROMIS depression scale ranges from 4-20, 4 being the least depressed and 20 being the most depressed., Baseline to end of intervention (4 weeks)
All of the study procedures will be completed over ten weeks, during which participants will complete one in-person enrollment visit per intervention and check in-phone calls as needed during the duration of each intervention. Participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 fashion to one of two different interventions first: virtual reality or Mp4 audio. At home, participants will engage in their assigned intervention 5x throughout the week for five weeks using the provided device and fill out required questionnaires. Once participants complete their first intervention, they will begin the second intervention.

In the virtual reality intervention, participants will complete the scheduled educational module five times in each of the five weeks. This VR is assisting users in using immersive reality to reduce pain, learning cognitive and behavior self-coping skills and retraining the pain pathways. There are several sessions, which will be delivered using an all-in-one head-mounted display. Each session varies in duration approximately from 3 to 15 minutes. Similarly, in the audio intervention, participants will complete the scheduled module 5 times a week in each of the five weeks of the intervention. The content is similar to that of the VR, which will be delivered by the audio player. Each session varies in duration approximately from 3 to 15 minutes.

The first visit is an enrollment visit. For the enrollment visit, the participant will first complete a battery of baseline surveys. They will also receive instructions about the intervention and go through the first module of the intervention to which he or she is assigned. A member of the research team will stay with the participant while the participant completes the module to ensure the proper functioning of the device and will answer any questions that may arise. The team member will also guide the participant on how to use the device. During the five weeks of the intervention, each participant can have check-in phone calls as needed. During these check-ins, we will address any questions and issues that arise for participants to encourage compliance. Participants will return the devices after each intervention.