Decitabine for Myelodysplastic Syndromes and Acute Myeloid Leukemia Before Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) is the only potentially curative therapy for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML). Relapse remains a leading cause for treatment failure after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in patients，so that there is the need to continue to look for alternative therapies. Decitabine, is known to inhibit DNA methyltransferase which results in DNA hypomethylation and expression of silenced genes including those involved in apoptosis. The approval of decitabine for the treatment of MDS and AML has provided an alternative strategy to inhibit disease progression in transplant-eligible patients. To assess the effect of pretransplant decitabine treatment on post transplant outcomes, we recently reviewed our institutional experience with MDS and AML patients.
Higher-risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Relapsed /Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: decitabine
overall survival rates, three years
disease free survival, three years
The incidences of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease, three years
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) is the only potentially curative therapy for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML). Relapse remains a leading cause for treatment failure after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in patients，so that there is the need to continue to look for alternative therapies. Decitabine, is known to inhibit DNA methyltransferase which results in DNA hypomethylation and expression of silenced genes including those involved in apoptosis. The approval of decitabine for the treatment of MDS and AML has provided an alternative strategy to inhibit disease progression in transplant-eligible patients. To assess the effect of pretransplant decitabine treatment on post transplant outcomes, we recently reviewed our institutional experience with MDS and AML patients.