Effect of ICCAUT Strategy on Postoperative Urinary Retention After Radical Rectal Cancer Surgery (ICCAUT-2)
The objective of this trial is to investigate the effect of bladder training on the incidence of re-catheterization after proctectomy. In this study, the bladder training include intermittent urethral catheter clamping combined with active urination training, which we called ICCAUT strategy. This prospective, single-center, randomized controlled trial will enroll patients with rectal cancer who will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the ICCAUT group or the free-drainage group. In the ICCAUT group, patients will undergo intermittent clamping of the urinary catheter before its removal. Each time the catheter is released, we will encourage the patients to actively initiate urination to facilitate complete bladder emptying. While patients in the free-drainage group will not undergo any specific training. The urinary catheter will be removed on the second postoperative day for both groups. The primary endpoint is the incidence of re-catheterization due to urinary retention. Secondary endpoints include urinary tract infection (UTI), time of first urination after catheter removal, residual urine volume after the first urination, postoperative morbidity and mortality within 30 days, as well as urinary function within 30 postoperative days.
Urinary Retention|Rectal Cancer|Urinary Catheterization
PROCEDURE: ICCAUT|PROCEDURE: Free drainage
secondary catheterization owing to urinary retention, The primary endpoint of this study is the rate of secondary catheterization owing to urinary retention until discharge. Secondary catheterization can be performed by urethral catheter insertion or suprapubic puncture. The decision to perform secondary catheterization is based on the specific criteria determined by the clinician., within 7 days after the first time of urethral catheter removal
Urinary tract infections, A urinary tract infection is characterized by an inflammatory response in the urinary tract epithelium resulting from bacterial invasion. To diagnose a urinary tract infection, the following criteria must be met simultaneously: 1) urinalysis indicating a bacterial count above the upper limit of normal and 2) positive urine culture., within 1 days after the first time of urethral catheter removal|The time to first voiding after catheter removal, The time to first voiding after catheter removal refers to the duration, measured in hours, from the moment the catheter was removed until the patient spontaneously voids for the first time., within 1 days after the first time of urethral catheter removal|The residual urine volume after the first voiding, The residual urine volume after the first voiding is determined by assessing the volume of urine remaining in the bladder immediately after the patient's initial voiding following catheter removal using bladder ultrasonography., within 1 days after the first time of urethral catheter removal|Graded assessment of catheter-related bladder discomfort (CRBD), CRBD is a questionnaire given to the patients, to investigate the severity of the discomfort of patients to the urinary catheter, within 1 days after the first time of urethral catheter removal|Voiding function, Voiding function is evaluated by International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF) and International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS)., on the second day after the first time of urethral catheter removal, and at the 30th day after surgery|Postoperative complications, Complications that occur within 30 days after the operation will be evaluated and documented according to the Clavien-Dindo classification (19). Complications of grade II or higher were analyzed., within 30 days after the operation
Urinary catheter placement is a standard procedure before proctectomy. However, the necessity of bladder training prior to catheter removal remains uncertain. The objective of this trial is to investigate the effect of bladder training on the incidence of re-catheterization after proctectomy. In this study, the bladder training include intermittent urethral catheter clamping combined with active urination training, which we called ICCAUT strategy. This prospective, single-center, randomized controlled trial will enroll patients with rectal cancer who will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the ICCAUT group or the free-drainage group. In the ICCAUT group, patients will undergo intermittent clamping of the urinary catheter before its removal. Each time the catheter is released, we will encourage the patients to actively initiate urination to facilitate complete bladder emptying. While patients in the free-drainage group will not undergo any specific training. The urinary catheter will be removed on the second postoperative day for both groups. The primary endpoint is the incidence of re-catheterization due to urinary retention. Secondary endpoints include urinary tract infection (UTI), time of first urination after catheter removal, residual urine volume after the first urination, postoperative morbidity and mortality within 30 days, as well as urinary function within 30 postoperative days.