A Study Of Two Inotuzumab Ozogamicin Doses in Relapsed/ Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Transplant Eligible Patients
This study will explore 2 different doses of inotuzumab ozogamicin including the dose that is approved and a lower dose. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate whether a dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin, lower than the approved dose, could be recommended for adult patient with relapsed or refractory ALL who may be at higher risk for severe liver problems after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment and stem cell transplant (a potentially curative therapy that can replace cancer cells with healthy cells). Efficacy and safety of the 2 doses will be evaluated.
Leukemia|Precursor b-Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma|ACUTE LYMPHOBLASTIC LEUKEMIA
DRUG: inotuzumab ozogamicin-dose level 2|DRUG: Inotuzumab ozogamicin-dose level 1
Percentage of Participants With Veno-occlusive Disease (VOD), VOD happened when the small blood vessels that lead into the liver and were inside the liver become blocked. VOD is defined as: a. Classical VOD (first 21 days after HSCT): Bilirubin\>=2 mg/dL and 2 (or more) of the following criteria must also be present: 1. Painful hepatomegaly; 2. Weight gain \>5%; 3. Ascites. b. Late onset VOD (\>21 days after HSCT): Classical VOD beyond Day 21; or Histologically proven VOD; or Two or more of the following criteria must be present: 1. Bilirubin \>2 mg/dL; 2. Painful hepatomegaly; 3. Weight gain \>5%; 4. Ascites. and hemodynamical and/or ultrasound evidence of VOD., 2 years from randomization|Rate of Hematologic Remission (Complete Response [CR] / Complete Response With Incomplete Hematologic Recovery[CRi]), CR is defined as a disappearance of leukemia as indicated by\<5% marrow blasts and the absence of peripheral blood leukemic blasts, with recovery of hematopoiesis defined by absolute neutrophil count (ANC)\>=1000/µL and platelets\>=100000/µL. C1 extramedullary disease status is required. CRi is defined as CR except with ANC \<1000/µL and/or platelets \<100000/µL. C1 defined as complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable extramedullary disease with the exception of lesions with following must be true: For participants with\>= 1 measurable lesion, all nodal masses\>1.5cm in greatest transverse diameter (GTD) at baseline (last assessment before 1st dose of study treatment) must must have regressed to\>=1.5cm in GTD and all nodal masses\>=1cm \& \<=1.5cm in GTD at baseline have regressed to \<1cm GTD or must have reduced by 75% in sum of products of greatest diameters. No new lesions. Spleen and other previously enlarged organs must have regressed in size and must not be palpable., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (All Causalities), Adverse event (AE) = any untoward medical occurrence in participant who received study treatment without regard to possibility of causal relationship. On-treatment period was defined as the period starting with the 1st dose of study treatment through 63 days after last dose or 1 day before start day of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first. A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. All VOD cases were reported as SAE. Grades of severity were defined by Common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v3.0. Grade 3=severe adverse event; Grade 4=life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5=death related to AE. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment drug through 63 days after last dose (approximately 52 weeks)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Treatment-related), Adverse event (AE) = any untoward medical occurrence in participant who received study treatment without regard to possibility of causal relationship. Treatment emergent AEs (TEAEs) were defined as AEs that reported the period starting with the first dose of study treatment drug through 63 days after last dose or 1 day before start day of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first. A SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v3.0. Grade 3 = severe adverse event; Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE. Causality of TEAEs were assessed by the Investigator. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment drug through 63 days after last dose (approximately 52 weeks)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse Events (Post-HSCT), A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. All SAEs occurred after HSCT were reported in this OM. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., Starting from the first transplant after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment and including the entire duration of subsequent follow up (approximately 52 weeks))|Shift Summary of Hematology Laboratory Test Results From Grade <=2 at Baseline to Grade 3 or 4 Post-Baseline, Baseline assessment was defined as the last assessment performed on or prior to the date of the first dose of study treatment. Following Parameters were analyzed for laboratory assessment: Hematology (Activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged, Anemia, Hemoglobin increased, International normalization rate (INR) increased, Leukocytosis, Lymphocyte count decreased, Lymphocyte count increased, Neutrophil count decreased, Platelet count decreased, White blood cell decreased). Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v3.0. Grade 2 = moderate adverse event; Grade 3= severe adverse event; Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment drug through 63 days after last dose (approximately 52 weeks)|Shift Summary of Chemistry Laboratory Test Results From Grade <=2 at Baseline to Grade 3 or 4 Post-Baseline, Baseline assessment was defined as the last assessment performed on or prior to the date of the first dose of study treatment. Following Parameters were analyzed for laboratory assessment: Chemistry (Alanine aminotransferase increased, Alkaline phosphatase increased, Aspartate aminotransferase increased, Blood bilirubin increased, Chronic kidney disease, Creatinine increased, Gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) increased, Hypercalcemia, Hyperglycemia, Hyperkalemia, Hypermagnesemia, Hypernatremia, Hypoalbuminemia, Hypocalcemia, Hypoglycemia, Hypokalemia, Hypomagnesemia, Hyponatremia, Hypophosphatemia, Lipase increased and Serum amylase increased). Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v3.0. Grade 2 = moderate adverse event; Grade 3= severe adverse event; Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment drug through 63 days after last dose (approximately 52 weeks)|Number of Participants Achieving a CR/CRi With Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Negativity, MRD was assessed by flow cytometry for CD22 and other cell surface markers associated with B-cell ALL. In participants who achieved CR/CRi, MRD negativity was defined as defined as \<1 abnormal cell/10\^4 nucleated cells by flow cytometry per central laboratory analysis., At screening, once at Day 16-28 of Cycles 1 and 2, or until CR/CRi and MRD negativity were achieved, then after every 1-2 cycles as clinically indicated, and at EOT visit (maximum of 2.5 years)|Duration of Remission (DoR) in Participants Achieving CR/CRi, DoR was defined as time from date of first response in responders (CR/CRi) to the date of disease progression (i.e., objective progression, relapse from CR/CRi, including post-study treatment follow-up disease assessments) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. DoR was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years|Progression-Free Survival, PFS was defined as time from date of randomization to the date of disease progression (i.e., objective progression, relapse from CR/CRi, including post-study treatment follow-up disease assessments), death due to any cause, or starting new induction therapy/post-therapy HSCT without achieving CR/CRi, whichever occured first. PFS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment to death due to any cause. Participants without confirmation of death were censored at the date that the participant was last known to be alive. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years|Number of Participant Received HSCT Post Inotuzumab Ozogamicin Treatment, Participants who underwent HSCT after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years|The Cumulative Incidence Rate of Post-HSCT Relapse at Month 12, Post-HSCT relapse is defined as the time from date of first HSCT after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment to the date of first relapse post-HSCT. Cumulative incidence rates of an event at a particular timepoint were estimated with the CI calculated based on the cumulative incidence function using the method described by Kalbfleisch RL and Prentice JD. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment to Month 12|Number of Participants With Post-HSCT Mortality, Post-HSCT Mortality was defined as the time from date of first HSCT after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment to death due to any cause. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years|Number of Participants With Post HSCT Non-Relapse Mortality, Post HSCT non-relapse mortality was defined as time from date of first HSCT after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment to death due to any cause without prior relapse. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years|Number of Participants With Post HSCT Relapse-Related Mortality, Post HSCT Relapse-Related Mortality was defined as time from date of first HSCT after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment to death due to any cause with prior relapse. Results were reported as of the data cutoff date on 21 Sep 2022., From first dose of study treatment of 6 cycles till follow-up up to 2 years, in total approximately 2.5 years|Mean Predose Concentrations (Ctrough) of Inotuzumab Ozogamicin, Ctrough was defined as the mean Predose concentration of study treatment., Pre-dose on Cycle 1 Day 1, 8 and 15, and on Day1 and 8 of Cycle 2, 3 and 4.|Number of Participants With Positive Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA), ADA incidence is defined as combined results of treatment-boosted and treatment-induced ADA-positive participants. The immunogenicity of inotuzumab ozogamicin was evaluated using a validated electrochemiluminescence (ECL)-based immunoassay., At Day 1 of every cycle prior to the beginning of inotuzumab ozogamicin infusion and at the EOT visit, up to approximately 52 weeks.|Number of Participants With Positive Neutralizing Antibody (NAb), NAb incidence is defined as combined results of treatment-boosted and treatment-induced NAb-positive participants. The immunogenicity of inotuzumab ozogamicin was evaluated using a validated electrochemiluminescence (ECL)-based immunoassay., At Day 1 of every cycle prior to the beginning of inotuzumab ozogamicin infusion and at the EOT visit, up to approximately 52 weeks.
This study will explore 2 different doses of inotuzumab ozogamicin including the dose that is approved and a lower dose. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate whether a dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin, lower than the approved dose, could be recommended for adult patient with relapsed or refractory ALL who may be at higher risk for severe liver problems after inotuzumab ozogamicin treatment and stem cell transplant (a potentially curative therapy that can replace cancer cells with healthy cells). Efficacy and safety of the 2 doses will be evaluated.