Early Detection of Esophageal Squamous Cancer With the Capsule Sponge Device
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma accounts for \~90% of the nearly half-million annual incident cases of esophageal cancer worldwide. The high costs and invasiveness of upper endoscopy constitute a limitation in providing adequate surveillance for at-risk individuals, including those with previous head and neck cancer. The ANGELA study is a prospective evaluation of the minimally-invasive capsule-sponge device, coupled with tissue biomarkers (p53-immunohistochemistry), to detect squamous neoplasia in high-risk individuals.
Esophageal Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DEVICE: Capsule-sponge
Feasibility and diagnostic yield of capsule-sponge coupled with cellular atypia and p53-IHC analysis for detecting ESCC and its precursor lesions compared with endoscopy (gold standard), Sensitivity (%) and Specificity (%) of the capsule-sponge device in identifying patients with early squamous neoplasia (LG-IEN, HG-IEN, ESCC) as compared to the upper endoscopy with biopsies (gold standard), 3 years
Acceptability of the capsule-sponge device in patients with ESCC and high-risk for ESCC, % of Participants that have scored the Cytosponge experience of at least 6 points on a 0 to 10 Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) acceptability scale whereby 0 denotes "worst experience in life" and 10 denotes "best experience in life"., 3 years|Study on accuracy and feasibility of adding copy number profiling for aneuploidy assessment to the capsule-sponge samples, Within this outcome, we will clarify the optimal depth of sequencing, and we will then perform shallow whole genome sequencing (sWGS) on the samples collected in the training phase to input the copy-number variation (CNV) into the classification algorithm and evaluate the output as compared with the diagnosis of the patient. This will enable us to refine the classifications with the ultimate aim of using them predictively in a testing phase., 3 years|Application of artificial intelligence on Cytosponge digitalized samples, To assess the utility of machine learning-based approaches to assist pathological assessment of the capsule-sponge samples for the applicability of the technology at scale. We will test the feasibility of applying the artificial intelligence (AI)-based technology onto digitalized capsule-sponge samples. The assessment will comprise of AI training phase and a validation period., 3 years
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is the most common type of esophageal cancer worldwide, accounting for nearly 90% of the 456,000 incident cases of esophageal cancer each year. Overall, it is the seventh most common malignancy and the sixth most common cause of cancer-related mortality, with a high incidence rate in eastern to central Asia and eastern and southern Africa. This cancer is more common in men (\~70%), and the main risk factors include cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, poor oral hygiene, the ingestion of caustic agents, and nutritional deficiencies. Additionally, an increased risk of ESCC following curative treatment of head and neck cancer (HNC) has been well-documented in the literature, with a lifetime incidence ranging between 3.8% and 14.9% in prospective observational studies. The carcinogenesis of ESCC is sequential and preceded by several precancerous stages, including low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (LG-IEN) and, subsequently, high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (HG-IEN).

Although the prognosis of ESCC is extremely poor, with 5-year survival below 20%, it dramatically improves if the disease is detected at an early stage. Consequently, mass screening in high-incidence regions is being widely debated. However, population-wide screening presents a large challenge in terms of cost-effectiveness and manpower, as currently, a potential screening regime for ESCC would rely on endoscopic examination with biopsies, which remains the gold standard for ESCC diagnosis. Furthermore, since around 80% of all ESCCs occur in economically less-developed regions, newer, cheaper, and less invasive diagnostic tools are highly warranted.

The capsule-sponge is a novel, minimally-invasive device that collects cells from the esophagus to produce a pseudo-biopsy suitable for routine laboratory analysis. In addition, tissue biomarkers such as p53 immunohistochemistry (p53-IHC) and molecular testing, including copy number assays to detect aneuploidy, can be applied. There is extensive data on the use of this technology for early diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus (precursor to adenocarcinoma), which has now reached wide clinical implementation in the UK National Health Service. Building on the promising pilot data, the current study aims to expand further our previously developed clinical assay for early detection of esophageal squamous neoplasia using the capsule-sponge device coupled with biomarkers and machine learning technologies.

In this prospective trial, we plan to recruit patients within three risk groups for ESCC: 1. healthy controls; 2. high-risk individuals (previous head-and-neck cancer/ESCC); and 3. patients with known early ESCC. Each patient will undergo a high-definition endoscopy and a capsule-sponge examination. The biomarker assay, including p53-IHC and shallow whole genome sequencing, will be tested within the capsule-sponge samples and compared with the final endoscopic diagnosis. Machine learning algorithms will be applied to digitalized cytology to detect atypical cells and regions of p53-IHC overexpression. Lastly, we will extract microbial DNA from capsule-sponge samples to assess any taxonomic diversity within the three risk groups for ESCC.

We hope to develop a novel, effective, and affordable diagnostic assay that, coupled with a minimally-invasive capsule-sponge device, could be implemented in a clinical setting, improving the early detection of ESCC and, eventually, patient outcomes.