The Effect of Bilateral Sphenopalatine Ganglion Block on Postoperative Pain in Patients to be Subject to Septorhinoplasty Surgery
The aim of this study is to examine the effects of bilateral sphenopalatine ganglion block on surgical conditions, hemodynamics, intraoperative and postoperative analgesic use, recovery characteristics, and postoperative pain during septorhinoplasty under general anesthesia. The study was planned as double-blind, randomized, controlled. 72 patients who will undergo septorhinoplasty surgery will be collected. (g power analysis was performed.) Evaluation of the effectiveness of bilateral sphenopalatine ganglion block was planned. Patients will be divided into 2 equal groups (36 patients). After the induction of general anesthesia, one group (Group: 1) will be administered 8mg dexamethasone and 10mg bupivacaine submucosal, the other group (group:2) will be administered 4 cc saline. aspects will be evaluated.
Anesthesia of Mucous Membrane
PROCEDURE: Bilateral endoscopic sphenopalatine ganglion block|PROCEDURE: placebo
Numeric Rating Scale, They will be numbered from 1 to 10.

1 mildest 10 most severe pain, Postoperative 0-2 hours, 2-8 hours,8-24 hours
Riker Agitation Scale, 7 Dangerous Agitation 6 Very Agitated 5 Agitated 4 Calm and Cooperative 3 sedated 2 Very Sedated A

1 Unarousable, Immediately after extubation|mean arterial pressure, mmhg, when you come to the operating room table after anesthesia induction Intraoperative 30 minutes after extubation|heart rate, beats\\minute, when you come to the operating room table after anesthesia induction Intraoperative 30 minutes after extubation|intraoperative remifentanil consumption, The intraoperative ultiva infusion dose was recorded to the patient., intraoperative|edema questionnaire, Periorbital edema was evaluated as present or absent questionnaire, Postoperative 0-2 hours, 2-8 hours,8-24 hours|hematoma questionnaire, Hematoma was evaluated as present or absent questionnaire, Postoperative 0-2 hours, 2-8 hours,8-24 hours|vomiting questionnaire, was evaluated as present or absent questionnaire, Postoperative 0-2 hours, 2-8 hours,8-24 hours|Oral analgesic use, Analgesic use in the first 24 hours was questioned., In the first 24 hours after surgery
The aim of this study is to examine the effects of bilateral sphenopalatine ganglion block on surgical conditions, hemodynamics, intraoperative and postoperative analgesic use, recovery characteristics, and postoperative pain during septorhinoplasty under general anesthesia. The study was planned as double-blind, randomized, controlled. 72 patients who will undergo septorhinoplasty surgery will be collected. (g power analysis was performed.) Evaluation of the effectiveness of bilateral sphenopalatine ganglion block was planned. Patients will be divided into 2 equal groups (36 patients). After the induction of general anesthesia, one group (Group: 1) will be administered 8mg dexamethasone and 10mg bupivacaine submucosal, the other group (group:2) will be administered 4 cc saline. aspects will be evaluated.