Safety of UV1 Vaccination in Combination With Ipilimumab in Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Malignant Melanoma
This study, with 20 patients participating, will examine the safety and tolerability for the ipilimumab/UV1 combination in patients with unresectable or metastatic malignant melanoma.
Malignant Melanoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: UV1 vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: GM-CSF
Safety and tolerability profile. Frequency/ severity of adverse and serious adverse events. Biochemistry and hematology results, vital signs and ECOG, Frequency and severity of adverse events and serious adverse events. Biochemistry and hematology results, vital signs and ECOG performance status will be assessed., Up to 53 weeks
Immunological response. Number of T-cell responses including time to T-cell response, level of response and duration of response., Number of T-cell responses including time to T-cell response, level of response and duration of response., Up to 53 weeks|Treatment response. Tumour response evaluated by CT scan every 12th week., Tumour response evaluated by CT scan every 12th week., Up to 48 weeks|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL), HRQL measured by use of patient questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C30, Up to 53 weeks
Explore potential biomarkers for efficacy and safety of the ipilimumab/UV1 combination, Exploratory biomarker analysis., Up to 48 weeks
This is a phase I/IIa, national, open label, single arm, interventional study examining safety and tolerability for the ipilimumab/UV1 combination in patients with unresectable or metastatic malignant melanoma. Patients that have signed the informed consent form will be asked to take part in the study. All patients will receive ipilimumab together with the UV1 vaccine and rranulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Ipilimumab will be given every 3rd week for a total of 4 doses. The UV1 vaccine and GM-CSF will be given before and between treatments of ipilimumab. The maximum number of UV1/GM-CSF will be 10 doses.

Immunoresponders maybe followed up every third months for 5 years after the first UV1 treatment. Follow-up is onging.