A Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Etrolizumab in Participants With Ulcerative Colitis Who Have Been Previously Exposed to Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) Inhibitors
This Phase III, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study will investigate the efficacy and safety of etrolizumab during induction and maintenance of remission compared with placebo in the treatment of participants with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) who have been previously exposed to TNF inhibitors.
Ulcerative Colitis
DRUG: Etrozulimab|DRUG: Placebo
Induction Phase: Percentage of Participants With Remission at Week 14, as Determined by the Mayo Clinic Score (MCS), The Mayo Clinic Score (MCS) ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Remission was defined as MCS less than or equal to (≤)2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0., Week 14|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Remission at Week 66 Among Participants Who Had Achieved a Clinical Response at Week 14, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Remission was defined as MCS less than or equal to (≤)2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0. Clinical Response is MCS with ≥3-point decrease and 30% reduction from baseline as well as ≥1-point decrease in rectal bleeding subscore or an absolute rectal bleeding score of 0 or 1., Week 66
Induction Phase: Percentage of Participants With Clinical Remission at Week 14, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Clinical Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1., Week 14|Induction Phase: Percentage of Participants With Clinical Response at Week 14, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Remission was defined as MCS less than or equal to (≤)2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0. Clinical Response is MCS with ≥3-point decrease and 30% reduction from baseline as well as ≥1-point decrease in rectal bleeding subscore or an absolute rectal bleeding score of 0 or 1., Week 14|Induction Phase: Percentage of Participants With Improvement From Baseline in Endoscopic Appearance of the Mucosa at Week 14, as Determined by the MCS Endoscopic Subscore, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Improvement in endoscopic appearance of the mucosa is Endoscopy subscore ≤1., Baseline and Week 14|Induction Phase: Percentage of Participants With Endoscopic Remission at Week 14, as Determined by the MCS Endoscopic Subscore, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Endoscopic Remission is Endoscopy subscore = 0., Week 14|Induction Phase: Percentage of Participants With Histologic Remission at Week 14, as Determined by the Nancy Histological Index, Nancy Histological Index (NHI) is a 5-level classification ranging from grade 0 (No histologically significant disease) to grade 4 (severely active disease). Histologic remission is defined as a Nancy Histological Index of 0 or 1., Week 14|Induction Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 6 in MCS Rectal Bleed Subscore, Rectal bleeding data were collected via the participant's diaries and each day a participant provided a score from 0 to 3 according to the following definitions: 0 = no blood in the stool; 1 = streaks of blood with stool less than half the time; 2 = obvious blood with stool most of the time; 3 = blood alone passed. The Mayo Clinic Score (MCS) rectal bleeding subscore was calculated as the worst value of three days of daily diary scores closest to anchor dates at baseline and post-baseline. The data was considered non-parametric and was reported using RANK analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). Participants were stratified by concomitant treatment with corticosteroids or immunosuppressants at randomization and disease activity measured during screening (MCS ≤9/MCS ≥10); the model adjusted for these stratification factors along with the baseline rectal bleeding (RB) subscore., Baseline and Week 6|Induction Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 6 in MCS Stool Frequency Subscore, Stool frequency data were collected via the participant's diaries and each day a participant provided a score from 0 to 3 according to the following definitions: 0 = normal number of stools; 1 = 1 to 2 more stools than normal; 2 = 3 to 4 more stools than normal; 3 = 5 or more stools than normal. The Mayo Clinic Score (MCS) stool frequency subscore was calculated as the average of three days daily diary scores closest to anchor dates at baseline and post-baseline. The data was considered non-parametric and was reported using RANK analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). Participants were stratified by concomitant treatment with corticosteroids or immunosuppressants at randomization and disease activity measured during screening (MCS ≤9/MCS ≥10); the model adjusted for these stratification factors along with the baseline stool frequency (SF) subscore., Baseline and Week 6|Induction Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 14 in UC Bowel Movement Signs and Symptoms, as Assessed by the Ulcerative Colitis Patient-Reported Outcome Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS) Questionnaire, The UC-PRO questionnaire is collected in the e-diary and completed by participants for at least 9-12 consecutive days prior to a study visit. The UC-PRO is being reported in three domains; two domains are key endpoints and reported as UC-PRO Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS). The bowel domain score ranges from 0-27, with a higher score indicating a worse disease state., Baseline and Week 14|Induction Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 14 in UC Functional Symptoms, as Assessed by the UC-PRO/SS Questionnaire, The UC-PRO questionnaire is collected in the e-diary and completed by participants for at least 9-12 consecutive days prior to a study visit. The UC-PRO is being reported in three domains; two domains are key endpoints and reported as UC-PRO Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS). The functional (abdominal symptoms) domain score ranges from 0-12, with a higher score indicating a worse disease state., Baseline and Week 14|Induction Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 14 in Health-Related Quality of Life, as Assessed by the Overall Score of the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ), The IBDQ score is a Total Score summed up from across all 32 questions on the questionnaire. The Total Score range is from 32 to 224 with higher scores representing a better quality of life., Baseline and Week 14|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Clinical Remission at Week 66 Among Participants Who Had Achieved Clinical Remission at Week 14, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Remission was defined as MCS less than or equal to (≤)2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0. Clinical Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1., Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Clinical Remission at Week 66, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Remission was defined as MCS less than or equal to (≤)2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0. Clinical Remission is MCS ≤2 with individual subscores ≤1., Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Remission at Week 66 Among Participants Who Had Achieved Remission at Week 14, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Remission was defined as MCS less than or equal to (≤)2 with individual subscores ≤1 and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0., Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Improvement From Baseline in Endoscopic Appearance of the Mucosa at Week 66, as Determined by the MCS Endoscopic Subscore, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Improvement in endoscopic appearance of the mucosa is Endoscopy subscore ≤1., Baseline and Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Histologic Remission at Week 66, as Determined by the Nancy Histological Index, Nancy Histological Index (NHI) is a 5-level classification ranging from grade 0 (No histologically significant disease) to grade 4 (severely active disease). Histologic remission is defined as a Nancy Histological Index of 0 or 1., Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Endoscopic Remission at Week 66, as Determined by the MCS Endoscopic Subscore, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Endoscopic Remission is Endoscopy subscore = 0., Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Corticosteroid-Free Clinical Remission at Week 66 Among Participants Who Were Receiving Corticosteroids at Baseline, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Corticosteroid-Free analysis was conducted only on a subgroup of participants who were randomized into the maintenance phase and receiving Corticosteroids (CS) at baseline. Participants were defined as being off CS if they had no record of taking CS on the date that was 24 weeks prior to Week 66., Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Percentage of Participants With Corticosteroid-Free Remission at Week 66 Among Participants Who Were Receiving Corticosteroids at Baseline, as Determined by the MCS, The MCS ranges from 0 to 12 and is a composite of 4 assessments (each rated from 0-3): stool frequency, rectal bleeding, endoscopy, and physician's global assessment. Higher scores represent greater disease severity. Corticosteroid-Free analysis was conducted only on a subgroup of participants who were randomized into the maintenance phase and receiving Corticosteroids (CS) at baseline. Participants were defined as being off CS if they had no record of taking CS on the date that was 24 weeks prior to Week 66., Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 66 in UC Bowel Movement Signs and Symptoms, as Assessed by the UC-PRO/SS Questionnaire, The UC-PRO questionnaire is collected in the e-diary and completed by participants for at least 9-12 consecutive days prior to a study visit. The UC-PRO is being reported in three domains; two domains are key endpoints and reported as UC-PRO Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS). The bowel domain score ranges from 0-27, with a higher score indicating a worse disease state., Baseline and Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 66 in UC Functional Symptoms, as Assessed by the UC-PRO/SS Questionnaire, The UC-PRO questionnaire is collected in the e-diary and completed by participants for at least 9-12 consecutive days prior to a study visit. The UC-PRO is being reported in three domains; two domains are key endpoints and reported as UC-PRO Signs and Symptoms (UC-PRO/SS). The functional (abdominal symptoms) domain score ranges from 0-12, with a higher score indicating a worse disease state., Baseline and Week 66|Maintenance Phase: Change From Baseline to Week 66 in Health-Related Quality of Life, as Assessed by the Overall Score of the IBDQ, The IBDQ is used to assess participant's health-related quality of life (QOL). The IBDQ score is a Total Score summed up from across all 32 questions on the questionnaire. The Total Score range is from 32 to 224 with higher scores representing a better quality of life., Baseline and Week 66|Number of Participants With at Least One Adverse Event by Severity, According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4.0), All Adverse Events (AEs) were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Any AE not specifically listed was assessed per the following 5 grades: Grade 1 = mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; or intervention not indicated. Grade 2 = moderate; minimal, local, or non-invasive intervention indicated; or limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living. Grade 3 = severe or medically significant, but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; or limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE. Not all grades are appropriate for all AEs; some AEs have fewer than 5 options. The terms "severe" and "serious" are not synonymous and are independently assessed for each AE. Multiple occurrences of AEs were counted only once per participant at the highest (worst) grade., From Baseline up to Week 78|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Leading to Study Drug Discontinuation, From Baseline up to Week 78|Number of Participants With Serious Infection-Related Adverse Events, From Baseline up to Week 78|Number of Participants With Infection-Related Adverse Events, All Adverse Events (AEs) were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Any AE not specifically listed was assessed per the following 5 grades: Grade 1 = mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; or intervention not indicated. Grade 2 = moderate; minimal, local, or non-invasive intervention indicated; or limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living. Grade 3 = severe or medically significant, but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; or limiting self-care activities of daily living. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated. Not all grades are appropriate for all AEs; some AEs have fewer than 5 options. The terms "severe" and "serious" are not synonymous and are independently assessed for each AE. Multiple occurrences of AEs were counted only once per participant at the highest (worst) grade., From Baseline up to Week 78|Number of Participants With Injection-Site Reaction-Related Adverse Events, From Baseline up to Week 78|Number of Participants With Hypersensitivity Reaction-Related Adverse Events, From Baseline up to Week 78|Number of Participants With Malignancies, From Baseline up to Week 78|Number of Participants With Anti-Therapeutic Antibodies to Etrolizumab at Baseline and During the Study, A tiered strategy was used to detect and characterize etrolizumab antibodies within this clinical study. When determining post baseline incidence, participants were considered to be ADA positive if they were ADA negative or had missing data at baseline but developed an ADA response following etrolizumab drug exposure (treatment-induced ADA response), or if they were ADA positive at baseline and the titer of one or more post baseline samples was at least 0.60 titer unit greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment-enhanced ADA response). Participants were considered to be ADA negative if they were ADA negative or had missing data at baseline and all post baseline samples were negative, or if they were ADA positive at baseline but did not have any post baseline samples with a titer that was at least 0.60 titer unit greater than the titer of the baseline sample (treatment unaffected)., Pre-dose at Baseline, Weeks 4, 14, 24, 44, and 66, and Early Termination/End of Safety Follow-Up (up to Week 78)|Etrolizumab Serum Trough Concentration (for Arms/Timepoints Above LLOQ), As per Protocol, the timepoints for each arm where more than a third of the samples were above the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ), full summary statistics (Mean and Standard Deviation) were reported. For timepoints below the LLOQ, only the Median and Max were reported as a separate outcome measure below., Pre-dose (0 hour) at Baseline and Weeks 14, 24, 44 and 66|Etrolizumab Serum Trough Concentration (for Arms/Timepoints Below LLOQ), As per Protocol, the timepoints for each arm where more than a third of the samples were below the LLOQ only the Median and Max were reported., Weeks 44 and 66
This Phase III, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study will investigate the efficacy and safety of etrolizumab during induction and maintenance of remission compared with placebo in the treatment of participants with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) who have been previously exposed to TNF inhibitors.