First-line Treatment With Dacomitinib Plus Anlotinib for Patients With Advanced NSCLC With EGFR 21L858R Mutations
This is a multicenter, open label, Phase I/IIB study investigating the efficacy and safety of treatment with dacomitinib plus anlotinib as first-line therapy for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 21-L858R mutations. This study comprises two parts: 1. A dose escalation Phase I study to determine the recommended phase II dose. 2. a multi-center, open label, randomized controlled, Phase IIB study.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DRUG: Dacomitinib+Anlotinib|DRUG: Dacomitinib
Overall safety profile, Overall safety profile of combined Dacomitinib plus Anlotinib in Escalation Phase, including adverse events (AE), as defined and graded by the National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE 4.03\], and first cycle Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs)., Day 21 of Cycle 1, every 6 weeks until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to 22 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from start of treatment to the date of disease progression as defined by RECIST v1.1 per investigator review or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., Day 21 of Cycle 1, every 6 weeks until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to 22 months)
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as the time from start of treatment to the date of death for any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time will be censored at the last date the subject is known to be alive., 48 months|Best Overall Response (BOR), Best overall response is best response from start of treatment until disease progression, and will calculated as the percentage of participants with an objective response (CR or PR) or stable disease, based on the RECIST v1.1, relative to the total number of participants enrolled in the cohort., From baseline until disease progression, up to 48 months
This is a multicenter, open label, Phase I/IIB study investigating the efficacy and safety of treatment with dacomitinib plus anlotinib as first-line therapy for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 21-L858R mutations. This study comprises two parts: 1. A dose escalation Phase I study to determine the recommended phase II dose. 2. a multi-center, open label, randomized controlled, Phase IIB study.