Onvansertib + Paclitaxel In TNBC
This research is being done to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Onvansertib in combination with Paclitaxel in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) that has spread to other parts of the body.

The names of the study interventions involved in this study are:

* Onvansertib
* Paclitaxel
Breast Cancer|Invasive Breast Cancer|Unresectable Breast Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|Inflammatory Breast Cancer|Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC)|Hormone Receptor/Growth Factor Receptor-Negative Breast Cancer|HER2-negative Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Negative Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Onvansertib|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT)-Phase Ib, DLTs will be defined as toxicities that are considered at least possibly related to the study regimen and that fit one or more of the criteria defined per protocol, during the first cycle of therapy (28 days).|Incidence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-Related Toxicity- Phase Ib, All grade 3 or higher adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 as reported on case report forms were counted. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3 or higher AE of any type during the time of observation., during the first cycle of therapy (28 days).|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Phase II, The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions, Every 8 weeks until disease progression, in average 24 weeks
Cmax-Phase Ib, Cmax defined as the maximum concentration of drug, during the first cycle of therapy (28 days)|AUC-Phase Ib, AUC(0-336)=area under the curve from 0 to 336 hours, during the first cycle of therapy (28 days)|Incidence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-Related Toxicity-Phase II, All grade 3 or higher adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 as reported on case report forms were counted. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3 or higher AE of any type during the time of observation., AE assessed during treatment duration through study completion, in average 24 weeks|Median Progression-free survival (PFS)-Phase II, Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Every 8 weeks until disease progression, in average 24 weeks
This is a phase 1b/2 study of onvansertib in combination with paclitaxel in patients with triple negative invasive breast cancer with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. In the phase 1b, different doses of onvansertib will be studied with a fixed dose of paclitaxel to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of onvansertib. In the phase 2, the selected onvansertib RP2D in combination with paclitaxel will be studied following a Simon two-stage design.

The study is divided into three time periods: a screening period; a treatment period; and a post-treatment follow-up period.

The names of the study interventions involved in this study are:

* Onvansertib
* Paclitaxel

Participants will receive study treatment for as long there are no serious side effects and the disease does not get worse.

It is expected that about 50 people will take part in this research study.

This is a Phase 1/2 clinical trial. A Phase 1 clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Paclitaxel as a treatment option for this disease. The use of Onvansertib is experimental which means that it is not approved by any regulatory authority, including the FDA, for treatment of metastatic breast cancer.