Aflibercept and FOLFOX6 Treatment for Previously Untreated Stage IV Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well giving aflibercept together with combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with previously untreated colon or rectal cancer that is metastatic or locally advanced and cannot be removed by surgery. Aflibercept may stop the growth of colon or rectal cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving aflibercept together with combination chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells
Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: aflibercept|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin|DRUG: fluorouracil|OTHER: Correlative Studies|PROCEDURE: DCE MRI|RADIATION: f18FDG-PET|PROCEDURE: PET (positron emission tomography)
Proportion of Patients Alive and Progression-free at 15 Months, Assuming that the number of treatment successes (alive and progression-free) is binomially distributed, proportion estimates along with their corresponding exact 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., At 15 months from initiation of therapy
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Defined as the Proportion of Patients Who Achieve a PR or CR Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria Divided by the Total Number of Evaluable Patients, Summarized as a proportion with corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Percentage of Patients Able to Undergo Surgery, Summarized as a proportion with corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Will be evaluated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., From study entry to the time of progressive disease and/or death, assessed up to 4 weeks post-treatment, assessed up to 4 years and 2 months|Overall Survival, Will be evaluated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., From study entry to time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Incidence of Severe (Grade 3+) Adverse Events or Toxicities, Assessed Using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0, Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Tolerability in Terms of Number of Patients Who Require Dose Modifications and/or Dose Delays, Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Proportion of Patients Who go Off Treatment Due to Adverse Reactions or Even Those Who Refuse Further Treatment for Lesser Toxicities That Inhibit Their Willingness to Continue Participation on the Trial, Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with untreated metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) receiving the combination of modified leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, oxaliplatin (FOLFOX6) (mFOLFOX6) and aflibercept.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the objective response rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) and the disease control rate (CR + PR + stable disease \[SD\]), as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, of patients with untreated mCRC receiving the combination of mFOLFOX6 and aflibercept.

II. To evaluate overall survival of patients with untreated mCRC receiving the combination of mFOLFOX6 and aflibercept.

III. To further characterize the safety and toxicity of the combination of mFOLFOX6 and aflibercept, including 60 day all-cause mortality.

IV. To describe patients with mCRC whose disease is rendered resectable as a consequence of therapy with the combination of mFOLFOX 6 and aflibercept.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the use of dynamic imaging modalities including dynamic contrast enhanced-magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) to evaluate changes in vascular permeability and FDG avidity and correlate with clinical efficacy (PFS, overall survival \[OS\], and response by RECIST 1.1).

II. To evaluate circulating levels of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis, class F (PlGF), soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGF-R2), chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 12 (CXCL12) and chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 4 (CXCR4) as potential biomarkers for efficacy of aflibercept.

III. To evaluate for the presence of VEGF single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and whether any SNP(s), when detected, may be predictive of efficacy and/or toxicity of aflibercept.

IV. To assess microvessel density/tumor blood flow, capillary permeability and vessel normalization by tumor biopsy pre and post treatment with aflibercept.

V. To evaluate the presence of hypertension as a predictive biomarker for clinical efficacy of aflibercept.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive aflibercept intravenously (IV) over 1 hour followed by oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 5-15 minutes and then continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.