The Evaluation of Belimumab in Myasthenia Gravis (MG)
Study BEL115123 is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multinational study of belimumab (10 mg/kg) to investigate the efficacy and safety of belimumab in subjects with MG. The study will enroll male and female outpatients (\> or equal to 18 years of age) with a diagnosis of MG who are 1) acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody positive or muscle specific kinase (MuSK) antibody positive, 2) on current standard of care therapy, and 3) continue to exhibit signs of MG. The study will include 3 phases: a 4 week screening period, a 24 week treatment period, and a 12 week follow-up period. IP will be administered intravenously on Days 0, 14, 28 and then every 28 days through and including Week 20. At Week 24, primary outcomes will be obtained. Follow up evaluations will be conducted at Weeks 28, 32 and 36 for all subjects. The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of belimumab as evaluated by the change in the quantitative myasthenia gravis (QMG) score.
Myasthaenia Gravis
BIOLOGICAL: Belimumab|OTHER: Placebo
Mean Change From Baseline for Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) Score at Week 24, The QMG is a 13 item ordinal scale which measures ocular, bulbar, extremity fatigue and strength, along with respiratory function. The total QMG score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 13 individual QMG questions. Possible scoring on the QMG range from 0 (normal) to 39 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. The QMG score at Baseline is the average of the screening and Week 0 Baseline scores. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting the Baseline value from the post-baseline value. The differences in adjusted least square means were presented (Belimumab 10 mg/kg minus Placebo). A negative treatment difference indicates benefit relative to placebo. The analysis method was Mixed-Model Repeated Measures adjusted for Treatment, Visit, Baseline QMG Score, Treatment by Visit, and Baseline QMG Score by Visit., Baseline and Week 24
Number of Participants With Improvement by Greater Than or Equal to (>=) 3 Points From Baseline Through to Week 24 in the QMG Score, The QMG is a 13 item ordinal scale which measures ocular, bulbar, extremity fatigue and strength, along with respiratory function. The total QMG score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 13 individual QMG questions. Possible scoring on the QMG range from 0 (normal) to 39 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. The QMG score at Baseline is the average of the screening and Week 0 Baseline scores. Proportions compared using exact analyses stratified by the observed median Baseline score (less than or equal to \[\<=\] median, greater than \[ \>\] median). Exact odds ratio, double the exact one-sided p-value and exact confidence intervals were presented. Participants with missing data were assumed to have a negative response., Baseline and up to Week 24|Number of Participants Worsening by >=3 Points in QMG Score From Baseline Through to Week 24, The QMG is a 13 item ordinal scale which measures ocular, bulbar, extremity fatigue and strength, along with respiratory function. The total QMG score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 13 individual QMG questions. Possible scoring on the QMG range from 0 (normal) to 39 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. The QMG score at Baseline is the average of the screening and Week 0 Baseline scores. Proportions compared using exact analyses stratified by the observed median Baseline score (\<=median, \> median). Exact odds ratio, double the exact one-sided p-value and exact confidence interval were presented. Participants with missing data were assumed to have a worsening response., Baseline and up to Week 24|Number of Participants With a Sustained Response in the QMG Score, A sustained response during the treatment phase is when a participant improves by \>=3 points from Baseline at Week 12, and the participant maintains at least a 3 point improvement from Baseline through Week 24. The QMG is a 13 item ordinal scale which measures ocular, bulbar, extremity fatigue and strength, along with respiratory function. The total QMG score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 13 individual QMG questions. Possible scoring on the QMG range from 0 (normal) to 39 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. The QMG score at Baseline is the average of the screening and Week 0 Baseline scores. Odds ratios are calculated by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel method stratified by the observed median baseline score (\<= median, \> median). Wald confidence intervals and p-values were presented., Baseline and up to Week 24|Median Time to QMG Response Which is Sustained From Earliest Time Point at Which Improvement by >=3 Points From Baseline is Observed and Maintained Through Week 24, A sustained response during the treatment phase is when a participant improves by \>=3 points from Baseline at Week 12, and the participant maintains at least a 3 point improvement from Baseline through Week 24. The QMG is a 13 item ordinal scale which measures ocular, bulbar, extremity fatigue and strength, along with respiratory function. The total QMG score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 13 individual QMG questions. Possible scoring on the QMG range from 0 (normal) to 39 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. The QMG score at Baseline is the average of the screening and Week 0 Baseline scores., Baseline and up to Week 24|Mean Change From Baseline for QMG Score at Week 28, Week 32 and Week 36, The QMG is a 13 item ordinal scale which measures ocular, bulbar, extremity fatigue and strength, along with respiratory function. Total QMG score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 13 individual QMG questions. Possible scoring on the QMG range from 0 (mild) to 39 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. The QMG score at baseline (BL) is the average of the screening and Week 0 BL scores. Change from BL was calculated by subtracting the BL value from the post-BL value. The differences in adjusted least square means are presented (Belimumab 10 mg/kg minus Placebo). A negative trt difference indicates benefit relative to placebo. Analysis method was Mixed-Model Repeated Measures adjusted for Trt, Visit, BL QMG Score, Trt by Visit and BL QMG Score by Visit. Only follow-up visits are presented but the analysis also includes all trt phase visits. Only those par. available at indicated time points (represented by n=X in the category titles) were analyzed., Baseline, Week 28, Week 32 and Week 36|Mean Change From Baseline in Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC) Scale Through to Week 24, The total MGC score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 10 individual MGC questions. Possible total MGC scores range from 0 (normal) to 50 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participants last available assessment prior to initiation of study IV infusion. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting the Baseline value from the post-baseline value. The differences in adjusted least square means are presented (Belimumab 10 mg/kg minus Placebo). A negative treatment difference indicates benefit relative to placebo. The analysis method was Mixed-Model Repeated Measures adjusted for Treatment, Visit, Baseline MGC Score, Treatment by Visit, and Baseline MGC Score by Visit., Baseline and up to Week 24|Number of Participants With Improvement by >=3 Points From Baseline Through to Week 24 in the MGC Score, The total MGC score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 10 individual MGC questions. Possible total MGC scores range from 0 (normal) to 50 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participants last available assessment prior to initiation of study IV infusion. Proportions compared using exact analyses stratified by the observed median baseline score (\<= median, \> median). Exact odds ratios, double the exact one-sided p-values and exact confidence intervals were presented. Participants with missing data were assumed to have a negative response., Baseline and up to Week 24|Number of Participants Worsening by >=3 Points From Baseline Through to Week 24 in the MGC Score, The total MGC score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 10 individual MGC questions. Possible total MGC scores range from 0 (normal) to 50 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participants last available assessment prior to initiation of study IV infusion. Proportions compared using exact analyses stratified by the observed median baseline score (\<= median, \> median). Exact odds ratios, double the exact one-sided p-values and exact confidence intervals were presented. Participants with missing data were assumed to have a worsening response., Baseline and up to Week 24|Number of Participants With a Sustained Response in the MGC Score, AA sustained response during the treatment phase is when a participant improves by \>=3 points from Baseline at Week 12, and the participant maintains at least a 3 point improvement from Baseline through Week 24. The total MGC score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 10 individual MGC questions. Possible total MGC scores range from 0 (normal) to 50 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participants last available assessment prior to initiation of study IV infusion. Odds ratios are calculated by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel method without adjusting for any strata. Wald confidence intervals and p-values were presented., Baseline and up to Week 24|Median Time to MGC Response Which is Sustained From Earliest Time Point at Which Improvement by >=3 Points From Baseline is Observed and Maintained Through Week 24, A sustained response during the treatment phase is when a participant improves by \>=3 points from Baseline at Week 12, and the participant maintains at least a 3 point improvement from Baseline through Week 24. The total MGC score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 10 individual MGC questions. Possible total MGC scores range from 0 (normal) to 50 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participants' last available assessment prior to initiation of study intravenous (IV) infusion., Baseline and up to Week 24|Mean Change From Baseline for MGC Score at Week 28, Week 32 and Week 36, The total MGC score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 10 individual MGC questions. Possible total MGC scores range from 0 (normal) to 50 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participant's last available assessment prior to initiation of study IV infusion. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting the Baseline value from the post-BL value. The differences in adjusted least square means are presented (Belimumab 10 mg/kg minus Placebo). A negative treatment difference indicates benefit relative to placebo. The analysis method was Mixed-Model Repeated Measures adjusted for Treatment, Visit, Baseline MGC Score, Treatment by Visit, and Baseline MGC Score by Visit. Only follow-up visits are presented but the analysis also includes all treatment phase visits. Only those participants available at the indicated time points (represented by n=X in the category titles) were analyzed., Baseline, Week 28, Week 32 and Week 36|Number of Participants With a Myasthenia Foundation of America-post Intervention Status (MGFA-PIS) of Minimal Manifestation or Better at Week 24 and Week 36., Myasthenia Foundation of America-post intervention status assesses whether subjects can be categorized as being in a status of Minimal Manifestation (MM), Pharmacologic Remission (PR) or Complete Remission (CR). Only MM and PR were assessed in this study as CR is not achievable based on the definition., Week 24 and Week 36|Number of Participants With MGFA-PIS of Pharmacologic Remission or Better at Week 24 and Week 36, Myasthenia Foundation of America (MGFA) post intervention status (PIS) assesses whether subjects can be categorized as being in a status of Minimal Manifestation (MM), Pharmacologic Remission (PR) or Complete Remission (CR). Only MM and PR were assessed in this study as CR is not achievable based on the definition., Week 24 and Week 36|Number of Participants With MGFA-PIS of Minimal Manifestation Sustained Response (MM at Week 12 and Maintained the Response Through Week 24), Myasthenia Foundation of America (MGFA) post intervention status (PIS) assesses whether subjects can be categorized as being in a status of Minimal Manifestation (MM), Pharmacologic Remission (PR) or Complete Remission (CR). Only MM and PR were assessed in this study as CR is not achievable based on the definition., Week 12 through Week 24|Number of Participants With MGFA-PIS of Pharmacologic Response Sustained Response (PR at Week 12 and Maintained the Response Through Week 24), Myasthenia Foundation of America (MGFA) post intervention status (PIS) assesses whether subjects can be categorized as being in a status of Minimal Manifestation (MM), Pharmacologic Remission (PR) or Complete Remission (CR). Only MM and PR were assessed in this study as CR is not achievable based on the definition., Week 12 through Week 24|Number of Participants With MGFA-PIS (Unchanged, Improved, Worsened) at Week 24 and Week 36, Myasthenia Foundation of America (MGFA) post intervention status (PIS) assesses whether subjects can be categorized as being unchanged, improved or worsened., Week 24 and Week 36|Mean Change From Baseline in the Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living Scale (MG-ADL) at Week 12 and Week 24, The total MG-ADL score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 8 individual MG-ADL questions. Possible total MG-ADL scores ranges from 0 (normal) to 24 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participants last available assessment prior to initiation of study IV infusion. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting the Baseline value from the post-baseline value. The differences in adjusted least square means are presented (Belimumab 10 mg/kg minus Placebo). A negative treatment difference indicates benefit relative to placebo. The analysis method was Mixed-Model Repeated Measures adjusted for Treatment, Visit, Baseline MG-ADL Score, Treatment by Visit, and Baseline MG-ADL Score by Visit. Only those participants available at the indicated time points (represented by n=X in the category titles) were analyzed., Baseline, Week 12 and Week 24|Mean Change From Baseline in the Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living Scale (MG-ADL) at Week 28, Week 32 and Week 36, The total MG-ADL score was calculated by adding the score of each of the 8 individual MG-ADL questions. Possible total MG-ADL scores range from 0 (normal) to 24 (severe). A lower score indicates a better clinical outcome. Baseline is defined as the participant's last available assessment prior to initiation of study IV infusion. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting the Baseline value from the post-Baseline value. The differences in adjusted least square means are presented (Belimumab 10 mg/kg minus Placebo). A negative treatment difference indicates benefit relative to placebo. The analysis method was Mixed-Model Repeated Measures adjusted for Treatment, Visit, Baseline MG-ADL Score, Treatment by Visit, and Baseline MG-ADL Score by Visit. Only follow-up visits are presented but the analysis also includes all treatment phase visits. Only those participants available at the indicated time points (represented by n=X in the category titles) were analyzed., Baseline, Week 28, Week 32 and Week 36
Study BEL115123 is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multinational study of belimumab (10 mg/kg) to investigate the efficacy and safety of belimumab in subjects with MG. The study will enroll male and female outpatients (\> or equal to 18 years of age) with a diagnosis of MG who are 1) acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody positive or muscle specific kinase (MuSK) antibody positive, 2) on current standard of care therapy, and 3) continue to exhibit signs of MG. The study will include 3 phases: a 4 week screening period, a 24 week treatment period, and a 12 week follow-up period. IP will be administered intravenously on Days 0, 14, 28 and then every 28 days through and including Week 20. At Week 24, primary outcomes will be obtained. Follow up evaluations will be conducted at Weeks 28, 32 and 36 for all subjects. The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of belimumab as evaluated by the change in the quantitative myasthenia gravis (QMG) score.