Autologous TriMix-DC Therapeutic Vaccine in Combination With Ipilimumab in Patients With Previously Treated Unresectable Stage III or IV Melanoma
The CTLA-4 blocking monoclonal antibody ipilimumab (MDX-010, BMS-734016), has demonstrated anti-tumor activity in a subgroup of patients with Stage III (unresectable) or Stage IV melanoma (measurable per modified WHO criteria), who have received prior treatment with any regimen (non-experimental or experimental), except a CD-137 agonist or a CTLA4 inhibitor or agonist and relapsed, failed to respond (CR or PR) or did not tolerate that regimen (Wolchok, Neyns et al. 2009; O'Day, Maio et al. 2010). Ipilimumab exerts its therapeutic effect presumably by activating T-lymphocytes that infiltrate the tumor mass to destroy the malignant cells by mechanisms of cytotoxic cellular interaction. Autologous TriMix-DC vaccine can induce a T-cell repertoire that recognizes in a HLA-restricted way the melanoma associated antigens MAGE-A3, MAGE-C2, tyrosinase and gp100. Administration of ipilimumab together with TriMix-DC vaccine therapy may be a more effective treatment for patients with advanced melanoma as compared to either modality alone.
Malignant Melanoma Stage III|Malignant Melanoma Stage IV
BIOLOGICAL: TriMix-DC and ipilimumab
disease control rate according to the immune-related response criteria, Response evaluation by PET/CT every 12 weeks following initiation of study treatment
The CTLA-4 blocking monoclonal antibody ipilimumab (MDX-010, BMS-734016), has demonstrated anti-tumor activity in a subgroup of patients with Stage III (unresectable) or Stage IV melanoma (measurable per modified WHO criteria), who have received prior treatment with any regimen (non-experimental or experimental), except a CD-137 agonist or a CTLA4 inhibitor or agonist and relapsed, failed to respond (CR or PR) or did not tolerate that regimen (Wolchok, Neyns et al. 2009; O'Day, Maio et al. 2010). Ipilimumab exerts its therapeutic effect presumably by activating T-lymphocytes that infiltrate the tumor mass to destroy the malignant cells by mechanisms of cytotoxic cellular interaction. Autologous TriMix-DC vaccine can induce a T-cell repertoire that recognizes in a HLA-restricted way the melanoma associated antigens MAGE-A3, MAGE-C2, tyrosinase and gp100. Administration of ipilimumab together with TriMix-DC vaccine therapy may be a more effective treatment for patients with advanced melanoma as compared to either modality alone.