Azoles Targeting Recurrent High Grade Gliomas
High-grade gliomas are the most common and aggressive type of brain cancer. Scientists don't fully understand how they grow and spread, and treatments haven't improved much in recent years. However, it's been discovered that these cancers rely heavily on using glucose to maintain their cancerous traits. In lab tests, drugs from the azole class, which target a key step in glucose metabolism, have shown promise in reducing tumor growth in these cancers. Researchers now want to test two of these drugs, ketoconazole and posaconazole, in patients with recurring high-grade gliomas. A small group of these patients will receive either one or several doses of these drugs before undergoing surgery. During the surgery, doctors will measure how much of the drug is present in the brain. They will also study how the drug affects the tumor, particularly its ability to process glucose. This research aims to provide initial insights into how these drugs work in patients with this type of brain cancer, which could guide future research and treatment strategies.
Brain Tumor, Recurrent|Cancer, Advanced|Glioma of Brain
DRUG: Ketoconazole (KCZ)|DRUG: Posaconazole (PCZ)
Intratumoral concentrations of KCZ or PCZ, Following either single dose regimen(4-24hours prior to surgery) or repeated dose regimen of KCZ( for 2-5 days) or PCZ( for 7-10 days)|Plasma concentrations of KCZ or PCZ, Following either single dose regimen(4-24hours prior to surgery) or repeated dose regimen of KCZ(for 2-5 days) or PCZ(for 7-10 days)
Assess Hexokinase 2 activity, enzyme activity measured using optical absorbance with a spectrophotometer, Following either single dose regimen(4-24hours prior to surgery) or repeated dose regimen of KCZ(for 2-5 days) or PCZ(for 7-10 days) compared to archive tumor tissue from baseline|Assess the biological effects of KCZ or PCZ on metabolites within the glycolytic pathway, quantify presence/absence of metabolites using mass spectrometry, Following either single dose regimen(4-24hours prior to surgery) or repeated dose regimen of KCZ(for 2-5 days) or PCZ(for 7-10 days) compared to archive tumor tissue from baseline|assess the biological effects of KCZ or PCZ on tumor proliferation, measured using ki-67 proliferation index, Following either single dose regimen(4-24hours prior to surgery) or repeated dose regimen of KCZ(for 2-5 days) or PCZ(for 7-10 days) compared to archive tumor tissue from baseline|assess biological effects of KCZ or PCZ on tumor cell death, measured using TUNEL staining, Following either single dose regimen(4-24hours prior to surgery) or repeated dose regimen of KCZ(for 2-5 days) or PCZ(for 7-10 days) compared to archive tumor tissue from baseline|assess biological effects of KCZ or PCZ on tumor angiogenesis, measured using VEGF/CD-31 immunohistochemistry, Following either single dose regimen(4-24hours prior to surgery) or repeated dose regimen of KCZ(for 2-5 days) or PCZ(for 7-10 days) compared to archive tumor tissue from baseline
High grade gliomas (WHO grade III and IV)(HGG) are the most common malignant, and aggressive brain tumour in humans. Current understanding of the mechanisms contributing to their growth and progression remain limited. Furthermore, treatment options have not advanced in recent decades. Recently, it has become evident that these tumours are dependent on glucose metabolism to maintain oncogenic properties. From a preclinical standpoint, targeting hexokinase 2 (HK2), the first committed step of glucose metabolism, with azole class drugs has been shown to display favourable anti-tumour effects in both in vitro and in vivo HGG models. We would like to translate these preclinical findings into the clinical setting by implementing a proof-of biological concept study with two azole drugs: ketoconazole (KCZ) and posaconazole (PCZ). A small cohort of recurrent HGG patients will receive either a single-, or repeated, steady state dose of either KCZ or PCZ and will then go for surgery where drug concentrations will be measured intraoperatively. Study drug selection and dosing details will be selected based on urgency of surgery and patient clinical characteristics Downstream biological effects of drug on tumour tissue, including HK2 activity, will also be assessed. This study will provide a preliminary understanding of azole drug activity in recurrent HGG patients and will help inform future studies of azole drug efficacy in this patient population