Analgesic Efficacy of Free-opioid Anesthesia for Colorectal Surgery
Objectives: To compare free-opioid anesthesia (the combination of epidural anesthesia, intravenous lidocaine, ketamine, propofol, and sevoflurane) and opioid anesthesia (fentanyl, propofol and sevoflurane) regarding intraoperative analgesic efficacy in colectomies and rectal resections at Viet Tiep Friendship Hospital.

Methods: A prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial was performed on 98 patients who were anesthetized for colorectal surgery from December 2019 to November 2021. Patients were randomized into 2 groups: Group OA - Opioid anesthesia (n = 49): Intraoperative pain control by fentanyl; FOA group - Free-opioid anesthesia (n = 49): Intraoperative pain control by continuous infusion of lidocaine, bolus doses of ketamine combined with epidural levobupivacaine.
Colorectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Free-opioid anesthesia|PROCEDURE: opioid anesthesia
analgesic efficacy of free-opioid anesthesia, intraoperative alteration of Surgical Pleth Index (SPI). The Surgical Pleth Index (SPI) is an objective tool that can reflect nociception-antinociception balance and guide the use of intraoperative analgesics. The values of the SPI range from 0 to 100. During general anaesthesia, maintaining a value between 20 and 50 is generally recommended. When the SPI value is greater than 50 and exceeds 3-5 min, it routinely indicates that the noxious stimulation is too strong and that additional analgesic drugs are needed., before induction of anesthesia|analgesic efficacy of free-opioid anesthesia, intraoperative alteration of Surgical Pleth Index (SPI), After intubation|analgesic efficacy of free-opioid anesthesia, intraoperative alteration of Surgical Pleth Index (SPI), After skin incision|analgesic efficacy of free-opioid anesthesia, intraoperative alteration of Surgical Pleth Index (SPI), when the restoration of eyelids reflex emerged|analgesic efficacy of free-opioid anesthesia, The number of times of intraoperative analgesics adjustment, Intraoperatively (From the induction of anesthesia to the emergence)|analgesic efficacy of free-opioid anesthesia, the proportion of patients requiring postoperative pain rescue, postoperatively (upto 3 days after surgery)
Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T0 (right after entering the operating theatre)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T1 (before induction of anesthesia)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T2 (patients lost eyelid reflex and response to verbal command)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T3 (before intubation)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T4 (after intubation)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T5 (before skin incision)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T6 (after skin incision)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T7 (colon release)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T8 (dissection of colorectal mesentery)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T9 (colon resection)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T10 (restore gastrointestinal flow)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T11 (drainage placement)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T12 (before skin closure)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T13 (immediately after skin closure)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T14 (eyelids reflex restored and patients eyes could open on command)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T15 (before extubation)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative mean arterial blood pressure, Non-invasive blood pressure was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The mean arterial blood pressure at each time point was compared between the two groups., T16 (15 minutes after extubation)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T0 (right after entering the operating theatre)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T1 (before induction of anesthesia)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T2 (patients lost eyelid reflex and response to verbal command)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T3 (before intubation)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T4 (after intubation)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T5 (before skin incision)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T6 (after skin incision)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T7 (colon release)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T8 (dissection of colorectal mesentery)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T9 (colon resection)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T10 (restore gastrointestinal flow)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T11 (drainage placement)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T12 (before skin closure)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T13 (immediately after skin closure)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T14 (eyelids reflex restored and patients eyes could open on command)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T15 (before extubation)|Effects of free-opioid anesthesia on intraoperative heart rate, Heart rate was assessed every 5 minutes intraoperatively and recorded at some investigated time points. The heart rate at each time point was compared between the two groups., T16 (15 minutes after extubation)|changes in the concentration of IL (Interleukin)-6, Blood samples were collected in a heparin tube immediately before surgery (T0) and 1 hour after extubation. They were centrifuged, and then plasma was separated and stored at -70°C until being analyzed. IL-6 levels were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Changes in IL-6 were recorded and compared between the two groups, Before surgery|changes in the concentration of IL (Interleukin)-6, Blood samples were collected in a heparin tube immediately before surgery (T0) and 1 hour after extubation. They were centrifuged, and then plasma was separated and stored at -70°C until being analyzed. IL-6 levels were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Changes in IL-6 were recorded and compared between the two groups, 1 hour after surgery|changes in the concentration of IL-10, Blood samples were collected in a heparin tube immediately before surgery (T0) and 1 hour after extubation. They were centrifuged, and then plasma was separated and stored at -70°C until being analyzed. IL-10 levels were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Changes in IL-10 were recorded and compared between the two groups, Before surgery|changes in the concentration of IL-10, Blood samples were collected in a heparin tube immediately before surgery (T0) and 1 hour after extubation. They were centrifuged, and then plasma was separated and stored at -70°C until being analyzed. IL-10 levels were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Changes in IL-10 were recorded and compared between the two groups, 1 hour after surgery|Adverse effects of free-opioid anesthesia, the rate of patients suffering nausea and vomiting, up to 3 days postoperatively
After being placed an epidural catheter and given a bolus dose of dexamethasone 0.1 mg/kg, patients was endotracheal anesthetized with propofol 1% 2-2.5 mg/kg, rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg. Intubation was implemented when TOF (Train Of Four)=0 and RE (Response Entropy), SE (State Entropy) ≤ 60. Patients in OA group received a bolus dose of fentanyl 2 µg/kg before induction of anesthesia while those in FOA group received bolus doses of lidocaine 1 mg/kg and ketamine 0.5 mg/kg. In FOA group, lidocaine 10% was sprayed on the patients glottis to facilitate intubation.

For anesthesia maintenance, in group OA, a bolus dose of fentanyl 3 µg/kg was given 5 minutes before skin incision, and then a continuous infusion of fentanyl 2 µg/kg/h was maintained for intraoperative pain management; fentanyl 0.5 μg/kg was bolused when SPI (Surgical Pleth Index) \> 50, 40 \< SE \< 60, TOF = 0 and the patient was hemodynamically stable. Propofol and fentanyl were discontinued at the start of skin closure. In FOA group, patients received intraoperative multimodal analgesia, in which an epidural bolus of 3 - 5 ml of levobupivacaine 0.1% was followed by a continuous infusion of 3 - 5 ml/h epidurally; in addition, intravenous infusion of lidocaine 1 mg/kg/hour and ketamine 0.25 mg/kg/h were maintained until the end of surgery. Patients were given a bolus of 3-5 ml levobupivacaine 0.1% epidurally and ketamine 0.25 mg/kg intravenously if SPI \> 50, 40 \< SE \< 60, TOF = 0 and hemodynamics was stable.

For all patients, anesthesia was maintained by volatile anesthetics (Sevoflurane or Desflurane) to ensure 40 \< SE \< 60, and rocuronium 0.2 mg/kg was repeated when TOF = 2 (the last injection of neuromuscular blockade was not given when the estimated duration from the point of injection to the point of abdominal closure is shorter than 20 minutes). Mechanical ventilation was provided with a tidal volume 6-8 ml/kg in the volume-controlled mode and respiratory rate at 10-12 breath/minute, FiO2 (Fraction of inspired oxygen)=50%. Peak airway pressure was maintained within the range of 12-16 cmH2O and EtCO2 (End-tidal Carbon dioxide) was kept from 35 to 40 mmHg with a fresh gas flow of 1.2 - 2 liters/minute. At the end of surgery, reversal of neuromuscular blockade was performed with neostigmine combined with atropine, and extubation was carried out when patients met the criteria. Postoperative pain management was implemented with patient-controlled epidural levobupivacaine 0.1% for 72 hours, and pain rescue with fentanyl 0.5 μg/kg.