Masses in Young Patients - International Ovarian Tumour Analysis (MY-IOTA)
This multicenter observational study aims to validate the IOTA Simple Rules, Benign Descriptors, and ADNEX model in a cohort of patients equal or under the age of 20. Moreover, the study aims to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of subjective assessment by ultrasound and to analyze the rate of complications in patients treated conservatively.
Adnexal Mass|Adnexal Tumor|Adnexal Cyst|Adnexal Masses in Young Girls and Adolescents
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Group 2: Conservative management (follow-up)|PROCEDURE: Group 1: Surgical management
Estimation of the ability of the ADNEX model without CA125 to discriminate between benign and malignant adnexal masses when detected in patients aged 20 or under (AUC), Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). This will be done using the estimated probability of malignancy, which equals 1 minus the estimated probability of a benign tumor. 95% confidence intervals provided. Analysis will be done twice: for subgroup 1 and for subgroups 1 and 2 combined., Outcome based on histology for group 1 assessed at 12 months after recruitment or no sign of malignancy during the ultrasound follow-up for group 2 assessed up to 12 months after recruitment.|Estimation of the ability of the ADNEX model and subjective assessment to classify adnexal masses as benign or malignant when detected in patients aged 20 or under (Sensitivity, Specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value), Sensitivity, Specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value. Providing 95% confidence intervals and ,for ADNEX, Using several cut-offs on the risk of malignancy. Analysis will be done twice: for subgroup 1 and for subgroups 1 and 2 combined., Outcome based on histology for group 1 or follow-up for group 2 (maximum 12 months after recruitment)|Estimation of the ability of the ADNEX model to predict individual risk of malignancy of adnexal masses when detected in patients aged 20 or under (Calibration), O:E ratio, and generate a flexible calibration curve. Analysis will be done twice: for subgroup 1 and for subgroups 1 and 2 combined., Outcome based on histology for group 1 or follow-up for group 2 (maximum 12 months after recruitment)|Estimation of the ability of the Benign Descriptors to detect malignancies in patients aged 20 or under., Number and percentage of patients that fit any BD, only BD1, only BD2, only BD3, and only BD4 and percentage of malignancies among patients that fit any BD, only BD1, only BD2, only BD3, only BD4. We provide 95% confidence intervals for every result., Outcome based on histology for group 1 or follow-up for group 2 (maximum 12 months after recruitment)|Estimation of the ability of the ADNEX model without CA125 to discriminate between benign and malignant adnexal masses when detected in patients aged 20 or under (AUC), Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). This will be done using the estimated probability of malignancy, which equals 1 minus the estimated probability of a benign tumor. 95% confidence intervals provided. Analysis will be done twice: for subgroup 1 and for subgroups 1 and 2 combined., Outcome based on histology for group 1 or follow-up for group 2 (maximum 12 months after recruitment)
Occurrence of complications during follow up., We calculated the follow-up time from the recruitment visit until surgery, spontaneous resolution or death. If none of these events was observed, follow-up time was censored at the time of the last visit. We constructed cumulative incidence curves, considering the competing risk setting (three possible events). We report the estimated cumulative incidence of each event (with 95% confidence intervals) at 3 and 12 months of follow-up., The occurrence of complications will be reported at two specific time points: at 3 months and 12 months after recruitment.|Examination of natural history, We will describe ultrasound characteristics (median, IQR and range for continuous variables, frequency and proportion for categorical variables) at every visit (initial visit, 6-8 week visit, 3 month visit, 12 month visit).

This will be done overall and separately for three subgroups.

* Patients in group 1. It does not matter whether surgery eventually took place or not.
* Patients in group 2, and for which the mass has spontaneously resolved at the next visit (this subgroup is not applicable at the 12 month visit).
* Patients in group 2 (this subgroup is not applicable at the 12 month visit) Exceptions: decision to operate, but it did not happen; LFU after that visit., Initial visit, 6-8 week visit, 3-month visit, and 12-month visit.
Ovarian masses are uncommon in children, with an estimated annual incidence of 2.6/100,000. They are most identified in the neonatal period or around the time of menarche. Most ovarian cysts are benign and 55-70% of which are mature cystic teratomas. In most cases, patients are asymptomatic and the ovarian lesions are incidentally detected through ultrasound examinations. However, up to 15% of cases may involve abdominal pain and torsion. Furthermore, despite the low incidence of ovarian cancer (less than 1% of all pediatric cancers), the possibility of malignant tumor must be addressed.

In 2018, a national survey of pediatric surgeons in the UK revealed significant variability in the strategies employed for investigating and surgically managing adnexal lesions in children and adolescents. Although there is a spread consensus that ultrasound indices are useful for distinguishing between benign and malignant lesions in pediatric patient, the evidence available for this specific population is limited and it lacks comprehensive data from large cohorts. Moreover, existing models developed by the International Ovarian Tumor Analysis (IOTA) group, such as the Simple Rules, Benign Descriptors, and ADNEX model, have not been validated in this younger population. Additionally, it is still unclear if these tools remain validated with a transabdominal approach, primarily used for children and non-sexually active adolescents.

The primary objective of this prospective study is therefore to assess the performance of these existing ultrasonography-based risk tools in discriminating between benign and malignant adnexal masses in neonates, young girls and adolescents using transabdominal and/or transvaginal ultrasound.

Secondary aims are the diagnostic accuracy of subjective assessment by ultrasound, the understanding of the natural history of adnexal masses at 6-8 weeks, 3 months, and 12 months and the assessment of the complications rate (such as rupture, torsion, or malignancy) in patients treated conservatively.

Final outcome will be based on pathology in patients who undergo surgery and on pattern recognition, i.e. subjective assessment of ultrasound examiner, in patients managed conservatively for masses where morphology remains unchanged during follow-up.

The study will be conducted over a minimum of two years. We anticipate recruiting 1000 surgically managed masses over a 24-month period.