sEphB4-HSA in Treating Participants With BCG-Unresponsive or Refractory Bladder Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein (sEphB4-HSA), and to see how well it works in treating participants with bladder cancer that has come back or that isn't responding to bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine treatment. sEphB4-HAS prevents tumor cells from multiplying and blocks several compounds that promote the growth of blood vessels that bring nutrients to the tumor. Giving sEphB4-HSA may work better in treating participants with bladder cancer.
Recurrent Bladder Carcinoma|Bladder Cancer Stage 0|Bladder Cancer Stage I
OTHER: Pharmacokinetic Study|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant EphB4-HSA Fusion Protein
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be evaluated in accordance with the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 6 months|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D), The MTD is defined as the highest dose tested in which none or only one patient experienced DLT attributable to the study drug, when 6 patients were treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. The MTD is one dose level below the lowest dose tested in which 2 or more patients experienced DLT attributable to the study drug. The MTD will be the RP2D., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dosing (RP2D) of intravesical sEphB4-HSA administration.

II. To describe the dose limiting toxicities and adverse event profile of intravesical sEphB4-HSA administration in patients with bladder carcinoma in situ (CIS) and/or high grade T1/Ta bladder cancer (BCa).

III. To describe the pharmacokinetics of intravesical sEphB4-HSA administration.

IV. To explore the anti-tumor activity of intravesical sEphB4-HSA administration as manifested by responses to treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Participants receive sEphB4-HSA intravesically over 2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, and again at 3 and 6 months.