Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) and Sleep Apnea
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects 5-10% of women in the United States. Its onset is usually at the time of puberty with manifestations of menstrual irregularity, hirsutism, and obesity. Women with PCOS suffer at an early stage of adulthood from all of the components of the metabolic syndrome, a syndrome that typically has its peak in mid-life in other subject populations. Women with PCOS are more insulin resistant than weight-matched control women and have exceptionally high rates of early-onset impaired glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes, as well as a substantially elevated risk for hypertension, dyslipidemia, coronary, and other vascular diseases. While recent evidence indicates that the prevalence of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) is 30-40 fold higher in PCOS than in weight-matched control women, the possible role of SDB in causing the increased metabolic and cardiovascular risks of PCOS has not been evaluated. The overall objective of the proposed study is to analyze the direction of causality between sleep disturbances and markers of the metabolic syndrome in PCOS.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Obstructive Sleep Apnea
DEVICE: continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)|DRUG: depot leuprolide plus estrogen/progestin replacement|DRUG: pioglitazone|PROCEDURE: REM frag|PROCEDURE: SWS supp
Aim 1: Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI) [Baseline], Apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) is an index used to assess the severity of sleep apnea based on the total number of complete cessations (apnea) and partial obstructions (hypopnea) of breathing occurring per hour of sleep., baseline|Aim 1: Apnea-hypopnea Index (AHI) [After Treatment], Apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) is an index used to assess the severity of sleep apnea based on the total number of complete cessations (apnea) and partial obstructions (hypopnea) of breathing occurring per hour of sleep., 8 weeks|Aim 2: Insulin Sensitivity Index (SI) From Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test [Baseline], Insulin sensitivity Index (SI) is the increase in net fractional glucose clearance rate per unit change in plasma insulin concentration after an intravenous glucose load. SI quantifies the capacity of insulin to promote glucose disposal., baseline (0 weeks)|Aim 2: Insulin Sensitivity Index (SI) From Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test [After CPAP], Insulin sensitivity Index (SI) is the increase in net fractional glucose clearance rate per unit change in plasma insulin concentration after an intravenous glucose load. SI quantifies the capacity of insulin to promote glucose disposal., 8 weeks|Aim 2: Acute Insulin Resistance to Intravenous Glucose (AIRg) [Baseline], Acute insulin resistance to intravenous glucose (AIRg) is a measure of the secretion of insulin during the first 10 minutes after an intravenous glucose load. AIRg addresses adequacy of insulin secretion., baseline (0 weeks)|Aim 2: Acute Insulin Resistance to Intravenous Glucose (AIRg) [After CPAP], Acute insulin resistance to intravenous glucose (AIRg) is a measure of the secretion of insulin during the first 10 minutes after an intravenous glucose load. AIRg addresses adequacy of insulin secretion., 8 weeks|Aim 3: Insulin Sensitivity Index (SI) From Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test [Baseline], Insulin sensitivity Index (SI) is the increase in net fractional glucose clearance rate per unit change in plasma insulin concentration after an intravenous glucose load. SI quantifies the capacity of insulin to promote glucose disposal., Baseline|Aim 3: Insulin Sensitivity Index (SI) From Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test [After 3 Nights of SWS Suppression], Insulin sensitivity Index (SI) is the increase in net fractional glucose clearance rate per unit change in plasma insulin concentration after an intravenous glucose load. SI quantifies the capacity of insulin to promote glucose disposal., 3 nights
Aim 1: Blood Pressure [Baseline], Blood pressure is the pressure of blood within the arteries, produced primarily by the contraction of the heart muscle., baseline (0 weeks)|Aim 1: Blood Pressure [After Treatment], Blood pressure is the pressure of blood within the arteries, produced primarily by the contraction of the heart muscle., 8 weeks|Aim 1: Visceral Adiposity [Baseline], Visceral adiposity refers to the degree of fat located in the peritoneal cavity (abdominal area) that surrounds the body's internal organs., up to half of an hour|Aim 1: Visceral Adiposity [After Treatment], Visceral adiposity refers to the degree of fat located in the peritoneal cavity (abdominal area) that surrounds the body's internal organs., up to half of an hour|Aim 2: Mean Cortisol Levels Over 24 Hours, Per Patient [Baseline], This outcome is defined as the average concentration of cortisol (a glucocorticoid produced by the adrenal gland) in the blood, measured repeatedly over a 24 hour period in each patient individually., 10 minutes, over a period of 24 hours|Aim 2: Mean Cortisol Levels Over 24 Hours, Per Patient [After Treatment], This outcome is defined as the average concentration of cortisol (a glucocorticoid produced by the adrenal gland) in the blood, measured repeatedly over a 24 hour period in each patient individually., 10 minutes, over a period of 24 hours|Aim 2: Mean Leptin Levels Over 24 Hours, Per Patient [Baseline], This outcome is defined as the average concentration of leptin (a hormone produced by the fat cells that affects feeding behavior and appetite) in the blood, measured repeatedly over a 24 hour period in each patient individually., 15 minutes over a period of 24 hours|Aim 2: Mean Leptin Levels Over 24 Hours, Per Patient [After Treatment], This outcome is defined as the average concentration of leptin (a hormone produced by the fat cells that affects feeding behavior and appetite) in the blood, measured repeatedly over a 24 hour period in each patient individually., 15 minutes over a period of 24 hours
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects 5-10% of women and may be viewed as the combination of hyperandrogenism with the classical features of the metabolic syndrome in young women. PCOS presents a unique opportunity to dissect the relationship between metabolic and cardiovascular risk and sleep disordered breathing (SDB) in a population where intrinsic effects of aging have not yet developed. Because a relationship between obstructive sleep apnea, insulin resistance and elevated testosterone levels has also been observed in men and in women without PCOS, insights gained from studies in PCOS will have broad implications.

The Specific Aims of the present application are:

Specific Aim 1: to test the hypothesis that sleep disturbances are caused by hyperandrogenemia and hyperinsulinemia that characterize PCOS. Following a detailed baseline evaluation of sleep, hormonal, metabolic and cardiovascular parameters, women with PCOS will be randomized to an 8-week treatment phase with pioglitazone or depot leuprolide plus estrogen/progestin replacement or placebo. Pioglitazone will reduce insulin levels, and consequently androgen levels, in PCOS. We will compare the effects of androgen reduction alone (depot leuprolide plus estrogen/progestin) to those of insulin plus androgen reduction achieved with pioglitazone. Primary comparisons will be the change in sleep parameters from baseline between: placebo \& pioglitazone; placebo \& leuprolide/estrogen/progestin; pioglitazone \& leuprolide/estrogen/progestin.

Specific Aim 2: to test the hypothesis that sleep disturbances cause the hormonal, metabolic and cardiovascular alterations seen in women with PCOS. PCOS women with SDB and matched control women with SDB will be evaluated at baseline and following 8 weeks of CPAP treatment. The primary comparison will be between baseline and post-treatment parameters in PCOS women. The secondary comparison will be the post-treatment change from baseline between PCOS and control women to test the hypothesis that for the same degree in improvement in SDB, the magnitude of change in metabolic and cardiovascular measures will be greater in PCOS than in controls.

Specific Aim 3: to test the hypothesis that in normal young women, experimental manipulation of sleep that recapitulates the sleep disturbances characteristic of women with PCOS will result in metabolic, hormonal, and cardiovascular alterations that are typical of the metabolic syndrome. A group of healthy young women will be studied twice using a randomized cross-over design. In one study, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep will be fragmented by experimentally induced microarousals for 3 consecutive nights and non-REM sleep will be left undisturbed. In the other, slow wave activity will be suppressed without awakening the subject and REM sleep will be left undisturbed. Each study will be preceded by 2 nights of baseline sleep. Results were not reported for Aim 3 since no devices or drugs were tested in this aim.