Search for Predictive Factors of Resistance to Treatment for Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer by Studying the Expression of microRNAs
Several drugs are available for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer such as chemotherapy (docetaxel, cabazitaxel) and novel hormonal agents (abiraterone, enzalutamide), in France. The oncologist has to choose between those two type of treatment, without any biological predictor of efficacy for his patient. It is always difficult to choose knowing that 30 to 50% of patients won't benefit from the treatment chosen. It shows why resistant mechanisms to treatment need to be elucidated. MicroRNA (miR) are short RNA, implicated in messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) regulation. Evidence is emerging that miR is implicated in prostate cancer response to treatment. It would be interesting to determine if a miR profile can predict treatment response to chemotherapy and/or to novel hormonal agents.
Prostate Cancer|Resistance, Disease|MicroRNAs
BIOLOGICAL: Blood sample
miRNA and chemotherapy, miRNA expression profile predicting resistance to chemotherapy, 30 months|miRNA and novel hormonal agent (NHA), miRNA expression profile predicting resistance to novel hormonal agents, 30 months
miRNA and progression free survival (PFS), correlation between miRNA profile and progression free survival, 30 months|miRNA and overall survival (OS), correlation between miRNA profile and overall survival, 30 months|miRNA in tissue sample, comparison between miRNA expression in serum and in tumoral tissue, 30 months
Several drugs are available for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer such as chemotherapy (docetaxel, cabazitaxel) and novel hormonal agents (abiraterone, enzalutamide), in France. The oncologist has to choose between those two type of treatment, without any biological predictor of efficacy for his patient. It is always difficult to choose knowing that 30 to 50% of patients won't benefit from the treatment chosen. It shows why resistant mechanisms to treatment need to be elucidated. MicroRNA (miR) are short RNA, implicated in messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) regulation. Evidence is emerging that miR is implicated in prostate cancer response to treatment. It would be interesting to determine if a miR profile can predict treatment response to chemotherapy and/or to novel hormonal agents.