Long-term QoL in Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia Treated With ATO or Standard Chemotherapy
This is a prospective and international observational study run by the GIMEMA. All data will be centrally collected and analyzed at the GIMEMA Data Center in Rome (Italy). Patients reported outcomes will be collected using internationally validated questionnaires.
Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
OTHER: QoL questionnaires
To examine cross-sectional long-term differences in health outcomes after treatment end., Indicated by selected key-QoL outcomes (i.e. Fatigue, Cognitive and Role functioning scales from the EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire), between APL patients treated with ATRA plus chemotherapy versus patients treated with ATRA plus ATO., Two years after study entry.
To examine long-term differences in health outcomes after treatment end indicated by all QoL outcomes not considered in primary objectives, between APL patients treated with ATRA plus chemotherapy versus patients treated with ATRA plus ATO., (including the functional status and symptomatology)., Two years after study entry.|To investigate clinical, laboratory, socio-demographic and QoL factors predicting long-term health/QoL outcomes of APL patients after treatment end., (as reported at 3rd consolidation)., Two years after study entry.|To compare the long-term QoL profile, after treatment end, of APL patients treated with ATRA- chemotherapy and ATRA-ATO with that of their peers in the general population., Compared with the general population (without cancer)., Two years after study entry.|To assess and compare the cumulative incidence and types of physician-reported late adverse effects (e.g. cardiac function) and secondary cancer, between randomized treatment groups., (ATRA plus chemotherapy versus ATRA plus ATO)., Two years after study entry.|To assess and compare the prevalence of long-term patient-reported comorbidities and symptoms, after treatment end, between randomized treatment groups., (ATRA plus chemotherapy versus ATRA plus ATO)., Two years after study entry.
To assess long-term QoL patterns over time of long-term APL survivors., After treatment end, overall and by treatment group., Two years after study entry.
This is a prospective and international observational study run by the GIMEMA. All data will be centrally collected and analyzed at the GIMEMA Data Center in Rome (Italy). Patients reported outcomes will be collected using internationally validated questionnaires.