Natural Killer-cell Therapy for Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This study investigates an innovative treatment for relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia exploiting administration of ex vivo-generated allogeneic natural killer (NK) cells with preceding non-myeloablative conditioning chemotherapy with or without subsequent in vivo IL-2 cytokine support.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia Refractory|Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Relapsed, Adult
BIOLOGICAL: UCB-NK cells|DRUG: IL-2
Phase I: Evaluate Safety and Toxicity using the CTCAE toxicity criteria, Patients will be evaluated intensively using the CTCAE toxicity criteria and graft versus host disease (GvHD) classification criteria, defining dose limiting toxicities (DLTs): 1. Any treatment-emergent non-hematologic grade 3 toxicity lasting \>72 hours, except for transient constitutional symptoms, diarrhea, fatigue or skin rash not requiring systemic steroid therapy. 2. Acute GvHD \>grade 2 within 6 weeks of the first IL-2 dose. If in any of the three patients of each individual cohort of the phase I study a DLT occurs, the cohort will be extended to 6 patients. If 2 patients experience DLT within a cohort of 3 or 6 patients the study will be stopped in case the patients were only receiving NK cells or the study will be continued without IL-2 or the lower dose of IL-2 in case the patients were receiving NK cells in combination with IL-2. Serious, life threatening adverse events or grade 4 toxicity will be a reason to terminate the study or continue without IL-2 cytokine support., 28 days|Phase IIa: % blasts or % minimal residual disease (MRD) in the bone marrow, The primary objective of phase IIa of the study is to evaluate the effect of UCB-NK cell adoptive immunotherapy in combination with SC IL-2 following a non-myeloablative immunosuppressive conditioning regime on disease activity in patients with AML. At day 28 a bone marrow biopsy will be performed to evaluate % blasts or % minimal residual disease (MRD) in the bone marrow. A complete remission is defined as BM blasts \<5%; marrow should not be merely 'aplastic': at least 200 cells should be enumerated or cellularity should be at least 10%. MRD will be evaluated by flow cytometry (leukemia associated phenotypes (LAPs)) and/or molecular quantification of patient specific mutations (PCR).

For phase IIa of the study the clinical evaluation data (% blasts and % MRD positivity) will be translated in a clinical response (stable disease, partial remission, complete remission) and quantitative presented., 28 days
Evaluation of the in vivo lifespan and expansion potential of the NK cells following adoptive transfer and IL-2 administration., We will determine the percentage and absolute number of donor-derived NK cells in peripheral blood and bone marrow after infusion using flow cytometry and DNA chimerism analysis. A positive expansion rate of the infused NK cells requires an absolute number of ≥100 donor-derived NK cells per μl blood at day +7 and/or +14., 28 days|Exploration of the functional activity of the donor NK cells in PB and BM, with or without SC IL-2 administration., NK cells from peripheral blood and bone marrow will be obtained. These cells will be stimulated in vitro for 4 hours and subsequently the degranulation marker CD107a and immunoregulatory marker IFNy will be measured by flow cytometry. These results can be compared between patients that did receive IL-2 or did not., 28 days|Evaluation of plasma cytokine concentrations (IL-2, IL-15, IL-7, IFN-γ, TNFα, IL-6) pre- and post-infusion of IL-2., This will be correlated with absolute lymphocyte count and in vivo NK cell persistence and expansion., 28 days|Number of patients eligible for allo-SCT based on hematologic response, Only in Phase IIa., 28 days
This study investigates an innovative treatment for relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) exploiting administration of ex vivo-generated allogeneic natural killer (NK) cells with preceding non-myeloablative conditioning chemotherapy with or without subsequent in vivo IL-2 cytokine support.

This is a prospective phase I/IIa study. The first phase is a IL-2 dose-escalating safety study in twelve patients. The second phase of the study is designed as a Simon's optimal two-stage single-arm phase IIa study, comprising seventeen patients. Prior to NK cell infusion, all patients will receive cyclophosphamide and fludarabine (Cy/Flu) based lymphodepleting chemotherapy. On day 0, all patients will receive a fixed dose of 1.0-3.0 x 10\^9 allogeneic umbilical cord blood-derived NK cells (UCB-NK cells). These cells are generated ex vivo from CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells obtained from an allogeneic UCB unit.

In phase I of the study patients will receive UCB-NK cells without subcutaneous (SC) IL-2, with lower dose SC IL-2 or with higher dose SC IL-2 (n=3 per treatment group, n=6 in the highest tolerable dose). After establishing the safety of UCB-NK cells combined with SC IL-2, we will continue with phase IIa of the study, with ten patients in the first stage (including the six patients from phase I with comparable IL-2 dose) and if clinical efficacy is achieved an additional seven patients in the second stage.