Romidepsin and Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate how safe and effective the combination of the study drugs romidepsin and lenalidomide is for treating patients with peripheral t-cell lymphoma (PTCL) who have not been previously treated for this cancer. Currently, there is no standard treatment for patients with PTCL; the most common treatment used is a combination of drugs called CHOP, but this can be a difficult treatment to tolerate because of side effects, and is not particularly effective for most patients with PTCL. Romidepsin (Istodax®) is a type of drug called an HDAC inhibitor. It interacts with DNA (genetic material in cells) in ways that can stop tumors from growing. It is given as an infusion through the veins. Lenalidomide (Revlimid®) is a type of drug known as an immunomodulatory drug, or IMID for short. This drug affects how tumor cells grow and survive, including affecting blood vessel growth in tumors. It is given as an oral tablet (by mouth).
Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|Hepatosplenic T-cell Lymphoma|Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma|Stage I Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IA Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage IB Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage II Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IIA Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage IIB Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage III Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IIIA Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage IIIB Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage IV Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IVA Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage IVB Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome
DRUG: romidepsin|DRUG: lenalidomide|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Response Rate (ORR), as Defined Per Cheson Criteria, The endpoint for this objective will be objective response rate (ORR), defined per Cheson criteria. Response will be assessed by imaging after cycles 3 and 6, and then every 6 months thereafter. Response at 3 months (after cycle 3) will be used for purposes of the interim efficacy analysis., Assessed after cycles 3 and 6, then every 6 months up to 3 years
Incidence of Toxicity Assessed Using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The frequency and severity of toxicity events will be evaluated. All adverse events will be summarized as to type, severity, frequency, timing and attribution. Grade 3 or greater AEs that occurred in at least 10% of the patients are reported here, Evaluated once per cycle (1 cycle=28 days) up to 1 year.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), l be progression-free survival (PFS)

1 and 3 years after start of treatment as well as the duration of response from start of therapy, defined per Cheson criteria., Reported at 1 and 3 years after the start of treatment|Overall Survival (OS), Survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of death, up to three years from the start of study treatment. Overall Survival (OS) is reported below as the proportion of patients who are alive at 1 and 2 years after starting treatment., Reported at 1 and 2 years after the start of treatment|Duration of Response, Defined Per Cheson Criteria, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for Complete Remission or Partial Response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented., Assessed from start of therapy for up to 3 years|Delay to Cytotoxic Chemotherapy, Time to first cytotoxic chemotherapy is defined as the time (in months) from start of study treatment to time of first dose of anti-neoplastic cytotoxic chemotherapy that is administered to treat lymphoma., Up to 1 year
NM PET/CT vs. CT Imaging in PTCL, To evaluate the use of NM PET/CT vs CT imaging in PTCL, a review of the utilized imaging modalities during treatment as a tool of response assessment will be done. When both imaging modalities are chosen for a patient, response assessment will be compared., Up to 3 years|Validate a New Prognostic Model for Newly Diagnosed PTCL, Clinical biomarkers including age, race, histology, and stage as an assessment of prognosis. A points based system will be used to correlate with recently developed prognostic model., Up to 3 years|Immunohistochemistry Profile, To investigate the tumor immunohistochemical profile to identify potential biomarkers associated with prognosis and treatment response. Archived tissue samples collected at baseline will be evaluated in order to determine how marker expression correlates with clinical outcome., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of romidepsin plus lenalidomide in patients with previously untreated peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety of the combination of romidepsin and lenalidomide. II. Further evaluate efficacy of the combination of romidepsin and lenalidomide.

III. Evaluate the delay to cytotoxic chemotherapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the use of Northwestern Medicine (NM) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) vs CT imaging in PTCL.

II. Validate a new prognostic model for newly diagnosed PTCL. III. Investigate the tumor immunohistochemical profile to identify potential biomarkers associated with prognosis and treatment response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive romidepsin intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 and lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression, inter-current illness that prevents further administration of treatment, unacceptable toxicity, patient decides to withdraw from study treatment (or study as a whole), or general or specific changes in the patient's condition render the patient unacceptable for further treatment in the judgment of the treating investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 3 years.