Study of Early Relapsed, Lenalidomide-refractory Subjects Eligible for Carfilzomib Triplet
A Study Evaluating Treatment of Multiple Myeloma with Carfilzomib in Combination with Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone
Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Pomalidomide
Overall Response Rate (ORR) As Assessed by the Independent Review Committee (IRC) (PA DCO Only), Overall response was defined as the best overall confirmed response of: Complete response (CR): Negative immunofixation on serum and urine, soft tissue plasmacytomas disappearance, \< 5% plasma cells in bone marrow (BM). Stringent CR (sCR): CR and normal serum free light chain ratio and no clonal cells in BM. Very Good Partial Response (VGPR): Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein (urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24-h). PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-protein and 24-h urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24-h. Assessment was by IRC per International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC). The 90% confidence intervals were estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method (1994)., From day 1 cycle 1 until the PA DCO date of 30 November 2022; the median duration of KPd treatment as of the DCO was 32.8 weeks.
Percentage of Participants With a Minimal Residual Disease Negative Complete Response (MRD[-]CR) as Assessed by the IRC (PA DCO Only), The MRD\[-\]CR rate was defined as the number of participants who reached MRD\[-\]CR at the 12 month landmark (8- to 13-month window). MRD\[-\]CR was defined as the achievement of CR (including sCR or better) per IMWG-URC by IRC assessment and MRD\[-\] status at a sensitivity of 10\^-5 using next-generation sequencing based method in the bone marrow. The 90% CIs were estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method (1994)., Day 1 cycle 1 to month 12 (8 to 13 month window). PA DCO date of 30 November 2022; the median duration of KPd treatment as of the DCO was 32.8 weeks.|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Day 1 cycle 1 up to approximately 60 months|Number of Participants Achieving Minimal Residual Disease Negative MRD[-] Response, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 60|Number of Participants With Sustained MRD[-]CR for at Least 12 Months as Assessed by the IRC, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 60|Number of Participants With Sustained MRD[-]CR at Month 24 as Assessed by the IRC, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 26 (19 to 26 month window)|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Duration of Response as Assessed by the IRC, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 60|Time to Response as Assessed by the IRC, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 60|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Progression Free Survival as Assessed by the IRC, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 60|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Overall Survival, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 60|Number of Participants With Best Overall Confirmed Response of CR or Better as Assessed by the IRC, Day 1 cycle 1 to month 60
An Open-label, Phase 2 Study Treating Subjects with First or Second Relapse of Multiple Myeloma with Carfilzomib, Pomalidomide, and Dexamethasone (KPd)

This trial is designed to estimate the efficacy of a carfilzomib-based triplet in first or second relapse of multiple myeloma for subjects refractory to lenalidomide. The study is an open-label, phase 2 trial. Subjects may receive treatment until progression.

Myeloma disease status will be monitored locally for response and progression per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria (Kumar et al, 2016) every 28 ± 7 days from cycle 1 day 1 until confirmed progressive disease (PD), death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of full consent (whichever occurs first), regardless of cycle duration, dose delays or treatment discontinuation. Subjects with a suspected complete response (CR) or better will have a bone marrow for minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment at 12 and 24 months (± 4 weeks) from start of treatment (unless a MRD assessment was performed within 4 months before planned assessment).

Subjects who end study drug(s) without confirmed PD are required to complete disease response assessments and report new anti-myeloma treatment every 28 ± 7 days until first subsequent anti-myeloma treatment, death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of full consent, confirmed PD, or end of study, whichever occurs first. Subjects who discontinue treatment and either start new anti-myeloma treatment or have PD will enter long-term follow-up every 12 weeks until death or end of study.

Approximately one-third of subjects enrolled in the study will be in first relapse and two-thirds in second relapse.

This study will enroll adults ≥ 18 years of age with first or second relapse multiple myeloma.

Eligible subjects will have relapsed multiple myeloma after receiving 1 or 2 prior lines of therapy.

Subjects must be refractory to lenalidomide. Subjects may not have received prior pomalidomide. Prior exposure to a proteasome inhibitor is allowed. Subjects previously exposed to carfilzomib must have responded with at least a partial response to carfilzomib, must not have discontinued carfilzomib due to toxicity, may not have relapsed while receiving or within 60 days of the last dose of carfilzomib, and must have at least a 6 month carfilzomib treatment-free interval since their last dose of carfilzomib.

Subjects must have measurable disease per IMWG consensus criteria, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) of 0 to 2, and at least partial response to 1 line of therapy.