Utility of Squamous Cell Carcinoma Antigen (SCCA) in Psoriasis
Squamous Cell Carcinoma Antigen (SCCA) contributes to the pathogenesis of psoriasis by inhibiting cell apoptosis, exacerbating epidermal hyperplasia and skin inflammation. Three studies have shown a correlation between blood levels of SCCA and the severity of psoriasis.

Clinical scores of psoriasis severity are used in consultation to guide treatment of the disease (initiation of systemic therapy, dose escalation) but they suffer from several pitfalls: lack of inter- and intra-observer reproducibility, consumption of medical time.

A readily available, inexpensive (24 euros) blood marker could be an interesting alternative to these clinical scores.
Psoriasis
OTHER: Blood samples
SCCA blood concentration, SCCA blood concentration will be measured at each visit, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months
Assess correlations between SCCA blood concentration and proSPI severity score, proSPI severity score (0-50) will be evaluated at each visit, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Assess correlations between SCCA blood concentration and proSPI psychosocial score, proSPI psychosocial score (0-10) will be evaluated at each visit, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Assess correlations between SCCA blood concentration and proSPI treatment score, proSPI treatment score (0-10) will be evaluated at each visit, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Assess correlations between SCCA blood concentration and C reactive protein (CRP), CRP will be measured at each visit, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Assess correlations between SCCA blood concentration and neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio, neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio will be measured at each visit, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months
Squamous Cell Carcinoma Antigen (SCCA) contributes to the pathogenesis of psoriasis by inhibiting cell apoptosis, exacerbating epidermal hyperplasia and skin inflammation. Three studies have shown a correlation between blood levels of SCCA and the severity of psoriasis.

Clinical scores of psoriasis severity are used in consultation to guide treatment of the disease (initiation of systemic therapy, dose escalation). The PASI (Psoriasis Assessment Severity Index, minimum score 0, maximum 72) is the most widely used. It suffers from several pitfalls: lack of inter- and intra-observer reproducibility, consumption of medical time. This PASI score was "unavoidable" in the international clinical studies used to obtain marketing authorisation for medicines. The PGA (Physician global assessment) is simpler and less time-consuming, ranging from 0 to 4, but is not very discriminating. More recently, a "Simplified Psoriasis Index" (proSPI) health professional score has been developed, which correlates well with PASI for the severity component of psoriasis and with quality of life for the psychological component of the disease. It is less time-consuming to establish than PASI, but suffers like all clinical scores from a problem of inter- and intra-observer reproducibility.

A readily available, inexpensive (24 euros) blood marker could be an interesting alternative to these clinical scores.