Mindfulness Yoga and Sexual Functioning
Female breast cancer survivors with sexual dysfunction were randomly divided into a mindfulness yoga intervention group and a control group, and the investigators aimed to evaluate the effects of mindfulness yoga on sexual function in breast cancer survivors.
Breast Cancer|Sexual Dysfunction
BEHAVIORAL: mindfulness yoga
Change from sexual activity, The score change of the Sexual Activity Questionnaire(SAQ).The SAQ consists of 10 items and three subscales. Higher pleasure or discomfort subscale score indicated higher levels of pleasure or discomfort, and habit is a single item (0 'less sexual activity than usual' to 3 'much more sexual activity than usual')., 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention|Change from Female sexual function index, The score change of Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI). FSFI consists of 19 items comprising six domains of sexual function (desire, arousal, lubrication, orgasm, satisfaction, and pain). The total score ranges from 0 to 36. Higher score corresponds to better sexual functioning., 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention|Change from Sexual distress, The change of The Female Sexual Distress Scale-Revised (FSDS-R).The total score ranges from 0 to 48, and a higher score indicates a higher level of sexual distress., 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention
Change from Body Image, Body Image Subscale (BIS) of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life-Breast Cancer Module (EORTC- QLQ-BR23) will be used. The total score ranges from 4 to 16, and higher score indicates higher level of body image., 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention|Change from Anxiety and Depression, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will be used.Higher HADS-D ( ranges from 0-21) or HADS-A ( ranges from 0-21) score correspond to more serious psychological distress, 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention|Change from Menopausal symptoms, The Endocrine symptom subscale (ESS) of the Endocrine Subscale for The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B ES) will be used. The total score ranges from 0 to 72. Higher score indicates fewer menopausal symptoms, 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention|Change from Fatigue, The Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) will be used. The total score ranges from 0 to 90. Higher scores on the BFI indicates greater self-reported levels of fatigue., 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention|Change from Sleep quality, The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) will be used. The total score ranges from 0 to 21. Higher scores indicate poorer sleep quality., 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention|Change from Quality of life (QOL), The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) simplified Chinese V3.0 version will be used. The total score ranges from 0 to 100. Higher scores of symptom and financial scales indicates more severe symptoms., 4 weeks (T1), 8 weeks (T2);three months (T3) and six months (T4) after completion of the 8 weeks intervention
Female breast cancer survivors with sexual dysfunction were randomly divided into a mindfulness yoga intervention group and a control group, and the investigators aimed to evaluate the effects of mindfulness yoga on sexual function in breast cancer survivors.