Neural Stem Cell Based Virotherapy of Newly Diagnosed Malignant Glioma
Malignant gliomas have a very poor prognosis with median survival measured in months rather than years. It is a disease in great need of novel therapeutic approaches. Based on the encouraging results of our preclinical studies which demonstrate improved efficacy without added toxicity, the paradigm of delivering a novel oncolytic adenovirus via a neural stem cell line in combination with radiation and chemotherapy is well-suited for evaluation in newly diagnosed malignant gliomas. The standard-of-care allows application of virotherapy as neoadjuvant therapy and assessment of the cooperative effects with radiation/chemotherapy without altering the standard treatment.
Glioma|Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme|Astrocytoma, Grade III|Astrocytoma, Grade IV|Brain Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Neural stem cells loaded with an oncolytic adenovirus
Percentage of Dose-limiting Toxicities, Using a 3+3 dose escalation design, three to six patients were to be enrolled per dose in each of the 3 cohorts. If no patients in the cohort experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), then the next cohort enrolled a minimum of 3 patients. If one of three patients experienced a DLT, then 3 more patients were evaluated at that dose level. If none of these three additional patients experienced a DLT, then dose escalation occurs, unless this is the highest dose, in which case dose escalation is stopped and the highest dose is declared the MTD. If 1 or more of these additional 3 patients had a DLT, then three additional patients may be entered, after discussion with the sponsor, at the next lowest does level if only three patients were treated previously at that dose. If two or more patients experienced a DLT Dose escalation will be stopped; 3 more patients could be added with sponsor approval at the next lower dose level., Two years
Assessment of Tumor Response., Per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Criteria (RANO, 2017) for target lesions as assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR): The enhancing tumor is no longer seen by neuroimaging; Partial Response (PR): Decrease of ≥ 50% in the product of two diameters with the patient on a stable or decreasing dose of steroids; Minor Response (MR): Decrease in diameter products of \< 50% with the patient on a stable or decreasing dose of steroids; Stable Disease (SD): The scan shows no change. Patients should be receiving stable or decreasing doses of steroids; Progression (P): Increase of \> 25% in tumor area (two diameters) provided that the patient has not had his/her dose of steroids decreased since the last evaluation period. A concomitant decrease in steroid dose will rule out a progression designation during the first two months after completion of radiation; Pseudoprogression (PP): Radiological changes without concomitant neurological changes., Two years|Progression-free Survival, Median progression-free survival, two years|Overall Survival, Median overall survival, Two years
This is an open-label, phase 1, dose escalation trial that followed a 3x3 design. Three doses will be evaluated in the resectable cohorts: Cohort 1: 0.5x10\^8 NSCs loading 6.25x10\^10 vp; Cohort 2: 1.0x10\^8 NSCs loading 1.25x10\^11 vp; and Cohort 3: 1.5x10\^8 NSCs loading 1.875x10\^11 vp. Subjects enrolled have newly diagnosed high-grade glioma based on clinical and radiologic criteria; pathology will be confirmed at the time of surgical resection. Direct intra-tumoral injection of study product (NSC-CRAd-S-p7) will be done after resection but prior to closure. Subjects will then receive concomitant radiotherapy (RT) at a dose of 60Gy and chemotherapy with temozolomide (TMZ), 75 mg/m2, daily during RT. This will be followed by adjuvant TMZ dosed at 200 mg/m2 for 6 cycles. Subjects will be followed until disease progression with serial brain MRIs, and for survival up to 5 years. The non-resectable cohort will not opened due to limited product availability.