Trial of Abiraterone Acetate Plus LHRH-therapy Versus Abiraterone Acetate Sparing LHRH-therapy in Patients With Progressive Chemotherapy-naïve Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer (SPARE)
This is an exploratory Phase 2 multicenter, randomized, open-label study with a randomization allocation ratio of 1:1 \[abiraterone acetate + prednisone + LHRH-therapy (Arm A) versus abiraterone acetate + prednisone (Arm B)\]. For both groups patients will receive a dose of 1000 mg abiraterone acetate and 10mg prednisone daily (QD). Study drug will be administered as 4 x 250-mg abiraterone acetate tablets and prednisone will be administered as 5 mg orally twice a day (BID). Patients randomized to the LHRH-therapy group will receive the same LHRH-therapy they received prior to entering the trial. 70 medically castrated male patients with metastatic CRPC who have shown tumor progression and are non- or mildly-symptomatic will be enrolled from approximately 12 German study sites.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: abiraterone acetate + prednisone + LHRH-therapy|DRUG: abiraterone acetate + prednisone
radiographic-progression-free survival, The primary objective of the study is to analyze the clinical benefit of abiraterone acetate plus prednisone while sparing LHRH-therapy in chemotherapy-naïve patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC)., 12 month
Correlation of radiographic-progression-free survival with early PSA-response, To establish additional clinically relevant information regarding early PSA responses to abiraterone and to correlate these with radiographic-progression free survival, 12 month|Hormonal analyses, To investigate effects of both treatment arms on hormones of the pituitary gonadal axis, 12 month|Adverse Events, To characterize the safety profile of abiraterone acetate while sparing LHRH-therapy in comparison to continuing LHRH-therapy, 12 month
This is an exploratory Phase 2 multicenter, randomized, open-label study with a randomization allocation ratio of 1:1 \[abiraterone acetate + prednisone + LHRH-therapy (Arm A) versus abiraterone acetate + prednisone (Arm B)\]. For both groups patients will receive a dose of 1000 mg abiraterone acetate and 10mg prednisone daily (QD). Study drug will be administered as 4 x 250-mg abiraterone acetate tablets and prednisone will be administered as 5 mg orally twice a day (BID). Patients randomized to the LHRH-therapy group will receive the same LHRH-therapy they received prior to entering the trial. 70 medically castrated male patients with metastatic CRPC who have shown tumor progression and are non- or mildly-symptomatic will be enrolled from approximately 12 German study sites.