Post-Op Pain Control for Prophylactic Intramedullary Nailing.
Nationally, the opioid crisis has become a major epidemic with increasing mortality rates each year. Orthopedic surgeons routinely prescribe narcotics instead of NSAIDs for post-op pain control because of risk of delayed healing and nonunion due to NSAID use. Orthopedic oncology, however, has a unique subset of patients that undergo prophylactic placement of intramedullary femoral nails. Because no fracture is present, these patients do not rely on inflammatory healing factors, allowing for post-op NSAID use. This study sets out to determine the effect of post-op toradol use in addition to opioids compared to solely opioids in patients undergoing prophylactic nailing of the femur.
Bone Metastases|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma|Opioid Use|Pain
DRUG: Ketorolac|DRUG: Normal saline|DRUG: Acetaminophen|DRUG: Oxycodone Acetaminophen|DRUG: Morphine|DRUG: Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen|DRUG: Oxycodone
Milligram Morphine Equivalent (MME) of Opioid Medications Utilized, Measure the effect of post-op ketorolac on the concurrent use of opioid pain medications during post-op days 1-14 following prophylactic IMN of the femur compared to patients treated only with opioids., Post-op days 1-14
Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement System (PROMIS) Pain Intensity Scale, Measure the effect of post-op ketorolac on PROMIS Pain Intensity score compared to the PROMIS of those that receive only opioids. Total scores are computed by summing the scores of the 3 individual questions. Possible scores range from 3-15 with higher values representing increasing pain over the previous 7 days., Up to six weeks post-op|Single Assessment Numerical Evaluation (SANE), Measure the effect of post-op ketorolac on SANE score compared to the SANE of those that receive only opioids. The score ranges from 0-100, with 100 representing the best possible perceived function of the limb and 0 the worst possible perceived function. There are no sub-scales., Up to six weeks post-op|Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), Measure the effect of post-op ketorolac on NRS score compared to the NRS of those that receive only opioids. Scores range from 0-10 with higher scores signifying increasing pain. There are no sub-scales., Up to six weeks post-op
Nationally, the opioid crisis has become a major epidemic with increasing mortality rates each year. Orthopedic surgeons routinely prescribe narcotics instead of NSAIDs for post-op pain control because of risk of delayed healing and nonunion due to NSAID use. Orthopedic oncology, however, has a unique subset of patients that undergo prophylactic placement of intramedullary femoral nails, often due to bone metastases that increase risk for future fractures. Because no fracture is present, these patients do not rely on inflammatory healing factors, allowing for post-op NSAID use.

Recent literature has demonstrated the efficacy of multi-modal pain management in treating post-op pain \[1\]. Currently, patients that undergo prophylactic intramedullary femur nail placement at SLU are often treated with both narcotics and toradol, as long as they can tolerate NSAIDs. However, the effect of toradol in addition to narcotics has not been determined. This study sets out to determine the effect of post-op toradol use in addition to opioids compared to solely opioids in patients undergoing prophylactic nailing of the femur.