Vorinostat in Treating Women Who Are Undergoing Surgery For Newly Diagnosed Stage I -III Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well vorinostat works in treating women who are undergoing surgery for newly diagnosed stage I, stage II, or stage III breast cancer. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving vorinostat before surgery may shrink the tumor so that it can be removed.
Breast Cancer|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage III Breast Cancer
DRUG: vorinostat|OTHER: conventional surgery
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Participants were evaluated for adverse events due to vorinostat to assess if it was safe to give the drug prior to surgery. 17 of 25 participants who received vorinostat experienced at least 1 adverse event believed to be related to the study drug; no adverse events were severe, and the treatment was considered safe., After 3 days of vorinostat|Change in Tissue Proliferation After 3 Days of Treatment, Change in Ki-67 (a marker of tissue proliferation) by IHC compared to baseline in the treated (22 evaluable samples) or untreated patients (15 evaluable samples) were analyzed between groups. Ki-67 is a protein in cells that increases as cellsprepare to divide into new cells. A staining process can measure the percentage of tumor cells that are positive for Ki-67. The more positive cells there are, the more quickly they are dividing and forming new cells., After 3 days of vorinostat|Change in Tissue Apoptosis After 3 Days of Treatment, Change in cleaved caspase-3 (a marker of tissue apoptosis) by IHC compared to baseline in the treated (19 evaluable samples) or untreated patients (12 evaluable samples) were analyzed between groups. Cleaved caspase-3 is a protein in cells involved in apoptosis (cell death)., Baseline and after 3 day of vorinostat
Change in Tissue Histone Acetylation After 3 Days of Treatment, To evaluate change from baseline in tissue histone acetylation in patients with primary breast cancer who received three days of Short Term Oral Suberoylanilide Hydroxamic Acid (SAHA) 300 mg PO bid immediately prior to definitive breast surgery or other primary treatment. This is measured by Cumulative Methylation Index, which is reported as the sum of all %M for all genes. %M= (methylated copies divided by methylated + unmethylated copies) x 100., Baseline and after 3 day of Vorinostat|Change in Blood (Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells) Histone Acetylation After 3 Days of Treatment, To evaluate baseline and change in histone acetylation in polymononuclear cells in patients with primary breast cancer who received three days of SAHA 300 mg PO bid immediately prior to definitive breast surgery or other primary treatment., Baseline and after 3 day of Vorinostat
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of vorinostat in women undergoing conventional surgery for newly diagnosed stage I-III breast cancer.

OULINE: This is a multicenter, pilot study.

Patients receive oral vorinostat twice daily on days -3 to 0. Approximately 2 hours after the final dose of vorinostat, patients undergo surgical resection of the tumor on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days.