Retrospective Review of Cachexia in Lung and Gastrointestinal Cancer Patients
The objective is to perform a retrospective chart review of patients with cachexia related to cancer in patients treated at UT Southwestern Medical Center and Parkland Hospital to evaluate the prognosis and practice patterns in management of cachexia and associated symptoms.
Cachexia
Prognosis and practice patterns in the management of cachexia and its associated symptoms., This study involves no treatment or invasive procedures. The chart review will attempt to characterize lung and gastrointestinal cancer related cachexia including both primary treatment and treatment at the time of recurrence. Interventions in cachectic patients for weight control including nutritional support and supplements, pain control, anti-inflammatory medications, and appetite stimulants will be tracked along with clinical markers, including weight and laboratory values., 10 years
The definition of cachexia has not been fully elucidated, but there are many similar parameters and guidelines associated with identifying patients with cachexia. Cachexia is a clinical diagnosis associated with weight loss, decreased muscle mass (sarcopenia), decreased strength, fatigue, and an increased inflammatory state. Patients with cachexia have a poorer prognosis than patients who have maintained their weight. Also, patients who have lost weight prior to initiating definitive therapy have worse side effects from subsequent therapy.

This study involves no treatment or invasive procedures. The chart review will attempt to characterize lung and gastrointestinal cancer related cachexia in the setting of a palliative care clinic including both primary treatment and treatment at the time of recurrence. Interventions in cachectic patients for weight control including nutritional support and supplements, pain control, anti-inflammatory medications, and appetite stimulants will be tracked along with clinical markers including weight and laboratory values.