Scalp Block in Elective Craniotomy for Tumor Dissection Trial
This study was designed to evaluate the effect of scalp block combined with general anesthesia on the intraoperative consumption of fentanyl and time of extubation of patients undergoing elective craniotomy. Scalp block will be applied to three groups with differences of the administered solution to the scalp and one group will be placebo group.
Craniotomy
PROCEDURE: scalp block
intraoperative opioid consumption, The overall intravenous fentanyl and remifentanil consumption (microgram/ kilogram) during the surgery. The decision to administer fentanyl is guided by the changes of blood pressure and/ or heart rate greater than 20% from baseline level., intraoperative|systolic arterial pressure and diastolic arterial pressure, The systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate change from baseline will be calculated. The unit for blood pressure is mmHg., intraoperative|heart rate fluctuation, heart rate change from baseline will be calculated. The unit for heart rate is bpm, intraoperative
extubation time, Time from the end of anesthetic to fully awake and extubation, one day
chronic pain after craniotomy, telephone after 3 months and ask for pain description using the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS). A respondent selects a whole number (0-10 integers) that best reflects the intensity of his/her pain.The 11-point numeric scale ranges from '0' representing one pain extreme (e.g. "no pain") to '10' representing the other pain extreme (e.g. "pain as bad as you can imagine" or "worst pain imaginable")., 3 months after craniotomy
Regional scalp block (RSB) is an established technique that involves infiltration of local anesthetic (LA) at well-defined anatomical sites targeting the major sensory innervation of the scalp. Regional techniques minimize anesthetic requirements and their effects may be beneficial. There is a lack of consensus and evidence concerning alternative analgesia strategies for cranial neurosurgery.

Patients undergoing elective craniotomy for tumor dissection will be randomly divided into four groups to receive scalp block as an adjuvant to general anesthesia. After a standard induction sequence using propofol, fentanyl and a single dose of rocuronium, patients will be intubated. Bilateral scalp block will be given immediately after induction, except patients in control group who will not have a scalp block. Drugs for scalp block will be 20ml ropivacaine 0.5%, 20ml xylocaine 1% and dexmedetomidine 1mcg/kg.Anaesthesia will be maintained with propofol and remifentanyl infusion. Intraoperatively, propofol infusion at 75 to 100 μg/kg/h up to dura closure and reduced to 50-75 μg/kg/h up to skin closure. Five minutes before head pinning scalp block was performed by blocking the supraorbital, supratrochlear, auriculotemporal, occipital, and postauricular branches of the greater auricular nerves.Routine monitoring of electrocardiogram, heart rate (HR), and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) will record at two-minute intervals from the beginning of anesthesia until 10 minutes after incision, followed by 5-minute intervals throughout the remaining course of the surgery. Monitoring of the depth of anesthesia will also performed using the Bispectral Index. Sample size was calculated based on Type I error of α = 5% and power = 80% and minimum difference d = 30%, which is clinically significant in the pilot study. All quantitative variables will be reported as mean and standard deviation, and qualitative variables will be listed as number (percentage). Mann-Whitney test and Chi-square test will be used for comparison of endpoints. Linear mixed model will be used to evaluate the differences of hemodynamics variables. Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS, version 19.0; SPSS Inc., Chicago, USA) will be used for all calculations. p values less than .05 will be considered significant.