Association Between Stroke and Adrenal Incidentalomas
Adrenal incidentalomas (AIs) are commonly encountered in transsection imaging which purpose not for suspected adrenal disease. However, part of AIs in patients is associated with Stroke. Stroke is a diseases which could cause of disability and death worldwide. In clinical practice, detailed information about the association between stroke and AIs is not available. In this study, the investigators aimed to investigate the risk for disability and death in the large group of stroke patients with AIs.
Stroke|Adrenal Incidentaloma
Incidence rate of Adrenal incidentalomas, Assess the standardised incidence rate of AIs in all patients with stroke, 5 years|Plasma cortisol level, Plasma cortisol level after a 1-mg dexamethasone suppression test, 5 years
Diameter of Adrenal incidentalomas, Maximal axial diameter of adrenal incidentalomas by computed tomography scan; Millimetre as a metric unit of length in this study, 5 years
Background:

Adrenal incidentalomas (AIs) are commonly encountered in transsection imaging which purpose not for suspected adrenal disease. However, part of AIs in patients is associated with Stroke . The investigators aimed to investigate the risk for disability and death in the large group of stroke patients with AIs.

Objective:

To measure the association between stroke and levels of autonomous cortisol secretion in patients with AIs.

Design:

Part 1, Retrospective cohort study.

From April 1, 2021, to September 30, 2021, cohort patients with stroke were recruited in this study. The investigators assess the standardised incidence rate of AIs in all patients. Meanwhile, detail information about stroke disease、patient and AIs characteristics were record.

Part 2, Prospective cohort study.

From Mar 1, 2022, to Feb 29, 2024, cohort patients with stroke plane to recruit in this study. All patient receive the plasma cortisol level after a 1-mg dexamethasone suppression test. The investigators assess the standardised incidence rate of AIs in all patients. Meanwhile, detail information about stroke disease、patient and AIs characteristics would be record.