Probiotic Yogurt Supplement in Reducing Diarrhea in Patients With Metastatic Kidney Cancer Being Treated With Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor
This randomized clinical trial studies how well probiotic yogurt supplement works in reducing diarrhea in patients with kidney cancer that has spread from the primary site to other places in the body (metastatic) and that are being treated with vascular endothelial growth factor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy. Studying samples of blood and stool from patients who eat probiotic yogurt and those who avoid probiotic yogurt may help doctors plan better treatment.
Diarrhea|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Micronutrient-Fortified Probiotic Yogurt|DRUG: VEGF-TKI
Number of Participants With Overall Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Diarrhea, The rate of all grade diarrhea as graded by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 will be compared in the patients who receive the dietary supplement and those who do not. A Fisher's exact test with a 0.050 one-sided significance level will be used., Up to 13 weeks
Clinical Benefit Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI:

Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR; Stable disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for CR or PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD; Progressive disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters on study (including baseline). Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) = CR + PR + SD at 6 months, Up to 6 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Failure defined as disease progression or death from any cause. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if adding Activia yogurt (containing Bifidobacterium lactis DN-173 010) to the diet of patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) increases the level of Bifidobacterium spp in stool.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if Activia reduces the incidence of diarrhea for mRCC patients treated with vascular endothelial growth factor - tyrosine kinase inhibitor (VEGF-TKI) therapy.

II. To compare pre-treatment levels of circulating T regulatory (Treg) cells and levels of peripheral signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) in patients with and without diarrhea with VEGF-TKI therapy, and correlate with Bifidobacterium, other bacteria, and Activia.

III. To determine if patients with the diarrhea in mRCC patients treated with VEGF-TKI therapy have a lower baseline of Bifidobacterium spp.

IV. To assess the change in global stool bacteriomic profile of patients receiving therapy with VEGF-TKI therapy with or without Activia.

V. To better assess the feasibility of stool collection and bacteriomic profiling.

VI. To explore association between psychosocial symptoms (anxiety and depression) and bacteriomic profile and gastrointestinal toxicity in mRCC patients receiving VEGF-TKI therapy therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive probiotic supplement Activia yogurt twice daily (QD) during weeks 2-13 of VEGF-TKI treatment.

ARM II: Patients avoid any intake of yogurt or yogurt-containing foods and refrain from taking/consuming other probiotic supplements for 3 months.