Study of Lenalidomide in Combination With RICE With Lenalidomide Maintenance Post-Auto Transplant for DLBCL
The standard of care therapy for DLBCL in the relapsed setting is RICE with the plan for the patient to proceed to transplant. This protocol will add Revlimid to the first 7 days of the RICE therapy and again after transplant as maintenance. To improve over all outcome and survival.

Hypothesis is that combining lenalidomide with standard of care (RICE) may increase overall response rate thus increasing the number of patients able to proceed with autologous stem cell transplant. This in turn may translate into improved overall survival and progression free survival.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Revlimid
Stage I - Safety (Type, Frequency, Severity and Relationship of Adverse Events to Study Treatment) and Tolerability, Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide when given in combination with rituximab, Ifosfamide, etoposide, and carboplatin (RICE) for the treatment of DLBCL patients in first relapse by incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) for Stage I Patients Only, Cycle 1 of Treatment (28 Days)|Stage II - Overall Response Rate, Rate of overall response by incidence of Complete Response, Partial Response, and Stable Disease per Modified International Working Group (IWG) response criteria for patients enrolled in Stage II, After 2 Cycles of Treatment (28 Day Cycles)|Stage III - Overall Response Rate, Rate of overall response by incidence of Complete Response, Partial Response, and Stable Disease per Modified International Working Group (IWG) response criteria for patients enrolled in Stage III, After 2 Cycles of Treatment (28 Day Cycles)
Stage I - Dose Limiting Toxicity Incidence Rate, Incidence of DLT in patients enrolled in stage I for determination of MTD, Cycle 1 of Treatment (28 Days)|Stage II - 1 Year Progression Free Survival (PFS), Rate of Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 1 Year of patients enrolled in stage II, Up to 1 Year|Stage II - 2 Year Progression Free Survival (PFS), Rate of Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 1 Year of patients enrolled in stage II, Up to 2 Years|Stage II - 1 Year Overall Survival (OS), 1 Year Overall Survival (OS) of patients enrolled in stage II, Up to 1 Year|Stage II - 2 Year Overall Survival (OS), 2 Year Overall Survival (OS) of patients enrolled in stage II, Up to 2 years|Stage III - Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate Post Transplant, Rate of Progression Free Survival (PFS) 2 years post Transplant, 2 Years Post Transplant|Stage III - Overall Survival (OS), 2 Year Overall Survival (OS) of patients enrolled in stage III, 2 Years Post Transplant
This is a 3-Stage, phase I/II, single-arm, open-label study. The first and second stage of the study will assess the safety and efficacy of lenalidomide, rituximab, Ifosfamide, etoposide, and carboplatin (RICER) for the treatment of DLBCL patients in first relapse. The third stage of the study will assess the safety and efficacy of post-autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) lenalidomide maintenance in patients with DLBCL.

In stage I of the study, escalating doses of lenalidomide (10, 15, 20, and 25 mg daily x 7 days on Days 1-7) along with RICE therapy will be given to cohorts of subjects in a standard 3+3 design (see section 5.4.2 for dose escalation schema) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been determined.

In stage II, all subjects will be given RICE plus the MTD of lenalidomide. The starting dose of lenalidomide in Stage II will be modified for reduced renal function as outlined in Section 5.4.2.

In both stage I and stage II, subjects who have stable disease or progression of disease after 2 cycles of RICER will be taken off study. Subjects who achieve \> PR to 2 cycles of RICER will receive a third cycle followed by stem cell collection and ASCT.

Each cycle is 14 days. Delays in initiating a new cycle are allowed up to 14 days for Stages I and II. The planned number of cycles is 3.

After the second cycle, restaging with positron emission tomography (PET) and computerized tomography (CT) scans is performed. Patients with progressive disease are removed from the study, chemosensitive patients (CR/Cru and PR) proceed with third cycle of RICER. Stem cell collection will be completed within 10-14 days after third cycle of RICER. HDCMT-autoSCT will be performed after patient recovers from stem cell collection toxicities. High dose chemotherapy (HDCMT) followed by autologous stem cell transplant (autoSCT) involves administration of chemotherapy with BCNU, Etoposide, Ara-C, Melphalan (BEAM) followed by infusion of autologous stem cells. Involved-field radiation to the sites of bulky disease will be allowed prior to HDCMT-SCT.

Stage III, after recovery from aSCT, but not to exceed 90 days all eligible subjects will receive lenalidomide maintenance therapy (po daily on Days 1-21 q28 days) for up to 1 year. Delays in initiating a new cycle up to 28 days are allowed in Stage III. Subjects will be followed for progression- free survival and overall survival for up to 2 years. The starting dose of lenalidomide maintenance treatment will be based on calculated creatinine clearance within 28 days prior to the start of lenalidomide maintenance