Study of IMC-A12, Alone or in Combination With Cetuximab, in Participants With Recurrent or Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma (MSCC) of the Head and Neck
The purpose of this study is to determine if IMC-A12 alone or in combination with Cetuximab (Erbitux®) can increase the time prior to disease progression in participants with Squamous Cell Head and Neck Cancer who have had disease progression and platinum-containing chemotherapeutic regimen.
Head and Neck Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: IMC-A12 (cixutumumab)|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab (Erbitux ®)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the interval from randomization until PD or death, whichever occurred first. Response was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST, version 1.0) criteria. PD was defined as having at least a 20% increase in sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or the appearance of new lesions. PFS was censored at the date of the last objective progression-free disease assessment for participants who did not experience PD or death., Baseline to measured PD (up to 27.66 months)
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) [Objective Response Rate (ORR)], ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving either CR or PR. Response was defined using RECIST, version 1.0 criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. PR was defined as having at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. Percentage of participants is calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR divided by the total number of participants treated then multiplied by 100., Baseline to measured PD (up to 27.66 months)|Percentage of Participants With PFS at 6 Months, PFS at 6 months was defined as the percentage of participants who have neither experienced PD nor died at 6 months after the date of randomization. Response was defined using RECIST, version 1.0 criteria. PD was defined as having at least a 20% increase in sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or the appearance of new lesions. Percentage of participants is calculated as the total number of participants with PFS at 6 months divided by the total number of participants treated then multiplied by 100., 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants who were alive, OS was censored at the date of last follow-up visit or at the date of last contact., Baseline to date of death from any cause (up to 29.63 months)|Duration of Response, The duration of CR or PR was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of PD or death. Response was defined using RECIST, version 1.0 criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. PR was defined as having at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. Duration of response was censored on the date of last tumor assessment for participants who were alive and have no evidence of PD., Date of first response to the date of PD or death due to any cause (up to 23.98 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) or Deaths, TEAEs were defined as serious and other non-serious adverse events (AEs) that occurred or worsened after study treatment (regardless of causality). Data presented are the number of participants who experienced TEAEs including serious TEAEs, and deaths during the study including the 30-day follow-up. A summary of serious and other non-serious AEs regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events section of this report., Baseline through study completion (up to 29.63 months)|Blood And Tissue Biomarkers And Development of Serum Antibodies Against IMC-A12 and Cetuximab, No data for biomarkers and serum antibodies were collected due to lack of an appropriate validated assay., Biomarkers [pre-dose, Cycle 1 (Day 15), (Cycle 2 (Day 1), and end of treatment]; Immunogenicity [pre-dose, prior to first infusion for Cycle 3, Cycle 5, and 30-day safety follow-up]
The routine cancer treatments for Squamous Cell Carcinoma Head and Neck Cancer have improved but still leave a percentage of participants with incurable disease. New alternatives for participants whose disease is refractory to existing therapies is needed.

IMC-A12 is a monoclonal antibody which binds to special receptors known as insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR). This binding action has been shown to inhibit the growth of a variety of human tumor cell lines.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of IMC-A12 by itself or with Cetuximab (Erbitux®) in participants with Squamous Cell Carcinoma Head and Neck Cancer that has spread to other parts of the body, and to determine how long the drug remains in the body. The study will also look at what side effects IMC-A12 may cause when a participant is receiving treatment.