Perioperative Cognitive Training in Thoracic Surgery
More than 30% of patients undergoing thoracic surgical procedures develop persistent post-surgical pain (PPSP), which results in impaired functioning, diminished quality of life, and increased risk of chronic opioid use. The proposed project aims to determine whether a prospective, randomized, controlled study of smartphone-based perioperative cognitive flexibility training will reduce the incidence of PPSP in high-risk individuals undergoing thoracic surgery.
Pain, Postoperative|Cognitive Function Abnormal|Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: COFLEX neurocognitive training|BEHAVIORAL: Crossword puzzles
The presence of clinically meaningful persistent post-surgical pain 3 months after surgery, Participants will be asked about pain at or around their surgical area (dichotomous yes/no answer), and rate the intensity of pain, if present, on 0-10 numerical rating scale, where 0=no pain, and 10=worst imaginable pain. The presence of PPSP will be compared between the intervention arm and the control arm, 3 months after surgery
Brief Pain Inventory pain severity, BPI (brief pain inventory) severity score will be compared between the study arms. BPI severity score ranges from 0 (least) to 10 (worst), 1 and 3 months after surgery|Brief Pain Inventory pain interference, BPI (brief pain inventory) interference score will be compared between the study arms. BPI interference score ranges from 0 (least) to 10 (worst), 1 and 3 months after surgery|PROMIS Anxiety Score, PROMIS® (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) is a set of person-centered measures that evaluates and monitors physical, mental, and social health. Each item on the measure is rated on a 5-point scale (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; and 5=always) with a range in score from 7 to 35 with higher scores indicating greater severity of anxiety. The score will be compared between the arms, 3 months after surgery|PROMIS Depression score, PROMIS® (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) is a set of person-centered measures that evaluates and monitors physical, mental, and social health. Each item on the measure is rated on a 5-point scale (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; and 5=always) with a range in score from 7 to 35 with higher scores indicating greater severity of depression. The score will be compared between the arms., 3 months after surgery
More than 30% of patients undergoing thoracic surgical procedures develop persistent post-surgical pain (PPSP), which results in impaired functioning, diminished quality of life, and increased risk of chronic opioid use. The proposed project aims to determine whether a prospective, randomized, controlled study of smartphone-based perioperative cognitive flexibility training will reduce the incidence of PPSP in high-risk individuals undergoing thoracic surgery.