Biomarkers of AKI in Patients Receiving Daratumumab
The goal of this prospective observational study is to understand changes in urinary and blood biomarkers associated with acute kidney injury (AKI) in patients newly diagnosed with multiple myeloma and being treated with Daratumumab SC. The aims of the study are:

To measure changes in plasma and urinary biomarkers of AKI before initiation of Daratumumab therapy and 30 days after initiation of therapy.

To establish whether these biomarkers serve to aid in early detection and prevention of AKI

Participants will give urine and blood samples at their normally scheduled lab appointments.
Acute Kidney Injury|Multiple Myeloma|Light Chain Nephropathy
DRUG: Daratumumab
Plasma and Urine Biomarkers, The primary outcome(s) will be changes in plasma suPAR and urinary levels of DKK3 between treatment initiation of daratumumab (day 0, or up to 7 days prior) and day +30 (+/-7 days) from the time of treatment initiation., 30 days
Serum creatinine is an insensitive marker of AKI, often rising late and after significant injury has already occurred. A number of novel markers have recently been shown to have utility in the early detection of AKI. These markers have shown promise in preclinical and human studies in multiple other clinical settings (e.g., cardiac surgery, coronary angiography, critical illness), but have not been studied in the context of multiple myeloma. Specifically, elevated pre-procedural plasma levels of soluble urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR), the circulating form of a membrane-bound protein expressed by immunologically active cells, have been demonstrated to be predictive of AKI patients undergoing coronary angiography, cardiac surgery, and in critically ill patients (Hayek et al., NEJM, 2020), and levels rise early after injury. Similarly, urinary levels of Dickkoph-3 (DKK3), a stress-induced tubular epithelia-derived glycoprotein, have been demonstrated to predict AKI after cardiac surgery and following administration of iodinated contrast (Schunk et al., Lancet, 2019).

The aim of this study is to conduct a pilot, prospective, non-interventional study testing changes in novel plasma and urinary biomarkers of kidney injury in patients with newly-diagnosed multiple myeloma treated with daratumumab who are at risk for AKI.

The hypothesis is that patients with multiple myeloma and at risk for developing AKI, but without AKI at baseline, will have at least a 10% decline in plasma soluble urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor and urinary levels of Dickkoph-3 following treatment with daratumumab.

The primary outcome(s) will be changes in plasma suPAR and urinary levels of DKK3 between treatment initiation of daratumumab (day 0, or up to 7 days prior) and day +30 (+/-7 days) from the time of treatment initiation.