Investigation of Metformin in Patients With Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer in Combination With Enzalutamide vs. Enzalutamide Alone
The purpose of this trial is to test if the combination of enzalutamide and metformin in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer CRPC progressing on androgen deprivation therapy ADT is more effective compared to enzalutamide alone. The half of the patients will receive the experimental treatment combination, enzalutamide and metformin, while the other half will receive enzalutamide alone.
Cancer of the Prostate|Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Metformin
Disease control (DC), The primary endpoint of the trial is disease control (DC) at 15 months., at 15 months
Overall response (OR), Overall response (OR) according to modified RECIST and PCWG2 recommendations., at 15 months|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from randomization until progression or death due to any reason., at 15 months|Adverse events (AEs), AEs will be assessed according to NCI CTCAE v4.0., at 15 months|Overall survival (OS), OS will be calculated from randomization until death due any reason., at 15 months
One in seven men will be diagnosed with cancer of the prostate during his lifetime . Accordingly, prostate cancer (PC) is the most common cancer amongst men in the western world and worldwide. PC ranks second in cancer incidence and sixth in cancer mortality in men. The current standard of care for patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) and disease progression is either treatment with abiraterone acetate and prednisone in asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients without visceral metastases, or treatment with docetaxel in more symptomatic patients and in the presence of visceral metastases.

Rothemundt et al. previously demonstrated favorable effects of metformin in a phase II trial: it yields objective Prostate specific antigen PSA responses and may induce disease stabilization and improve metabolic endpoints in patients with CRPC. Therefore addition of metformin to enzalutamide might have positive impact on tumor progression, on body composition, and insulin sensitivity.