Dimethylfumarate (DMF) in Relapsed/Refractory CLL/SLL
The purpose of the study is to investigate the safety of the investigational drug called dimethylfumarate (DMF). DMF is a type of drug called an immunomodulatory drug. This drug is approved by the United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a treatment for patient with multiple sclerosis.

Although there is evidence from tests on laboratory animals that DMF can decrease the number of CLL cells, we do not know if this will work in humans with CLL. This drug will be given to humans with CLL for the first time in this study. Therefore, the goal of this study is to see if DMF is safe and tolerable in study participants. Participants will be evaluated to find out what effects (good and bad) DMF has on the body and see how long the drug stays in the body.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: dimethyl fumarate
Incidence of Dose Limiting Toxicity, The incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) will be used to define the maximum tolerated dose or biologically active dose for potential phase 2 studies., 2 months
This is a phase I clinical trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of DMF in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Patients with relapsed/refractory CLL not amenable to available therapies are eligible. This patient population is in need of novel therapies, particularly if progressing after, intolerant of, or unable to receive oral tyrosine kinase inhibitors (ie ibrutinib, idelalisib).

For Dose Level 1, DMF (Tecfidera formulation) will be administered at a dose of 120 mg PO BID (approximately 12 hours apart) for 2 x 28 day cycles.

For Dose Level 2, DMF will be administered at the currently used dose for patients with multiple sclerosis: at the standard FDA approved dose of 120 mg PO BID (approximately 12 hours apart) for 1 week, then escalating to the assigned dose of (240mg PO BID for the remainder of 2 x 28 day cycles. The 1 week lead-in at 120 mg is to assist in toleration and initial side effects and is as per the standard prescribing information.

For Dose Level 3, DMF will be administered at the currently used dose for patients with multiple sclerosis: 120 mg PO BID for 1 week, then escalate to the dose of 360mg PO BID for the remainder of 2 x 28 day cycles.