Nivolumab in Treating Patients With Advanced Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial is studying blood and tumor tissue from patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer who are treated with nivolumab to better understand how nivolumab works. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread by turning on the immune system (T cells). We want to study the effects of nivolumab on the immune system (T cells) by collecting blood samples and samples from patients' tumors.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Objective response rate (ORR), The response rates to nivolumab treatment will be compared between two groups of patients (positive vs negative) stratified by the status of PD-1+Ki-67+CD8 T cells. The objective disease response (ORR) is determined radiographically by Response Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1)., Up to 3 years after study start
Change in T cell population in the peripheral blood assessed by flow cytometry, Fresh or frozen peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) will be stained with anti-cluster of differentiation(CD)8, -CD4, -CD3, -CD45RA, -CC-chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7), -PD-1, -human leukocyte antigen(HLA)-antigen D related(DR), -CD38, -inducible co-stimulator(ICOS), -CD28, -CD27, -CD127, and -Tim-3. Live/Dead cell discrimination will be performed using fixable Dead Cell Stain Kit (Life Technologies). Samples will be acquired with LSR II flow cytometer (BD Biosciences) and analyzed using FlowJo software (Tree Star)., Baseline up to 16 weeks after study start|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Patients will have tumor assessments per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 at 6 weeks (±1 week) following initiation of registration and treatment. Subsequent tumor assessments should occur every 6 weeks (±1 week) up to week 49, then every 12 weeks until disease progression. Patients will also have ongoing evaluation of peripheral blood immune cell populations and cytokines that will be analyzed and correlated with each restaging scan., Every 12 weeks until disease progression or up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Patients who discontinue treatment with nivolumab on this protocol will be followed for survival follow-up data until death or conclusion of the study. They will be contacted every 3 months by telephone for survival follow-up., Every 3 months up to 3 years after drug discontinuation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To study the sustained proliferation of programmed cell death protein (PD)-1+Ki-67+cluster of differentiation(CD)8 T cells as a predictive biomarker of response to nivolumab by comparing the response rates to nivolumab treatment between two groups of patients (positive vs negative) stratified by the status of PD-1+Ki-67+CD8 T cells.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize phenotype of proliferating T cells in peripheral blood in the setting of nivolumab therapy.

II. Perform gene expression profiling of activated T cells from peripheral blood.

III. Perform T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing of activated T cells from peripheral blood and tumor infiltrating T cells (TILs).

IV. Assess pre-treatment biopsies and biopsies at the time of disease progression for tumor infiltrating lymphocytes.

V. Determine progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days and then every 3 months for up to 3 years.