Dendritic Cell Therapy With CD137L-DC-EBV-VAX in Locally Advanced Stage IV or Locally Recurrent/Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
This study is carried out to find out the safety and recommended dose of CD137L-DC-EBV-VAX in nasopharyngeal cancer. CD137L-DC-EBV-VAX is a product made from one of our own immune system cells (dendritic cell, DC). Dendritic cells are immune cells that help to stimulate our body's T lymphocytes to fight cancer by presenting specific proteins from the cancer cells. The investigators have developed in the laboratory a highly effective dendritic cell which is primed to activate T cells with the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) proteins. It is hoped that this will stir an immune response to recognize NPC cells and kill them as part of body's immune surveillance system.
Nasopharyngeal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: CD137L-DC-EBV-VAX
Safety and tolerability and recommended dose of CD137L-DC-EBV-VAX, From the start of assessment until study completion, an average of 3 year
Activation of EBV-specific T cell responses, From the start of assessment until study completion, an average of 3 year|Antitumor Effect based on Immune Response Criteria (IRC), From the start of assessment until study completion, an average of 3 year|Progression-free survival and overall survival, From the start of assessment until study completion, an average of 3 year
This study will involve two cohorts of patients, A and B. Patients are invited because they have either (A) locally recurrent or metastatic nasopharyngeal cancer; or (B) stage 4 locally advanced nasopharyngeal cancer (N2 or N3 disease and/or T4) and is known to be associated with a high risk of distant relapse.

This study is carried out to find out the safety and recommended dose of CD137L-DC-EBV-VAX in nasopharyngeal cancer. CD137L-DC-EBV-VAX is a product made from one of our own immune system cells (dendritic cell, DC). Dendritic cells are immune cells that help to stimulate our body's T lymphocytes to fight cancer by presenting specific proteins from the cancer cells. The investigators have developed in the laboratory a highly effective dendritic cell which is primed to activate T cells with the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) proteins. It is hoped that this will stir an immune response to recognize NPC cells and kill them as part of body's immune surveillance system.