Phase II Study of Irinotecan Liposome (II) Combined With Temozolomide and Fluzoparib in Recurrent or Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma
The current study is an investigator-initiated, single-arm phase 2 study that enrolled patients with recurrent and/or metastatic Ewing sarcoma for the treatment of Irinotecan Liposome (II) Combined with Temozolomide and Fluzoparib as the second-line treatment.
Ewing Sarcoma
DRUG: irinotecan liposome (II) + temozolomide + fluzoparib
Objective Response Rate(ORR), Objective Response Rate(CR+PR), defined as best overall response (complete or partial response) across all assessment time points, determined using RECIST v1.1 criteria., From Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) to treatment discontinuation for any reason, average of 4 months
Disease Control Rate （DCR）, Percentage of patients whose BOR is assessed as CR, PR, or Stable Disease (SD), From Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) to treatment discontinuation for any reason, average of 4 months|Duration of Response （DoR）, The time between the date of the radiological evaluation that first confirmed CR or PR and the date of the radiation evaluation that first confirmed Progressive Disease (PD), From first confirmed CR or PR to confirmed PD, average of 4 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from C1D1 until the date of objective PD (as assessed by RECIST v1.1) or the date of death (by any cause in the absence of disease progression), From Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) to first documented objective PD or death if PD does not occur, average of 4 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time from C1D1 until the date of death by any cause. Patients who are still alive at the time of the analysis, or who have become lost to follow-up or withdrawn consent will be censored at their last date known to be alive, From Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) to death from any cause, average of 12 months|Incidence of Adverse Events [safety and tolerability], Adverse events defined according to Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, From Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment
This study is a single-center, single-arm, phase II study evaluating the efficacy and safety of irinotecan liposome (II) combined with temozolomide and fluzoparib in the treatment of recurrent or metastatic ewing sarcoma which progressed on 1st line chemotherapy. Eligible patients will be included in this study and treated according to the protocol. Study treatment will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or patient's decision/consent withdrawal. Local investigators will determine disease progression, radiologic or clinical deterioration. A Simon Two-Stage design will enroll approximately 13 patients into Stage 1, and if criteria are met to move to Stage 2, an additional 16 patients will be enrolled.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the antineoplastic efficacy of irinotecan liposome (II) combined with temozolomide and fluzoparib in the treatment of recurrent or metastatic Ewing sarcoma, as measured by the objective response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY EFFICACY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the disease control rate (DCR) for irinotecan liposome (II) combined with temozolomide and fluzoparib in the treatment of recurrent or metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

II. To calculate the duration of response (DOR) for irinotecan liposome (II) combined with temozolomide and fluzoparib in the treatment of recurrent or metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

III. To measure median progression-free survival (PFS) in recurrent or metastatic Ewing sarcoma patients who have received irinotecan liposome (II) combined with temozolomide and fluzoparib.

VI. To measure median overall survival (OS) in recurrent or metastatic Ewing sarcoma patients who have received irinotecan liposome (II) combined with temozolomide and fluzoparib.

SECONDARY SAFETY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the toxicity profile of irinotecan liposome (II) combined with temozolomide and fluzoparib in the treatment of recurrent or metastatic Ewing sarcoma according to National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

Exploratory OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore the relationship between mutations and expression of DNA Homologous Recombination Repair (HRR) related genes (such as BRCA1/2, PALB2, etc.) and clinical efficacy (such as ORR, DoR, etc.), as well as resistance mechanisms.