Mesothelin/GPC3/GUCY2C-CAR-T Cells Against Cancers
The second generation of mesothelin targeted CAR-T cells that secret a fusion protein of IL21 and scfv against PD1 have been constructed and their anti-cancer function has been verified by multiple in vitro and in vivo studies. Clinical studies will be performed to test anti-cancer function of the CAR-T cells for immunotherapy of human cancer patients with Mesothelin expressions. In this phase I study, the safety, tolerance, and preliminary efficacy of the Mesothelin-CAR-T cell immunotherapy on human cancers will firstly be evaluated.
Pancreas Cancer|CAR-T Cell Therapy|Mesothelin|Solid Tumor, Adult
BIOLOGICAL: CAR-T cells
Number of Patients with Dose Limiting Toxicity, A dose limiting toxicity is defined as any toxicity that is considered to be primarily related to the Mesothelin-CAR T cells, which is irreversible, or life threatening or hematologic or non-hematologic Grade 3-5., six months
Percent of Patients with best response as either complete remission or partial remission., Response rates will be estimated as the percent of patients whose best response is either complete remission or partial remission by combining the data from the patients. To compare with historical data, a 95% confidence interval will be calculated for the response rate., six months|Median CAR-T cell persistence, Median CAR-T cell persistence will be measured by quantitative rt-PCR., Six years
1. Choose appropriate patients with advanced pancreatic cancer or other cancers, with written consent for this study;
2. Perform biopsy to determine the expression of Mesothelin of the tumors by western blotting or IHC;
3. Collect blood from the patients and isolate mononuclear cells, activate the T cells and transfect the T cells with Mesothelin targeting CAR, amplify the transfected T cells as needed, test the quality and killing activity of the CAR-T cells and then transfer them back the patients via systemic or local injections, and follow up closely to collect related results as required;
4. To enhance the killing capability, cotreatment the patients with PD1/PDL1/CTLA4 antibodies may be applied;
5. Evaluate the clinical results as needed.