Karolinska Interventional Study of Mammograhic Density (Karisma-1)
A feasibility study, randomising to either 10 or 20 mg of tamoxifen. The primary aim is to identify the time to mammographic density change and piloting the procedures. It is known that a density change is seen after 12 months of 20 mg of tamoxifen, but the clinical experience indicates that an effect of drugs influencing mammographic density could be seen already after a few months. The second aim is to evaluate if there is a density change from 10 mg of tamoxifen equivalent to 20 mg.
Breast Cancer|Mammographic Density
DRUG: Tamoxifen
Mammographic Breast Density, Mean change in mammographic breast density at 6 months compared to baseline (=0 months) for each dose arm, using the fully automated STRATUS method. The average percent density (fibroglandular dense tissue area divided by total breast area) of left and right breasts at baseline was calculated and compared with average percent density at the end of the trial period and density change was defined as the difference between these two measures., 6 months
Symptom Score, Symptom score change, compared to baseline for each dose arm. Questionnaires were used at 0, 1, 3, 6, 9 months. Vasomotor, gynecological, sexual, and musculoskeletal symptoms were assessed using a 5-grade Likert severity scale ranging from "no symptom at all" to "very much symptoms". A higher symptom score equals less symptoms, i.e. a better outcome.

The questionnaire was based on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Endocrine Subscale 7 (FACT-ES.7).

The presented score was calculated as the sum of the last month's symptom severity levels and are presented as the absolute differences in symptom score on a scale ranging from any minus five to any plus five. A higher symptom score equals less symptoms, i.e. a better outcome., 9 months
The investigators want to conduct a feasibility study including 42 women who will be randomised to either 10 or 20 mg of daily oral tamoxifen. The primary aim of the study is to identify the time to mammographic density change and piloting the procedures. It is known that a density change is seen after 12 months of 20 mg of daily tamoxifen, but the clinical experience indicates that an effect of drugs influencing mammographic density could be seen already after a few months. The second aim of the pilot study is to see if there is a density change from 10 mg of tamoxifen equivalent to 20 mg and if there is a difference in adverse reactions between the two doses. Interim analysis will be performed at 6 months, monitoring both safety and level of mammographic density change.