Needs Navigation for Caregivers of AYAs
The overall aim of the study is to address unmet health-related social needs and reduce outcome disparities among AYA (adolescent and young adult) cancer survivors. Aim 1 aimed to refine a needs navigation model in partnership with expert consultants. Aim 2 and 3 will involve the deployment and pilot testing of the adapted needs navigation intervention among caregivers of younger AYAs with cancer.
Cancer in Adolescence
BEHAVIORAL: Needs navigation intervention
Number of (OR percentage of) participants who completed the intervention, This is to assess the feasibility of intervention completion. Intervention completion is defined as participants who have demonstrated contact for consultation and with community partners at any time before the end of 6 months., up to 6 months|Percentage of eligible participants who consented to be in study, This is to measure interest and the need for help by the intervention that can provide caregiver / patient financial education and navigation, Up to 6 months
Personal Financial Wellness Scale (PFWS) / Comprehensive Score of Financial Toxicity (COST measure), The PFWS/ COST is a participant-reported outcome measure that describes financial distress in cancer patients or their caregivers., Baseline, 6-months
Financial toxicity, the negative personal financial impact of healthcare, is a highly prevalent adverse effect of cancer treatment, and AYA cancer survivors experience disproportionately higher rates of financial toxicity compared to older cancer survivors. Financial toxicity is associated with poorer overall survival and bankruptcy, and AYA survivors are 10 times more likely to file for bankruptcy than older cancer survivors. Thus, financial toxicity and unmet HRSN (health-related social needs) are key contributors to employment and health outcome disparities seen among AYA survivors living in areas of persistent poverty.

The study team has focused on addressing unmet HRSN and reducing outcome disparities among AYA cancer survivors, many of whom live in areas of persistent poverty. The investigators have adapted a model of financial navigation that reduces financial toxicity among older adults with cancer, informed by qualitative research among Spanish- and English-speaking AYAs and their caregivers from the local community. The investigators have identified community and clinical partners poised to address these unique unmet needs. These partners have expertise in educational navigation and caregiver community resources - both cited as unmet needs in our pilot study. Using mixed methods, this study will refine (Aim 1 - already completed) and pilot test (Aims 2 and 3) a tailored version of the intervention among 30 English and Spanish-speaking caregivers of younger AYAs who screen positive for severe financial toxicity or unmet HRSN.