Assessment of 2 Different Techniques for Suppression of Respiratory Motion in Lung Cancer Treatment With Proton Therapy Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Since 1996 proton therapy has been applied very successfully at the Paul Scherrer Institute in Switzerland to irradiate deep-seated, stationary tumors. In order to treat tumors within an organ which moves due to breathing (e.g. lung) motion mitigation strategies need to be implemented to ensure the precise irradiation of the moving target. The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility and compare (via MRI imaging) 2 techniques which "freeze" the movement of the lung by breath hold. One method is suppression of respiratory movement via high-frequency, mechanical ventilation by means of a Jet Ventilator (HFPV). The other technique is deep Inspiration breath-hold (DIBH) with Hyperventilation and simultaneous Inspiration of 100% O2 including daily breath-hold exercise.
Healthy Volunteers
OTHER: Deep Inspiration Breath Hold (DIBH)|OTHER: High Frequency Percussive Ventilation (HFPV)
Difference in MRI Images, pulmonary anatomical structure points are evaluated by means of MRI scans. The difference of these MRI evaluations between the DIBH- and HFPV-technique is the primary outcome measure., 3 weeks
Difference in breath-hold duration, The difference between the DIBH- and HFPV-technique in breath-hold Duration is the secondary outcome measure, 3 weeks
Since 1996 proton therapy has been applied very successfully at the Paul Scherrer Institute in Switzerland to irradiate deep-seated, stationary tumors. In order to treat tumors within an organ which moves due to breathing (e.g. lung) motion mitigation strategies need to be implemented to ensure the precise irradiation of the moving target. The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility and compare (via MRI imaging) 2 techniques which "freeze" the movement of the lung by breath hold. One method is suppression of respiratory movement via high-frequency, mechanical ventilation by means of a Jet Ventilator (HFPV). The other technique is deep Inspiration breath-hold (DIBH) with Hyperventilation and simultaneous Inspiration of 100% O2 including daily breath-hold exercise.