Protocol for Genomically Profiling, Collecting, Archiving and Distributing Blood and Bone Marrow Specimens from Children and Young Adults with Hematologic Malignancy
This research study is a genomic profiling and repository study for children and young adults who have leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or myeloproliferative syndrome (MPS). Genes are the part of cells that contain the instructions which tell cells how to make the right proteins to grow and work. Genes are composed of DNA letters that spell out these instructions. Genomic profiling helps investigators understand why the disease develops and the instructions that led to its development. Understanding the genetic factors of the disease can also help investigator understand why the disease of some people can respond to certain therapies differently than others.

The genomic profiling will be performed using bone marrow and blood samples that either have already been obtained during a previous clinical procedure or will be obtained at the time of a scheduled clinical procedure. Studying the genetic information in the cells of these samples will provide information about the origin, progression, and treatment of leukemia and myeloproliferative syndromes and myelodysplastic syndrome. Storing the bone marrow and blood samples will allow for additional research and genomic assessments to be performed in the future.
Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myeloproliferative Syndrome
GENETIC: Genomic profiling
Number of Patients Enrolled for Genomic Profiling-Pediatric Leukemia, To perform genomic profiling of pediatric leukemia using clinical genomics platforms and return results to treating oncologist. This objective will be accomplished by enrolling patients and obtaining samples for sequencing and banking. The pathologist-interpreted genomic test results will be returned to the treating oncologist., 3 Years
Number of Patients Enrolled for Genomic Profiling-New Diagnosis, To collect and bank samples from pediatric patients with new diagnosis or relapsed/refractory acute and chronic leukemia, and myelodysplastic syndrome. This objective will be accomplished by enrolling patients and obtaining samples for sequencing and banking., 3 Years
Pediatric patients with new diagnosis or relapsed/refractory acute leukemia, MDS/AML, chronic leukemia, myeloproliferative syndromes or myelodysplastic syndrome will be enrolled onto this study. At the time of enrollment, a sample of the leukemia will be submitted for genomic profiling using CLIA assay(s). This information will be returned to the treating oncologist. The study will collect follow up data on patient outcome and whether the genomic profiling influenced treatment.

It is expected that about 100 people each year will take part in this research study at 8 medical centers in the United States