BTX-A51 in Patients With Liposarcoma
This study is testing if the recommended dose of BTX-A51 is safe and tolerable in participants with liposarcoma.

The name of the study drug used in this research study is:

-BTX-A51 (a type of kinase inhibitor)
Liposarcoma|Recurrent Liposarcoma|Metastatic Liposarcoma|Unresectable Liposarcoma|MDM2 Gene Amplification
DRUG: BTX-A51
Number of participants with adverse events, with laboratory abnormalities, with dose modifications, delays, interruptions, or premature discontinuation of BTX-A51 due to an adverse event, Safety and tolerability will be monitored through continuous reporting of treatment-emergent and treatment-related adverse events, laboratory abnormalities, and incidence of subjects experiencing dose modifications, delays, interruptions, or premature discontinuation of BTX-A51 due to an adverse event. Toxicities are to be assessed according to the CTCAEv5., All AEs will be recorded from the time the subject signs informed consent until 30 days after the last dose of study BTX-A51.
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The overall response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECISTv1.1 criteria., ORR expected to be observed up to 3 years|1-year Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Rate, 1-year PFS is a probability estimated using progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration between randomization and documented disease progression (PD) or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment., 1 year|1-year Overall Survival (OS), 1-year OS is a probability estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method; OS is defined as the time from study entry to death, or censored at date last known alive., 1 year
This is a single arm, pilot study assessing the safety and preliminary exploration of BTX-A51 in participants with metastatic and/or recurrent liposarcomas characterized by Murine Double Minute Clone 2 (MDM2) amplifications. BTX-A51 works in a different way from currently approved therapies used to treat liposarcoma by blocking proteins called CK1α and CDK9.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved BTX-A51 as a treatment for Liposarcoma.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, or Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans, blood tests, and tumor biopsies.

Participants will receive study treatment for as long as there are no serious side effects, and disease does not get worse. Participants will be followed for 1 year after the last dose of BTX-A51.

It is expected that about 12 people will take part in this research study.

Edgewood Oncology is supporting this research study by providing the study drug.