Phase I/II Trial of Letrozole and Sorafenib in Post-Menopausal Hormone-Receptor + Breast Cancer
Letrozole is an aromatase inhibitor that is approved in the first-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor and by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of sorafenib when given in combination with letrozole and to see how well they work in treating postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Letrozole
Sorafenib in Combination With Fixed Dose of of 2.5mg of Letrozole Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The highest dose of the drug that does not cause unacceptable side effects. The maximum tolerated dose be testing increasing doses until the highest dose with acceptable side effects is found., twenty eight days
Clinical Benefit Rate Using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Guidelines (Version 1.1) to Letrozole and Sorafenib, Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the malignant lymph nodes are used for tumor measurements. Included will be: complete response, partial response or stable disease of letrozole and sorafenib in the treatment of postmenopausal participants with hormone receptor- positive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) = Progressive Free (PF) + Stable Disease (SD), 6 months|Median Progressive-Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time between randomization and documented disease progression (PD) per RECIST 1,0 criteria or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment. Per RECIST 1.0f or target lesions, PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD of target lesions, taken as reference the smallest sum LD recorded at treatment started. Based on the time between the first day of treatment and and the date of disease progression., Approximately 4.6 years|Overall Survival (OS) Assessed as Mean Months, From the start of treatment to the end of the study (three years) that participants are still alive. Measured by the mean number., Approximately 4.6 years
Letrozole is an aromatase inhibitor that is approved in the first-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor and by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of sorafenib when given in combination with letrozole and to see how well they work in treating postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer.