Immune Profiling After HDR in Local Relapsed Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy is currently revolutionizing the field in oncology. However, prostate cancer until now fails to respond to classical IO, like PD-1 and CTLA-4 inhibitors. Radiotherapy (RT) delivered to the primary tumor impacts both tumor cells and surrounding stromal cells. Radiation damage to cancer cells exposes tumor-specific antigens leading to increased visibility to the immune system by improved priming and activation of cytotoxic T cells. RT-induced modulation of the tumor microenvironment may also facilitate the recruitment and infiltration of immune cells by increasing the expression or T-cell attracting chemokines and by increasing T-cell docking molecules on the endothelial cells like VCAM-1. The main-hypothesis is that HDR-brachytherapy will turn an immunologically "cold" (no T-cell infiltrations) prostate cancer into an immunologically "hot" (CD4 and CD8-cell infiltrations) tumor, creating leverage points for different forms of IO.
Prostate Cancer|PD-L1
RADIATION: HDR salvage brachytherapy
Expression of PD-(L)-1 receptor, Expression of PD-(L)-1 receptor induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points., up to 28 days
Expression patterns of CXCL12, Expression of CXCL12 receptor induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points, up to 28 days|Expression patterns of IL-23, Expression of IL-23 receptor induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points, up to 28 days|Expression patterns of MDSC, Expression of MDSC receptor induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points, up to 28 days|Changes in T cell infiltration profiles, Changes in T cell infiltration profiles induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points, up to 28 days|Changes in HLA class I-A expression on tumor cells, Changes in HLA class I-A expression on tumor cells induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points, up to 28 days|Changes in HLA class I-B expression on tumor cells, Changes in HLA class I-B expression on tumor cells induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points, up to 28 days|Changes in HLA class I-C expression on tumor cells, Changes in HLA class I-C expression on tumor cells induced by HDR-brachytherapy in prostate tumor biopsies of local relapses of prostate cancer of 10 patients at 4 different time points, up to 28 days
Prospective analysis of biopsies from 10 patients with local recurrence in the prostate selected for salvage HDR brachytherapy in MAASTRO Clinic, Maastricht. HDR treatment is standard in Maastro Clinic for local relapses of prostate cancer after previously irradiation (internal or external).

Biopsies will be taken at 4 different time points (before and after the 1st fraction; before the 2nd and 3rd fraction of the salvage treatment).

Several immunotyping (expression of PD-(L)-1, CXCL12, IL-23 receptor, etc.) and HLA class I expression will be performed on the biopsies. In addition, HLA genotypes will be determined on DNA isolated from pheripheral blood.

The plasma and the biopsies will be stored for eventually additional research.