To Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Ipatasertib (GDC-0068) in Combination With Paclitaxel in Platinum-resistant Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
This is a phase II open label, non-randomized, study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Ipatasertib (GDC-0068) in combination with paclitaxel in platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer.
Ovarian Neoplasms
DRUG: Ipatasertib|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be measured by the percentage of patients whose cancer decreases in size on assessment. This will be measured as the sum of complete response and partial response., At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be measured by the percentage of patients whose cancer decreases in size on assessment. This will be measured as the sum of complete response and partial response., At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be measured by the percentage of patients whose cancer decreases in size on assessment. This will be measured as the sum of complete response and partial response., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 28 days)
Progression free survival (PFS), Disease status will be assessed with comprehensive radiographic studies every 3 treatment cycles (12 weeks +/- 1 week), but the development of new signs or symptoms of disease in between scheduled evaluations may prompt off-schedule radiographic or non-radiographic evaluations. Disease status will be assessed based on RECIST 1.1 criteria for measurable and non-measurable disease., At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression free survival (PFS), Disease status will be assessed with comprehensive radiographic studies every 3 treatment cycles (12 weeks +/- 1 week), but the development of new signs or symptoms of disease in between scheduled evaluations may prompt off-schedule radiographic or non-radiographic evaluations. Disease status will be assessed based on RECIST 1.1 criteria for measurable and non-measurable disease., At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression free survival (PFS), Disease status will be assessed with comprehensive radiographic studies every 3 treatment cycles (12 weeks +/- 1 week), but the development of new signs or symptoms of disease in between scheduled evaluations may prompt off-schedule radiographic or non-radiographic evaluations. Disease status will be assessed based on RECIST 1.1 criteria for measurable and non-measurable disease., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 28 days)|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR will be measured by the percentage of patients whose cancer decreases in size or remains stable over the duration of the study. This will be measured as the sum of complete response, partial response, and stable disease for greater than or equal to 24 weeks., average 24 weeks
This is a phase II open label, non-randomized, study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Ipatasertib (GDC-0068) in combination with paclitaxel in platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer.

The primary objective of the study is to determine - the safety and objective response rate of treatment with ipatasertib (GDC-0068) in combination with paclitaxel in platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer at week 12 for two cohorts of patients: with PI3K/AKT mutations (altered) and without PI3K/AKT mutations (non-altered)

About 39 patients will participate in the study and the accrual will take place over a course of 30 months Patients will be treated until disease progression and followed for 1 year thereafter.

The two drugs are ipatasertib and paclitaxel.

* Ipatasertib will be given 400mg PO daily: day 1-21 of 28 day cycle
* Paclitaxel will be given 80mg/m2 IV weekly: day 1, 8, 15 of 28 day cycle

The study hypothesis is that the combination of Ipatasertib (GDC-0068) plus paclitaxel will safely induce a tumor response and increase the objective response rate in patients with platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer, with or without PI3K/AKT mutations.

This trial will enroll patients with platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer. Given the relatively poor prognosis and limited treatment options for these patients, this population is considered appropriate for trials of novel therapeutic candidates. The benefit-risk ratio for ipatasertib in combination with paclitaxel is expected to be acceptable in this setting.