Fulvestrant and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using fulvestrant may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Fulvestrant and bevacizumab may also stop the growth of breast cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving fulvestrant together with bevacizumab may be an effective treatment for metastatic breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving fulvestrant together with bevacizumab works in treating patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: fulvestrant
Six-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate at 6 Months, The primary endpoint of this trial is the 6-month progression-free survival rate. A patient is considered to be a 6-month progression-free survivor if the patient is on study treatment 6 months from registration without a documentation of disease progression. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Additionally, if some patients are lost to follow-up not having been observed for at least 6 months, an estimate and 95% confidence interval for the 6-month progression-free survival rate incorporating censoring will be computed using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., at 6 months
Progression Free Survival, Time to disease progression is defined as the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression. If a patient dies without a documentation of disease progression the patient will be considered to have had disease progression at the time of their death. If the patient is declared to be a major treatment violation, the patient will be censored on the date the treatment violation was declared to have occurred. In the case of a patient starting treatment and then never returning for any evaluations, the patient will be censored for progression 1 day post-registration. The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier (1958)., Up to 5 years|Quality of Life, as Measured by the Largest Mean Change in LASA Overall QOL and Physical Well-being Items, Quality of life (QOL) assessment will be a secondary exploratory component of this trial. QOL of patients was measure using the 6-item Linear Analogue Self-Assessment (LASA).The LASA consists of six single-item numeric analog scales measuring overall QOL; mental, physical, emotional, and spiritual well-being; and level of activity each on a scale of 0 ('As bad as it can be') to 10 ('As good as it can be') during the past week. Items were transformed to a 0 (worst QOL or well-being) to 100 (best QOL or well-being) scale for statistical analysis. Mean change from baseline of the largest mean change in overall QOL and physical well-being are reported below., Up to 5 years|Objective Response Rate as Measured by RECIST Criteria in Patients With Measurable Disease, A confirmed response is defined to be either a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart. The confirmed response rate will be estimated by the number of confirmed responses in evaluable patients with measurable disease divided by the total number of evaluable patients with measurable disease. The appropriate confidence interval will be calculated. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years|Time to First Cytotoxic Agent, Time to first dose of a cytotoxic agent is defined to be the time from the date of registration to the date at which a patient recieves the first dose of a cytotoxic agent. The distribution of time to first dose of a cytotoxic agent will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier (1958)., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response/Time to Disease Progression in Patients With Measurable Disease, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients with measurable disease who have achieved a confirmed response as the date at which the patient's earliest best objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented. If a patient dies subsequent to the confirmed response without a documentation of disease progression, the patient will be considered to have had disease progression at the time of their death. In the case of a patient failing to return for evaluations before a documentation of disease progression, the patient will be censored for progression on the date of last evaluation. The distribution of duration of response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Assess the efficacy of fulvestrant and bevacizumab, in terms of 6-month progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with metastatic breast cancer previously treated with an aromatase inhibitor.

Secondary

* Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the adverse-event profile in these patients.
* Determine the PFS and overall survival of these patients.
* Determine the confirmed response rate, duration of response, time to treatment failure, and time to first cytotoxic agent in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive fulvestrant intramuscularly on day 1 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, prior to every other course, and at the completion of study treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-6 months for 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 51 patients will be accrued for this study.