Effectiveness of Cervical Screening in Unvaccinated, Herd Effect Protected Women (HPV400)
To identify: 1) Whether being informed infrequently results about screening is at least as a) safe and b) accurate as frequently obtaining all information from (the present combination of opportunistic/organized) cervical screening by comparing regimen results of two screening visits at the ages of 25 and 28 years (Arm A1) vs. results of one screening visit at the age of 28 years (Arm A2) in unvaccinated herd effect protected women. Unvaccinated, frequently screened women, who are not under herd effect protection will be controls (C).
Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia Grade 2/3|Adenocarcinoma in Situ
OTHER: Frequent information of cytological/ HPV DNA screening results
The difference between arm A1 vs. arm C, No significant difference in the incidence ratios of CIN2/3 between arms A1 (participants under herd protection and frequently informed of the cytological results) vs. C (participants not under herd protection and frequently informed of the cytological findings) at the age of 28, Three years of follow up within 2020 - 2025|The difference between arm A2 vs. arm C, No significant difference in the incidence ratios of CIN2/3 between arms A2 (participants under herd protection and frequently informed of the cytological results) vs. C (participants not under herd protection and frequently informed of the cytological findings) at the age of 28., Three years of follow up within 2020 - 2025
Quality of life in infrequently vs. frequently screened unvaccinated women (RAND 36), The difference between infrequently and frequently screened unvaccinated women at the age of 28 is measured using RAND 36 to measure quality of life. It consists of eight scaled scores, which are the weighted sums of the questions in their section. Each scale is directly transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight. The lower the score the more disability., Three years of follow up within 2021 - 2025|Quality of life in infrequently vs. frequently screened unvaccinated women (EQ-VAS), The difference between infrequently and frequently screened unvaccinated women at the age of 28 is measured using EQ-VAS a vertical visual analogue scale on which patients provide a global assessment of their health. The scale takes values between 100 (best imaginable health) and 0 (worst imaginable health)., Three years of follow up within 2021 - 2025|Quality of life in infrequently vs. frequently screened unvaccinated women (CECA 10), The difference between infrequently and frequently screened unvaccinated women at the age of 28 is measured using CECA 10, a Spanish acronym for the Specific Questionnaire for Condylomata Acuminata, summary scores of the emotional and sexual activity dimensions will be derived from CECA 10 scales. The CECA questionnaire includes 10 questions across 2 domains: emotional and sexual activity. CECA scores range from 0 (worst HRQL) to 100 (best HRQL), Three years of follow up within 2021 - 2025
Altogether 14.000 1995-1997 born women resident in communities where herd effect against high-risk HPV infections was created with gender-neutral vaccination of birth cohorts 1992-1995 (A-communities) or not (control C-communities) in 2007-2010 with the bi-valent HPV16/18 vaccine will be invited to participate a randomized screening trial at the ages of 25 and 28 years.

Cervical samples will be analysed for HPV DNA with MGP (Modified General Primer) primer system followed by MALDITOF(matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry) mass spectrometry on the SEQUENOM (translation of genomic science into solutions for molecular medicine and biomedical research) platform (HPV).

With assumed 65% and 90% participation and retain rates the trial has 80% power to show non-inferiority of the infrequent vs. the frequent screening information.

At the study-end testing the null hypotheses of no difference in the incidence of the CIN2/3 (cervical squamous intraepithelial neoplasia 2/3) end-points comparing the A1 vs. C and A2 vs. C intervention arms will be done using the Mantel-Haenszel one degree of freedom chi-square statistics.

Work Content Letters of invitation to visit cervical screening at the nearest FICAN (Comprehensive Cancer Center Finland)-Mid study site will be send to the approximately 14.000 unvaccinated women at the ages of 25 and 28 years Following informed consent cervical liquid-based cytology samples will be taken for HPV DNA and/or cytology screening at study visits.

All cytological screening results will be communicated to Arm A1 and Arm C study participants. Arm A2 participants will get the test results at the age of 28. However, results of the cytology testing indicative of colposcopy according to local standard of care and currently accepted EU (the European Union) -guidelines (Käypä Hoito 2010, Franceschi et al. 2011) will be immediately communicated to all study participants. HPV DNA results will be communicated to all study participants at the study end. Pertinent colposcopy referrals to organized health care will be made.

All study participants will be offered a possibility to give an oropharyngeal sputum sample after 30 seconds gargling of sterile physiological saline (5 ml) for HPV PCR (polymerase chain reaction) analysis.