Probiotics for the Prevention of Immunotherapy Induced Colitis in Patients Receiving Immunotherapy
The clinical trial tests the use of over-the-counter probiotics VSL#3® 450B in patients receiving immunotherapy. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, helps the body's immune system attack tumor cells, and interferes with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Immunotherapy can also cause an unfortunate side effect of inflammation of the colon and diarrhea, also known as immune checkpoint inhibitor induced colitis. Immune checkpoint inhibitor induced colitis can occur in up to 45% of patients receiving immunotherapy. Taking probiotics VSL#3® 450B may reduce the chances of developing immune checkpoint inhibitor induced colitis in patients receiving immunotherapy.
Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Live Freeze-Dried Lactic Acid Bacteria Probiotic|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI)-induced colitis (IIC) with VSL#3 and ICIs, Will be evaluated in patients with solid malignancies in 2 cohorts, including 1) anti-CTLA4 ± anti-PD-1/PD-L1, 2) anti-PD-1/PD-L1 ± chemotherapy respectively. Analysis will be performed in all-treated population, defined as any subject enrolled into the study that received at least 3 days of VSL#3 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1. The statistical analyses will be handled in a descriptive manner. Will be estimated by the number of patients who had IIC divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Two-sided 90% exact confidence intervals for the true incidence rate will be calculated according to the approach of Clopper and Pearson., Up to 14 weeks
Incidence of adverse events, Will be evaluated by the safety profile of multi-strain probiotic blend in cancer patients receiving ICIs. Analysis will be performed in all-treated population, defined as any subject enrolled into the study that received at least 3 days of VSL#3 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1. The statistical analyses will be handled in a descriptive manner. Descriptive statistics (frequency table) and histogram will be used to summarize toxicity., Up to 30 days post treatment|Incidence of hospitalization related to IIC, Analysis will be performed in all-treated population, defined as any subject enrolled into the study that received at least 3 days of VSL#3 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1. The statistical analyses will be handled in a descriptive manner. Descriptive statistics (frequency table) and histogram will be used to summarize clinical outcomes related to IIC., Up to 14 weeks|Incidence of treatment delays related to IIC, Analysis will be performed in all-treated population, defined as any subject enrolled into the study that received at least 3 days of VSL#3 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1. The statistical analyses will be handled in a descriptive manner. Descriptive statistics (frequency table) and histogram will be used to summarize clinical outcomes related to IIC., Up to 14 weeks|Incidence of administration of immunosuppressants related to IIC, Analysis will be performed in all-treated population, defined as any subject enrolled into the study that received at least 3 days of VSL#3 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1. The statistical analyses will be handled in a descriptive manner. Descriptive statistics (frequency table) and histogram will be used to summarize clinical outcomes related to IIC., Up to 14 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the incidence of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI)-induced colitis (IIC) in patients with solid malignancies receiving over-the-counter multi-strain probiotic blend and ICIs in both cohorts: (1) anti-Cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein-4 (CTLA-4) +/- anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death-1 ligand 1 (PD-L1), and (2) anti-PD-1/PD-L1 +/- chemo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of multi-strain probiotic blend in cancer patients receiving ICIs.

II. To evaluate the clinical outcomes related to IIC, including the incidence of IIC, hospitalization, treatment delays, and administration of immunosuppressants.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in gut microbiome with ICIs and multi-strain probiotic blend.

II. To evaluate changes in immune response with ICIs and multi-strain probiotic blend.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive VSL#3® 450B (live freeze-dried lactic acid bacteria probiotic) orally (PO) once daily (QD) at least 3 days prior or 1-2 weeks prior to starting standard care ICIs and then continue for 12 weeks. Patients also undergo stool and blood sample collections on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and 1 year.