Lenalidomide With or Without Idelalisib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This Phase I/II trial studies the safety and effectiveness of lenalidomide with or without idelalisib. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Idelalisib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether lenalidomide is more effective with or without idelalisib in treating mantle cell lymphoma.
Relapsed/Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: idelalisib
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of idelalisib and lenalidomide, determined according to incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (Phase I), 28 days|Progression Free Survival (PFS) of the combination of lenalidomide, with or without idelalisib (Phase II), Time between registration and disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years
Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), Up to 2 years|Overall response rate (partial or complete response) (Phase II), Up to 2 years
A notice of temporary accrual suspension for Alliance A051201 was issued on 1/28/14. The study was suspended to new patient accrual until a protocol amendment was finalized, which provided revised treatment instructions. The study was reactivated on 4/22/14 including the removal of the rituximab treatment arm.

Outline: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

The phase I treatment plan includes the following:

1. Lenalidomide will be tested at sequential dose levels in a standard 3+3 design.

   1. Dose Level 0 = 15mg/day for days 1-21 every 28 days
   2. Dose Level 1 = 20mg/day for days 1-21 every 28 days and
   3. Dose Level 2 = 25mg/day for days 1-21 every 28 days.

   Patients can continue lenalidomide for up to 48 weeks (12 cycles) of treatment.
2. Idelalisib will be orally administered starting at 150 mg twice daily for continuous 28-day cycles until progression, intolerance, or patient/physician discretion. The dose is the same in dose levels 0, 1, and 2.

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms in the Phase II treatment plan. The primary and secondary objectives for this study are:

1. Phase I Primary Objective: To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of lenalidomide with idelalisib in sequential dose cohorts.
2. Phase II Primary Objective: To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) of the combination of lenalidomide with or without idelalisib in a randomized phase II design.
3. Phase II Secondary Objectives:

   1. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), complete response rate (CR), and overall survival (OS) of the combination of lenalidomide with or without idelalisib in a randomized phase II design.
   2. To determine the prognostic and/or predictive significance of proliferation markers and cell cycle components in patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) treated with idelalisib and lenalidomide.
   3. To determine whether phosphorylated protein kinase B (pAKT) expression levels are correlated with response to idelalisib plus lenalidomide.
   4. To determine whether Notch activation as assessed by notch homolog 1, translocation- association (NOTCH1) intracellular domain (ICD) immunohistochemistry (IHC) correlates with NOTCH1 mutational status and outcome in MCL patients treated with idelalisib and lenalidomide.
   5. To determine whether sex determining region Y-box 11 (SOX11) expression correlates with response in patients with relapsed/refractory MCL treated with idelalisib and lenalidomide.
   6. To correlate cereblon (CRBN) expression with response in patients with relapsed/refractory MCL treated with idelalisib and lenalidomide.
   7. To evaluate several plasma cytokines and correlate observed changes to objective response rates.