Vigil™ + Nivolumab in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This is an open label phase 2 study to evaluate the combination of Vigil™ and nivolumab in advanced or metastatic NSCLC that is progressive on or after one prior platinum-based systemic therapy. Patients meeting study eligibility criteria will receive Vigil™ every 2 weeks (for a minimum of 4 and a maximum of 12 doses) and nivolumab every 2 weeks. The combination of Vigil™ and nivolumab will demonstrate a higher objective response rate (ORR) than the historical ORR of single agent nivolumab in patients with advanced NSCLC.
Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Lung Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Vigil™|DRUG: Nivolumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR) by RECIST 1.1 criteria of Vigil™ plus nivolumab in patients with NSCLC after failure of prior platinum-based chemotherapy, The primary endpoint of ORR is defined as a best response of complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 as determined by the investigator., 12 months
Tolerability and safety profile of Vigil™ combined with nivolumab (all adverse events (CTCAE 4.03), laboratory safety assessments, and physical examination findings), Safety endpoints include all adverse events (CTCAE 4.03), laboratory safety assessments, and physical examination findings., 12 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) of study patients treated with Vigil™ and nivolumab, The secondary efficacy endpoint of PFS is the time from randomization to progression according to RECIST version 1.1 or until death from any cause, whichever comes first., 12 months
This is an open label phase 2 study to evaluate the combination of Vigil™ autologous tumor cell immunotherapy and nivolumab PD-1 inhibitor therapy in patients with advanced or metastatic NSCLC that is progressive on or after one prior platinum-based systemic therapy (ALK or EGFR mutation-targeted therapy should have been received if appropriate mutation present).

Patients undergoing a standard surgical procedure (e.g., tumor biopsy, palliative resection, or thoracentesis of malignant pleural effusion) may elect to have tumor tissue procured for manufacture of Vigil™ vaccine. Patients meeting study eligibility criteria will receive doublet therapy comprising of (i) Vigil™ 1 x 10\^7 cells by intradermal injection every 2 weeks for a minimum of 4 and a maximum of 12 doses and (ii) nivolumab 3 mg/kg by intravenous infusion over 60 minutes every 2 weeks. Three to six weeks after tissue procurement has occurred eligibility will be reconfirmed by the study site. Subjects must begin the study regimen within 6 weeks of tissue procurement. Radiological assessment of tumor response will be performed at screening, Cycle 5 (Week 9) and approximately every 2 months thereafter until progressive disease unless the subject is lost to follow-up, withdraws consent for study related procedures, or initiates another cancer therapy. Tumor biopsy for correlative studies should be obtained at tissue procurement and at Cycle 5 (Week 9). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) for correlative studies should be obtained before tumor procurement, and prior to initiation of study therapy on Day 1 at Cycle 1 (Week 1), Cycle 5 (Week 9), Cycle 9 (Week 17) and EOT.