National Liver Cancer Screening Trial
The National Liver Cancer Screening Trial is an adaptive randomized phase IV Trial comparing ultrasound-based versus biomarker-based screening in 5500 patients with cirrhosis from any etiology or patients with chronic hepatitis B infection. Eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to Arm A using semi-annual ultrasound and AFP-based screening or Arm B using semi-annual screening using GALAD alone. Randomization will be stratified by sex, enrolling site, Child Pugh class (A vs. B), and HCC etiology (viral vs. non-viral). Patients will be recruited from 15 sites (mix of tertiary care and large community health systems) over a 3-year period, and the primary endpoint of the phase IV trial, reduction in late-stage HCC, will be assessed after 5.5 years.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular|Liver Cancer|Liver Cirrhosis|Hepatitis B
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: GALAD|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Liver Ultrasound with or without AFP
Proportion of HCC detected at late stage, Proportion of HCC detected at a late stage, defined as HCC beyond Milan Criteria (one tumor less than or equal to 5 cm or 2-3 tumors each less than or equal to 3 cm, in the absence of vascular invasion or extra-hepatic metastases), 5.5 years
HCC Screening utilization, Defined as proportion time covered by screening; each completed screening test (US +/- AFP or GALAD) will provide up to six months of coverage (numerator) divided by the total follow-up for each patient., 5.5 years|Proportion of HCC detected at a late-stage (defined based on BCLC stage), Defined as HCC beyond BCLC stage A (single tumor of any size without vascular invasion or extrahepatic spread; or 2-3 tumors equal to or less than 3 cm each, without vascular invasion or extrahepatic spread), 5.5 years|Incidence of late-stage HCC, Defined as incidence of HCC (extended follow-up) beyond Milan Criteria or BCLC stage A, 8 years|Proportion of HCC cases that receive Curative therapy, Defined as count of participants in receipt of liver transplantation, surgical resection, local ablative therapy, or radiation segmentectomy, 5.5 years|Number of participants who encountered screening related physical harm, Physical harms will be defined as count of participants in receipt of diagnostic imaging for false positive or indeterminate results., 5.5 years|Number of participants who encountered screening related financial harm, Financial harms will be defined by direct costs (charges for all screening and diagnostic testing and co-pays) and indirect costs (e.g., travel and lost wages), 5.5 years|Number of participants who encountered screening related Psychological harm, Count of participants who encountered Psychological harms that includes cancer-specific worry and decisional regret., 5.5 years
The TRACER phase IV biomarker study is a randomized trial comparing ultrasound-based screening versus a biomarker-based strategy in patients with cirrhosis. In brief, 5500 patients with cirrhosis from any etiology would be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to Arm A offering semi-annual ultrasound +/- AFP-based screening or Arm B offering semi-annual biomarker-based screening. Randomization will be stratified by site, Child Pugh class (A vs. B), liver disease etiology (viral, non-viral, and non-cirrhotic HBV infection) and sex. Patients will be recruited from 15 sites (mix of tertiary care and large community health systems) over a 3-year period, and reduction in the proportion of late-stage HCC, will be assessed at the end of Year 5.5. If the results are promising, study team will continue extended follow-up and compare the incidence of late-stage HCC between the two arms at Year 8 and reduction in HCC mortality during long term follow up.

Study team will include adult patients, age ≥ 18 years, with Child Pugh class A or B cirrhosis of any etiology or non-cirrhotic chronic hepatitis B virus infection with PAGE-B score \>9. Study team will exclude patients post liver transplantation, patients with Child Pugh C cirrhosis, patients with significant comorbidity and limited life expectancy, and those with history of other malignancy, except non-melanoma skin cancer or indolent tumors, within 3 years prior to enrollment given lack of screening recommendations in those patient populations. Study team will also exclude patients with suspicious liver masses at baseline as well as those with a solid lesion ≥1 cm on ultrasound or AFP ≥20 ng/mL without diagnostic evaluation to exclude HCC. Study team will also exclude patients in whom the provider plans to follow the patient with CT or MRI-based surveillance. GALAD is not recommended in patients with pregnancy or active warfarin use given known impact on biomarker performance, so these patients will be excluded.

At enrollment, study team will record patient demographics and clinical characteristics using a combination of electronic medical records and patient questionnaires. Patients will then be offered semi-annual surveillance as defined by their study arm: ultrasound and AFP for patients in Arm A and the biomarker, GALAD, for patients in Arm B. Repeat surveillance tests will be offered every six months (per assigned arm) for patients with normal surveillance results. Diagnostic evaluation with multi-phasic CT or contrast-enhanced MRI will be recommended for any patients with abnormal screening results. Patients with normal diagnostic testing (i.e., false positive result) will be recommended to return to their assigned surveillance arm. Standardized criteria from the AASLD and LI-RADS will be used to define incident HCC. Study team will use a set of validated surveys (e.g., Psychological Consequences Questionnaire, Decision Regret scale, FACIT-COST) to measure secondary outcomes of interest including psychological and financial harms.