Ferumoxytol MRI in Assessing Response to Pembrolizumab in Patients With Glioblastoma
This pilot phase II trial studies how well ferumoxytol magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) works in assessing response to pembrolizumab in patients with glioblastoma. Diagnostic procedures, such as ferumoxytol MRI, may help measure a patient's response to pembrolizumab treatment.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Ferumoxytol|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Sensitivity and specificity of ferumoxytol steady state imaging, Will be analyzed using proportions and exact 95% confidence intervals. Analysis of sensitivity will be based on patients with surgical results, and specificity analysis will be based on patients with pseudoprogression determined based on surgical results or follow-up clinical scan, as detailed in the power and sample size calculation section., Up to 5 years
Progression free survival, Will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates., Up to 5 years|Duration of best response, Will be analyzed using proportions and exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 5 years|Rate of adverse events, Will be analyzed using proportions and exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 5 years
Number and type of systemic and tumor infiltrating T cell, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics as appropriate; and associations between immunological parameters, PDL-1 expression, clinical responses, radiological responses and other variables will be explored using two sample tests or correlation measures, as appropriate., Up to 5 years|Changes in PD-L1 expression, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics as appropriate; and associations between immunological parameters, PDL-1 expression, clinical responses, radiological responses and other variables will be explored using two sample tests or correlation measures, as appropriate., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the sensitivity and specificity of relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) measured by steady state MRI with ferumoxytol in identifying true versus (vs) pseudoprogression in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) receiving pembrolizumab with standard of care chemo-radiation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and toxicity of pembrolizumab when used in combination with standard of care chemo radiation.

II. Determine the progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), clinical response and duration of best response.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the immune response as determined by the volume, pattern and intensity of delayed (24 hour \[hr\]) ferumoxytol uptake between subjects who develop true vs pseudoprogression.

II. Investigate the serum immunological parameters (serum biomarker) and correlate clinical as well as radiological response with systemic immune response to pembrolizumab as measured by immunological panel.

III. Compare the changes in PDL-1 expression in the biopsy tissue before and after therapy at the time of progression and correlate PD-L1 expression with response rates and survival.

IV. Investigate the feasibility of measuring vascular volume fraction (VVF), vessel size index (VSI) and vessel density index (VDI) as surrogate for response (true vs pseudoprogression, as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 and immune related response criteria \[irRC\]).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 2 years or 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive ferumoxytol IV and undergo MRI scans at baseline, 4 weeks after the last day of standard of care stereotactic radiosurgery or chemoradiotherapy, every 9 weeks thereafter until suspected radiographic progression, and then within 4 weeks from suspected radiographic progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 12 weeks for up to 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.