A Study of Erlotinib (Tarceva) in Participants With Resected Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This two-arm study will compare the efficacy and safety of erlotinib (Tarceva) versus placebo in participants with resected head and neck squamous cell cancer who are receiving concurrent chemoradiotherapy or radiotherapy alone. Participants will be randomized to receive either erlotinib 150 milligrams (mg) orally (PO) once daily or placebo for 1 year until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Erlotinib|OTHER: Standard of care
Number of Participants With Disease Progression, Tumor response was assessed by the Investigator according to standard-of-care criteria, as there were no protocol-specified criteria for the assessment of tumor response and the instrument for assessment was deferred to the Investigator. To ensure comparability, baseline radiological studies later used to verify progression must be performed using identical techniques. The number of participants who experienced disease progression was reported., From inclusion in the study until disease progression (maximum up to 3 years overall)|Time to Progression (TTP), Tumor response was assessed by the Investigator according to standard-of-care criteria, as there were no protocol-specified criteria for the assessment of tumor response and the instrument for assessment was deferred to the Investigator. TTP was defined as the time from inclusion in the study to the time of disease progression, appearance of second tumor, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. To ensure comparability, baseline radiological studies later used to verify progression must be performed using identical techniques. The median duration of TTP and corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were to be estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and expressed in months., From inclusion in the study until disease progression, appearance of second tumor, or death from any cause (maximum up to 3 years overall)
Number of Participants Who Died, The number of participants who died from any cause was reported., From inclusion in the study until death from any cause (maximum up to 3 years overall)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from inclusion in the study to date of death for any reason. The median duration of OS and corresponding 95% CI were to be estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and expressed in months., From inclusion in the study until death from any cause (maximum up to 3 years overall)
This two-arm study will compare the efficacy and safety of erlotinib (Tarceva) versus placebo in participants with resected head and neck squamous cell cancer who are receiving concurrent chemoradiotherapy or radiotherapy alone. Participants will be randomized to receive either erlotinib 150 milligrams (mg) orally (PO) once daily or placebo for 1 year until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.