Defactinib and VS-6766 for the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
This phase II trial studies the effect of combining defactinib and VS-6766 in treating patients with uveal melanoma that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). The way cells communicate with one another (different cell signaling pathways) are overactive in uveal melanoma tumor cells. Giving defactinib together with VS-6766 may block pathways that are important for the growth of uveal melanoma cells, and may result in shrinkage or stabilization of the cancer and prolonged time to disease progression and survival.
Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: Defactinib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Raf/MEK Inhibitor VS-6766|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Best overall response, Defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) + stable disease (SD) and determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, Up to 2 years after the last patient is enrolled|Disease control rate, Defined as CR+PR+SD and determined by RECIST criteria version 1.1. All estimates of rates will be presented with corresponding 95% exact confidence intervals. For disease control rates, the method of Atkinson and Brown will be used to allow for the two-stage design., Up to 2 years after the last patient is enrolled
Progression-free Survival (PFS), A Kaplan Meier graph and median PFS will be presented overall and by cohort., From trial entry until the time of documented disease progression or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 2 years after the last patient is enrolled|Overall Survival (OS), A Kaplan Meier graph will be presented overall and by cohort., From trial entry until the time of documented death, assessed up to 2 years after the last patient is enrolled|Incidence of adverse events, Will determine causality of each adverse event to defactinib and VS-6766 and grading severity according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Estimates of toxicity rates will be presented with corresponding 95% exact confidence intervals. Safety variables will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Laboratory variables will be described using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Adverse events (AEs) will be reported for each dose level and presented as tables of frequency of AEs by body system and by worse severity grade observed., Up to 2 years after the last patient is enrolled
Changes in tumor metabolic activity, Tumor samples will be analyzed, Baseline up to 28 days after the last dose of treatment|Changes in signaling to the ERK, YAP, FAK, and PI3K TOR pathways, Tumor samples will be analyzed., Baseline up to 28 days after the last dose of treatment|Changes in cell proliferation (Ki67), Tumor samples will be analyzed., Baseline up to 2 years after the last patient is enrolled|Changes in apoptosis induction (caspase activation), Tumor samples will be analyzed., Baseline up to 28 days after the last dose of treatment|Changes in tumor microenvironment, Tumor samples will be analyzed., Baseline up to 28 days after the last dose of treatment|Detection of biomarkers of resistance, Tumor samples will be analyzed. The specific type and number of biomarkers from the tumor samples will be decided during the course of the study and documented in the study records., Up to 28 days after the last dose of treatment|Circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), Will correlate circulating free DNA with cancer remission and predicting cancer relapse., Up to 28 days after the last dose of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the potential efficacy of the combination of defactinib hydrochloride (defactinib \[VS-6063\]) and Raf/MEK serine/threonine kinase inhibitor RO5126766 (VS-6766) in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effectiveness of defactinib in combination with VS-6766 in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma (MUM).

II. To assess the safety and toxicity profile of the combination of defactinib and VS6766.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the pharmacodynamic profile of defactinib in combination with VS-6766 in pre-treatment, on-treatment, and post-treatment tumor biopsies.

II. To investigate mechanisms of resistance to the combination of defactinib and VS-6766.

III. To investigate the potential efficacy of circulating cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) for prediction/monitoring.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive defactinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and VS-6766 PO twice a week (BIW) (Monday and Thursday or Tuesday and Friday) for 3 weeks in every cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo tumor biopsy at baseline, after cycle 1 or 2, and post-treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months until death or up to 2 years after the last patient is enrolled.