DNA Plasmid Encoding a Modified Human Telomerase Reverse Transcriptase (hTERT), Invac-1 in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
Phase 2 study to assess the efficacy of INVAC-1, a DNA plasmid encoding a modified human telomerase reverse transcriptas (hTERT) protein, at a dose of 800 µg for 6 cycles 4 weeks apart on Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) eradication rate in the bone marrow, either as a single agent in a high risk "watch and wait" group (group 1 - 42 patients) or in combination with ibrutinib (group 2 - 42 patients), in patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL).

Pharmacodynamics and safety will also be assessed.
Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Chronic, B-Cell
BIOLOGICAL: INVAC-1
Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) eradication rate in the bone marrow, MRD eradication rate (by standardized 4-color flow cytometry, with a limit of detection of 0.01% CLL cells among total leucocytes in the bone marrow after 6 monthly injections of INVAC-1, 6 months
MRD eradication rate in blood after 6 monthly injections of INVAC-1, 6 months|Duration of MRD eradication in bone marrow and blood, approximately 3 years|Cumulative incidence of partial and complete response by IWCLL 2018, every 6 months for 3 years|PFS as assessed by investigators according to IWCLL 2018 criteria, approximately 3 years|Time to next CLL treatment, approximately 3 years|Overall survival, approximately 3 years|Adverse events, type, frequency, severity as graded by NCI CTCAE v.4.03, up to 7 months|Cellular (CD4 & CD8) specific anti hTert response by FACS including cytokine polarization Th1, Th2, Th17, every 6 months for 3 years|Count of blood circulating CD4, CD8, Treg, NK cells, every 6 months for 3 years
The study will be a phase II, open label, single-arm trial of INVAC-1 at a dose of 800 µg in patients with CLL.

The primary goal of the study is to achieve MRD negativity in each group. 42 patients are to be included in each study group.

Group 1: Untreated high risk "watch and wait" Newly diagnosed patients not eligible for any approved treatment (using NCI Working Group criteria), but having some poor prognosis characteristics (defined by MD Anderson Cancer Center nomogram criteria). Patients will be treated by INVAC-1 for 6 doses at 4-week intervals and then MRD will be assessed. Patients will subsequently be managed as per usual care. For MRD negative patients after INVAC-1 who become MRD+ during follow-up, INVAC-1 can be resumed for 6 months.

Group 2: Ibrutinib treated patients Patients who are receiving ibrutinib as 1st or 2nd line treatment. After at least 12 months of ibrutinib, patients will be assessed for MRD. MRD-positive patients will be treated with ibrutinib + INVAC-1 for 6 months and at the end of the combined treatment period, MRD will be assessed. MRD-negative patients (defined as \<0.01% of CLL cells in total cells analyzed) will have the option to stop or continue ibrutinib. Then, they will be followed-up regularly for two years. Patients who become MRD-positive after being MRD-negative will resume ibrutinib single agent.