Genomic Markers Before and After Treatment of Actinic Keratosis With Imiquimod 3.75% Cream
The study team had plans to treat approximately 30 subjects. Each subject that had qualified had at least 4-8 visible AKs on the face and/or scalp. At Day 0, one Actinic Keratosis (AK) in the treatment area had been biopsied via a 3 mm punch. The tissue collected was sent to pathology for confirmatory diagnosis as well as genomic analysis. The remaining AKs had been identified, photographed, and documented on a transparency. One of the remaining AKs was designated as the target lesion. The patient returned to the clinic in 7 days (+/- 3) for suture removal. Approximately two weeks after Day 0, the entire treatment area was treated with imiquimod 3.75% cream. Subjects utilized the 2 weeks on, 2 weeks off, 2 weeks on regimen. Subjects were followed every 2 weeks during treatment (week 2, 4 and 6) and then at 4 and 8 weeks post last-imiquimod application (week 10 and 14). At week 14, a biopsy via a 3 mm punch was done of the target lesion. Yet, if the target lesion was no longer present, a biopsy was done at the site where the lesion was previously located.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: Imiquimod 3.75% Cream
Number of Responders, The number of participants with reduction in number of AKs on the face and/or scalp after application of imiquimod 3.75%., Day 70
Number of Treatment Related Adverse Events, The safety of imiquimod 3.75% on the face and/or scalp was determined by the number of treatment related adverse events that occur during the study., Day 70
The study team had plans to treat approximately 30 subjects. Each subject that had qualified had at least 4-8 visible AKs on the face and/or scalp. At Day 0, one Actinic Keratosis (AK) in the treatment area had been biopsied via a 3 mm punch. The tissue collected was sent to pathology for confirmatory diagnosis as well as genomic analysis. The remaining AKs had been identified, photographed, and documented on a transparency. One of the remaining AKs was designated as the target lesion. The patient returned to the clinic in 7 days (+/- 3) for suture removal. Approximately two weeks after Day 0, the entire treatment area was treated with imiquimod 3.75% cream. Subjects utilized the 2 weeks on, 2 weeks off, 2 weeks on regimen. Subjects were followed every 2 weeks during treatment (week 2, 4 and 6) and then at 4 and 8 weeks post last-imiquimod application (week 10 and 14). At week 14, a biopsy via a 3 mm punch was done of the target lesion. Yet, if the target lesion was no longer present, a biopsy was done at the site where the lesion was previously located.