Penpulimab Combined With GP ± Anlotinib as Neoadjuvant Therapy in Locoregionally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to explore the efficacy and safety of a combination of GP chemotherapy and Penpulimab ± Anlotinib in neoadjuvant therapy combined with Penpulimab in adjuvant therapy of locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: GP+Penpulimab+Anlotinib|DRUG: GP+Penpulimab
Stage 1(Pick the Winner Study): Complete Response, The proportion of patients who had a complete response was defined as those with all pathological cervical lymph nodes being less than 10 mm in the short axis and no unequivocal soft tissue mass in the local region. Disease response was evaluatedby by the Investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using the Clopper Pearson method, 9 weeks|Stage 2 (Cohort Expansion Study): Failure-free survival (FFS), Defined as the time from registration to documented local or regional relapse, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years
Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time from registration to death from any cause or censored at the date of last follow-up., 3 years|Locoregional failure-free survival (LRRFS), Defined as the time from registration to local or regional relapse, or death from any cause., 3 years|Distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), Defined as the time from registration to distant metastasis, or death from any cause., 3 years|Incidence rate of adverse events (AEs), Analysis of acute and late adverse events (AEs) are evaluated. Numbers of patients of treatment-related adverse events (acute toxicity) and late radiation toxicities were assessed by CTCAE v5.0., 3 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) was assessed by the site Investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) and was defined as the percentage of patients with a confirmed overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and was based on all treated patients who had measurable disease at baseline (Day 1). 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using the Clopper Pearson method., 9 weeks
Radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy is the standard treatment method for locally advanced NPC. In the 2020 National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines, GP regimen induction chemotherapy combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy has been established as evidence-based grade 2A.

Based on the results of phase 3 clinical trials, the addition of PD-1 monoclonal antibody to GP chemotherapy as a first-line treatment for patients with recurrent or metastatic nonkeratinizing NPC provided superior PFS, ORR and DoR than GP alone while maintaining a manageable safety profile. Therefore, the combination of PD-1 monoclonal antibody in GP induction chemotherapy may further improve the prognosis of patients with locally advanced NPC.

There is a complex interaction between tumor immune microenvironment and tumor vascular remodeling. Anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody combined with anti-VEGF have synergistic effect and inhibit tumor growth.

Penpulimab is a new type of PD-1 monoclonal antibody. It has the characteristics of strong antigen binding and slow dissociation rate, which can maintain the antitumor activity of T cells.

Anlotinib is a multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). It can effectively inhibit a variety of receptors, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR), and block tumor angiogenesis more comprehensively.

Based on the above research background, this study adopts a two-stage design:

Stage I (Pick the Winner Study): For patients with locally advanced NPC, the complete response rate (CR) of tumor after induction chemotherapy was compared between the two groups of patients receiving GP + Penpulimab and GP + Penpulimab + arotinib before radiotherapy. The regimen with higher CR rate was the winner at this stage.

Stage II ( Cohort Expansion Study): The 3-year failure free survival (FFS) of patients in the winning regimen of expansion cohort was calculated through long-term follow-up and compared with the data in previous trials.