Biomarker Study of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumours
The biology of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors can change during the disease course. This evolution of disease can manifest through increases in tumor proliferation rate, resistance to medical therapy and/or a change in tumor hormone secretion. This study aims to characterize how the biology of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors change over time, measured by; patient symptoms, biochemistry, contrast enhanced computed tomography, DOTATOC-PET, FDG-PET and core needle biopsy with histopathological analysis (Ki67 index and tumor cell differentiation). Uptake on 68Ga-DOTATOC and 18F-FDG-PET will be correlated directly to tumor cell proliferation rate. Fraction of patients with spatial heterogeneity in DOTATOC as well as FDG uptake as well as metachronous changes in all collected data will be documented. Biomaterial from whole blood and core needle biopsies will be characterized on the molecular level, and those findings will be integrated to the above specified clinical parameters.
Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor
RADIATION: 18F-FDG-PET|RADIATION: 68Ga-DOTATOC-PET|RADIATION: Computed tomography|OTHER: Core needle biopsy|OTHER: Phlebotomy
Protocol adherence, Defined as the proportion of patients where that following investigations are performed: Core needle biopsy, FDG-PET, DOTATOC-PET, research blood samples, pancreatic hormones and hormonal syndromes., Study inclusion
Safety of core needle biopsy: NCI Common Terminology Criteria, Defined as a NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 4.03 grade 3-4 adverse event related to the procedure., At study inclusion and within 48 hours of the procedure
The biology of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors can change during the disease course. This evolution of disease can manifest through increases in tumor proliferation rate, resistance to medical therapy and/or a change in tumor hormone secretion. This study aims to characterize how the biology of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors change over time, measured by; patient symptoms, biochemistry, contrast enhanced computed tomography, DOTATOC-PET, FDG-PET and core needle biopsy with histopathological analysis (Ki67 index and tumor cell differentiation). Uptake on 68Ga-DOTATOC and 18F-FDG-PET will be correlated directly to tumor cell proliferation rate. Fraction of patients with spatial heterogeneity in DOTATOC as well as FDG uptake as well as metachronous changes in all collected data will be documented. Biomaterial from whole blood and core needle biopsies will be characterized on the molecular level, and those findings will be integrated to the above specified clinical parameters.