Testing the Use of the Usual Chemotherapy Before and After Surgery for Removable Pancreatic Cancer
This phase III trial compares perioperative chemotherapy (given before and after surgery) versus adjuvant chemotherapy (given after surgery) for the treatment of pancreatic cancer that can be removed by surgery (removable/resectable). Chemotherapy drugs, such as fluorouracil, irinotecan, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy before and after surgery (perioperatively) may work better in treating patients with pancreatic cancer compared to giving chemotherapy after surgery (adjuvantly).
Pancreatic Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Resectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Fluorouracil|PROCEDURE: Resection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. The treatment arms will be compared using a stratified Cox regression model, and hazard ratios from each arm will be estimated., Time between randomization and death from any cause, assessed up to 6 years.
Disease-free survival (DFS), Disease-free survival (DFS) is defined as the time from randomization to the date of progression prior to surgery, metastases detected during surgery, recurrence (locoregional and/or distant) after resection, and death due to all causes, whichever occurs first. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Time between randomization and progression prior to surgery, metastases detected during surgery, recurrence (locoregional and/or distant) after resection, and death due to all causes, assessed up to 6 years.|Time to locoregional recurrence (TLR), Time to locoregional recurrence (TLR) is defined as the time from randomization to the date of locoregional recurrence after resection. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Time between randomization and locoregional recurrence after resection, assessed up to 6 years.|Time to distant metastases (TDM), Time to distant metastases (TDM) is defined as the time from randomization to the date of metastases prior to surgery, metastases detected during surgery, or distant recurrence after resection. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Time between randomization and metastases prior to surgery, metastases detected during surgery, or distant recurrence after resection, assessed up to 6 years.|R0 resection rate, The rate (percentage) of patients with negative resection margins after undergoing surgery., At time of surgery.|Rate of unresectability, The rate (percentage) of patients who cannot undergo surgery due to adverse events, progressive disease, death, poor performance, or patient/physician decision, are deemed unresectable before surgery, or resection was not performed during surgery., At time of surgery or planned time of surgery.|Pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, The rate (percentage) of patients who achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR) confirmed by histopathologic review of the surgical specimen., At time of surgery.|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0 (v5.0), The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns within treatment arms and during the following three time points: during perioperative chemotherapy, surgical complications during surgery and post-operative period for 30 days, and during adjuvant chemotherapy., Up to 2 years.|Fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and oxaliplatin (modified [m]FOLFIRINOX) dose intensity delivered, Dose intensity is defined as the percentage of total cumulative dose the patient received divided by the total dose planned per protocol times 100., 8 months|Fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium and oxaliplatin (modified [m]FOLFIRINOX) number of cycles received, The number of cycles received is defined as the total number of cycles that the participant received at least one dose of any agent in mFOLFIRINOX., 8 months|Quality of life as assessed by the physical functioning, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea subscales in the Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30), Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. QLQ-C30 includes functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status, symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and other (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score=better level of physical functioning, greater occurrence of nausea/vomiting, and greater occurrence of diarrhea., 8 weeks|Influence of diet, body mass index, weight loss, physical activity, and other lifestyle habits on overall survival, Multivariate Cox proportional hazards models will be fit for overall survival (OS) endpoint (defined above) with covariates corresponding to baseline diet and lifestyle questionnaire responses and hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals will be reported., Time between randomization and death from any cause, assessed up to 6 years.|Influence of diet, body mass index, weight loss, physical activity, and other lifestyle habits on disease-free survival (DFS), Multivariate Cox proportional hazards models will be fit for disease-free survival (DFS) endpoint (defined above) with covariates corresponding to baseline diet and lifestyle questionnaire responses and hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals will be reported., Time between randomization and progression prior to surgery, metastases detected during surgery, recurrence (locoregional and/or distant) after resection, and death due to all causes, assessed up to 6 years.|Influence of diet, body mass index, weight loss, physical activity, and other lifestyle habits on the risk of grade 3+ adverse event associated with chemotherapy, Multivariate Logistic models will be fit for the binary endpoint of grade 3+ adverse event (patient experiences at least one grade 3 or higher adverse event during treatment), Up to 2 years.|The ability of computed tomography (CT)-based radiomics to distinguish post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) fibrosis from viable tumor as measured by comparison to histological evaluation, Comparison between computed tomography (CT)-based radiomics and histological tumor fibrosis proportions will be measured using Spearman's rank correlation coefficient., At time of surgery.|Computed tomography (CT)-based radiomics as non-invasive predictors of overall survival, Multivariate Cox proportional hazards model will be fit for overall survival (OS) endpoint (defined above) with covariates chosen from all available radiomics features using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) method with 10-fold cross-validation (CV) and additionally adjusted for clinically important confounders. After the final model is selected the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) will be reported to indicate the prediction performance of the radiomics model., Time between randomization and death from any cause, assessed up to 6 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and compare overall survival (OS) in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium and oxaliplatin (modified \[m\]FOLFIRINOX) and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and compare disease-free survival (DFS) in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

II. To evaluate and compare time to locoregional recurrence (TLR) in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

III. To evaluate and compare time to distant metastases (TDM) in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

IV. To evaluate and compare the R0 resection rate in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

V. To evaluate and compare rate of unresectability in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

VI. To evaluate rate of pathologic complete response in patients randomized to the perioperative therapy arm.

VII. To evaluate and compare mFOLFIRINOX dose intensity delivered and number of cycles received in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

VIII. To evaluate and compare adverse event profile in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

IX. To compare physical functioning, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea, as measured with the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) between patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

X. To prospectively assess the influence of diet, body mass index, weight loss, physical activity, and other lifestyle habits on the disease-free survival and overall survival among patients with localized pancreatic cancers.

XI. To assess the influence of diet, obesity, physical activity, and other lifestyle habits on the risk of toxicity associated with chemotherapy.

XII. To evaluate the ability of computed tomography (CT)-based radiomics in distinguishing post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) fibrosis from viable tumor in patients randomized to the perioperative therapy arm.

XIII. To determine whether CT-based radiomics retrieved from baseline examination may act as non-invasive predictors of survival outcome in patients randomized to the adjuvant therapy arm.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, and leucovorin calcium over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 2-8 weeks of completing neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients undergo surgical resection. Patients then receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, and leucovorin calcium over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients undergo surgical resection. Beginning 3-12 weeks after surgery, patients then receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, and leucovorin calcium over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 years.