Screening Study of Combined Sequential Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy for Early-stage NK/T-cell Lymphoma
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type (NKTCL) is a common malignant tumor in East Asian populations, often starting in the nasal cavity and spreading to other organs. Associated with EBV infection, NKTCL is aggressive. Early-stage patients typically receive chemo and radiotherapy, with promising outcomes. Recent studies show the potential of immune checkpoint inhibitors in NKTCL treatment. However, optimal treatment sequencing and efficacy remain unclear. This study aims to compare three strategies: (A) Pegaspargase with Sintilimab and radiotherapy; (B) chemo then radiotherapy (PGemOx); (C) sandwich chemoradiotherapy (GELAD). The goal is to identify the best treatment based on 24-month progression-free survival.
Natural Killer/T-Cell Lymphoma, Nasal and Nasal-Type
DRUG: Sintilimab+Pegaspargase|DRUG: P-GemOx|DRUG: GELAD|RADIATION: IMRT
PFS24, Rate of patients with 24-month progression-free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 24 months by the Lugano 2014 response criteria.
ORR, Overall response rate, response rate at 24th week|OS, Overall survival, From the time of patient randomization to the end of study, assessed up to 60 months|EFS, Event-free survival, From the time of patient randomization to the end of study, assessed up to 60 months|TRAE, Treatment-related adverse event related to the study drug or intervention, From the time of patient randomization to the end of study, assessed up to 60 months
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type (NKTCL) is a malignant hematological tumor that is common in East Asian populations. The disease typically manifests in the nasal cavity in its early stages and can later involve multiple organs throughout the body. Highly associated with EBV infection, NKTCL is known for its aggressive nature. Currently, early-stage patients usually undergo combined treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Recent studies have shown that combining chemotherapy and radiotherapy containing asparaginase can achieve a complete remission rate (CR) of over 80%, with long-term survival rates exceeding 70% for patients. In recent years, researchers have found that immune checkpoint inhibitors demonstrate high activity in NKTCL, becoming an important therapeutic option. However, it is worth noting that the optimal sequence of chemotherapy and radiotherapy, as well as the effectiveness of combining radiotherapy with immunotherapy, have not been defined. Studies on different treatment strategies have shown variations in treatment-related adverse reactions and compliance with regimens among patients. However, there is currently no prospective randomized controlled study comparing the efficacy and safety of different strategies. Therefore, it is necessary to identify a treatment strategy with good efficacy and tolerability for patients. This study will stratify early-stage NKTCL patients using the NRI scoring system and randomly assign them to three different treatment strategies: (A) asparaginase combined with Sintilimab and synchronous radiotherapy; (B) sequential chemotherapy (PGemOx) followed by radiotherapy ; (C) chemotherapy (GELAD) with sandwiched chemoradiotherapy, to identify the best or worst treatment strategy based on the 24-month progression-free survival rate.