A Study of Apatinib Tablets in the Treatment of Advanced or Metastatic Gastric Cancer
The large-scale phase IV study aims to verify the safety and efficacy of apatinib in patients with advanced gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma after failure of two lines of chemotherapy. Apatinib initiated at a recommended dose of 850mg. However, the starting dose was decided by investigator's choice based on patients' condition. Dose interruption and dose reduction were allowed according to the product label. Treatment continued until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, or at investigators' discretion. The primary endpoint was safety, which was assessed by recording the incidence and severity of adverse events.
Advanced Gastric or Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: ApatinibTablets
Safety, which was assessed by recording the incidence and severity of adverse events, between first dose of apatinib and up to 30 days after the last dose of apatinib
Overall Survival, Event driven, an expected average of 34 weeks|Progression Free Survival, An expected average of 12 weeks|Objective Response Rate, An expected average of 12 weeks|Disease Control Rate, An expected average of 12 weeks|Quality of life, measured by the questionnaire of EORTC QLQ-C30, Quality of life will be assessed at baseline (after the patients provided written informed consent) until at least 4 weeks after the last dose of study drug was administered, an expected average of 14 weeks
The large-scale phase IV study aims to verify the safety and efficacy of apatinib in patients with advanced gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma after failure of two lines of chemotherapy. Apatinib initiated at a recommended dose of 850mg. However, the starting dose was decided by investigator's choice based on patients' condition. Dose interruption and dose reduction were allowed according to the product label. Treatment continued until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, or at investigators' discretion. The primary endpoint was safety, which was assessed by recording the incidence and severity of adverse events.