Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy and Concurrent Cisplatin for Re-Irradiation of Unresectable, Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinomas of Head and Neck
This study involves another course of radiation (called re-irradiation) to the participant's tumor. The type of radiation is called stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). The purpose of this study is to compare the effects, good and/or bad, of different doses of SBRT given along with the chemotherapy drug, cisplatin. The researchers want to see which dose of radiation will work best in controlling the growth of head/neck cancer. The usual treatment for head/neck cancer that has grown is surgery and/or more radiation with various chemotherapy drugs.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)
Maximal Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Stereoactive Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT), The traditional 3+3 dose escalation method will be utilized for this phase I study, with up to 3 sequential cohorts. The maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) radiation dose associated with a ≤ 33% probability of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). DLT is defined as any grade 4 or greater toxicity, per The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4 (CTCAE v4) that occurs within 3 months from the start of SBRT., Up to 24 months
Local Control Rate, Local control is defined as lack of progression as defined radiographically or pathologically proven within the SBRT treated area. This will be calculated via Kaplan-Meier method. Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) \[Eur J Ca 45:228-247, 2009\]. Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria., Up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival will be calculated from the end of SBRT treatment to time of death or last contact via Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 24 months
Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) is a relatively new radiation technique in which a few very high doses of radiation are delivered to small, well-defined tumors. It has been used effectively in other cancers like lung and liver. The goal is to deliver a radiation dose that is high enough to kill the cancer while limiting radiation to surrounding healthy organs. The daily dose of radiation is 2-3 times greater than conventional radiotherapy, but it is given for only 5 days over a 2 week period. Conventional radiotherapy is given over 6-7 weeks. The chemotherapy drug, cisplatin is used as a radiation sensitizer and will be given before each of the 5 radiation treatments.