Genetic Variants and Chemotherapy-induced Abnormal Thermal Sensation
This is a prospective, single arm, single center study evaluating the use of a 4-gene panel to predict the occurrence of chemotherapy-induced abnormal thermal threshold in endometrial and ovarian cancer patients receiving post-operative chemotherapy with Carboplatin/Paclitaxel, and stage III colorectal cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy with mFOLFOX6. A total of 100 patients will be enrolled during 2017 July\~ 2019 June. Blood sample will be collected before chemotherapy to analyze the genetic variants of TRPV1, TRPM2, TRPA1 and ORAI1. All patients will receive neurologic examination (Quantitative Sensory Test, QST) and complete the questionnaires for quality of life (EQ5D \& CIPN20). The primary endpoint of this study is to test if the genetic variant of TRPV1, TRPM2, TRPA1, and ORAI1 is a predictive biomarker for the chemotherapy-induced abnormal thermal sensation in cancer patients.
Chemotherapy-induced Abnormal Thermal Sensation
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Genetic variants of TRPV1, TRPM2, TRPA1 and ORAI
The change of thermal pain threshold, The threshold of detecting heat-induced pain, before chemotherapy & 3, 6, and 9 months after chemotherapy
This is a prospective, single arm, single center study evaluating the use of a 4-gene panel to predict the occurrence of chemotherapy-induced abnormal thermal threshold in endometrial and ovarian cancer patients receiving post-operative chemotherapy with Carboplatin/Paclitaxel, and stage III colorectal cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy with mFOLFOX6. A total of 100 patients will be enrolled during 2017 July\~ 2019 June. Blood sample will be collected before chemotherapy to analyze the genetic variants of TRPV1, TRPM2, TRPA1 and ORAI1. All patients will receive neurologic examination (Quantitative Sensory Test, QST) and complete the questionnaires for quality of life (EQ5D \& CIPN20). The primary endpoint of this study is to test if the genetic variant of TRPV1, TRPM2, TRPA1, and ORAI1 is a predictive biomarker for the chemotherapy-induced abnormal thermal sensation in cancer patients.