Spanish Study for Molecular Characterization of Thyroid Carcinoma
This project is a retrospective observational study based on the molecular characterization of a Spanish population of patients with refractory radio-iodine differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) and medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) with advanced and / or metastatic disease undergoing systemic treatment, or under clinical observation.

Three diagnostic techniques will be performed on formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor samples from the study population: immunohistochemistry (IHC), fluorescence by in situ hybridization (FISH) as well as Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) techniques by means of DNA and RNA analysis (Ion Platform Torrent - Oncomine Focus Assay, 52 gene detection). The results of each patient will be compared in order to correlate the results of each method.
Differentiated Thyroid Carcinoma|Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma
OTHER: Immunohistochemistry (IHC)|OTHER: Fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization (FISH)|OTHER: Oncomine Focus Assay Platform with 52 genes
Progression free survival (PFS), Time from start of data capture (retrospectively) to progression disease. Patients may be stratified in subgroups attending to their histologic subtype and molecular genetic profile., Throughout the study. Approximately 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Time from start of data capture (retrospectively) to death. Patients may be stratified in subgroups attending to their histologic subtype and molecular genetic profile., Throughout the study. Approximately 2 years|Objective response rate, Response to systemic treatments received if available. Patients may be stratified in subgroups attending to their histologic subtype and molecular genetic profile., Throughout the study. Approximately 2 years|Prevalence of genetic alterations, Frequency of genetic alterations in the study population determined by the molecular genetic interventions: IHC, FISH and NGS, Throughout the study. Approximately 2 years
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) techniques will be carried out to identify NTRK and RET alterations. NTRK alterations will be identified using IHC techniques (NTRK over-expression), and FISH techniques (break-apart method). RET alterations will also be identified using the FISH technique (break-apart method).

At the same time, DNA and RNA will be extracted for sequencing techniques using the Oncomine Focus Assay platform, including 52 genes (35 Hotspot genes, 19 Copy number variants and 23 Gene fusions, including NTRK and RET).