Decitabine and Venetoclax Treatment as Maintenance Therapy in Patients Post Allograft Stem Cell Transplant
The goal of this interventional clinical trial is to determine if low doses of gentle chemotherapy after bone marrow transplant may prevent relapse and promote an increase in survival and decrease in side effects in participants with acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes. The main question it aims to answer is whether or not providing a new, gentler way of administering chemotherapy will help control leftover cancer with minimal side effects. This treatment involves decitabine and venetoclax. Participants will receive standard post-transplant care. Participants will be administered decitabine once per week with normal transplant follow up visits, and then will take a venetoclax pill about 6 to 8 hours later. Participants will meet their study team at the beginning, midway, and at the end of the trial to receive bone marrow testing. Participants will receive treatment until either one year of therapy, relapse, or recurrent dose limiting toxicity (DLT) despite dose reduction.
Myeloid Malignancy|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Decitabine
Safety as measured by dose limiting toxicities, The primary objective of this study will be to assess the safety of low dose decitabine/venetoclax in the post transplant setting. Safety will be defined in accordance with FDA guidance on development for new therapeutics in AML with the particular criteria to be considered as DLTs.

The stopping criteria are described for the incidence of dose limiting toxicities that are at least possibly related to the study treatment.

Using Bayesian toxicity monitoring with maximum DLT probability as 0.15, prior distribution (0.5, 0.5), maximum participants 20, minimum number of participants before stopping 9, cohort size 5, and posterior probability 0.8, the study will be paused for review if (2, 3, 4, 5) or more participants experiencing such Grade 4 events in (69, 11, 16, 20) participants, respectively., 1 year after treatment|Feasibility as measured by the rate of participants receiving planned treatment, The primary objective of this study will be to assess the feasibility of low dose decitabine/venetoclax in the post transplant setting. Feasibility will be defined as ≥ 80% of participants receiving ≥80% of planned decitabine/venetoclax doses, excluding participants removed from the study in the event of relapse., 1 year after treatment
Rate of relapse free survival, The secondary objective is to determine the effects of low dose decitabine/venetoclax on the one relapse free survival compared to CIBMTR historical Disease Risk Index (DRI) data. The CIBMTR Disease Risk Index (DRI) is a clinically validated tool to predict survival post-transplant survival.

Relapse-free survival (RFS) is measured from the date of the stem cell infusion to the date of disease progression or the date of death, whichever occurs first; and is censored at the date of last followed for those alive without disease progression. Relapse will be defined as more than 5% blasts on bone marrow biopsy, or, in the case of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), any clinical change that in the treating physician's opinion triggers change in therapy and will be compared to historical CIBMTR controls for very high or high risk for relapse by CIBMTR Disease Risk Index (DRI)., 1 year after treatment
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common acute leukemia in adults. While 60-80% patients can achieve remission, a high rate of relapse mandates consolidative treatment. Unfortunately, 40% of AML patients and 30% of myelodysplastic syndrome patients will relapse after alloSCT, and those who relapse after transplant exhibit poor outcomes. As such, prevention of post-transplant relapse remains a key interest. Maintenance therapy with low-intensity chemotherapy and/or targeted therapy is one strategy that holds promise to reduce post-transplant relapse, controlling residual subclinical disease before frank relapse. As post-transplant maintenance strategies yield mixed results, standard of care maintenance therapy remains an unmet clinical need.

The combination of hypomethylating agents (HMAs), such as decitabine or 5-azacytidine, and the B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2) inhibitor venetoclax combination has transformed the management of transplant-ineligible AML patient improving median overall survival (OS) to 14.7 months compared to 9.6 months with azacytidine and placebo at the cost of more pronounced cytopenias (Grade 3 and 4 thrombocytopenia and neutropenia occurring in 45%/38% and 42%/28% respectively).

Recent work has demonstrated a mechanism by which HMAs cooperate with venetoclax, via priming AML cells for death via the integrated stress response (ISR). The ISR transcription factor activating transcription factor-4 (ATF4) is upregulated in a matter of hours after HMA treatment, and in turn activates Phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate-induced protein 1 (PMAIP1) (NOXA) that degrades the BCL2-family member myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1 (MCL1), thus creating greater dependence in HMA-exposed malignant cells on BCL2 to avoid BAX/BAK mediated mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (MOMP), caspase release, and subsequent apoptosis. An irreversible step toward apoptosis is mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (MOMP) by BAX/BAK oligomers, which releases caspase proteases into the cells, a commitment into apoptosis that is fundamentally counteracted by BCL2-family antiapoptotic proteins, e.g., BCL2, the target of venetoclax inhibition. This mechanism primes AML blasts for venetoclax-mediated toxicity.

Through rigorous pharmacological optimization, it has been shown that the decitabine 5 mg/m2 weekly with a single dose of venetoclax 6 hours after the decitabine can control disease with limited effects normal hematopoietic cells.9 This novel dosing regimen may maximize decitabine/venetoclax anti-leukemic activity while minimizing hematologic toxicity and represents an attractive regimen for post-alloSCT maintenance therapy.