Lirilumab and Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Refractory or Relapsed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies the side effects lirilumab and azacitidine and to see how well they work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has not responded to treatment or has returned after a period of improvement. Monoclonal antibodies, such as lirilumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving lirilumab with azacitidine may be an effective treatment for relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|BIOLOGICAL: Lirilumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Iirilumab in Combination With 5-azacitidine, To identify the dose at which \<2/6 participants experience Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT). The dose level at which 0-1/6 participants experience a DLT in the first 28 days of treatment will be the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and would be used to treat an additional 34 participants in the phase II potion of the study. (Part A, Lead-In Phase), Up to 28 days|Participants With an Objective Response, Objective Response Rate (ORR) will be monitored using the Bayesian approach of Thall, Simon, Estey and the extension by Thall and Sung. Overall response rate (ORR), defined as complete remission (CR) + CR with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) + CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi) + partial response (PR) + marrow clearance of blasts + hematological improvement within 3 months of treatment initiation among adult patients with refractory/relapsed Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) (Phase II), Up to 3 months
Duration of Response, The date of Objective Response to the date of loss of response or last follow-up., Up to 2.5 years|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined: Time of presentation to date of death or censored at last follow-up date., Up to 2 years|Disease Free Survival, Disease Free Survival (DFS) is defined: Time from date of treatment start until the date of first objective documentation of disease-relapse, Up to 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of lirilumab in combination with 5-azacytidine (azacitidine) in patients with refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML). (Part A, Lead-In Phase) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of lirilumab in combination with 5-azacytidine in patients with refractory/relapsed AML. (Part B, Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of response, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival (OS) of patients with refractory/relapsed AML treated with this combination.

II. To determine the safety of lirilumab in combination with 5-azacytidine in patients with refractory/relapsed AML.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) over 1 hour as determined by the treating physician on days 1-7 and lirilumab IV over 60 minutes on day 8. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and up to 90 days.