A Clinical Trial of Durvalumab (MEDI4736) as 1st Line Therapy in Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Patients
This is a single-arm phase II clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of the PD-L1 inhibitor durvalumab as first-line therapy in 47 patients with advanced NSCLC and ECOG Performance Status 2 (PS2).
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer NSCLC
DRUG: durvalumab
Overall Survival (OS), Median length of time from the start of treatment from start of treatment to death from any cause., Up to 30 months|Overall Survival (OS12), Number of patients alive at 12 months post start of treatment., At 12 months|Overall Survival (OS24), Number of patients alive at 24 months post start of treatment., At 24 months|Treatment-related Adverse Events ≥ Grade 3, Number of participants with ≥ Grade 3 adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0 that are at least possibly related to study treatment., Up to 30 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Median duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST v1.0 Progressive Disease (PD) for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions:Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 30 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at 12 Months, Number of patients without progressive disease or death at 12 months from start of treatment. Per RECIST v1.0 Progressive Disease (PD) for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions: Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., At 12 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at 24 Months, Number of patients without progressive disease or death at 24 months from start of treatment Per RECIST v1.0 Progressive Disease (PD) for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions:Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., At 24 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) by PD-L1 Expression at 12 Months, Number of patients of know PD-L1 status without progressive disease or death at 12 months from start of treatment. Per RECIST v1.0 Progressive Disease (PD) for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions: Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., At 12 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) by PD-L1 Expression Status at 24 Months, Number of patients of know PD-L1 status without progressive disease or death at 24 months from start of treatment Per RECIST v1.0 Progressive Disease (PD) for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions:Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., At 24 months|Overall Survival by PD-L1 Expression Status at 12 Months, Number of patients with know PD-L1 status that are alive at 12 months post start of treatment., At 12 months|Overall Survival by PD-L1 Expression Status at 24 Months, Number of patients with know PD-L1 status that are alive at 24 months post start of treatment., At 24 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of patients with a Best Response of Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD) or Progressive Disease (PD). Per RECIST v1.0, for target lesions: PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: Neither PR nor PD (target lesions); persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions and/or the maintenance of tumor marker levels above normal limits. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters (target lesions), taking as reference the smallest sum on study (includes baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to relative increase of 20%, sum must demonstrate absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (includes appearance of one or more new lesions) Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 30 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) in Patients With PD-L1 Expression Status = 0, Percentage of patients with PD-L1 expression status = 0, with a Best Response of Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD) or Progressive Disease (PD). Per RECIST v1.0 (target lesions): PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: Neither PR nor PD (target lesions); persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions and/or the maintenance of tumor marker levels above normal limits. PD: ≥20% increase in sum of diameters (target lesions), taking as reference the smallest sum on study (includes baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to relative increase of 20%, sum must demonstrate absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (includes appearance of one or more new lesions) ≥1 new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 30 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) in Patients With PD-L1 Expression Status = 0%<PD-L1<50%., Percentage of patients with PD-L1 expression status=0%\<PD-L1\<50%, with a Best Response of Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD) or Progressive Disease (PD). Per RECIST v1.0 (target lesions): PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: Neither PR nor PD (target lesions); persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions and/or the maintenance of tumor marker levels above normal limits. PD: ≥20% increase in sum of diameters (target lesions), taking as reference the smallest sum on study (includes baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to relative increase of 20%, sum must demonstrate absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (includes appearance of one or more new lesions) ≥1 new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 30 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) in Patients With PD-L1 Expression Status ≥50%, Percentage of patients with PD-L1 expression status ≥50%, with a Best Response of Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD) or Progressive Disease (PD). Per RECIST v1.0 (target lesions): PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: Neither PR nor PD (target lesions); persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions and/or the maintenance of tumor marker levels above normal limits. PD: ≥20% increase in sum of diameters (target lesions), taking as reference the smallest sum on study (includes baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to relative increase of 20%, sum must demonstrate absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (includes appearance of one or more new lesions) ≥1 new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 30 months|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) - FACT-G, Patient self-administered 27-item questionnaire that measures health state in cancer patients in prior 7 days, including physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being. Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-108. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., At baseline|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) - FACT-G, Patient self-administered 27-item questionnaire that measures health state in cancer patients in prior 7 days, including physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being. Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-108. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., Within first two treatment cycles, up to 56 days|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) - FACT-G, Patient self-administered 27-item questionnaire that measures health state in cancer patients in prior 7 days, including physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being. Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-108. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., At 6 months|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) - FACT-G, Patient self-administered 27-item questionnaire that measures health state in cancer patients in prior 7 days, including physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being. Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-108. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., At 12 months|FACT Lung Cancer Subscale (LCS), The FACT-LCS is the lung cancer subscale of the FACT-L. LCS includes the average symptom burden index (ASBI; based on 5 symptoms: anorexia, fatigue, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, and pain) and the 3-item global index (2-IGI; symptom distress, interference with activities, and health-related quality of life). Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-28. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., At baseline|FACT Lung Cancer Subscale (LCS), The FACT-LCS is the lung cancer subscale of the FACT-L. LCS includes the average symptom burden index (ASBI; based on 5 symptoms: anorexia, fatigue, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, and pain) and the 3-item global index (2-IGI; symptom distress, interference with activities, and health-related quality of life). Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-28. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., Within first two treatment cycles, up to 56 days|FACT Lung Cancer Subscale (LCS), The FACT-LCS is the lung cancer subscale of the FACT-L. LCS includes the average symptom burden index (ASBI; based on 5 symptoms: anorexia, fatigue, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, and pain) and the 3-item global index (2-IGI; symptom distress, interference with activities, and health-related quality of life). Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-28. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., At 6 months|FACT Lung Cancer Subscale (LCS), The FACT-LCS is the lung cancer subscale of the FACT-L. LCS includes the average symptom burden index (ASBI; based on 5 symptoms: anorexia, fatigue, cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, and pain) and the 3-item global index (2-IGI; symptom distress, interference with activities, and health-related quality of life). Scoring: Five-point scale: 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total score is from 0-28. Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored., At 12 months
Durvalumab will be supplied in glass vials containing 500 mg of liquid solution at a concentration of 50 mg/mL for intravenous (IV) administration. Durvalumab will be administered at 1500 mg (fixed dose) every 4 weeks until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent for a maximum of 12 months of therapy.