Study of SCH 900776 (MK-8776) With and Without Cytarabine in Participants With Acute Leukemias (P05247)
This study of SCH 900776 (MK-8776) will evaluate its safety and tolerability when given in combination with cytarabine to participants with acute leukemias. Participants in the Dose-Escalation Part will be enrolled in cohorts that will receive sequentially higher doses of MK-8776 in combination with standard doses of cytarabine. Only one combination treatment cycle of approximately 4 to 6 weeks is anticipated, but participants may receive additional cycles if clinically indicated after discussion between the Investigator and the Sponsor. The recommended combination doses for a Phase 2 trial (RP2D) will be determined based on safety and biological activity. Up to 10 to 15 additional participants will be studied at the combination RP2D.
Myelogenous Leukemia, Acute|Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Acute|Leukemia, Lymphoblastic, Acute, Philadelphia-Positive|Myelogenous Leukemia, Chronic, Aggressive Phase
DRUG: MK-8776|DRUG: Cytarabine
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Toxicity was assessed according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v 3.0). DLTs in Cycle 1 consisted of any of the following: 1) Selected Grade 4 drug-related nonhematologic toxicities, 2) Selected Grade 3 drug-related nonhematologic toxicities that do not resolve to ≤ Grade 2 within 48 hours: Neurotoxicity of any duration, Nephrotoxicity of any duration, QT interval corrected by Fridericia (QTcF) prolongation of any duration, 3) Inability to administer Day 10 cytarabine therapy due to ongoing, uncontrolled serious or life-threatening toxicity. The number of participants who experienced a DLT during Cycle 1 is summarized., Throughout Cycle 1 (Up to 6 weeks)|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to this study treatment. The number of participants who experienced an AE is summarized., Up to 45 days after last dose of study treatment (Up to 180 days)|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to this study treatment. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is summarized., Up to 135 days
This study of SCH 900776 (MK-8776) will evaluate its safety and tolerability when given in combination with cytarabine to participants with acute leukemias. Participants in the Dose-Escalation Part will be enrolled in cohorts that will receive sequentially higher doses of MK-8776 in combination with standard doses of cytarabine. Only one combination treatment cycle of approximately 4 to 6 weeks is anticipated, but participants may receive additional cycles if clinically indicated after discussion between the Investigator and the Sponsor. The recommended combination doses for a Phase 2 trial (RP2D) will be determined based on safety and biological activity. Up to 10 to 15 additional participants will be studied at the combination RP2D.