Daratumumab and Pomalidomide in Previously Treated Patients With AL Amyloidosis
This study aims at establishing a new powerful combination of daratumumab and pomalidomide as rescue treatment for patients with R/R AL amyloidosis.
AL Amyloidosis
DRUG: daratumumab and pomalidomide
Rate of good quality (i.e. CR+VGPR) hematologic response., To assess the rate of good quality (i.e. CR+VGPR) hematologic response at the completion of 6 cycles of Daratumumab plus pomalidomide in patients with relapsed/refractory AL amyloidosis not in VGPR or better after any previous therapy., 6 months
To assess in all patients according to their disease history the overall Hematologic Response Rate (CR, VGPR, LowdFLC partial response and PR) at the completion of 1st and 3rd cycles., At the end of Cycle 1 and Cycle 3 (each cycle is 28 days)|To assess in all patients the overall Hematologic Response Rate including PR at the completion of 6 cycles., 6 months|To assess in all patients duration of hematologic response. After treatment discontinuation, follow-up will be made to the patient every 3 months for at least 1 year., 1 year after treatment discontinuation|To assess in all patients the rate of organ response (i.e. cardiac response: NT-proBNB measurement; renal response: proteinuria measurement) and organ improvement, according to standard criteria (Palladini et al JCO 2012, Palladini et al Blood 2014)., 6 months|To assess in all patients the time from the screening to hematologic and organ response., 6 months|To assess in all patients the hematologic disease progression free survival (PFS) from screening and 1-year PFS from screening (months)., 1 year|To assess in all patients the overall survival (OS) from screening and 1-year OS from screening (months)., 1 year|To assess in all patients the MRD negativity rate according to next generation flow cytometry., 6 months|To assess quality of life (QoL) using EQ5D-5L., 1 year after treatment discontinuation
Despite recent advance in understanding the biology of the amyloidogenic clone and despite the availability of different therapeutic options, there are still patients who fail to respond to fist line therapy and experience relapse after response to first line regimens. The toxicity profile of daratumumab resulted favorable in the setting of advanced AL amyloidosis patients with severe organ damage. Pomalidomide has proven to be effective as a single agent in R/R AL amyloidosis with a better safety profile over lenalidomide because of relevant renal toxicity of the latter drug in presence of nephrotic proteinuria. Daratumumab is a recently released mAb that has shown deep hematological responses in R/R multiple myeloma with a favorable toxicity. Up-to-date clinical data have further demonstrated the high efficacy of combination regimens including an ImiD/Daratumumab combination in R/R multiple myeloma reaching unprecedented results in terms of response rate, progression free survival (PFS) and minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity.

On these bases, the present study aims to explore the doublet Daratumumab/pomalidomide in R/R AL amyloidosis. The goal of the study is to obtain rapid, durable and deep hematological responses with a low toxicity profile. The expectation is to attain a very favorable benefit/risk ratio from this combination as these patients should experience a low rate of treatment discontinuation, hospitalization due AEs and/or disease progression and/or organ failures.