Correlative Analysis of the Genomics of Vitamin D and Omega-3 Fatty Acid Intake in Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see if eating vitamin D, omega 3 and turmeric (curcumin) slows the growth of prostate cancer in men on active surveillance.
Prostate Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin D|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega-3|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Turmeric
gene expression of very low and low risk prostate cancer patients on Active Surveillance, The primary objective is to investigate the influence of vitamin D, omega-3 fatty acids, and turmeric curcumin intake on the genomic landscape of NCCN very low and low risk patients managed with Active Surveillance. This will be measured by using genomic signatures in Decipher GRID and using the mixed effect linear model that tests for the interaction of treatment arm and time, Up to 6 months|gene expression of very low and low risk prostate cancer patients on Active Surveillance, The primary objective is to investigate the influence of vitamin D, omega-3 fatty acids, and turmeric curcumin intake on the genomic landscape of NCCN very low and low risk patients managed with Active Surveillance. This will be measured by using genomic signatures in Decipher GRID and using the mixed effect linear model that tests for the interaction of treatment arm and time, Up to 12 months
Active Surveillance Failure, Cox proportional hazards model will be used to study if genes are significantly predictive of this outcome. P-values will be corrected for multiple testing using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure. Genes will be considered significant if the corresponding p-value is below 0.05 using a two-sided test., Up to 12 months|Time to Active Surveillance Failure, Time to event will be defined as time from enrollment into the study. P-values will be corrected for multiple testing using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure., Up to 12 months
The primary objective is to investigate the influence of vitamin D, omega-3 fatty acids, and turmeric curcumin intake on the genomic landscape of NCCN very low and low risk patients managed with Active Surveillance. This will be measured by using genomic signatures in Decipher GRID and using the mixed effect linear model that tests for the interaction of treatment arm and time (base-line, 6 month and 12 month time points) with gene expression as the response variable.

The secondary objective is to evaluate prostate cancer aggressiveness pre and post intervention by looking at genes and gene signatures associated with vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids pathways. Prognostic performance of GRID gene signatures will be evaluated using Active Surveillance 'Failure' (deferred treatment) as an additional endpoint.

The exploratory objective is to be able to use predictive genes and/or genomic signatures to assess benefit from vitamin D, omega-3 fatty acid and turmeric curcumin intake. This will only be possible once sufficient patient follow up is available.