The Effect of Topical Imipramine on Photodynamic Therapy-Mediated Immunosuppression on Forearms on US Veterans
The purpose of this study is to test the use of topical imipramine in combination with topical photodynamic therapy's (PDT) effect on immunosuppression following treatment. PDT is a commonly used treatment in dermatology for patients who have many pre-cancers (actinic keratosis or "AK") on their skin. These are both FDA-approved medications, but this study is evaluating their use in combination, which has not been evaluated in the past. The investigators have been doing studies using mice that suggest imipramine might reduce immune system suppression by PDT thus allowing it to work better. Subjects whose provider has decided that they may benefit from PDT to treat their skin due to many AK precancerous lesions will be recruited for this study. Please note that the PDT itself is not experimental, only the imipramine treatment to the skin. There is a separate informed consent for the PDT.
Actinic Keratosis|Imipramine|Photodynamic Therapy
DRUG: Imipramine|OTHER: Control Vehicle
Difference in areas of Candida antigen skin test results with PDT+ imipramine, Size of skin reactions from baseline values will be obtained following PDT + vehicle/imipramine using calipers, 7, 30, 90 days post-PDT treatments|Difference in redness of Candida antigen skin test results with PDT+ imipramine, Redness of skin reactions from baseline values will be obtained following PDT + vehicle/imipramine using mexameter device and thermal imaging, 7, 30, 90 days post-PDT treatments
Difference in numbers of precancerous AK skin lesions with PDT + imipramine, Differences in baseline values of AK will be obtained following PDT + vehicle/imipramine by counting and mapping on each forearm/wrist, 6, 12 months post-PDT treatment|Difference in gene profile of skin following treatment with PDT + imipramine, Differences in transcriptome RNA values from baseline will be obtained following PDT + vehicle/impramine by use of tissue RNA-seq with a commercial dermal transcriptomal patch., 7 days post-PDT treatment|Differences in post-PDT redness with PDT + imipramine, Differences in redness following PDT + imipramine vs PDT + vehicle from baseline values will be obtained using a mexameter device and thermal imaging., 10 min, 30 min, 24 hours post-PDT treatments|Differences in post-PDT pain with PDT + imipramine, Differences in pain following PDT + imipramine vs PDT + vehicle from baseline values will be obtained using a visual analog scale, 10 min, 30 min, 24 hours post-PDT treatments
The purpose of this study is to test the use of topical imipramine in combination with topical photodynamic therapy's (PDT) effect on immunosuppression following treatment. PDT is a commonly used treatment in dermatology for patients who have many pre-cancers (actinic keratosis or "AK") on their skin. These are both FDA-approved medications, but this study is evaluating their use in combination, which has not been evaluated in the past. The investigators have been doing studies using mice that suggest imipramine might reduce immune system suppression by PDT thus allowing it to work better. Subjects whose provider has decided that they may benefit from PDT to treat their skin due to many AK precancerous lesions will be recruited for this study. Please note that the PDT itself is not experimental, only the imipramine treatment to the skin. There is a separate informed consent for the PDT.