Pembrolizumab in Treating Minimal Residual Disease in Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating small amounts of cancer cells that remain after attempts to remove the cancer has been made in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Minimal Residual Disease|Recurrent Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|T Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Rate of Complete Minimal Residual Disease Response, Will be defined as percentage of evaluable subjects who achieve a complete response. Will be evaluated with a Simon two-stage optimum design., Up to 2 years
Overall Survival, Up to 2 years|Relapse-Free Survival, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of pembrolizumab in minimal residual disease (MRD)-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicity profile of pembrolizumab in patients with previously-treated ALL.

II. To gain a preliminary assessment of how MRD response translates into relapse-free and overall survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare disease assessments by multiparameter flow cytometry (MFC) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to a newly-developed and more sensitive next generation sequencing (NGS)-based platform.

II. To correlate response to pembrolizumab to immunologic markers in peripheral blood and bone marrow specimens.

III. To evaluate if treatment with pembrolizumab has a measurable impact on hematopoietic engraftment and graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in patients who subsequently undergo allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete MRD response may receive up to 1 additional year of treatment at the discretion of the investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years.