ABL001 + Dasatinib + Prednisone + Blinatumomab in BCR-ABL+ B-ALL or CML
This research study is evaluating a drug called ABL001 taken in combination with dasatinib (Sprycel®) and prednisone (a steroid) as a possible treatment for B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia that is BCR-ABL positive (BCR-ABL+ B-ALL) or Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) in lymphoid blast crisis. BCR-ABL+ B-ALL is also called Philadelphia chromosome positive Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (Ph+ ALL).

It is expected that 40-65 people will take part in this research study.

* ABL001
* Dasatinib (Sprycel®)
* Prednisone
* Blinatumomab
B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) in Lymphoid Blast Crisis|Philadelphia Chromosome Positive Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Ph+ ALL
DRUG: ABL001|DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Blinatumomab
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ABL001, To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ABL001 for participants with BCR-ABL positive (BCR-ABL+) B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in lymphoid blast crisis., 42 Days
Percentage for Participants Achieving Hematologic Remission, 28 Days|Percentage for Participants Achieving Hematologic Remission, 56 Days|Percentage for Participants Achieving Hematologic Remission, 85 Days|Percentage of participants achieving cytogenetic response, 28 Days|Percentage of participants achieving cytogenetic response, 56 Days|Percentage of participants achieving cytogenetic response, 85 Days|Percentage of participants achieving a minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative CR by flow cytometry, 85 Days|Percentage of participants achieving a minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative CR by flow cytometry, 28 Days|Percentage of participants achieving a minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative CR by flow cytometry, 56 Days|Percentage of participants achieving molecular response, 28 Days|Percentage of participants achieving molecular response, 56 Days|Percentage of participants achieving molecular response, 85 Days
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

There is currently no clinical data on the effects of ABL001 in combination with dasatinib and prednisone among adults with Ph+ B-ALL or CML in lymphoid blast crisis. However, there is data on the use of ABL001 in combination with dasatinib (without steroids) in patients with relapsed Ph+ B-ALL and Ph+ chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).

Dasatinib (Sprycel®) is currently approved for the treatment in newly diagnosed adults with Ph+ CML in chronic phase (CP), adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase Ph+ CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including imatinib, adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy.

ABL001 is a newly discovered compound. This drug has been used in laboratory experiments and information from those experiments suggest that this drug may have beneficial effects in people who have CML or Ph+ ALL, both of which are a certain type of cancer of the blood cells. The reason for this study is to learn whether ABL001 is safe and can have possible benefits for people with Ph+ ALL who are also being treated with dasatinib and prednisone, two drugs which are commonly used to treat Ph+ ALL. All participants in this study will receive all three drugs.

Prednisone, dasatinib and blinatumomab are all FDA approved and standard of care for participants with your disease.They are not considered investigational on this study. However, ABL001 is being tested in combination with these drugs.

Biomarker testing will also be included in this study. Biomarkers are important biological "indicators" of whether a drug is working which can be measured from bone marrow and blood samples.

In addition, blood and bone marrow samples may be tested to try to learn more about the cancer, and to understand how the drug may be working in cancer.