CANTATA: CB-839 With Cabozantinib vs. Cabozantinib With Placebo in Patients With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
Tthe primary objective of this study is to compare blinded Independent Radiology Committee (IRC)-adjudicated progression free survival (PFS) of patients treated with CB-839 + cabozantinib (CB-Cabo) versus placebo + cabozantinib (Pbo-Cabo) for advanced or metastatic clear-cell RCC (ccRCC).
Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: CB-839|DRUG: Cabozantinib|DRUG: Placebo
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Independent Radiology Committee (IRC), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the occurrence of disease progression as assessed by the IRC using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Subjects not experiencing disease progression or death at the time of analysis of PFS will be censored at the date of the last evaluable radiographic disease assessment. RECIST v1.1 criteria:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to the primary analysis data cut-off date of 31 Aug 2020. Maximum duration of follow-up for PFS was 22.14 months.
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Estimated from Kaplan-Meier methodology. 95% confidence interval (CI) based on Brookmeyer-Crowley methodology., Up to the primary analysis data cut-off date of 31 Aug 2020. Maximum duration of follow-up for OS was 25.86 months.|PFS as Assessed by the Investigator, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the occurrence of disease progression as assessed by the IRC using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Subjects not experiencing disease progression or death at the time of analysis of PFS will be censored at the date of the last evaluable radiographic disease assessment. RECIST v1.1 criteria:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to the primary analysis data cut-off date of 31 Aug 2020. Maximum duration of follow-up for PFS was 22.64 months.
Tthe primary objective of this study is to compare blinded Independent Radiology Committee (IRC)-adjudicated progression free survival (PFS) of patients treated with CB-839 + cabozantinib (CB-Cabo) versus placebo + cabozantinib (Pbo-Cabo) for advanced or metastatic clear-cell RCC (ccRCC).