Human Papilloma Viruses (HPV) Vaccine Adherence Community Clinic Study
There has been very limited research that has looked at electronic reminders (text messages) and its effectiveness in adherence to vaccination among low-income minority populations. Results have shown that text messages, among low-income parents and adolescents who were identified as having a cellphone, is an effective strategy to increase the likelihood of adolescent vaccination adherence. Hard copy and electronic messaging reminders have also been proven to be effective when coupled with other prevention strategies for immunizations for influenza and pneumococcal pneumonia and screening for colon, breast, and cervical cancer in adults. Additionally, Merck and Co. recommend electronic reminders in their patient compliance program as a key strategy for adherence. To our knowledge, this community-based pilot intervention study will be the first to assess electronic reminders and HPV vaccine initiation and adherence among rural uninsured and Medicaid populations. The investigators hypothesize that adolescent whose parents who receive the intervention will be more likely to initiate HPV vaccination and be compliant at 3 months and at 7 months as compared to the control group.
Patient Compliance
BEHAVIORAL: HPV Vaccine Electronic Reminders
Vaccine Adherence, as measure by receiving the 3 recommended doses withing a 6 month time period., Vaccine adherence will be measured using the CDC's guidelines which state that the second dose be given one to two months after the first, and the third dose be given six months after the first dose., 7 months after initial HPV Vaccince shot
HPV Knowledge, as measured by a 20% increase in knowledge about HPV and HPV vaccine among the intervention group., Parents in the intervention group will receive 4 tailored education messages and 2 tailored reminder/education messages within the 6 month window period for the recommended HPV vaccine adherence guidelines. In order to assess a 20% increase in knowledge about HPV and the HPV vaccine, parents will take a baseline assessment survey and then a final assessment survey at the 7-month point once the vaccine series is completed., 7 months after the first initial HPV vaccine shot
There has been very limited research that has looked at electronic reminders (text messages) and its effectiveness in adherence to vaccination among low-income minority populations. Results have shown that text messages, among low-income parents and adolescents who were identified as having a cellphone, is an effective strategy to increase the likelihood of adolescent vaccination adherence. Hard copy and electronic messaging reminders have also been proven to be effective when coupled with other prevention strategies for immunizations for influenza and pneumococcal pneumonia and screening for colon, breast, and cervical cancer in adults. Additionally, Merck and Co. recommend electronic reminders in their patient compliance program as a key strategy for adherence. To our knowledge, this community-based pilot intervention study will be the first to assess electronic reminders and HPV vaccine initiation and adherence among rural uninsured and Medicaid populations. The investigators hypothesize that adolescent whose parents who receive the intervention will be more likely to initiate HPV vaccination and be compliant at 3 months and at 7 months as compared to the control group.