Exercise and Soft Tissue Sarcoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of a neoadjuvant (i.e. pre-treatment) exercise regimen on extremity function and postoperative wound healing. The study group will include patients with a primary diagnosis of soft tissue sarcoma undergoing treatment with neoadjuvant radiation therapy and surgical resection. Patients with upper or lower extremity sarcomas will be considered for enrollment.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
OTHER: neoadjuvant exercise therapy
Number of patients with a wound complication after surgery as measured by wound complication form, The wound complication form is a team developed form that asks about different complications that can arise after surgery. These complications include delayed wound healing, surgical site or periprosthetic infection, re-operation, and other invasive procedures necessitated by wound complications., Up to 24 weeks post-op
Percent necrosis of tumor, Percent necrosis at the time of tumor resection, During surgery|Number of inflammatory serum markers, Number of inflammatory serum markers as assessed by CRP, Complete Blood Count, and ESR., First day of NRT|Number of inflammatory serum markers, Number of inflammatory serum markers as assessed by CRP, Complete Blood Count, and ESR., Halfway through NRT (up to 5 weeks of NRT)|Number of inflammatory serum markers, Number of inflammatory serum markers as assessed by CRP, Complete Blood Count, and ESR., Last day of NRT (up to 10 weeks of NRT)|Tissue Perfusion, Tissue Perfusion using the Near Infra-Red (NIRS) system, 6-week post-op|The Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score, The Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score of extremity function. The total score ranges from 0 to 30, with higher scores indicating better function., At enrollment.|The Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score, The Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score of extremity function. The total score ranges from 0 to 30, with higher scores indicating better function., 2 weeks or less prior to surgery|The Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score, The Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) score of extremity function. The total score ranges from 0 to 30, with higher scores indicating better function., 6-week post-op|Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) - Sarcoma Modified (SM) quality of life questionnaire, The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System - Sarcoma Modified (ESAS-SM) questionnaire on quality of life. The total score ranges from 0 to 110, with lower scores indicating better quality of life., At enrollment|Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) - Sarcoma Modified (SM) quality of life questionnaire, The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System - Sarcoma Modified (ESAS-SM) questionnaire on quality of life. The total score ranges from 0 to 110, with lower scores indicating better quality of life., 2 weeks or less prior to surgery|Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) - Sarcoma Modified (SM) quality of life questionnaire, The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System - Sarcoma Modified (ESAS-SM) questionnaire on quality of life. The total score ranges from 0 to 110, with lower scores indicating better quality of life., 6-week post-op|Surgical Wound Assessment Form, Wound assessment and healing tracker tool created by the study team. The total score ranges from 13 to 65, with lower scores indicating better wound healing., Up to 24 weeks post-op
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of a neoadjuvant (i.e. pre-treatment) exercise regimen on extremity function and postoperative wound healing. The study group will include patients with a primary diagnosis of soft tissue sarcoma undergoing treatment with neoadjuvant radiation therapy and surgical resection. Patients with upper or lower extremity sarcomas will be considered for enrollment.