Induction Chemotherapy in Locally Advanced Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma: a Randomised Phase 3 Trial
Hypopharyngeal cancer is an important part of head and neck cancer, with more than 80,000 new cases in 2018. And it is a highly aggressive cancer often diagnosed at an advanced stage. which expresses poor survival, the 5-year overall survival (OS) is about only 30%-35%. Given the complexity of these tumors, their surrounding structures, the frequent comorbidities, and the improvement of patients' requirements for quality of life, a multidisciplinary treatment approach should be applied to achieve the best oncological outcomes and to improve functional results. This benefi t of induction chemotherapy has been recorded in patients with both resectable and unresectable disease. It has also been observed in patients with laryngeal cancer treated for organ preservation. However, whether the addition of induction chemotherapy to chemoradiotherapy improves efficacy compared with chemoradiotherapy alone is unclear in hypopharyngeal cancer.We tried to observe the clinical treatment efficiency, toxic and side effects, progression-free survival time, overall survival time and quality of life of anlotinib in the treatment of patients with refractory head and neck carcinoma. Provide patients with a more optimal treatment plan and improve survival.
Hypopharyngeal Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Platinum
Progression-free survival (RFS), Measured from the date of treatment end to recurrent/residual tumor was diagnose or to the time of the last follow-up, whichever occurred first，by means of computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at each follow-up., 3 month
Overall-survival (OS), Defined as the interval between the time of treatment end to death or to the last date of follow-up，by means of computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at each follow-up., 3 month|Adverse events rate, Adverse events during the treatment period using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) (version 5.0)., One month
We will prospectively collect 160 patients who were randomly assigned (in a 1:1 ratio) to receive either induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy (group A) or definitive concurrent chemoradiotherapy (group B). Data will be stored in a private database. The process of data collection will be supervised and regular data examination will be performed.