NU-0129 in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma or Gliosarcoma Undergoing Surgery
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the safety of the study drug, NU-0129, based on Spherical Nucleic Acid (SNA) platform when infused in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma. The SNA consists of nucleic acids arranged on the surface of a small spherical gold nanoparticle. This is a first-in-human trial to determine the safety of NU-0129. NU-0129 can cross the blood brain barrier (a filtering mechanism that carry blood to the brain). Once within the tumor, the nucleic acid component is able to target a gene called Bcl2L12 that is present in glioblastoma multiforme, and is associated with tumor growth. This gene prevents tumor cells from apoptosis, which is the process of programmed cell death, thus promoting tumor growth. Researchers think that targeting the Bcl2L12 gene with NU-0129 will help stop cancer cells from growing.
Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Glioblastoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Targeted Molecular Therapy
Number of Patients With Adverse Events, To evaluate the safety of intravenous NU-0129 in patients with recurrent GBM or GS, the number of adverse events will be assessed and will be graded according to the NCI's Common Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 where the grading is as follows:

Grade 1: Mild Grade 2: Moderate Grade 3: Severe Grade 4: Life-threatening Grade 5: Fatal, Up to 21 days after study drug administration
NU-0129 Concentration in Blood After Drug Administration Using Maximum Concentration, Blood samples will be collected post-infusion to analyze drug concentration at specific time points after drug administration. Median plasma concentrations of NU-0129 were derived from time profiles for both Seven different small interfering RNA (siRNA) and gold (Au) concentrations, with Au plasma concentration determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and siRNA concentration assessed by liquid chromatography-high performance liquid chromatography (LC-HPLC) using an atto dye-labeled PNA probe., At 1, 3, 5, 10, 30, and 60 minutes, and 4, 8, and 24 hours post infusion|Biodistribution of NU-0129 in Tumor Tissue, Tissue will be collected during the scheduled surgery and assayed with Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) to analyze the concentration of particles in various parts of tumor tissue. To analyze spatial distribution of Au within tumor tissue, synchrotron XFM elemental maps of GBM tissue slices were acquired at micron and submicron resolution and matched to adjacent hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E)- and Ki67-stained tumor sections. Approximate percentage of gold (Au) found in cancer cells is reported below., At time of surgery|Feasibility of Giving NU-0129 as a Standard Treatment, Feasibility will be calculated as the rate of successful production, delivery, and administration of the investigational product and subsequent resection., At time of infusion (8-48 hours prior to resection) and during surgery|NU-0129 Concentration in Blood After Drug Administration Using Half-life, Blood samples will be collected post-infusion to analyze drug concentration at specific time points after drug administration. Median plasma concentrations of NU-0129 were derived from time profiles for both Seven different small interfering RNA (siRNA) and gold (Au) concentrations, with Au plasma concentration determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and siRNA concentration assessed by liquid chromatography-high performance liquid chromatography (LC-HPLC) using an atto dye-labeled PNA probe., At 1, 3, 5, 10, 30, and 60 minutes, and 4, 8, and 24 hours post infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of intravenous NU-0129 in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) or gliosarcoma (GS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze drug concentration in serum at specific time points after drug administration.

II. To demonstrate intratumoral penetration of NU-0129. III. To assess the feasibility of giving NU-0129 as a standard treatment for recurrent GBM or GS.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze tumor tissue for Bcl2L12 expression levels after NU-0129 administration.

II. Preliminary response (progression free survival \[PFS\] and overall survival \[OS\] at 6 months; overall response rate \[ORR\]).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive NU-0129 intravenously (IV) over 20-50 minutes and undergo standard of care tumor resection within 8-48 hours.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 7, 14, 21, and 28 days and then every 84 days for up to 2 years.