Abemaciclib and Endocrine Therapy in Older Patients with Breast Cancer.
This phase IIa trial studies the side effects of abemaciclib monotherapy in treating patients age 70 years and older with hormone receptor positive, HER2 negative breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC V8
DRUG: Abemaciclib|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of grade 3 or higher toxicities, Adverse events will be characterized using the descriptions and grading scales found in the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v). 5.0., Up to 30 days post treatment
Incidence of toxicities, Toxicities will be graded and named according to CTCAE v. 5.0., Up to 30 days post treatment|Incidence of toxicities, Toxicities will be captured by Patient Reported Outcome (PRO)-CTCAE., Up to cycle 6|Dose reductions, Will assess rates of dose reductions., Up to cycle 6|Dose holds, Will assess rates of dose holds., Up to 30 days post treatment|Treatment discontinuations due to factors other than progression, Will assess rates of treatment discontinuations., Up to 30 days post treatment|Hospitalizations, Will assess rates of hospitalizations., Up to 2 years post treatment|Time to end of treatment, Will estimate median (and 95% confidence interval \[CI\]) failure-free survival using Kaplan-Meier estimates and through Cox regression to adjust for covariates., Up to end of treatment|Progression free survival, Will estimate median (and 95% CI) progression-free survival using Kaplan-Meier estimates and through Cox regression to adjust for covariates., Up to 2 years post treatment|Overall survival, Will estimate median (and 95% CI) overall survival using Kaplan-Meier estimates and through Cox regression to adjust for covariates., Up to 2 years post treatment|Was It Worth It (WIWI) response, Will be assessed using the WIWI questionnaire., Up to end of treatment|Overall treatment utility (OTU) response, Will be assessed using the OTU questionnaire., Up to end of treatment|Adherence to abemaciclib, Adherence defined as taking 90% of scheduled doses per cycle. Scheduled doses are assigned doses for the participant which may vary per participant depending on whether or not there a hold in treatment. Adherence will be calculated based on consolidation of pill diary with returned unused pills, and, for City of Hope (COH) Duarte patients, Medication Event Monitoring bottle caps., Up to end of treatment|Average plasma steady-state abemaciclib C-trough concentrations, Up to 2 years post treatment|Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter of plasma trough concentration, Will evaluate the association of adherence rate with abemaciclib plasma trough concentrations., Up to 2 years post treatment|Geriatric assessment scores, Domains include: functional status, co-morbid medical conditions, cognitive function, nutritional status, social support and psychological state, and a review of medications., Up to 2 years post treatment|Incidence of toxicities attributable to agent, Graded by CTCAE v 5.0., Up to 2 years post treatment
Biological age via deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation level, Up to 2 years post treatment|Genome-wide methylome and transcriptome analyses, Up to 2 years post treatment|Incidence of toxicities at least possibly attributable to agent, Graded by CTCAE v 5.0., Up to 2 years post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the incidence of grade 3 or higher toxicities attributed to abemaciclib monotherapy in adults aged 70 or older with hormone receptor positive metastatic breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the full toxicity profile including all grade 2 and higher adverse events, and patient-reported adverse events (AEs) using Patients Reported Outcomes (PRO)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) measures.

II. To describe rates of dose reductions, dose holds, treatment discontinuations due to factors other than progression, and hospitalizations.

III. To estimate median (and 95% confidence interval \[CI\]) failure-free survival, progression-free survival and overall survival.

IV. To describe the results of Was It Worth It (WIWI) and Overall Treatment Utility (OTU) questionnaires.

V. To describe the rate of adherence to abemaciclib. VI. To determine average plasma steady-state abemaciclib Ctrough concentrations.

VII. To evaluate the association of adherence rate with abemaciclib plasma t-rough concentrations.

VIII. To describe associations between cancer-specific, comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (cGA) scores and the incidence of toxicities and their grade.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the association between biomarkers of aging and grades 3 or higher toxicity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 6 months for 2 years.