Preoperative Regional Nerve Block for Acute and Chronic Post-Operative Pain Following Mastectomy
The purpose of this study is to see if pre-operative regional nerve blocks compared to a placebo nerve block can decrease chronic post mastectomy pain, immediate postoperative pain and postoperative narcotic consumption.
Breast Cancer|Mastectomy|Anesthesia, Local|Narcotic Use
DRUG: regional nerve block with local anesthesia of bupivacaine with steroid|OTHER: Placebo regional nerveblock with normal saline
Postoperative Pain: Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF), Severity of postoperative pain will be evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF). This form asks a series of 9 questions with ratings of pain from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as severe as you can imagine) and includes questions evaluating general activities of daily living. The study team will evaluate patient reported levels of pain at 8 hours. This series of questions will be administered in person during the inpatient stay and by telephone or in the clinic setting after discharge., Baseline (day of surgery) to 8 hours|Postoperative Pain, Severity of postoperative pain will be evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF). This form asks a series of 9 questions with ratings of pain from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as severe as you can imagine) and includes questions evaluating general activities of daily living. The study team will evaluate patient reported levels of pain at 16 hours (+/- 4 hours). This series of questions will be administered in person during the inpatient stay and by telephone or in the clinic setting after discharge., Baseline (day of surgery) to 16 hours (+/- 4 hours)|Postoperative Pain: Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF), Severity of postoperative pain will be evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF). This form asks a series of 9 questions with ratings of pain from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as severe as you can imagine) and includes questions evaluating general activities of daily living. The study team will evaluate patient reported levels of pain at 2 days. This series of questions will be administered in person during the inpatient stay and by telephone or in the clinic setting after discharge., Baseline (day of surgery) to 2 days|Postoperative Pain: Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF), Severity of postoperative pain will be evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF). This form asks a series of 9 questions with ratings of pain from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as severe as you can imagine) and includes questions evaluating general activities of daily living. The study team will evaluate patient reported levels of pain at 14 days (+/- 3 days). This series of questions will be administered in person during the inpatient stay and by telephone or in the clinic setting after discharge., Baseline (day of surgery) to 14 days (+/- 3 days)|Postoperative Pain: Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF), Chronic pain will be evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF). This form asks a series of 9 questions with ratings of pain from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as severe as you can imagine) and includes questions evaluating general activities of daily living. The study team will evaluate patient reported levels of pain at 6 months. This series of questions will be in the clinic setting after discharge., Baseline (day of surgery) to 6 months|Postoperative Pain: Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF), Chronic pain will be evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory- Short Form (BPI-SF). This form asks a series of 9 questions with ratings of pain from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as severe as you can imagine) and includes questions evaluating general activities of daily living. The study team will evaluate patient reported levels of pain at 12 months. This series of questions will be in the clinic setting after discharge., Baseline (day of surgery) to 12 months
Postoperative narcotic consumption, Post-operative narcotic consumption will be measured as the total number of oral morphine-equivalent units administered during hospitalization and subsequent narcotic use will be patient-reported narcotic consumption which will also be converted into oral morphine., Baseline (day of surgery) to discharge (approximately 2 to 30 days post surgery)|Postoperative nausea, Patient self-reported nausea within 48 hours after surgery., Baseline (day of surgery) to 48 hours after surgery|Postoperative length of stay, Total length of patients hospital stay after surgery., Baseline (day of surgery) to discharge (approximately 2 to 30 days post surgery)
Surgical intervention of breast cancer is vital to breast cancer treatment or prevention and patient outcomes. However, surgical therapy can lead to chronic pain that may affect quality of life for breast cancer survivors including the potential for long-term disability. Chronic pain after breast cancer surgery is common, occurring in about 25-50% of patients. This chronic pain commonly affects women following a mastectomy and is referred to as Post Mastectomy Pain Syndrome (PMPS). Regional anesthesia utilizing single dose nerve blocks is frequently utilized in the preoperative period for many surgical procedures and decreases postoperative pain. Regional anesthesia also frequently results in decreased narcotic use in the post-operative period. The use of regional fascial plane blocks or Pectoralis (PECs) blocks has increased in the setting of mastectomy. The regional block utilizes ultrasound guidance to inject local anesthesia into the fascial planes of muscles thereby infiltrate the surrounding nerves. One example is the pectoral I block which deposits local anesthetic between the pectoralis major and minor muscles and pectoral II above the serratus anterior muscle with an intended blockade for intercostals III, IV, V, VI and long thoracic nerves. These techniques have shown a decrease in postoperative pain and postoperative narcotic consumption. The investigators seek to evaluate if preoperative regional nerve blocks decrease post mastectomy chronic pain, improving the quality of life of breast cancer survivors. Therefore, the aim of this study is to determine whether regional nerve blocks affect chronic post-mastectomy pain and whether the regional block is associated with perioperative pain and postoperative narcotic consumption.