Metformin for Chemoprevention of Lung Cancer in Overweight or Obese Individuals at High Risk for Lung Cancer
This phase II trial determines the effect of metformin extended release on the risk for developing lung cancer in overweight/obese patients that are at high-risk for developing lung cancer. Metformin is widely used to treat type II diabetes and has a long history of safety and minimal side effects. At similar dosage, the drug may have potential anti-cancer activity. Metformin use has been associated with improved survival in patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma, a specific type of lung cancer, and it has also been shown to enhance immune mobilization against tumors. This trial aims to see whether metformin extended release as a preventative treatment may lower the chance of developing lung cancer, and whether it may help patients' immune system learn ("reprogram") to lower a certain type of immune cell (called regulatory T cells) that are linked to tumor development.
Lung Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bronchoscopy|DRUG: Extended Release Metformin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
PD-1 expression of pulmonary regulatory T cells (Tregs) before and after metformin extended release (ER) treatment, Change from pre- to post-metformin extended release (ER) treatment in cell surface PD-1 expression levels of pulmonary (BAL) Tregs, measured as mean fluorescent intensity (MFI). Changes in MFI due to metformin ER treatment among all n = 40 subjects will be used for the primary analysis., Pre- to post-treatment
Estimated PD-1 expression of pulmonary Tregs change in cohort B during the wait period (6 months with no treatment), This is the estimate of change in MFI following the 6-month wait period among n = 20 subjects randomized to the wait-list arm. This will confirm the stability of the PD-1 expression of pulmonary Tregs over time., Randomization to week 26|Circulating immune cells, Circulating immune cell composition between blood samples collected pre- and post-metformin ER treatment to assess the effect of metformin ER on circulating immune cells and to identify potential biomarkers of metformin ER response., Pre- to post-treatment
Airway gene expression, RNA sequencing of endobronchial biopsies will be performed at visually normal mainstem airway for each participant. The analysis of the RNA seq data will be an unsupervised comparison of differentially expressed genes with and without metformin ER exposure., Up to study completion|Examination of the immune profile of pulmonary parenchyma represented by bronchoalveolar lavage, This will compare the immune composition of bronchoalveolar lavage samples of participants before and after metformin exposure. Specifically, the prevalence and composition of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) as well as monocyte, macrophage and dendritic cells will be assessed., Pre- to post-treatment|Histologic progression, Bronchoscopic biopsies of at least 6 standard sites will be graded on the World Health Organization (WHO) scale of dysplasia and assigned numerical scores from 1 (normal) to 8 (invasive cancer). Each lesion will be classified as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) and each response rate will be calculated on a per-site and a per-participant basis. Additional measures of dysplasia will include the average dysplastic score and the dysplasia index (% of sites with dysplasia score \>= 3 (mild dysplasia)). Changes in maximum dysplasia will be analyzed using a paired t test to determine whether a reduction occurs., Up to study completion|Examination of the effect of metformin on systemic adipokines and inflammatory cytokines, Frozen sera will be analyzed by commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits for levels of leptin, adiponectin, resistin, IL6 and TNFalpha. Pre- and post-treatment serum levels will be compared in parametric paired testing., Pre- to post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the effect of metformin treatment on the expression of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) on airway regulatory T cells (Tregs) in overweight and obese individuals at high risk for lung cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimated PD-1 expression of pulmonary Tregs change in Cohort B during the wait period (26 weeks with no treatment).

II. To examine the impact of metformin on circulating immune cell subsets of blood.

III. To evaluate the effect of metformin treatment on the expression of PD-1 on airway regulatory T cells (Tregs) in overweight and obese current smokers at high risk for lung cancer

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the impact of metformin on cancer-related transcriptome features of airway lesions.

II. To examine the impact of metformin on immune profile of pulmonary parenchyma represented by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL).

III To examine the impact of metformin on histologic progression of abnormal airway lesions.

IV. To examine the impact of metformin on serum adipokines and inflammatory cytokines.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT A: Former Smokers - Participants receive metformin extended release (ER) orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 26 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Participants undergo bronchoscopy biopsy and blood sample collection at screening, and week 13.

COHORT B: Former Smokers - Participants receive no intervention for 26 weeks, then cross-over to cohort A. Participants undergo bronchoscopy biopsy and blood sample collection at screening, at week 26, and at 13 weeks after cross-over to Cohort A.

COHORT C: Current Smokers - Participants receive metformin extended release (ER) orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 26 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Participants undergo bronchoscopy biopsy and blood sample collection at screening, and week 13.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at weeks 30-32 (Cohorts A and C) and weeks 56-58 (Cohort B).