Phase II Study of Oxaliplatin, Irinotecan, and Capecitabine in Advanced Gastric/Gastroesophageal Junction Carcinoma
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin, irinotecan, and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving more than one chemotherapy drug may kill more tumor cells. This phase II trial is studying how well giving oxaliplatin together with irinotecan and capecitabine works in treating patients with metastatic or inoperable locally advanced gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma (cancer).
Adenocarcinoma of the Gastroesophageal Junction|Diffuse Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Intestinal Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Mixed Adenocarcinoma of the Stomach|Recurrent Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIA Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIB Gastric Cancer|Stage IIIC Gastric Cancer|Stage IV Gastric Cancer
DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: capecitabine
Response Rates (RR) in Metastatic Gastric/GE Junction Tumors, Response is defined as the number of patients with a CR (Complete Response) or PR (Partial Response) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST criteria). Possible evaluations include: CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the size of target lesions. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the size of the target lesions or appearance of one or more new lesions. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage or increase of target lesions., at 12 weeks (after 2 cycles of treatment)
Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) Duration, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., at 40 months from study activation|Overall Survival, Length of time patients survived after treatment, at 40 months from study activation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the total response rate of the oxaliplatin, irinotecan and capecitabine drug combination in advanced gastric/esophageal junction carcinoma.

II. To assess the duration of total responses of the oxaliplatin, irinotecan and capecitabine drug combination in advanced gastric/esophageal junction carcinoma.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and irinotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26. Courses repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed annually.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40-80 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.