Surgical Specification and Efficacy Evaluation of Total Laparoscopic Left Liver Resection
Recent clinical experience showed that laparoscopic hepatectomy has advantages of minimally invasive compared to open liver resection, however, laparoscopic liver resection is still difficult and risky. Currently it is only carried out in a few large medical centers with slow development. The related research studies were retrospective analysis, there were no prospective randomized controlled multi-center study reported. Because of its relatively simple anatomical advantages, left liver seems to be as the best platform to ensure maximum safety and feasibility of prospective randomized study for laparoscopic hepatectomy .This project intends to carry out a prospective randomized controlled multi-center study to look for evidence of safety, efficacy and minimally invasive of laparoscopic left liver resection, evaluate the long-term efficacy including overall survival, disease-free survival as well as time to disease recurrence for the left liver carcinoma.
Laparoscopic Hepatectomy|Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: laparoscopic hepatectomy|PROCEDURE: open liver resection
amount of bleeding, Participants will be observed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 4 weeks.|time of operation, Participants will be observed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 4 weeks.|status of the resection margins, Participants will be observed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 4 weeks.|bile leakage, Participants will be observed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 4 weeks.|abdominal adhesion, Participants will be observed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 4 weeks.
overall survival, Participants will be followed for 5 years.|disease-free survival, Participants will be followed for 5 years.|time to disease recurrence, Participants will be followed for 5 years.
Recent clinical experience showed that laparoscopic hepatectomy has advantages of minimally invasive compared to open liver resection, however, laparoscopic liver resection is still difficult and risky. Currently it is only carried out in a few large medical centers with slow development. The related research studies were retrospective analysis, there were no prospective randomized controlled multi-center study reported. Because of its relatively simple anatomical advantages, left liver seems to be as the best platform to ensure maximum safety and feasibility of prospective randomized study for laparoscopic hepatectomy .This project intends to carry out a prospective randomized controlled multi-center study to look for evidence of safety, efficacy and minimally invasive of laparoscopic left liver resection, evaluate the long-term efficacy including overall survival, disease-free survival as well as time to disease recurrence for the left liver carcinoma.