Savolitinib in Treating Patients With MET Amplified Metastatic or Unresectable Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well savolitinib works in treating patients with MET amplified colorectal cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Savolitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Colorectal Carcinoma|Metastatic Colon Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Colon Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Rectal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Savolitinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), Objective response rate is calculated as the number of people with a complete or partial response divided by the total number of people treated. Complete response is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From start of treatment until documented progression of disease (up to 4 months)
Months of Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment until clinical or radiographic progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., From start of treatment until documented progression of disease (up to 4 months)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the objective response rate (ORR) of savolitinib in patients with MET amplified metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the clinical activity (duration of response, progression free survival \[PFS\]) of savolitinib in patients with MET amplified metastatic CRC.

II. To describe the toxicities of savolitinib in patients with MET amplified metastatic CRC.

III. To explore the effect of RAS mutation status on response to savolitinib. IV. To explore any correlation between tissue and blood based biomarkers and clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive savolitinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 12 weeks thereafter for up to 2 years.