FDG-PET Directed Treatment in Improving Response in Patients With Locally Advanced Stomach or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)/positron emission tomography (PET) directed treatment improves response in patients with stomach or gastroesophageal junction cancer that has not spread past the stomach and is not responding to the usual treatment. PET scans are a different way to take pictures of cancer and can be used to look at how much energy (such as glucose) is being used by the cancer. Using PET scans early to monitor the success of treatment may allow doctors to measure response and change treatment accordingly.
Adenocarcinoma of the Gastroesophageal Junction|Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: FDG-PET|PROCEDURE: surgery|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: Irinotecan|RADIATION: 3D-CRT|RADIATION: IMRT
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from date of randomization to death due to any cause., Up to 3 years
Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first. Progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Up to 3 years|Number of Patients Achieved R0 Resection During Surgery, The number of patients achieved R0 resection during surgery, At time of surgery|Number of Patients Had Pathologic Complete Response, The number of patients had pathologic complete response (pCR). (pCR is defined as no gross or microscopic tumor identified with the surgical specimen. All lymph nodes should be free of tumor to document a PCR. If no gross tumor is visible, section around the area of inflammation (nodularity) should be made every 2-3 cm and specimens examined.), Up to 3 years|Number of Participants Who Reported Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, The number of patients who reported grade 3 or higher Adverse Events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 30 days after completion of protocol treatment
Change in FDG-PET SUV Measures, Up to 14 days prior to surgery
Pre-registered patients receive standard pre-operative chemotherapy comprising epirubicin intravenously 50mg/m\^2 (IV) on day 1; oxaliplatin 130 mg/m\^2 IV or cisplatin 60 mg/m\^2 IV on day 1; and capecitabine 625 mg/m\^2 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) or fluorouracil 200 mg/m\^2/day IV continuously on days 1-21; and undergo FDG-PET following course 1 (days 15-19). Patients defined as FDG-PET non-responders are registered and randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Primary objective

To assess and compare the overall survival (OS) of patients with locally advanced gastric cancer classified as FDG-PET non-responders after one cycle of pre-operative chemotherapy randomly assigned to receive either salvage chemotherapy before and after surgery or immediate surgery followed by fluorouracil sensitized radiotherapy.

Secondary objectives

1. To assess and compare progression-free survival (PFS) between the treatment arms (Arms A and B).
2. To assess and compare R0 resection rate between the treatment arms (Arms A and B).
3. To assess and compare pathologic complete response (pCR) rate between the treatment arms (Arms A and B).
4. To assess the adverse events (AE) profile and safety of each treatment arm (Arms A and B), including post-operative mortality rate, 30-day post-operative targeted adverse events (i.e., dehiscence, significant infection, and re-operation rate).
5. To examine the changes of FDG-PET SUV induced by pre-operative chemotherapy at different time points (from baseline to completion of one cycle of treatment before randomization, and 2 cycles of salvage treatment) in patients randomized to salvage treatment arm (Arm B).
6. To collect measurement of fatigue and overall perception of QOL at registration of the study (Alliance registration QOL assessment study).