Testing the Combination of Anti-Cancer Drugs Talazoparib and Temozolomide in Patients With Advanced Stage Rare Cancers, RARE 2 Trial
This phase II trial tests whether combination of talazoparib and temozolomide works to shrink tumors in patients with rare cancer that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). Talazoparib is an inhibitor of poly adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase (PARP), an enzyme that helps repair deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) when it becomes damaged. Blocking PARP may help keep cancer cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. PARP inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy. Temozolomide is in a class of medications called alkylating agents. It damages the cell's DNA and may kill cancer cells. Giving talazoparib in combination with temozolomide may help shrink advanced rare cancers or stop them from growing.
Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Paraganglioma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Talazoparib|DRUG: Temozolomide
Objective response, Defined as a complete or partial response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 criteria. A Simon two-stage design (between minimax and optimal) will be employed., Up to 9 months from study enrollment
Proportion of patients alive and progression free, Non-parametric analyses will be used for evaluation. Any p-value reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., At 6 months from treatment start date|Genomic and transcriptomic determinants of response and resistance, Assessed in tumor biopsy specimens. Non-parametric analyses will be used for evaluation. Any p-value reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Up to 3 years from study enrollment|Genomic alterations in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) and circulating tumor cells (CTCs), Non-parametric analyses will be used for evaluation. Any p-value reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Up to 3 years from study enrollment|Pharmacodynamic effects of the combination on biomarkers of cell death and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in tumor tissue and CTCs, Non-parametric analyses will be used for evaluation. Any p-value reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Up to 3 years from study enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with advanced rare cancers who have objective responses (OR) to treatment with temozolomide and talazoparib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months on study agents.

II. To identify genomic and transcriptomic determinants of response and resistance in tumor biopsy specimens.

III. To examine genomic alterations in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) and circulating tumor cells (CTCs) that may be associated with response or resistance.

IV. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects of the combination on biomarkers of cell death and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in tumor tissue and CTCs.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and temozolomide PO QD on days 2-6 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT scans and may optionally undergo biopsy and/or blood sample collection at baseline and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days or until one of the following occurs: patient enrolls on another protocol, patient receives standard of care, or death, whichever comes first.