A Prospective Study of Pembrolizumab Combining Chemotherapy in Advanced NSCLC Patients With EGFR Exon 21 Point Mutation.
A phase II, single-arm, open-label study evaluating efficacy, safety and feasibility of combined chemotherapy and pembrolizumab as first line therapy and Osimertinib as second line therapy in advanced non squamous NSCLC adult patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 21 point mutation and programmed cell death receptor ligand 1 (PD-L1) positive.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor|EGFR Exon 21 Mutation
DRUG: Pembrolizumab, pemetrexed, platinum|DRUG: Osimertinib
progression free survival 1 (PFS1), the time length from enrollment to any of the following events: disease progression with first line therapy or death from any cause. Disease progression will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1, up to 8 weeks
progression free survival 2 (PFS2), the time length from enrollment to any of the following events: disease progression with Osimertinib or death from any cause. Disease progression will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1, up to 8weeks|Incidence of adverse events graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, Evaluate adverse events of any cause, treatment-related adverse events, immune-mediated adverse events according to NCI-CTCAE V5.0, up to 8 weeks|objective response rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with Complete and Partial Responses to first-line therapy., up to 8 weeks|Life quality score, Evaluate life quality score according to Karnofsky performance status (KPS). On a scale of 10, higher scores indicate better health. A score of 0 is defined as death, on a 100-point scale, indicating normal physical fitness with no obvious symptoms and signs., up to 8 weeks
Exploratory biomarker analysis, Blood samples will be collected from patients on three occasions: before treatment, at the time of disease progression on first-line therapy, and at the time of disease progression on second-line therapy. 15ml blood samples will be collected each time for PBMC assay. Tumor samples will be collected: 10 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections. Tumor samples will be subjected to genetic testing. Blood samples will be analyzed by flow cytometry., before treatment, at the time of disease progression on first-line therapy, and at the time of disease progression on second-line therapy.
Four cycles of platinum and pemetrexed in combination with pembrolizumab will be administered as first line therapy and up to 31 cycles pemetrexed and pembrolizumab maintenance therapy every 3 weeks. Osimertinib will be the sequential treatment strategy at progression.