Pembrolizumab, Chemotherapy, and Radiation Therapy With or Without Surgery in Treating Patients With Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy work with or without surgery in treating patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel and doxorubicin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving pembrolizumab, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy with or without surgery may kill more tumor cells and work better in treating patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer.
Thyroid Gland Undifferentiated (Anaplastic) Carcinoma
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Overall Survival Rate, Defined as the percentage of evaluable patients who are alive at 6 months., At 6 months
Incidence of Adverse Events Graded Using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns. This data is reported in the adverse events section of this report., 2.3 years
Number of Patients With Locoregional Recurrence and Locoregional Progression in the Thyroid Bed or Regional Lymph Nodes, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., 2.3 years|Numbers of Patients With Distant Metastasis, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of pembrolizumab in improving overall survival at 6 months (OS-6) in combination with multimodal therapy involving standard chemo-radiotherapy in anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) in comparison to a historical cohort.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine safety and tolerance of pembrolizumab with chemoradiotherapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate locoregional control. II. To evaluate progression of distant metastases. III. To evaluate the evolution of the immune profile of circulating immune cells in response to therapy in ATC patents, and to assess potential correlations with outcomes on an exploratory basis.

IV. To evaluate PD-1 and PD-L1 staining in tumor cells and tumor stroma as candidate biomarkers for outcomes.

V. To determine if pre-therapy circulating tumor cell load is associated with outcomes.

VI. To examine associations between outcomes and somatic mutational status as assessed by foundation medicine analysis (for example: presence of BRAF, RAS, P53 and TERT promoter mutations).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses after chemoradiation if no residual disease is found or for up to 35 courses after chemoradiation if residual disease is found. After 3 days, patients undergo surgery. Within 42 days of surgery, patients also receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly (Q1W) and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV Q1W, and undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily 5 days per week for 6.5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT B: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses after chemoradiation if no residual disease is found or for up to 35 courses after chemoradiation if residual disease is found. After 3 days, patients also receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour Q1W and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV Q1W, and undergo IMRT once daily 5 days per week for 6.5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until progressive disease and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.