Resistance Training +/- Creatine for Metastatic Prostate Cancer Patients
This trial studies how well resistance training with or without creatine monohydrate supplement works in improving body composition and health outcomes in patients with prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Resistance training, with or without creatine monohydrate supplement, may help to improve feelings of tiredness and overall physical function in patients with prostate cancer.
Fatigue|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Sedentary Lifestyle|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC (American Joint Committee on Cancer) v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC (American Joint Committee on Cancer) v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC (American Joint Committee on Cancer) v8
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Creatine Monohydrate|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in lean mass, Assessed by whole-body dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention
Change in fat mass, Assess body composition by whole-body DXA (dual x-ray absorptiometry) scan., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Change in fat-free mass, Assess body composition by whole-body DXA (dual x-ray absorptiometry) scan., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Change in percent body fat, Assess body composition by whole-body DXA (dual x-ray absorptiometry) scan., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Change in appendicular lean mass, Assess body composition by whole-body DXA (dual x-ray absorptiometry) scan., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Change in physical function, Assessed by physical performance battery testing, Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Change in fatigue, Assessed by Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Fatigue (FACIT Fatigue Scale, version 4) questionnaire which is a patient-reported measurement of change in fatigue. Level of fatigue is rated from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much).

FACIT-Fatigue Subscale Scoring Guidelines (Version 4)

1. Record answers in "item response" column. If missing, mark with an X
2. Perform reversals as indicated, and sum individual items to obtain a score.
3. Multiply the sum of the item scores by the number of items in the subscale, then divide by the number of items answered. This produces the subscale score.
4. The higher the score, the better the QOL., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Change in insulin regulation, Assessed by Homeostatic Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance assessment., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Change in serum PSA (prostate specific antigen) markers of the immune system and allostatic load, Assessed by PSA lab, Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Plasma markers of allostatic load: Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Change in IL-6 will be assessed by serum IL-6 testing., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Plasma markers of allostatic load: Insulin, Changes in insulin will be assessed by serum insulin testing., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Plasma markers of allostatic load: Glucose, Changes in glucose will be assessed by serum glucose testing., Baseline to 12 weeks post intervention|Total percent of creatine supplementation consumed at end of study, Assessed by submission of supplementation logs and research pharmacy measurements of remaining creatine in the supplementation containers that will be returned by patients at the end-of-study assessment session. Pharmacy creatine measurements will be documented in Vestigo., Baseline up to 12 weeks post intervention|Plasma markers of the immune system, Changes in plasma markers of the immune system., Baseline up to 12 weeks post intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the change in lean mass with 12 weeks of creatine supplementation + resistance training compared to resistance training alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate change in other body composition variables (i.e. fat mass, fat-free mass, percent body fat, appendicular lean mass) with 12 weeks of creatine supplementation + resistance training compared to resistance training alone.

II. To evaluate the change in health outcomes associated with body composition (i.e. physical function, fatigue, insulin regulation) with 12 weeks of creatine supplementation + resistance training compared to resistance training alone.

III. To examine associations between creatine supplementation use and changes in biomarkers linked with prostate cancer progression (prostate specific antigen \[PSA\] and markers of the immune system and allostatic load).

IV. To evaluate the degree of adherence to the creatine supplementation protocol.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients complete Personal Optimism with Exercise Recovery (POWER) resistance training program sessions twice weekly over 30-60 minute each for 12 weeks.

GROUP II: Patients complete POWER resistance training program sessions twice weekly over 30-60 minutes each for 12 weeks and receive creatine monohydrate supplementation orally (PO) 4 times daily during week 1, and then once daily (QD) during weeks 2-12.