A Clinical Study to Assess the Efficacy of Adjuvant Immunotherapy With Cemiplimab in Patients With Surgically Removed Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Who Have Not Received Prior Chemotherapy
ARCH is a randomised, stratified, multicentre, phase III trial. Protocol treatment consists of cemiplimab, 350 mg i.v., every 3 weeks, for 4 cycles, followed by 700 mg i.v., every 6 weeks for 6 cycles or until relapse or unacceptable toxicities, whichever occurs first. The primary objective of the study is to determine the efficacy of adjuvant cemiplimab, as measured by disease-free survival, in patients without prior adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy, compared to observation without adjuvant treatment. The primary objective will be assessed in patients with tumours with centrally confirmed PD-L1 expression of ≥1%.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Cemiplimab
Disease-free survival (DFS), Disease free survival (in patients with tumours with centrally confirmed PD-L1 expression of ≥1%)., From the date of randomisation until disease recurrence (including loco-regional recurrence, a distant (metastatic) recurrence or a second primary) or death from any cause. Assessed for approximately up to 59 months.
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomisation until death from any cause. Censoring (for patients who are not reported as having died) will occur at the date last known to be alive. Patients without post-randomisation information will be censored at the date of randomisation (plus 1 day)., From the date of randomisation until death from any cause. Assessed for approximately up to 59 months.|Incidence, nature and severity of adverse events according to CTCAE v5., All safety parameters will be summarised in tables to evaluate the toxicity/safety profile of the protocol treatment., From the date the patient has signed the Informed Consent until the trial end. Assessed for approximately up to 59 months.
ARCH is a randomised, stratified, multicentre, phase III trial. Protocol treatment consists of cemiplimab, 350 mg i.v., every 3 weeks, for 4 cycles, followed by 700 mg i.v., every 6 weeks for 6 cycles or until relapse or unacceptable toxicities, whichever occurs first. The primary objective of the study is to determine the efficacy of adjuvant cemiplimab, as measured by disease-free survival, in patients without prior adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy, compared to observation without adjuvant treatment. The primary objective will be assessed in patients with tumours with centrally confirmed PD-L1 expression of ≥1%.