MnSOD (Esophageal Protectant) to Prevent Esophagitis During Radiation/Chemotherapy Treatment for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This is a Phase I-II study evaluating the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of swallowed MnSOD plasmid/liposome (PL) transgene given as protection against radiation-induced esophagitis during concurrent paclitaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy with thoracic radiation in subjects with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Esophageal|Toxicity
GENETIC: Manganese Superoxide Dismutase Plasmid Liposome|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Determination of Recommended Phase II Dose of MnSOD/Plasmid DNA, The maximally tolerated dose (milligrams) defined as the highest dose with fewer than one-third of patients experiencing a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) per CTCAE v3.0 due to MnSOD.

(Three patients treated at each at three tiers of 0.3, 3, and 30mg of MnSOD/plasmid DNA. If no DLTs (grade III/IV toxicity due to MnSOD PL) observed, the dose of MnSOD PL escalated to the next tier. If one DLT observed, the cohort is expanded to six patients. If two of six patients experienced a DLT, dose escalation stops and the next lowest dose declared maximum tolerated dose (MTD). If none of three or one of six patients experience DLT at the 30-mg tier, that dose is defined as the starting dose for the efficacy phase and the MTD would be undefined)., Every 8 weeks, up to 2 years|Radiation-induced Esophageal Toxicity, Number of patients experiencing grade III/IV esophageal toxicity per CTCAE v3.0., Up to 2 years
Overall (Objective) Response, Clinical Response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Per RECIST v1.0: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Stable Disease: Neither sufficient shrinkage (compared to baseline) to qualify for partial or complete response (CR or PR) nor sufficient increase (taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters at baseline or while on study, whichever is smallest) to qualify for progressive disease (PD). Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20%increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from start of treatment that diagnosed patients remain alive., Up to 5 years|Time to Disease Progression, The length of time from start of treatment until patients first disease recurrence/progression. Per RECIST v1.0: Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20%increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 5 years
This is a Phase I-II study evaluating the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of swallowed MnSOD plasmid/liposome (PL) transgene given as protection against radiation-induced esophagitis during concurrent paclitaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy with thoracic radiation in subjects with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Phase I of the study will assess the feasibility and safety of MnSOD PL by dose escalation in 3 cohorts of 3 chemoradiotherapy subjects each (Cohort1 = 0.3 mg/dose, Cohort2 = 3 mg/dose, Cohort3 = 30 mg/dose). The highest dose completed (as determined by toxicity monitoring for 8 weeks from initial treatment) will be the starting dose for Phase II. Phase II will examine the efficacy of MnSOD PL by assessing the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 esophagitis in 27 additional chemoradiotherapy subjects. Incidence of esophageal toxicity, as well as clinical response to the combination of chemoradiotherapy with MnSOD PL are the outcomes of interest.