Pemigatinib for the Treatment of Metastatic or Unresectable Colorectal Cancer Harboring FGFR Alterations
This phase II trial studies how well pemigatinib works in treating patients with colorectal cancer with mutations (alterations) in a FGFR gene and that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Pemigatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking FGFR, which is needed for cell growth.
FGFR1 Gene Amplification|FGFR1 Gene Mutation|FGFR1 Gene Translocation|FGFR2 Gene Amplification|FGFR2 Gene Mutation|FGFR2 Gene Translocation|FGFR3 Gene Amplification|FGFR3 Gene Mutation|FGFR3 Gene Translocation|Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage III Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Colorectal Carcinoma
DRUG: Pemigatinib|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the rate of patients, among evaluable patients, who experience an objective response per RECIST 1.1. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Clopper and Pearson., 4.4 Months
Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical Benefit Rate is defined as the number of patients that experience a complete or partial response, or have stable disease, divided by the number of evaluable patients. Analysis of this endpoint will mirror that of the primary objective., 4.4 Months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, where disease progression is determined based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median PFS and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported. Patients who do not experience disease progression or death while on protocol will be censored at the last disease assessment date., 4.4 Months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from study entry to death from any cause. Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median OS and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., 29.4 Months|Quality of Life (QOL) as Measured by the LASA [Item 1: Overall QOL], Quality of Life (QOL) was measured using item 1: Overall QOL of the Linear Analogue Self-Assessment (LASA) Questionnaire on a 0-10 scale, with 0=as bad as it can be and 10=as good as it can be. The QOL scores was converted to a 100-point scale, with 0=Low QOL and 100=Best QOL. Change from baseline to Week 36 will be calculated by subtracting the baseline scores from the scores at Week 36. Negative change indicates the QOL decrease and positive change indicates the QOL improvement., 9 Months|Incidence of Adverse Events, Adverse events will be summarized by frequency and severity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 in the adverse event section of this report. The number of patients evaluated for adverse events is reported below., 5.4 Months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess overall response rate (ORR) of pemigatinib in patients with metastatic or unresectable colorectal cancer harboring activating FGFR alterations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical benefit rate (complete response + partial response + stable disease) with pemigatinib.

II. To assess progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) with pemigatinib.

III. Assess changes in patient quality of life (QOL) as measured by the linear analogue self-assessment (LASA) questionnaire.

IV. Assess the frequency and severity of adverse events.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess plasma pharmacodynamic biomarkers of response and resistance to therapy.

II. To explore any correlation between tissue and blood based biomarkers and clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pemigatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years after registration.