Effectiveness of an EHealth Intervention for Uptake of Cervical Cancer Screening in Hispanic Women
This study will test the effectiveness of an eHealth promotora (lay health advisor) outreach strategy to increase cervical cancer screening in Hispanic women. The investigators will recruit 160 Hispanic women ages 21-65 who are not up to date with cervical cancer screening or have never been screened, with the goal to evaluate screening knowledge, behavior, and intervention effects on cervical cancer screening outcomes. The study will utilize a two-arm, cluster randomized trial design, and participants will be randomly assigned to the cervical cancer education intervention or a nutrition education control group. The cervical cancer education arm will utilize a promotora to deliver an educational session virtually to encourage cervical cancer screening and receive a resource list for screening sites. The control group will participate in an educational session virtually about the importance of healthy nutrition. The primary study outcome is receipt of cervical cancer screening measured six months following receiving the intervention. The secondary outcomes will include cervical cancer screening knowledge and self-efficacy (confidence to receive cervical cancer screening). The research objective is to test the eHealth promotora intervention effectiveness for promoting cervical cancer screening in an under-screened Hispanic population.
Cervical Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: eHealth Promotora|BEHAVIORAL: eHealth Healthy Nutrition
Cervical cancer screening uptake, Proportion of participants who complete cervical cancer screening determined by cervical cancer screening measure which asks about the last Pap test completed confirmed by chart review if possible., 6 months
Cervical cancer screening self-efficacy, The 10-item cervical cancer screening self-efficacy scale is scored on a 5-item Likert scale ranging from 1 (very unsure) to 5 (very sure) (α = 0.88). Questions include asking participants to rate their confidence in having a discussion with their doctor about the Pap test, scheduling and keeping appointments, getting a Pap test despite being worried about pain, and overcoming embarrassment., 6 months|Cervical cancer knowledge, A 15-item cervical cancer knowledge instrument measures educational content of the intervention with 10 True/False questions and 5 multiple choice questions to produce a knowledge score ranging from 0 to 15., 6 months
This study will test the effectiveness of an eHealth promotora (lay health advisor) outreach strategy to increase cervical cancer screening in Hispanic women. The investigators will recruit 160 Hispanic women ages 21-65 who are not up to date with cervical cancer screening or have never been screened, with the goal to evaluate screening knowledge, behavior, and intervention effects on cervical cancer screening outcomes. The study will utilize a two-arm, cluster randomized trial design, and participants will be randomly assigned to the cervical cancer education intervention or a nutrition education control group. The cervical cancer education arm will utilize a promotora to deliver an educational session virtually to encourage cervical cancer screening and receive a resource list for screening sites. The control group will participate in an educational session virtually about the importance of healthy nutrition. The primary study outcome is receipt of cervical cancer screening measured six months following receiving the intervention. The secondary outcomes will include cervical cancer screening knowledge and self-efficacy (confidence to receive cervical cancer screening). The research objective is to test the eHealth promotora intervention effectiveness for promoting cervical cancer screening in an under-screened Hispanic population.