Testing the Use of Nilotinib and Paclitaxel as a Treatment for Patients With Prior Taxane Treatment, A ComboMATCH Treatment Trial
This phase II ComboMATCH treatment trial evaluates nilotinib with paclitaxel for the treatment of patients with solid cancers that are growing, spreading, or getting worse (progressive) and that have previously been treated with taxane therapies. Nilotinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by binding to and blocking the action of a protein called ABL, which signals tumor cells to multiply. This helps slow or stop the proliferation of tumor cells. Paclitaxel is a drug that blocks cell growth by stopping cell division and it may kill tumor cells. Giving nilotinib with paclitaxel may be effective at treating patients with progressive solid cancers that have previously been treated with taxane therapies.
Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Nilotinib Hydrochloride Monohydrate|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Best objective response, Evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. 90% two-sided confidence intervals will be used for reporting estimated rates., Up to 3 years|Progression free survival, Distribution will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From registration to documented disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival, Distribution will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From registration to death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be determined using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. Exact binomial confidence intervals will be used for adverse event rates., Up to 3 years
Concordance of diagnostic tumor mutation profile, pre-treatment tumor biopsy mutation profile, and pre-treatment circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) profile, Whole-exome sequencing, ribonucleic acid sequencing, and ctDNA sequencing will be performed on mandatory tissue biopsies and/or blood specimens., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with taxane-refractory advanced malignancies who have objective responses (OR) to treatment with nilotinib hydrochloride monohydrate (nilotinib) and paclitaxel.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Collect tissue and provide it to the ComboMATCH registration protocol to assess concordance between the diagnostic tumor mutation profile generated by the designated laboratories, the pre-treatment biopsy mutation profile, and the pre-treatment circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) mutation profile from plasma, as described in ComboMATCH registration protocol. For this treatment substudy, the outcome objective will be to report the proportion of cases providing sufficient tissue for that integrated scientific activity in the ComboMATCH registration protocol.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) at 6 months on study agents. II. To identify genomic and transcriptomic determinants of response and resistance in tumor biopsy specimens and cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nilotinib hydrochloride monohydrate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples and tumor biopsy on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed until disease progression, and for survival for 3 years from registration.