Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Versus Chemotherapy in Chinese Participants With Stage IV Colorectal Cancer (MK-3475-C66)
In this study, Chinese participants with MSI-H or dMMR advanced colorectal cancer will be assigned to receive either pembrolizumab or the Investigator's choice of 1 of 6 standard of care (SOC) chemotherapy regimens for treatment. There is no hypothesis testing for this study.
Colorectal Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) For All Participants, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression (PD) per RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more lesions and the unequivocal progression of non-target lesions is also considered PD. The PFS per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR will be reported for all participants., Up to approximately 77 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) For RAS Wild-type Participants, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression (PD) per RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more lesions and the unequivocal progression of non-target lesions is also considered PD. The PFS per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR will be reported for RAS wild-type participants ., Up to approximately 77 months
Overall Survival (OS) For All Participants, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The OS will be reported for all participants., Up to approximately 77 months|Overall Survival (OS) For RAS Wild-type Participants, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The OS will be reported for RAS wild-type participants., Up to approximately 77 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) For All Participants, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a best response of confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage for all participants who experience CR or PR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 77 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) For RAS Wild-type Participants, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a best response of confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage for RAS wild-type participants who experience CR or PR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 77 months|Number of Participants Who Experience at Least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who experience an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 77 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 77 months
In this study, Chinese participants with MSI-H or dMMR advanced colorectal cancer will be assigned to receive either pembrolizumab or the Investigator's choice of 1 of 6 standard of care (SOC) chemotherapy regimens for treatment. There is no hypothesis testing for this study.