Neoantigen Vaccine Therapy Against H3.3-K27M Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma
Diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPGs), which diffusely occupy the pons of brainstem, are the deadliest primary brain cancer in children. Biopsy for pathology plus radiotherapy remains the current standard-of-care treatment that is minimal effective. Thus, the median overall survival after diagnosis is just 10 months. Recent studies have identified a lysine 27-to-methionine (K27M) somatic mutation at histone H3 variant (H3.3), as a feature mutation in DIPGs. Several preclinical studies have already demonstrated H3.3-K27M as a promising target for immunotherapy. The researched vaccine is a cancer-treatment vaccine containing an H3.3-K27M targeted neoantigen peptide, that can be taken up by antigen-presenting cells (APCs). APCs can present the peptide with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules on cell surface, thereby activating neoantigen-specific T cells and triggering corresponding cytotoxic T cell immune responses to eliminate H3.3-K27M-expressing DIPG cells. The main goal of this study is investigating the safety and preliminary efficacy of the vaccine in treating newly-diagnosed DIPGs when the vaccine is administered in combination with the standard-of-care treatment.
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: Histone H3.3-K27M Neoantigen Vaccine Therapy
Safety of histone H3.3-K27M neoantigen vaccine in treating newly diagnosed DIPGs, AEs were graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03., All the Adverse events (AEs) were recorded until 24 weeks after the last shot|Rate of the patients who survive for more than one year after surgery/biopsy in all the DIPG patients who receive H3.3-K27M neoantigen vaccine, One-year survival rate, One year after surgery or biopsy
Maximum Tolerated Dose of H3.3-K27M neoantigen vaccine to treat DIPGs, "\>= Grade 3 " vaccine related AEs are defined as DLTs. In order to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of the vaccine, a "6+3" dose escalation design is applied., DLTs were monitored at timepoints of every vaccine shot until the 28th day after the first injection|Rate of the patients who survive for more than two years after surgery/biopsy in all the DIPG patients who receive H3.3-K27M neoantigen vaccine, two-year survival rate, two years after surgery or biopsy|Median Progression-free survival time of the DIPG patients who receive H3.3-K27M neoantigen vaccine, Progression-free survival time: the time from operation/biopsy to progression (when shows signs or symptoms of the growth or the spreading of a tumor), start 4 weeks after the first shot and every 8 weeks until disease progression|Median Overall survival time of the DIPG patients who receive H3.3-K27M neoantigen vaccine, overall survival time: the time from operation/biopsy to death., start 4 weeks after the first shot and every 8 weeks until death|Immunological effectiveness of H3.3-K27M neoantigen vaccine for the treatment of DIPG patients, Immunological effectiveness is measured by an IFN-γ ELISPOT assay as number of spot-forming cells in one million peripheral blood mononuclear cells., baseline 1: pre-radiotherapy; baseline 2: immediately after completing radiotherapy; Day 15, Day 57, Day 85 and every 8 weeks thereafter until up to 2 years after the first shot.
Diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPGs), which diffusely occupy the pons of brainstem, are the deadliest primary brain cancer in children. Biopsy for pathology plus radiotherapy remains the current standard-of-care treatment that is minimal effective. Thus, the median overall survival after diagnosis is just 10 months. Recent studies have identified a lysine 27-to-methionine (K27M) somatic mutation at histone H3 variant (H3.3), as a feature mutation in DIPGs. Several preclinical studies have already demonstrated H3.3-K27M as a promising target for immunotherapy. The researched vaccine is a cancer-treatment vaccine containing an H3.3-K27M targeted neoantigen peptide, that can be taken up by antigen-presenting cells (APCs). APCs can present the peptide with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules on cell surface, thereby activating neoantigen-specific T cells and triggering corresponding cytotoxic T cell immune responses to eliminate H3.3-K27M-expressing DIPG cells. The main goal of this study is investigating the safety and preliminary efficacy of the vaccine in treating newly-diagnosed DIPGs when the vaccine is administered in combination with the standard-of-care treatment.