Measuring Cell-Free DNA (cfDNA) Levels in People With Follicular Lymphoma
The researchers are doing this study to measure and test cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in the blood before, during, and after first-line treatment for follicular lymphoma. They will look at whether cfDNA levels are related to a person's response to the usual first-line treatment for follicular lymphoma. Researchers also want to understand how different genetic changes in follicular lymphoma relate to a person's response to the usual first-line treatment.
Follicular Lymphoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: cfDNA testing|OTHER: sample of saliva or fingernail clipping|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: pre-treatment test specimen|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PET/CT, CT, or MRI testing
whether the assay can correctly identify presence of disease in patients with measurable disease, Response will be evaluated using the updated response criteria entitled, "The Lugano Classification" system. The investigator will use of the 5-point scale for visually assessing response on the pre- and end-of-treatment FDGPET/CT scans. This scale is commonly referred to as the Deauville criteria; it was developed by international experts in the field at the First International Workshop on interim-PET in Lymphoma in Deauville in 2009 and is routinely applied to patients undergoing lymphoma directed therapy. The 5-point scale is described in the table below.

1 No residual uptake 2 Uptake ≤ mediastinum 3 Uptake \> mediastinum but ≤ liver 4 Uptake moderately \> liver 5 Markedly increased uptake at any site or progression, 2 years
This is a non-therapeutic protocol aimed to assess the ability of the s cfDNA assay to detect clinical response in FL when compared to conventional approaches for assessing response, such as PET-CT scans.

Study assessments will include: 1) identification of the mutations present in the primary tumor, 2) identification of these mutations in the peripheral blood samples collected before initiation of standard therapy, after 2 cycles of therapy, at the completion of 6-8 cycles of induction therapy, and then every 6 months for a total of 2 years from the initiation of therapy using a cfDNA assay. For patients who receive RT, peripheral blood samples will be collected before initiation of RT, and then 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months post RT using a s cfDNA assay.