Evaluation of Efficacy, Quality of Life and Cost Effectiveness of Short-course Radiotherapy Followed by Capecitabine Plus Oxaliplatin chemotheRapy and TME for High-risk Rectal Cancer (ESCORT Trial)
Multimodality treatment including surgery and radiotherapy is the current standard of care in locally advanced rectal cancer. Most clinical trials comparing short course radiotherapy (SCRT) with long course chemoradiotherapy(LCRT) did not find significant differences in oncological outcomes and short-term outcomes even though some debates. Recently, Stockholm III trial comparing SCRT plus delayed surgery with SCRT plus immediate surgery and LCRT demonstrated no differences with respect to short-term outcomes such as complications, mortality, and acute toxicity. However, overall quality of life (QoL) after curative treatment for rectal cancer is still major concern in both SCRT and LCRT. Furthermore, daily hospital visits for 5 weeks may be the cause of the increase of total medical cost due to indirect medical expense in patients with LCRT, especially in rural area. SCRT plus chemotherapy followed by delayed surgery may have the possibility of reducing total hospital costs as well as increasing QoL by proving non-inferiority in terms of perioperative outcomes. The present prospective single-arm phase 2 trial was designed to validate the efficacy, quality of life and cost effectiveness of preoperative short-course radiotherapy plus XELOX chemotherapy followed by delayed surgery for high-risk rectal cancer patient based on magnetic resonance imaging.
Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
RADIATION: preoperative short-course radiotherapy
pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, According to pathological response criteria, a total regression is considered a complete response, Two weeks after surgery
Incidence of acute toxicities during radiation and chemotherapy, Incidence of acute toxicities during radiation and chemotherapy, Three months|Incidence of surgical complications, Incidence of surgical complications, Four weeks after surgery|Quality of life, QOL assessed using EORTC QLQ-CR29 survey form. The EORTC QLQ-CR29 is a 29-item colon and rectum cancer site-specific supplemental module that aims to enhance the sensitivity and specificity for colorectal cancer quality of life measures. The original English version comprises 4 multi-item scales (body image, urinary frequency, blood and mucus in stool, and stool frequency) and 17 functional/symptomatic single-items(anxiety, weight, sexual interest, urinary incontinence, dysuria, abdominal pain, buttock pain, bloating, dry mouth, hair loss, taste, flatulence, fecal incontinence, sore skin, embarrassment, stoma care problem, impotence or dyspareunia), with higher scores indicating better functional or worse symptomatic status. Of these 21 scales or items, only body image, anxiety, weight, and sexual interest are functional domain scales/items, and all the remaining are symptomatic., Baseline and QOL at 8 weeks after radiotherapy|Cost effectiveness, QALYs (quality adjusted life years) with treatment protocol, Three months
Multimodality treatment including surgery and radiotherapy is the current standard of care in locally advanced rectal cancer. Most clinical trials comparing short course radiotherapy (SCRT) with long course chemoradiotherapy(LCRT) did not find significant differences in oncological outcomes and short-term outcomes even though some debates. Recently, Stockholm III trial comparing SCRT plus delayed surgery with SCRT plus immediate surgery and LCRT demonstrated no differences with respect to short-term outcomes such as complications, mortality, and acute toxicity. However, overall quality of life (QoL) after curative treatment for rectal cancer is still major concern in both SCRT and LCRT. Furthermore, daily hospital visits for 5 weeks may be the cause of the increase of total medical cost due to indirect medical expense in patients with LCRT, especially in rural area. SCRT plus chemotherapy followed by delayed surgery may have the possibility of reducing total hospital costs as well as increasing QoL by proving non-inferiority in terms of perioperative outcomes. The present prospective single-arm phase 2 trial was designed to validate the efficacy, quality of life and cost effectiveness of preoperative short-course radiotherapy plus XELOX chemotherapy followed by delayed surgery for high-risk rectal cancer patient based on magnetic resonance imaging.