Neuromodulation of Central Sensory Integration to Improve Postural Control
The objective is to evaluate if neuromodulation of the PFC can acutely improve sensory integration for balance performance in OTTBCS.
Survivorship|Quality of Life|Cognitive Deficits, Mild
DEVICE: transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)|DEVICE: Sham tDCS
Equilibrium Score on Sensory Organization Test, The primary outcome measure of Aim 2 will be the change in composite equilibrium score from before and immediately after a single exposure of tDCS or sham stimulation. Briefly, equilibrium score is assessment of postural sway, which can range from 0 to 100, where a lower score indicates more sway and a zero indicates a fall., 8 months
Dual Task Cost to Balance, Dual task task cost to balance measured by equilibrium score difference between dual tasking and single task balance. For example, balance sway in dual task cost is defined by the percent change in sway between single and dual tasking \[(sway: dual task - sway: single task) / sway: single task) x 100. A lower dual task cost to balance is a better score., 2 months|Trail Making B test, To evaluate executive function and processing speed. A higher score is better cognitive function., 2 months|Digit Symbol Substitution Test, Test to evaluate executive function and processing speed. A higher score is better cognitive function., 2 months|Reaction Accuracy by the reacstick, To evaluate executive function and short latency inhibition. A higher accuracy is better., 2 months|Fluid Compositive (from the NIH toolbox), Includes Dimensional Change card sort, Flanker Inhibition, List Sorting, Pattern Comparison, and Picture Sequence Memory. A higher composite score is better cognitive function., 2 months
Sensory integration required for balance will be measured using the sensory organization test which includes six conditions in which visual and proprioceptive sensory cues are sequentially referenced (i.e. reduced) to stress available sensory information and sensory integration for postural control. Performance on the sensory organization test has been correlated with falls and successful response to balance perturbation.Balance performance will be evaluated by postural sway. Cognitive function will be assessed using the NIH toolbox with a focus on executive function. tDCS will be used to modify PFC excitability and measure its immediate after-effect on balance performance while performing the sensory organization test in OTTBCS. CIPN severity will be evaluated using measurements of distal proprioception.The study sample will be older breast cancer survivors (n=20) diagnosed and treated with taxane chemotherapy after the age of 60 years to avoid heterogeneity due to multiple cancer types, treatments, and sexes.