Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy After Surgery in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies stereotactic body radiation therapy after surgery in treating patients with stage III-IV non-small cell lung cancer. Stereotactic radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue. Lymphadenectomy may remove tumor cells that have spread to nearby lymph nodes in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Giving stereotactic body radiation therapy after lymphadenectomy may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: therapeutic lymphadenectomy (TEMLA) and Stereotactic Body radiation therapy (SBRT)|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment
Portion of patients with grade 3 or greater toxicity assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4, Toxicity rates will be presented with Clopper-Pearson 90% confidence intervals., Up to 3 years
Time until chemotherapy, A 90% confidence interval will be presented., From the date of SBRT completion until the date of chemotherapy initiation, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of toxicity associated with combining TEMLA with or without minimally invasive surgery stratified by chemotherapy regimens, Exact 90% confidence intervals will be obtained for each unique chemotherapy regimen. Will be compared at each time-point between tumor locations using the Fisher's exact test., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be described using standard Kaplan-Meier methodologies. The median survival time, 3-year survival rate, and 5-year survival rate and will be estimated and presented with 90% confidence intervals., From SBRT completion until death, assessed up to 5 years|Quality of life (QoL) scores from European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 and EORTC QLQ Lung Cancer-Specific Module, Will be compared with cumulative toxicity rates at each time-point between tumor locations using the Mann-Whitney U test. Comparisons of QoL scores between time-points will be made using the Wilcoxon signed rank test., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility/toxicity of combining transcervical extended mediastinal lymphadenectomy (TEMLA) with or without video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess time to initiation of chemotherapy following TEMLA with or without video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS)and SBRT.

II. To assess feasibility/toxicity of combining TEMLA with or without VATS and SBRT with various chemotherapy regimens (to be determined by medical oncologist based on patient and tumor characteristics).

III. To estimate survival following TEMLA with or without VATS and SBRT. IV. To define any differences in quality of life/toxicity following TEMLA with or without VATS and SBRT based on tumor location (peripheral/central).

V. To assess response for primary tumor control and overall survival in TEMLA only patients.

VI. To assess progression free survival for TEMLA with or without (VATS) patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo TEMLA to remove the mediastinal lymph nodes followed by a single fraction of SBRT to the primary tumor (unless VATS procedure done) and mediastinal lymph node beds (if positive on TEMLA), with or without VATS.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6,9, and 12 months, every 6 months for 2 years and annually for 2 years.