Ovulation Induction in Women With Clomiphene Citrate Resistant PCOS
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects 5-10% of women in childbearing age. Hyperinsulinemia contributes to chronic anovulation commonly encountered in women with PCOS. The first choice therapy is clomiphene citrate (CC). In CC resistant cases, the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (ACOG) recommends the use of insulin sensitizer metformin. Other insulin sensitizing agents include rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. Pioglitazone is said to improve fertility and ovulation in patients with PCOS.CC may be associated with poor endometrial thickening due to its antiestrogenic effect. Letrozole may improve this condition. In this study we will compare the effect of combined letrozole-metformin-pioglitazone with that of combined CC-metformin-pioglitazone in ovulation induction in CC-resistant PCOS women.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Infertility
DRUG: induction of ovulation using letrozole-pioglitazone-metformin|DRUG: induction of ovulation using clomiphene citrate-pioglitazone-metformin|RADIATION: transvaginal ultrasound|OTHER: body mass index (BMI) calculation|OTHER: day 3: follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), total testosterone|OTHER: pretreatment blood urea and serum creatinine|OTHER: serum estradiol (E2) on day 12|OTHER: serum progesterone on day 21|OTHER: blood urea and serum creatinine every month
Ovulation Rate, 3 months
Number of Follicles>18mm., 3 months|Endometrial Thickness, 3 months|Pregnancy Rate, 3 months
Safety of Pioglitazone as Regards Serum Creatinine, serum creatinine was measured at the end of the study period (after 3 months) in both groups., 3 months
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects 5-10% of women in childbearing age. Hyperinsulinemia contributes to chronic anovulation commonly encountered in women with PCOS. The first choice therapy is clomiphene citrate (CC). In CC resistant cases, the ACOG recommends the use of insulin sensitizer metformin. Other insulin sensitizing agents include rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. Pioglitazone is said to improve fertility and ovulation in patients with PCOS.CC has a long half-life (2 weeks), and this may have a negative effect on the cervical mucus and endometrium, leading to discrepancy between ovulation and conception rates. There has been a search for a compound capable of inducing ovulation but devoid of the adverse antiestrogenic effects of CC. recent studies have suggested that letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, does not possess the adverse antiestrogenic effects of CC and is associated with higher pregnancy rates than CC treatment in patients with PCOS.

In this study we shall compare the effect of combined letrozole-metformin-pioglitazone with that of combined CC-metformin-pioglitazone in ovulation induction in CC-resistant PCOS women.This will be a prospective comparative clinical trial in which 2 groups of women will be generated (groups A and B) using the sealed envelopes randomization method.Group A (40 women) will receive: letrozole 2.5 mg/day from 3rd day of the cycle for 5 days and (pioglitazone 15 mg + metformin 850 mg) once daily from 1st day of the cycle for 10 days. Group B (40 women) will receive clomiphene citrate 100 mg/day from 3rd day of the cycle for 5 days and (pioglitazone 15 mg + metformin 850 mg) once daily from 1st day of the cycle for 10 days. Ovulation will be monitored by vaginal ultrasound and serum estrogen and progesterone.