CPI-613 in Combination With Bendamustine in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to determine if it is possible to give CPI-613 with the drug Bendamustine for 2 days every 28 days without causing severe side effects. In addition, this study will also test the safety of CPI-613 when given in combination with Bendamustine.
Relapsed T-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory T-Cell Lymphoma|Non Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: CPI 613|DRUG: Bendamustine
Number of Participants To Successfully Complete Therapy Regimen, Number of patients successfully able to complete 80% (at least 5 of 6 planned cycles) of their therapy regimens., up to 6 cycles, up to 24 weeks after first dose
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve a best overall response complete response or partial response during or following study treatment.

Response derived from the Lugano classification for PTCL patients and Global Response Score for CTCL (MF/SS) patients. Recommendations for initial evaluation, staging, and response assessment of Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma: The Lugano classification., Patients are monitored for best overall response during and after study treatment. Follow-up for response ranged from 2 to 6 months after start of treatment.|Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate defined as the proportion of patients who achieve a best overall response of complete response, partial response, or stable disease (SD). Best overall response of stable disease must have met the response stable disease criteria at least once ≥12 weeks after start of study treatment. Response derived from the Lugano classification for PTCL patients and Global Response Score for CTCL (MF/SS) patients, Patients are monitored for response during and after study treatment. Follow-up for response ranged from 2 to 6 months after start of treatment.|Duration of Response, Duration of Response will be defined for responders (patients with a best overall response of complete response or partial response). It is the time from the date of the first documented complete response or partial response until the date of the first date of progressive disease, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. If a patient has not progressed or died by the analysis cutoff date, duration of response will be censored at the time of the last adequate tumor assessment on or before the cutoff date.

Response derived from the Lugano classification for PTCL patients and Global Response Score for CTCL (MF/SS) patients., Patients are monitored for response during and after study treatment. Follow-up for response ranged from 2 to 6 months after start of treatment.|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival defined as the time from the start of study treatment until the first date of progressive disease, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. If a patient has not progressed or died by the analysis cutoff date, progression free survival will be censored at the time of the last adequate tumor assessment on or before the cutoff date.

Response derived from the Lugano classification for PTCL patients and Global Response Score for CTCL (MF/SS) patients, Patients are monitored for progression during and after study treatment. Follow-up for response ranged from 2 to 6 months after start of treatment.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is measured from the start of study treatment until death due to any cause. If a patient is not known to have died at the date of the analysis cut-off, overall survival will be censored at the last date that: Patient is documented to be alive. At the time of single cell sequencing., Maximum observed follow-up of 3 years 9 months
Primary Objectives: A pilot Study to evaluate the feasibility, safety and tolerability of a two day course per cycle of Bendamustine plus CPI-613 in patients with relapsed and refractory T cell non-hodgkin lymphoma.

Exploratory Objectives

To evaluate:

* Overall response rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR) derived from the Lugano classification.
* Duration of response (DOR) derived from the Lugano classification.
* Progression-Free-Survival (PFS) derived from Lugano classification.
* Overall Survival (OS).
* Single cell transcriptomics from PMBCs pre- and post-treatment; for correlative analyses of blood PBMC (and possibly excess pre-treatment tumor biopsy) cell population diversity and functional states to reveal potential mechanisms of drug treatment with regard to patient response status.