Gemcitabine Hydrochloride and Eribulin Mesylate in Treating Patients With Bladder Cancer That is Advanced or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well gemcitabine hydrochloride and eribulin mesylate work in treating patients with bladder cancer that has spread to other places in the body or cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride and eribulin mesylate, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Metastatic Ureter Carcinoma|Metastatic Urethral Carcinoma|Stage III Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Ureter Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Urethral Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Ureter Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Urethral Cancer AJCC v7|Ureter Urothelial Carcinoma|Urethral Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride
Observed Overall Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Observed Overall Response Rate = Number of patients who experienced a confirmed CR or PR divided by the number of eligible patients who began treatment., Up to 36 months
Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From the start until progression, death, or the start of another treatment, assessed up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From start of treatment until death from any cause ,up to 36 months|Incidence of Adverse Events., Toxicities that Occurred in 10% or More of Patients or At Least Once as a Grade 3+ Adverse Event (excluding those toxicities classified as "unrelated" or "unlikely related" to study drugs). Toxicities graded using CTCAEv4 criteria., Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the objective response rate of gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride)-eribulin (eribulin mesylate) (GE) when given to cisplatin ineligible patients with advanced or unresectable urothelial carcinoma who have not received any prior chemotherapy for the advanced disease.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the median progression-free survival (PFS). II. To summarize the toxicity profile (using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] version \[v\] 4 criteria) of the GE regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and eribulin mesylate IV over 2-5 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 36 months.