A Prospective Clinical Study for Evaluation of Safe Resection Margin in Breast Conserving Surgery in Breast Cancer
Near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence imaging using indocyanine green (ICG) has been used for breast cancer surgery such as sentinel lymph node (SLN) mapping and breast cancer localization.

In this study, our hypothesis are as following:

1. As inject only indocyanine green (ICG), it provide the surgeon visual guidance to ensure better outcome.
2. indocyanine green (ICG) permitted accurate preoperative and intraoperative detection of the SLNs as well as nonpalpable benign brest lesion in patients with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: indocyanine green
detection rate, after complete resection with intraoperative ultrasound confirmed the lesion, one day
determine the pathological stability, determine the pathological stability with biopsy results confirmed during surgery, one day
Side effects and availability Side effects and availability Side effects and availability side effects and availability, Itchiness, erythema, rash and other allergic reactions there could have shots later.

Itchiness, erythema, rash and other allergic reactions there could have shots later.

Itchiness, erythema, rash and other allergic reactions there could have shots later.

Itchiness, erythema, rash and other allergic reactions there could have shots later., following up a week to 3 month|side effects and availability, After scanning, difficulty breathing, a decrease in blood pressure checked whether he had o reaction, such as anaphylactic shock., following up a week to 3 month|side effects ans availability, The skin discoloration, verify that there aren't stay in a follow-up after three months after surgery., following up a week to 3 month
Indocyanine green, ICG (ICG-fluorescence)

* ICG is the most commonly used fluorophore which approve by FDA.
* NIR-F imaging with ICG could be used in various surgeries. For example, SLN mapping in breast cancer and localization of liver metastasis, especially superficial lesion
* Contains sodium iodide, patients who have history of allergy to iodides should be used as caution.

Nonpalpable benign brest lesion localization

* New method for the localization and resection of non-palpable breast lesions.
* The breast lesion was correctly localized, and the area of ICG corresponded well to the site of the lesions.