Ziv-aflibercept in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced, Unresectable, or Metastatic Gynecologic Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This phase II trial is studying how well ziv-aflibercept works in treating patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic gynecologic soft tissue sarcoma. Ziv-aflibercept may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Female Reproductive Cancer|Ovarian Carcinosarcoma|Ovarian Sarcoma|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Uterine Sarcoma|Stage III Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage III Uterine Sarcoma|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Uterine Sarcoma|Uterine Carcinosarcoma|Uterine Leiomyosarcoma
DRUG: ziv-aflibercept
Objective Response Rate, Evaluated According to the RECIST Criteria, Up to 3 years|Incidence of Disease Stabilization, as Measured by Progression-free Survival at 6 Months (Leiomyosaroma Group), 6 months|Incidence of Disease Stabilization, as Measured by Progression-free Survival at 6 Months (Carcinosarcoma Group), 6 months
Survival (Leiomyosarcoma Group), Survival statistics will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate parameters of interest. 95% confidence intervals will be provided for estimates of interest where possible., Up to 3 years|Survival (Carcinosarcoma Group), Survival statistics will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate parameters of interest. 95% confidence intervals will be provided for estimates of interest where possible., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the objective response of recurrent or metastatic gynecologic soft-tissue sarcomas to VEGF-Trap (ziv-aflibercept).

II. To assess the incidence of disease stabilization, as measured by 6-month progression-free survival, in patients with recurrent or metastatic gynecologic soft-tissue sarcomas treated with VEGF-Trap.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess time-to-progression and overall survival in patients with recurrent or metastatic gynecologic soft-tissue sarcoma treated with VEGF-Trap.

\* As of 24 October 2012, overall survival follow-up is to be discontinued for the one remaining patient on long term follow-up, who has been off protocol therapy for at least 3 years. Time to progression and median survival times have been based on the currently available data.

II. To assess the toxicity associated with VEGF-Trap in patients with recurrent or metastatic gynecologic soft-tissue sarcoma.

III. To characterize the population pharmacokinetics of VEGF-Trap and to explore for demographic and clinical covariates

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

Patients are stratified according to histology (uterine leiomyosarcoma vs malignant mixed mullerian tumor/carcinosarcoma). Patients receive ziv-aflibercept over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood collection at baseline, every 8 weeks during treatment, and 60 days after completion of study treatment for population pharmacokinetic analysis using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.