MUC1 Vaccine in Preventing Lung Cancer in Current and Former Smokers at High Risk for Lung Cancer
This pilot phase I trial studies the side effects and how well MUC1 peptide-Poly-ICLC vaccine works in preventing lung cancer in current and former smokers at high risk for lung cancer. Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill cells. MUC1 peptide-Poly-ICLC vaccine may stimulate the body's immune system and slow or stop the changes from normal to pre-cancer to cancer.
Lung Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: MUC1 Peptide-Poly-ICLC Vaccine
Number of Participants With Immunogenicity of the MUC1 Vaccine, Will be evaluated by monitoring changes in IgG anti-MUC1 antibody titer ratio; defined as t12/t0, where t0 is the "initial titer" measured prior to vaccination, and t12 is the "final titer" drawn at 12 weeks. A titer ratio of \>= 2 will be considered a positive response., At week 12|Count of Patients Experiencing 1 or More Grade 3+ Adverse Events at Least Possibly Related to Treatment, Will be assessed according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each participant and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine the overall patterns. In addition, the number and severity of adverse events will be tabulated and summarized across all grades., 24 weeks
Effect of Smoking Status on Vaccine Response, To explore potential differences, if any, in the immunogenicity of the vaccine (as assessed at week 12 by the IgG anti-MUC1 antibody titer ratio) in current vs. former smokers., 12 weeks|Pre-Vaccination Levels Versus Post-Vaccination Levels of Circulating Myeloid Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSC), Will correlate with the ability to respond to the vaccine. Will summarize the data using descriptive statistics and graphical methods (i.e. boxplots, scatter plots, etc.). For continuous MDSC data versus response data, will use t-tests or Wilcoxon Rank-Sum tests (for non-normal data)., 12 weeks
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Status, Will explore the relationship between COPD status at pre-registration and immune response in current versus former smokers. In individuals with COPD, the severity of airflow obstruction will be measured by the pulmonary function tests as per the GOLD classification., Baseline to week 12|Changes in Immunogenicity in Individuals With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), Will explore whether or not changes in immunogenicity in individuals with COPD corresponds to different circulating MDSC levels., Baseline up to week 12|Impact of the MUC1/Poly-ICLC Vaccine on Inflammation-Related High Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (hsCRP) and Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Up to week 24|Ability to Successfully Vaccinate With MUC1/Poly-ICLC Vaccine Depending on Baseline High Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (hsCRP) and Interleukin-6 (IL-6) Levels, Up to week 24
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Immunogenicity of the vaccine, assessed at week 12, based on the increase in IgG anti-MUC1 antibody titer over the pre-vaccination levels.

II. Safety, assessed throughout the trial and continued observation for 24 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore potential differences, if any, in the immunogenicity of the vaccine (as assessed at week 12 by the IgG anti-MUC1 antibody titer ratio) in current versus (vs.) former smokers.

II. To evaluate pre-vaccination levels of circulating myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) and correlate with the ability to respond to the vaccine.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore immune response at week 24. II. To explore the relationship between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) status at pre-registration and immune response in current versus former smokers.

III. To explore the impact of the MUC1 peptide-Poly-ICLC vaccine (MUC1/Poly-ICLC vaccine) on inflammation-related high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels.

IV. To explore the impact of baseline levels of hsCRP and IL-6 on the ability to successfully vaccinate with MUC1/Poly-ICLC.

V. To establish a biospecimen repository archive: frozen peripheral blood live cells and plasma for future more detailed and comprehensive immunologic assays, including direct testing of anti-MUC1 T cell immunity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive MUC1 peptide-Poly-ICLC vaccine subcutaneously (SC) at weeks 0, 2, and 10.

After completion of study treatment, patients may be followed up at week 28.