Study of Efficacy, Safety, and Quality of Life of Pazopanib in Patients With Advanced and/or Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma After Prior Checkpoint Inhibitor Treatment
The main purpose of this study was to assess the progression-free survival (PFS) based on local investigator assessment of pazopanib in participants with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) following prior treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI).
Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pazopanib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the start date of pazopanib treatment to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via local review according to RECIST 1.1.

PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment if no PFS event (disease progression or death due to any cause) was observed prior to the analysis cut-off date.

The PFS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Date of first treatment to date of progression or death up to approximately 38 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Based on Local Investigator Assessment According to RECIST v1.1, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response of confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on local investigator's assessment according to RECIST v1.1. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were computed using Clopper and Pearson method.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 38 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Based on Local Investigator Assessment According to RECIST v1.1., CBR is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR or PR or an overall lesion response of stable disease (SD) or Non-CR/Non-PD lasting ≥ 24 weeks based on local investigator's assessment according to RECIST v1.1. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were computed using Clopper and Pearson method.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to approximately 38 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first administration of study treatment until death due to any cause. If a participant was not known to have died, survival was censored at the date of last known date patient alive.

The OS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first treatment to date of death, up to approximately 44 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Based on Local Investigators Assessment According to RECIST v1.1, DOR is defined as the time from the date of first documented response (confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST v1.1 based on local Investigators review of tumor assessment data) to the date of tumor progression, or death due to underlying cancer, whichever comes first.

If a patient not had an event, duration was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment.

The DOR distribution was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of first documented response (confirmed CR or PR) to the date of tumor progression, up to approximately 36 months|Change From Baseline in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Kidney Symptom (FKSI-DRS) Score, FKSI-DRS is a 9-item questionnaire specifically designed to evaluate symptoms that are directly attributable to kidney cancer and includes patient's symptoms in the past seven days such as lack of energy, pain, bone-pain, shortness of breath, fatigue, blood in urine, etc. Each item is scored on a 5-point scale (0=not at all to 4=very much). FKSI-DRS total score ranged from 0 (no symptoms) to 36 (most severe symptoms) with a higher score indicating greater presence of kidney cancer symptoms.

The baseline is defined as the last FKSI-DRS assessment on or prior to first day of treatment.

A negative change from baseline indicates improvement in kidney cancer symptom status., Baseline, Day 1 of Cycle 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 16 and every 3rd cycle thereafter until end of treatment, and end of treatment, assessed up to approximately 38 months. Cycle=28 days|Change From Baseline in EuroQoL 5-level Instrument Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-5L-5D VAS) Score, EQ-5D-5L is a standardized participant completed questionnaire that measures health-related quality of life and translates that score into an index value or utility score. EQ-5D-5L consists of two components: a health state profile and an optional visual analogue scale (VAS). The EQ-5L-5D VAS records the respondent's self-rated health on a vertical VAS, ranging from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state), with higher scores indicating higher health-related quality of life.

The baseline is defined as the last EQ-5L-5D assessment on or prior to first day of treatment.

A positive change from baseline indicates improvement in the heath state., Baseline, Day 1 of Cycle 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 16 and every 3rd cycle thereafter until end of treatment, and end of treatment, assessed up to approximately 38 months. Cycle=28 days
This was a multi-center, open-label, single-arm Phase II study to determine the efficacy, tolerability, safety and quality of life of treatment with pazopanib in subjects with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) following prior treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI).

Subjects could have received prior systemic therapy with an ICI (monotherapy or combination) as 1st or 2nd line RCC treatment. However, they must not have received pazopanib previously. In this study, pazopanib could be administered in the 2nd or 3rd line setting. The therapeutic line for individual subjects was assigned at the time of screening.

Subjects received 800 mg of pazopanib daily until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death, pregnancy, start of a new anti-neoplastic therapy, discontinuation at the discretion of the investigator or patient, lost to follow-up or end of study, whichever came first.