Intrathecal PD-1/VEGF Bispecific Antibody Plus Pemetrexed for Leptomeningeal Metastasis
Leptomeningeal metastasis, characterized by tumor cells infiltrating and proliferating in the subarachnoid space, represents a distinct pattern of central nervous system involvement and is a fatal complication of malignant tumors.

This phase I/II study is to evaluate the recommended dose, safety, feasibility, and therapeutic response of intrathecal PD-1/VEGF bispecific antibody plus pemetrexed in patients with leptomeningeal metastasis.
Leptomeningeal Metastasis|Intrathecal Drug Delivery
DRUG: AK112|DRUG: Pemetrexed (Alimta)
PR2D, The recommended phase II dose. The dose limiting toxicity was defined as ≥ grade 3 neurological toxicities (e.g., chemical meningitis) or other grade 4 toxicity., From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months|Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, The incidence of treatment-related adverse events were measured for determining tolerability and safety. Adverse events (AEs) are evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). Events of grade 3-5 are defined as moderate and severe adverse events., From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.
Clinical response rate, The response assessment in neuro-oncology criteria (RANO) proposal for response criteria of leptomeningeal metastasis was used to assess the clinical response in this study., From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months|Progression-free survival related to leptomeningeal metastasis (LMPFS), LMPFS was defined as time from the start of treatment until leptomeningeal metastasis progression or death. The leptomeningeal metastasis progression was determined based on the RANO proposal evaluation criteria which have been established and published on Neuro Oncol., From date of treatment until the date of first documented leptomeningeal metastasis progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months|Overall survival(OS), Overall survival was recorded since the date of patient enrollment. All patients were followed up until death or the end of the study., From the enrollment of this study until date of death from any cause, whichever came first, or the last follow-up，assessed up to 6 months.
Leptomeningeal metastasis represents a severe complication of advanced malignancies, for which intrathecal chemotherapy remains the mainstay treatment. The preliminary results from our previous study on PD-1 combined with pemetrexed intrathecal administration showed safety and feasibility for leptomeningeal metastasis from solid tumors with potential activity. In recent years, targeted therapy and immunotherapy has been widely used for the treatment of solid tumors. As the world's first PD-1/VEGF bispecific antibody, ivonescimab ((AK112) has shown superior systemic efficacy compared to conventional VEGF targeted therapy combined with immunotherapy, while maintaining a favorable safety profile. The primary objectives are to determine the recommended dose of intrathecal ivonescimab in combination with pemetrexed and to assess safety based on the incidence of treatment-related adverse events. Clinical response rate, progression-free survival related to leptomeningeal metastasis, and overall survival are also evaluated. Patients undergo cerebrospinal fluid and blood specimen collection to evaluate potential clinical, molecular, and/or immune predictors of treatment efficacy and safety.