Social Determinants of Migrant Health Factors Impacting Prostate Cancer Care and Survivorship Among Sub-Saharan African and Caribbean Immigrant Men
This study is being done to understand what social factors affect health decisions for those who have immigrated from another country by examining how the immigration from Sub-Sahara Africa affects the experiences of participants regarding health-seeking behaviors, care, and treatment of prostate cancer. It also examines similarities and differences among participants based on their region of origin in Africa.
Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Qualitative Interview - identification of themes and constructs, Data will be collected during an in-depth interview and will be analyzed with an inductive, open coding approach, first identifying themes, then constructs that emerge from the data will be categorized and mapped, noting new concepts and constructs. Theme convergence and divergence will be assessed. The interview guide focuses on participants' experiences and health-seeking behaviors regarding prostate cancer prevention, detection, decision-making, treatment, care, and survivorship., Baseline|Immigrant social determinants of health factors that impact Sub-Saharan African Immigrant (SSAI) carcinoma of the prostate (CaP) survivors, From the data generated in Outcome 1 interviews, an interpretive framework or theoretical model for SSAI men will be developed to evaluate and identify factors that contribute to or exacerbate disparities in prostate cancer., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To employ the social determinant of migrant health framework (International Organization for Migration, n.d.) to examine the impact of immigration on the health-seeking behaviors of SSAI including informed-decision making, psychosocial effects and coping mechanisms. (Phase I) II. To examine SDOMH factors among SSAI and CI men, including their migration experience and health behaviors. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

AIM I: Participants complete a survey and participate in an interview in person, over the phone, or via zoom on study.

AIM II: Participants complete an interview in person, over the phone, or via zoom on study.