99mTc-CNDG Injection in the Diagnosis of Malignant Tumors
Currently, 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) is the most widely used tumor imaging agent in clinical practice. However, the production of 18F requires accelerators and is associated with relatively high diagnostic costs, which to some extent limits its widespread clinical application. In comparison to Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) devices are more abundant and offer lower diagnostic expenses. With the utilization of Cadmium Zinc Telluride (CZT) crystals in SPECT and advancements in image reconstruction techniques, the resolution and sensitivity of SPECT is continually improving. Therefore, the development of a simplified and cost-effective novel SPECT tumor imaging agent holds significant practical significance. This study involved the design and synthesis of a glucose-derived ligand with a linker containing seven methylene units and an isonitrile group (CN7DG). The CN7DG ligand was labeled with 99mTc to prepare a more lipophilic 99mTc-CN7DG complex, aiming to investigate a novel SPECT imaging agent for tumor imaging.
Malignant Tumor
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 99mTc-CNDG SPECT/CT
Uptake value of 99mTc-CNDG in malignant tumors, The uptake value was measured in the malignant lesions on 99mTc-CNDG SPECT/CT., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Lesions detected by 99mTc-CNDG SPECT/CT, The number of target lesions was calculated by 99mTc-CNDG SPECT/CT, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Compared with 18F-FDG PET/CT or CECT, The number of lesions detected by 99mTc-CNDG SPECT/CT was compared with 18F-FDG PET/CT or CECT, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Currently, 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) is the most widely used tumor imaging agent in clinical practice. However, the production of 18F requires accelerators and is associated with relatively high diagnostic costs, which to some extent limits its widespread clinical application. In comparison to Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) devices are more abundant and offer lower diagnostic expenses. With the utilization of Cadmium Zinc Telluride (CZT) crystals in SPECT and advancements in image reconstruction techniques, the resolution and sensitivity of SPECT is continually improving. Therefore, the development of a simplified and cost-effective novel SPECT tumor imaging agent holds significant practical significance. This study involved the design and synthesis of a glucose-derived ligand with a linker containing seven methylene units and an isonitrile group (CN7DG). The CN7DG ligand was labeled with 99mTc to prepare a more lipophilic 99mTc-CN7DG complex, aiming to investigate a novel SPECT imaging agent for tumor imaging.