Testing How the Body Responds to the Drug CBX-12 in Patients With Advanced Solid Cancers
This phase I trial studies how well CBX-12 works in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread from where they first started (primary site) to started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced) or other places in the body (metastatic). CBX-12 works by binding to a protein called TOP1 that is present inside the cells. This allows CBX-12 to kill the cancer cells by damaging their DNA, resulting in cancer cell death. This trial is being done to find out if this approach is better or worse than the usual approach for advanced cancers.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: pH Low Insertion Peptide-exatecan Conjugate CBX-12
Early Rad51/deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage response (DDR), At cycle 1 day 2 (1 cycle = 28 days)|Late Rad51/DDR response, At cycle 3 day 1
Tumor TOP1 molecular response, Up to 24-30 hours post-first dose|DDR modulation and plasma exatecan concentrations, Association between tumor TOP1 and DDR modulation and plasma exatecan concentrations will be determined., Up to 2 years|CD8 T cell infiltration and activation in tumor, The effects of CBX-12 on CD8 T cell infiltration and activation in tumor will be evaluated., Up to 2 years
Molecular markers of apoptosis, Non-parametric analyses will be used for these evaluations. In view of the exploratory nature of these analyses, any p-values reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Up to 2 years|Genomic or gene expression characteristics in tumor that may be associated with sensitivity or resistance to CBX-12, Non-parametric analyses will be used for these evaluations. In view of the exploratory nature of these analyses, any p-values reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Up to 2 years|Genomic alterations in circulating tumor DNA that may be associated with sensitivity or resistance to CBX-12, Non-parametric analyses will be used for these evaluations. In view of the exploratory nature of these analyses, any p-values reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Up to 2 years|Changes in levels of any anti-drug antibodies, Non-parametric analyses will be used for these evaluations. In view of the exploratory nature of these analyses, any p-values reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Baseline up to 2 years|Molecular context of drug sensitivity or resistance, Non-parametric analyses will be used for these evaluations. In view of the exploratory nature of these analyses, any p-values reported will not be adjusted for multiple comparisons, and any such analyses will be stated carefully as being hypothesis-generating., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the effects of CBX-12 on biomarkers of DDR in biopsy specimens from patients with advanced solid tumors at baseline and 24-30 hours post-first dose to establish the degree and duration of CBX-12 target engagement.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the effects of CBX-12 on tumor TOP1 molecular response at baseline and 24-30 hours post-first dose.

II. Determine any association between tumor TOP1 and DDR modulation and plasma exatecan concentrations.

III. Evaluate the effects of CBX-12 on CD8 T cell infiltration and activation in tumor.

IV. Determine the objective response rate (ORR) of patients with advanced cancers to CBX-12 using RECIST v 1.1.

V. Assess safety and tolerability of CBX-12.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Measure the effects of CBX-12 on molecular markers of apoptosis. II. Examine any genomic or gene expression characteristics in tumor that may be associated with sensitivity or resistance to CBX-12.

III. Examine any genomic alterations in circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) that may be associated with sensitivity or resistance to CBX-12.

IV. Measure changes in levels of any anti-drug antibodies that may develop during CBX-12 therapy (Cybrexa assay).

V. Examine the molecular context of drug sensitivity or resistance (e.g., SLFN11 expression).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive CBX-12 intravenously (IV), over 60 minutes, on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo tumor biopsy and computed tomography (CT) scans on study and undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients follow up at 30 days.