Validation of an Immunochromatographic Assay for IgG/IgM Antibodies to 2019- nCoV
In COVID-19 pandemic, it is of critical importance to identify a rapid and simple diagnostic method to be used in clinical settings to timely inform and refine strategies that can prevent, control, and stop the spread of SARS-CoV-2. The 2019-nCoV IgG/IgM Rapid Test Cassette (Whole Blood/Serum/Plasma) is a qualitative, membrane-based immunoassay for the detection of immunoglobulin G (IgG) and Immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 in whole blood, serum or plasma specimen. Clinical specimens from patients who were suspected of being infected with 2019-nCoV will be used to evaluate the performance of the assay.
COVID
DEVICE: 2019-nCoV IgG/IgM Rapid Test Cassette
Evaluation of the rate of SARS-CoV-2 positive cancer patients and health professionals in a comprehensive cancer center or in a cancer setting., Patients positive are serially tested with SARSCoV-2 lgM / IgG Rapid Test to evaluate the immune response in IgG negative patients and the reliability of the test in those patients who develop clinical signs of SARS-CoV-2 during the trial., 6 months|Evaluation of test accuracy, The 2019-nCoV IgG/IgM Rapid Test Cassette (Whole Blood/Serum/Plasma) was compared with a leading commercial Polymerase Chain Reaction, 3 months|Interleukin-6 quantification, Multiplex immunoassay, 3 months|Interleukin-2 quantification, Multiplex immunoassay, 3 months|Interleukin-1 quantification, Multiplex immunoassay, 6 months|Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) quantification, Multiplex immunoassay, 3 months|Interferon gamma quantification, Multiplex immunoassay, 3 months
In COVID-19 pandemic, it is of critical importance to identify a rapid and simple diagnostic method to be used in clinical settings to timely inform and refine strategies that can prevent, control, and stop the spread of SARS-CoV-2. The 2019-nCoV IgG/IgM Rapid Test Cassette (Whole Blood/Serum/Plasma) is a qualitative, membrane-based immunoassay for the detection of Immunoglobulin G (IgG) and Immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies to SARS-CoV-2in whole blood, serum or plasma specimen. This test consists of two components, an IgG component and an IgM component. In the IgG component, anti-human IgG is coated in IgG test line region. During testing, the specimen reacts with 2019-nCoV antigen-coated particles in the test cassette. The mixture then migrates upward on the membrane chromatographically by capillary action and reacts with the anti-human IgG in IgG test line region, if the specimen contains IgG antibodies to SARS-CoV-2. The study aims to validate in a real life study a self diagnostic assay for SARS-CoV-2 with the advantages of high speed, simple operation and low cost, and overcomes the shortcomings of the existing molecular detection methods. Clinical specimens from patients who were suspected of being infected with 2019-nCoV will be used to evaluate the performance of the assay. In parallel, we will also use molecular assays for the detection of the presence of the viral RNA from nasopharyngeal swabs since Polymerase Chain Reaction is currently the gold standard.