Sotorasib and Panitumumab Versus Investigator's Choice for Participants With Kirsten Rat Sarcoma (KRAS) p.G12C Mutation
The aim of the study is to compare progression-free survival (PFS) in previously treated participants with Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS) p.G12C mutated colorectal cancer (CRC) receiving sotorasib 240 mg once daily (QD) and panitumumab vs investigator's choice (trifluridine and tipiracil, or regorafenib), and sotorasib 960 mg QD and panitumumab vs investigator's choice (trifluridine and tipiracil, or regorafenib).
Colorectal Cancer (CRC)
DRUG: Sotorasib|DRUG: Panitumumab|DRUG: Trifluridine and Tipiracil|DRUG: Regorafenib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Approximately 3 years
Overall Survival (OS), Approximately 3 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Approximately 3 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Approximately 3 years|Time to Response (TTR), Approximately 3 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Approximately 3 years|Investigator Assessed ORR, Approximately 3 years|Investigator Assessed PFS, Approximately 3 years|Number of Participants with a Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), A TEAE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant following first dose of treatment irrespective of a causal relationship with the study treatment. Any clinically significant changes in vital signs and clinical laboratory tests following first dose will be recorded as TEAEs., Approximately 3 years|Change from Baseline in Fatigue Severity as Measured by Item 3 of the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), Item 3 of the BFI records a participants' fatigue on a scale from 0 to 10. Higher scores indicate a higher severity of fatigue. An increase in score from baseline indicates a worsening of fatigue. A decrease in score from baseline indicates an improvement in fatigue., Baseline and Week 8|Change from Baseline in Pain Severity as Measured by Item 3 of the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Item 3 of the BPI records a participants' pain on a scale from 1 to 10, where pain is mild (score of 1 to 4), moderate (score of 5 to 6), or severe (score of 7 to 10). An increase in score from baseline indicates a worsening of pain. A decrease in score from baseline indicates a lessening of pain., Baseline and Week 8|Change from Baseline in Physical Functioning as Measured by the Physical Function Domain of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), The physical function domain of the EORTC QLQ-C30 assesses a participants' quality of life regarding their physical function on a scale from 1 to 4, with higher scores indicating a worse outcome. An increase in score from baseline indicates a worsening of physical functioning. A decrease in score from baseline indicates an improvement in physical functioning., Baseline and Week 8|Change from Baseline in Global Health Status as Measured by Questions 29 and 30 of the EORTC QLQ-C30, Questions 29 and 30 of the EORTC QLQ-C30 assess a participants' global health status on a scale from 1 to 7, with higher scores indicating a better outcome. An increase in score from baseline indicates an improvement in global health status. A decrease in score from baseline indicates a worsening in global health status., Baseline and Week 8|Change from Baseline For All Subscales of the BFI, The BFI is a questionnaire that includes 3 items to assess fatigue severity and 5 items to assess interference due to fatigue, with each item reported on a numeric rating scale from 0 to 10. Higher scores indicate a higher severity of fatigue. An increase in score from baseline indicates a worsening of fatigue. A decrease in score from baseline indicates an improvement in fatigue., Baseline and Week 8|Change from Baseline For All Subscales of the BPI, The BPI is a 9-item questionnaire which includes 2 body diagrams, four items to assess pain severity, four items to assess pain interference and one question about percentage of pain relief by analgesics. The level of pain and pain interference assessed can be divided into categories based on score of mild (1 to 4), moderate (5 to 6), and severe (7 to 10). An increase in score from baseline indicates a worsening of pain. A decrease in score from baseline indicates a lessening of pain., Baseline and Week 8|Change from Baseline For All Subscales and Domains of EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a self-reporting 30-item generic instrument which assesses 5 functional domains (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, social), 9 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties), and a global health status/quality of life (QOL) scale. Higher scores indicate a worse outcome. An increase in score from baseline indicates a worsening of outcome. A decrease in score from baseline indicates an improvement in outcome., Baseline and Week 8|Change from Baseline in Visual Analog Scale (VAS) Scores as Measured by EuroQol-5D level 5 (EQ-5D-5L), The EQ-5D-5L questionnaire is a 2-page, standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome. It is comprised of a 5-dimension health status measure and a visual analogue scale. The 5-dimension health status measure evaluates: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression based on a 5-level scale: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. The visual analogue scale records the participant's self-rated health on a vertical, visual analogue scale where the endpoints are labelled 'Best imaginable health state' and 'Worst imaginable health state'., Baseline and Week 8|Average Score on Single Question on Symptom Bother GP5 from Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), The GP5 from the FACT-G is a single item included in the Physical Well-Being subscale of the FACT-G. Responses to the item: "I am bothered by side effects of treatment" are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from "not at all" to "very much"., Approximately 2 years|Average Score of Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC), The PGIC scale consists of one item which measures the participants' perception of change in their condition relative to the beginning of the study. Responses are rated on a 7-item response scale ranging from very much improved to very much worse., Approximately 2 years|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Sotorasib, Day 1 to approximately 2 years|Cmax of Panitumumab, Day 1 to approximately 2 years|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve (AUC) of Sotorasib, Day 1 to approximately 2 years|AUC of Panitumumab, Day 1 to approximately 2 years
The aim of the study is to compare progression-free survival (PFS) in previously treated participants with Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS) p.G12C mutated colorectal cancer (CRC) receiving sotorasib 240 mg once daily (QD) and panitumumab vs investigator's choice (trifluridine and tipiracil, or regorafenib), and sotorasib 960 mg QD and panitumumab vs investigator's choice (trifluridine and tipiracil, or regorafenib).