Impact of Cardiac Coherence on Anxiety in Patients Operated on for a Peritoneal Carcinosis
The investigator proposes to use the cardiac coherence technique to diminish anxiety before the surgery of a peritoneal carcinosis of colon or stomach or ovary and pseudomyxoma or peritoneal mesothelioma.
Peritoneal Carcinomatosis|Pseudomyxoma Peritonei|Mesothelioma Peritoneum
OTHER: Cardiac coherence|OTHER: Standard care
Cardiac Coherence Program Adherence Rate, Cardiac Coherence Program Adherence Rate. Patients are considered in "success" adhere to the program) if they will perform at least 20 of the 30 sessions scheduled until surgery (minimum 1 practice per day)., Around 10 days
Anxiety by using the visual analogue scale (VAS), This scale measures the anxiety of patient. It's a visual analogue scale which is also known as linear analogue scale. These scales require respondents to place a mark on a line on which opposing statements or descriptions are placed at either end of a (usually) 10 cm line. The points at which respondents make their mark represent where they perceive their answer to lie in this continuum. The distance between their mark and one end (or the mid-point) of the scale is recorded. The position on the left being the absence of anxiety and the position on the right an unbearable anxiety., 90 days|Anxiety and depression by using the hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS), One subscale for evaluation of anxiety from 0 (lower anxiety) to 21 (higher anxiety) and the other subscale for depression from 0 (lower anxiety) to 21 (higher depression), 90 days|Psychological distress scale, This scale measures the psychological distress of the patient . Psychological distress is characterized by the presence of symptoms, most often depressive or anxious.It's a visual analogue scale which is also known as linear analogue scale. These scales require respondents to place a mark on a line on which opposing statements or descriptions are placed at either end of a line. The position of the mark on the top is the higher psychological distress and at the bottom the lower psychological distress., 90 days|Generalized anxiety by using Freeston's uncertainty tolerance scale, The scale is used to identify people with generalized anxiety disorder compared to people with other anxiety disorders or people without pathologies. Range is from 27 (lower uncertainty) to 135 (higher uncertainty), 90 days|Heart rate variability, The heart rate variability is determined by using the software EmWave Pro which measures the ratio low frequencies/high frequencies., 90 days|Quality of life by using the quality of life questionnaire score (QLQ-C30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 uses for the questions 1 to 28 a 4-point scale. The scale scores from 1 to 4: 1 ("Not at all"), 2 ("A little"), 3 ("Quite a bit") and 4 ("Very much"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 3. For the raw score, less points are considered to have a better outcome.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 uses for the questions 29 and 30 a 7-points scale. The scale scores from 1 to 7: 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). Half points are not allowed. The range is 6. First of all, raw score has to be calculated with mean values. Afterwards linear transformation is performed to be comparable. More points are considered to have a better outcome., 90 days|Number of days of hospitalization after surgery, 1 month|Pain by using the visual analogue scale (VAS), This scale measures the pain of patient. It's a visual analogue scale which is also known as linear analogue scale. These scales require respondents to place a mark on a line on which opposing statements or descriptions are placed at either end of a (usually) 10 cm line. The points at which respondents make their mark represent where they perceive their answer to lie in this continuum. The distance between their mark and one end (or the mid-point) of the scale is recorded. The position on the left being the absence of pain and the position on the right an unbearable pain., 90 days|Concentration of salivary immunoglobulin A, 90 days|Number of cardiac coherence sessions per day and by patient, Through the study, an average of 1 year|Reasons of non-participation reported by patients and registered in the form of inclusion, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of patients satisfied with the cardiac coherence program, 90 days|Subjective anxiety score by using the state-trait anxiety inventory form A (STAI-Y form A) questionnaire, State anxiety reflects the current emotional state, which allows the patient's nervousness and worry to be assessed during the session. The range is from 20 (lower anxiety) to 80 (higher anxiety). The patient must answer 20 questions for each part, each answer being on a 4 point Likert scale., 90 days|Subjective anxiety score by using the state-trait anxiety inventory form B (STAI-Y form B) questionnaire, Trait anxiety reflects the usual emotional state. The range is from 20 (lower anxiety) to 80 (higher anxiety).The patient must answer 20 questions for each part, each answer being on a 4 point Likert scale, 90 days|Composite anxiety symptomatology score, Score including psychological, physiological and biological variables, 90 days|Feedback from the instructor and investigator, 90 days|Recruitment and retention rates, 1 year|Duration of cardiac coherence sessions in minutes, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Facing a Peritoneal Carcinomatosis (PC) diagnosis requires significant psychological adjustments that may generate major distress because of heavy care and a sometimes poor prognosis. Psychological distress, which most frequently results in emotional anxiety and depressive disorders, affects nearly 40% of patients in oncology. These disorders impair their quality of life, their health behaviours, their therapeutic alliance with caregivers, and represent a risk factor for mortality since access to care, lifestyle and therapeutic adherence differ. All learned societies (e.g., American Society of Clinical Oncology - ASCO), associations (e.g., Union for International Cancer Control (UICC), World Cancer Research Fund International - WCRF) and authorities (e.g., French National Institute of Cancer) recommend both the screening and treatment of this psychological distress. This complementary therapy should be integrated in the overall management of cancer patients, especially since anxiolytics (e.g., benzodiazepines) have shown limitations in clinical trials compared with placebo or standard care. Studies evaluating relevant psychological interventions to treat these disorders are rare. It is therefore essential to assess the feasibility and relevance of implementing a non-drug intervention known for its anxiolytic and antidepressant effects, to respond early and appropriately to the distress and anxiety of patients with PC before and after their surgery. Among the various existing non-drug interventions, a targeted cardiac coherence program seems promising. Cardiac coherence corresponds to a physiological state of balance of the autonomic nervous system obtained through precise and rigorous breathing exercises. Several pilot studies justify its interest in oncology. The main objective of this study is to evaluate adherence to a cardiac coherence program aimed at reducing anxiety in patients with PC awaiting cytoreductive surgery. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the implementation of this program in a cancer center, its adoption by the patients and the impact of this practice on their anxious symptomatology, immunological response and quality of life.