Standard Colonoscopy Versus Colonoscopy With Endocuff Vision
This study seeks to compare colonoscopy results between a standard method and one using a distal scope attachment (Endocuff Vision).
Colorectal Polyp|Colorectal Adenoma|Colon Cancer
DEVICE: Endocuff Vision
Inspection Time Comparisons for Each Method (Standard vs. Endocuff Vision), Inspection time is time spent actually examining the colon. This was measured with a stopwatch and calculated by subtracting washing, suctioning, polypectomy and biopsy times from total withdrawal time. It was measured during colonoscopy by a study assistant using a stopwatch., During the withdrawal portion of the colonoscopy procedure
Insertion Time Comparisons for Each Method (Standard vs. Endocuff Vision), Insertion time is the time it takes from the colonoscope first being inserted to when the furthest section of the colon (which is called the cecum) is reached., During the insertion portion of the colonoscopy procedure|Total Procedure Time Comparisons for Each Method (Standard vs. Endocuff Vision), Total procedure time is the time from the initial insertion through the complete withdrawal of the scope, During the colonoscopy procedure|Detection Rates, The percentage of participants with at least one of the indicated polyp types found during standard colonoscopy compared to colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., During the colonoscopy procedure|Polyps Per Colonoscopy, Number of adenomas or sessile serrated polyps found per colonoscopy of Standard colonoscopy compared to Colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., During the colonoscopy procedure|Boston Bowel Preparation Score, Boston Bowel Preparation Score for patients receiving standard colonoscopy compared to colonoscopy with endocuff vision.

The total score for the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale ranges from 0 to 9, with higher score indicating a better bowel preparation quality.

The quality of the bowel preparation is assessed by the attending gastroenterologist., During the withdrawal portion of the colonoscopy procedure after cleaning of the colon
For this study, subjects will be randomized into one of two groups (those who receive a standard colonoscopy and those who receive a colonoscopy with an Endocuff Vision attachment). Results will then be compared between the two; these include insertion time (time it takes to reach the cecum of the large intestine), inspection time (time spent examining the large intestine), the total time per each polypectomy (removal of polyps in the colon), and the total procedure time of the colonoscopy.