Phase II Study of Simvastatin for Relapsed/Refractory Myeloma
The purpose of this study test the hypothesis that the combination of simvastatin and zoledronic acid (for reversal of drug resistance), with bortezomib, high-dose methylprednisolone and bendamustine on a day 1,8 schedule (to reduce toxicity) will be an effective and well-tolerated treatment for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma
Myeloma
DRUG: Simvastatin,Zoledronic Acid,Bortezomib,Bendamustine,Methylprednisolone.
Response to treatment as defined by The International Myeloma Working Group response criteria for multiple myeloma., Response catergories (IMWG):

Complete Remission(CR), Very Good Partial Remission(VGPR), Partial Remission (PR), Minor Response (MR), Progressive Disease (PD), Stable Disease, Relapse,Refractory Disease, Overall Response., 4 weeks after first dose of simvastatin
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is measured from date of study enrollment until the date of progressive disease is documented., After 1 year of follow-up.|Incidence Rate of Toxicity, Decriptive statistics will be provided regarding incidence rates of toxcity. Patients will be monitored for safety throughout the study., End of study; monitoring during study.|Overall Survival (OS), OS is measured from date of study enrollment until death., After 1 year of follow-up
OBJECTIVES

Primary To estimate the overall response rate (ORR) (complete response (CR) + very good partial response (VGPR) + partial response (PR)) of patients with multiple myeloma who have relapsed or are refractory after bortezomib treatment and will now receive a combination therapy of simvastatin, zoledronic acid, bortezomib, bendamustine and methylprednisolone.

To evaluate safety and tolerability of studied therapy.

Secondary

1. To estimate the progression-free Survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP), overall survival (OS) and duration of response (DOR).
2. To describe toxicities (frequency and severity) during the treatment. 3 To estimate clinical benefit response (CBR) (ORR + minor response (MR)) and stable disease (SD).

4 Explore factors associated with ORR, PFS, OS, toxicity.