Celecoxib and Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b in Metastatic Kidney Cancer Who Have Undergone Surgery
RATIONALE: Celecoxib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Recombinant interferon alfa-2b may interfere with the growth of cancer cells and slow the growth of kidney cancer. Giving celecoxib together with recombinant interferon alpha-2b may kill more tumor cells and be an effective treatment for metastatic kidney cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving celecoxib together with recombinant interferon alfa-2b works in treating patients with metastatic kidney cancer who have undergone surgery.
Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: celecoxib|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interferon alfa-2b|OTHER: polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: immunologic technique|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: flow cytometry
Objective Response Rate Assessed by RECIST Criteria., The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, including baseline). The patient's best response assignment will depend on the achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria. Objective response will be assessed by RECIST criteria., at week 4 of cycle 2 and every other cycle thereafter
Overall Survival, Overall survival measured in months and summarized using the Kaplan-Meier method., death|Duration of Response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, including baseline). The duration of overall CR is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for CR until the first date that recurrent disease is objectively documented., end of study|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival measured in months and summarized using the Kaplan-Meier method. Time to objective progression will be measured from the start of treatment until the criteria for progression are met, taking as reference the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, including baseline., to progression|Number of Patients With Statistically Significant Change in Cellular Immune Parameters From Baseline to 2 Months, To evaluate the effect of celecoxib and interferon alpha therapy on cellular immune parameters. Absolute change following two cycles of therapy., at two months from start of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the objective response rate of interferon alpha plus celecoxib in metastatic RCC patients with 3+ COX-2 tumor immunostaining.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare cellular immune parameters in metastatic RCC patients with 3+ COX-2 tumor immunostaining to patients with \< 1+ tumor immunostaining.

II. To evaluate the effect of celecoxib and interferon alpha therapy on cellular immune parameters in metastatic RCC patients with 3+ COX-2 tumor immunostaining.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily and recombinant interferon alpha-2b subcutaneously, once daily, 5 times a week. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.