Adherence Monitoring System in Managing Myelosuppression in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Malignant Gliomas Receiving Temozolomide and Radiation Therapy
This research trial studies an adherence monitoring system in managing myelosuppression in patients with newly diagnosed malignant gliomas who are receiving temozolomide and radiation therapy. The development of an adherence monitoring system may help doctors more effectively utilize electronic medical records to manage myelosuppression during standard treatment with temozolomide and radiation therapy in patients with malignant gliomas.
Malignant Glioma|Myelosuppression
OTHER: Medical Chart Review
Development of a new adherence monitoring system within Epic that is functionally equivalent to the previously designed and validated system in the Cancer Center ORIS, To compare the two systems, the McNemar's tests of paired proportions will be used to compare the output of the established software system to the new system built into the EMR reporting structure., 42 days|Frequency and timing of flags (laboratory date flags, visit date flags and in-patient status flags) generated with the new system, To compare the two systems, the McNemar's tests of paired proportions will be used. For each day, whether or not any flag (laboratory date flags, visit date flags and in-patient status flags) was generated or whether a gap occurred will be characterized. By day, the two systems will be compared to determine if they agree for flags and gap days (separately). Alternative methods will be used (such as conditional logistic regression with a random subject effect) if correlation between days is observed., 42 days|Non-adherent days generated with the new system, To compare the two systems, the McNemar's tests of paired proportions will be used. For each day, whether or not any flag (laboratory date flags, visit date flags and in-patient status flags) was generated or whether a gap occurred will be characterized. By day, the two systems will be compared to determine if they agree for flags and gap days (separately). Alternative methods will be used (such as conditional logistic regression with a random subject effect) if correlation between days is observed., 42 Days
Expansion of both systems to other therapies that require compliance monitoring, The feasibility of expanding the systems scope to other disease/treatment scenarios that require compliance monitoring., 42 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To develop an adherence monitoring system within Epic that is functionally equivalent to the previously designed and validated system in the Cancer Center Oncology Research Information System (ORIS) for patients with newly diagnosed malignant gliomas receiving concurrent temozolomide and radiation therapy.

II. To test the newly designed Epic system by comparing the frequency and timing of flags (laboratory date flags, visit date flags and in-patient status flags) and non-adherent days generated with the frequency and timing of those generated by ORIS for patients with newly diagnosed malignant gliomas receiving concurrent temozolomide and radiation therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To develop both systems so that they may be easily adapted in the future to other therapies that require compliance monitoring.

OUTLINE:

Patient lab and visit dates are monitored by the Cancer Center ORIS and EPIC based systems during the 42 days of the concurrent temozolomide and radiation therapy.