Psychosocial Impact of Cancer-Related Female Infertility
The success of cancer treatment combined with the trend to delay childbearing is increasing the numbers of women survivors whose childbearing has been interrupted by cancer. For some, treatment has resulted in infertility. Others have been advised to delay pregnancy until a certain follow-up interval or have new fears that pregnancy could be a risk to maternal health. Not least is the concern that children born after a mother's cancer would face increased risks for birth defects or cancer.

The specific aims of this project are as follows:

1. To measure the impact of cancer-related interruption of childbearing on women's long-term emotional well-being and health-related quality of life, over and above other demographic and cancer-related factors
2. To find out if becoming a biological or social mother after cancer treatment decreases the long-term psychosocial impact of interrupted childbearing compared to remaining childless
3. To refine the psychometric properties of questionnaires for female cancer survivors measuring Distress about Cancer-Related Childbearing Issues and Attitudes towards Parenthood after Cancer
4. To define targets for a future intervention to improve female survivors' knowledge about childbearing after cancer, decrease distress associated with interrupted childbearing, and promote peer support.
Hodgkin's Disease|Cervical Cancer|Breast Cancer|Lymphoma
BEHAVIORAL: Telephone Survey
Emotional Impact of Cancer Treatment on Childbearing: Female Cancer Survivor Response to Telephone Survey, Single telphone survey lasting about 90 minutes, 4 Years to collect complete surveys
Women from the M. D. Anderson tumor registry who were diagnosed from 1992 to 1997 with invasive cervical cancer, breast cancer, Hodgkin's disease, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma will be asked to participate. Researchers have chosen these types of cancers because they are the most common cancers in women of reproductive age. In addition, many of the standard treatments for these diseases have the potential to cause infertility.

If you agree to participate, you will be asked to complete a survey over the phone. Topics that will be addressed by the survey include demographic information (such as age, sex, etc.), medical information, health-related quality of life, emotional distress, and stress related to interrupted childbearing. Some other topics include anxiety related to the impact of cancer on childbearing, menopausal symptoms, spiritual well-being, relationship happiness, sexual satisfaction, and attitudes about parenthood after cancer. The phone survey should take around 90 minutes to complete.

If you feel distressed at any time during or after your participation in this study, you will be given a referral for professional counseling.

THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY.

Up to 2091 women will be invited to participate in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.