A Clinical Controlled Trial on the Effect of Physical Activity After Cancer Treatment (PACT)
The PACT Study (Physical Activity after Cancer Treatment) is a unique study within the field of cancer rehabilitation in Denmark. It differs from other studies mainly due to the intervention itself. A combination of physiological, health educational and therapeutic elements will be tested. These components are incorporated into a one-year training program for mixed groups (i.e. men + women, with varying cancer diagnoses) to encourage them to enhance their well.-being and quality of life. The overall aim of this approach is to place increased focus on the treated cancer patient's introduction to and exploitation of both physiological and psychosocial yields through physical exercise. Whether or not the study results bear a positive effect, they are expected to support new knowledge in rehabilitation for cancer survivors.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Intervention
Physical fitness (VO2Max), Baseline and follow-up (6, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months)
Muscle strength (1RM) Cholesterol Quality of Life (cancer specific and health related) Anxiety & Depression Fatigue Coping Physical Activity behavior Health Behavior, Baseline and follow-up (6,12,18,24, and 36 months)
The PACT ('Physical Activity after Cancer Treatment') Study is a multidisciplinary collaborative study carried out by the University Hospitals Centre for Nursing and Care Research (UCSF) and the Finsen Center (Oncology and Hematology Clinics) of the Copenhagen University Hospital (Rigshospitalet), Copenhagen, Denmark. The project draws in cancer patients who have undergone chemotherapy and who are now disease-free or at a stable phase in their illness and have good prognoses.

The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of a 12-month rehabilitation program comprising supervised and structured physical exercise training (body conditioning; strength-building; relaxation; massage), patient education and coaching combined with a home-based physical exercise group component and will include a control group. Groups of 12-15 patients will be formed (mixed genders; different oncological and hematological diagnoses) who will train together once weekly during the intervention period. Participation in a training program with peers is seen as a positive motivational factor that stimulates and challenges the patient through physical activity, to use his/her own resources to establish sustainable coping strategies.