Gemcitabine With Abraxane and Other Investigational Therapies in Neoadjuvant Treatment of Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
This study will evaluate the role of Gemcitabine and Abraxane in the treatment of resectable and borderline-resectable pancreatic cancer by giving the chemotherapy before surgery.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Chemotherapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy + ChemoRadiotherapy
Biochemical Response Rate, Biochemical response rate (serum CA 19-9). Baseline compared to pre-operative serum CA19-9 values., 4 - 8 weeks after neoadjuvant therapy|Radiographic Response Rate, Evaluate radiographic response of the measurable disease with repeat imaging at 4 - 8 weeks after therapy. Measurable disease was evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST v1.1 in target lesions assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD), \>20% growth in the sum of the longest diameter or target lesions or appearance of new lesions; Stable Disease (SD), change in sum of longest diameter of target lesions does not meet criteria for PR or PD. The number of subjects experiencing Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD) and Progressive Disease (PD) is reported., 4 - 8 weeks after neoadjuvant therapy|Pathologic Downstaging and Margin Status, Pathologic stage and margin status after resection. Pathologic downstaging was determined my looking at the rate of R0 (all residual tumor removed during surgery) vs R1 (microscopic tumor present at the resection margin per pathology) resections., At the time of surgery after neoadjuvant therapy
90 Day Post-operative Mortality, Evaluate mortality in the first 90 days after surgery, 90 days after surgery
This current study proposes to conduct a prospective non-randomized open-label phase II trial using Gemcitabine and Abraxane in the neoadjuvant treatment of resectable and borderline-resectable pancreatic cancer. For patients that are low-risk resectable (based on prediction rule) the plan is to administer 2 cycles of Gemcitabine and Abraxane followed by additional systemic therapy or chemotherapy with radiation therapy (chemoRT), followed by surgical resection. For patients who are either borderline-resectable or high-risk resectable (see schema), the plan is to administer 2 cycles of Gemcitabine and Abraxane followed by chemoradiotherapy concurrent with gemcitabine followed by surgical resection. For those without high-risk features, systemic chemotherapy alone will be administered. The primary endpoints will be R0 surgical resection rate, biochemical (CA 19-9), pathologic and radiologic response rates. Secondary endpoints will include progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), 30-day post-op mortality, toxicity, quality of life, pain control, and correlative molecular exploratory analysis involving pancreatic tumor and stromal SPARC expression levels. The investigators will also assess the patient, tumor, and clinical characteristics that may predict R0 resectability, thus further refining the predictive rule in high-risk patients as defined by Bao and colleagues. The investigators' hypothesis is that by using targeted and risk-adapted chemotherapy or chemoRT, improved R0 surgical resections can be achieved and effective systemic therapy delivered, which will translate to a significant improvement in overall survival in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, compared to published historical controls.