Pemetrexed Disodium in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pemetrexed disodium works in treating patients with previously treated urothelial cancer that has spread from the primary site (place where it started) to other places in the body. Pemetrexed disodium may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pemetrexed Disodium
Objective Response Rates, Will be defined as the number of subjects with complete response or partial response by Response Assessment in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria divided by the total number of subjects receiving their first dose of trial therapy. Objective response rates will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 5 years
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival will be estimated and plotted with the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Time from trial entry to the first documented tumor progression as determined by the investigator using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria or death from any cause, assessed at 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be estimated and plotted with the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Time from trial entry to death from any cause, assessed at 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

To determine the objective response rates (ORR) to pemetrexed disodium (pemetrexed) in patients with MTAP-deficient metastatic bladder cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) for patients with MTAP-deficient metastatic bladder cancer treated with pemetrexed.

II. To determine the overall survival (OS) for patients with MTAP-deficient metastatic bladder cancer treated with pemetrexed.

III. Evaluate the toxicity of pemetrexed therapy for patients with MTAP-deficient metastatic bladder cancer.

IV. Collect blood, urine, and tissue for future translational studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 weeks and then every 3 months for 5 years.