Intracorporeal Anastomosis Versus Extracorporeal Anastomosis for Left Colon Cancer
This study aims to investigate the effects of intracorporeal anastomosis and extracorporeal anastomosis in laparoscopic-assisted radical left hemicolectomy on surgical site infection. Also consider perioperative recovery, safety, and oncology outcomes.
Colon Cancer
PROCEDURE: laparoscopic assisted left colectomy (extracorporeal anastomosis group)|PROCEDURE: total laparoscopic left colectomy (intracorporeal anastomosis group)
The Count of Participants With Surgical Site Infection (SSI), The primary outcome was the incidence of SSI based on the Definitions of CDC guidelines: superficial incisional, deep incisional, and organ/space infections . Infections involving both organ/space and the incisional site (superficial or deep) were categorized as organ/space infections. Surgeons and nurses assessed the presence of infection daily during hospitalization. After hospital discharge, all patients were followed up until 30 days after surgery at outpatient clinics to check the wound., one month after surgery
the Blood Loss, It is defined as the blood loss during operation and is measured in milliliters., one hour after surgery|the Operating Time, It is defined as the period from cutting the skin to suturing the skin or doing enterostomy. It is measured in minutes, one hour after surgery|the Incidence of Complications, It includes fever of unknown origin, bowel obstruction, anastomotic leakage, SSI, other incisional complications, respiratory complications, urinary complications, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular complications, diarrhea, chylous fistula, intraperitoneal hemorrhage, digestive hemorrhage, gastroparesis, and others (including bacteremia, cholecystitis, ion discharge, pancreatitis, and mental and behavioral abnormalities). Complications are graded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification., one month after surgery|The Rate of Conversion to Open Surgery, It is defined as an abdominal incision larger than that necessary for specimen extraction., one hour after surgery|Completeness of Specimens, It is evaluated according to the West classification. The resected specimens will be classified into three groups according to the plane of dissection: mesocolic plane, intramesocolic plane, and muscularis propria plane., one hour after surgery|Number of Lymph Nodes Dissected, The number of lymph nodes in the mesentery will be calculated. Additionally, the metastatic lymph nodes will be counted., one week after surgery|First Defecation Time, time to first defecate, measured in days., one week after surgery|the Incision Length, The incision length is measured with an aseptic ruler at the end of the surgery, after the incision is sutured. It is measured in millimeters., one hour after surgery|Visual Analogue Scale/Score (VAS), Pain severity was assessed 48 hours after the operation using a ruler about 10 cm long. The ruler is numbered from 0 to 10. 0-3 points indicate no to mild pain. 4-6 points represent moderate pain. 7-10 points stand for severe pain., 2 days after surgery|3-year DFS (Disease-free Survival), DFS was defined as the time from randomization until the discovery of local recurrence, distant metastasis, or death from the tumor., three years after the operation|5-year OS (Overall Survival), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., five years after the operation|First Time for Fluid Diet, time to start food intake, measured in days, one week after surgery|Postoperative Hospital Stay, The length of hospital stay after surgery., one month after surgery
This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial. In this trial, cases in the intracorporeal anastomosis group and the extracorporeal anastomosis group are allocated at a 1:1 ratio among patients undergoing laparoscopic radical left hemicolectomy. The peri-operative recovery data, complications, oncology outcomes, and survival are compared.