Comparison of Different Subsequent Treatments After Radical Surgery
Cervical cancer is still the most common gynecologic cancer. There was no obvious increase of the survival over years. The risk of recurrence after radical surgery has increased with positive lymph nodes, positive surgical margins, positive lymphatic vascular space and deep invasion of the cervical stroma. In recent years, the role of chemotherapy for cervical cancer has been gradually recognized. But as a adjuvant therapy post-surgery, if chemotherapy can improve the overall survival rate of patients with adverse pathological prognostic factors is inconclusive.

In this study, in order to investigate the effect and adverse reaction of chemotherapy as the adjuvant therapy post-surgery on patients with adverse pathological prognostic factors, nine hundred and ninety patients will be randomly divided into three groups, comparing radiotherapy alone, concurrent chemoradiation and sequence chemotherapy and radiotherapy (2 cycles chemotherapy of Paclitaxel and Cisplatin before and after the irradiation). The investigators aim to find out the best therapeutic regimen with lowest adverse reaction for cervical cancer with adverse pathological prognostic factors. To guide clinical treatment options.
Cervical Cancer
RADIATION: Radiotherapy (RT)|OTHER: Concurrent chemoirradiation (CCRT)|OTHER: Sequence chemotherapy and radiotherapy (SCRT)
Disease Free Survival, DFS survival analysis, 3-Yr
Overall Survival, OS survival analysis, 5-Yr
After radical surgery, patients with stage IB1 to IIA2 cervical cancer who had one or more following pathological factors were recruited: lymph node metastases (LNM), positive parametrium or margins (PPM), lymphatic vascular space involvement (LVSI), deep invasion of cervical stromal (DIS). Eligible patients were randomized to three groups. Group A underwent 50 GY RT alone. Group B received concurrent weekly cisplatin and RT. Group C received paclitaxel and bolus cisplatin every three weeks for two cycles before RT, followed by two cycles.

We have recruited 800 patients till November 2014.