Prognostic Value of MRD Detection in CA125 Non-sensitive Ovarian Cancer Patients
Ovarian cancer ranks third in the incidence of gynecologic malignancies, while mortality ranks first. The tumor marker CA125 is the most concerned tumor marker in the clinical monitoring prognosis of ovarian cancer, and an elevated CA125 indicates a later stage and a worse prognosis. However about 20% of patients with ovarian cancer have low CA125 expression. Therefore, CA125 is not sensitive to some ovarian cancers with a high risk of recurrence. How to improve the diagnostic performance of these CA125-insensitive patients is a difficult problem in current research. Minimal residual disease (MRD) refers to the residual tumor components in the body of tumor patients after achieving complete remission through treatment. MRD detection is mainly achieved by liquid biopsy, and residual tumor components can be detected by circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). This study aims to explore the value of MRD (ctDNA) in the risk assessment of CA125 non sensitive ovarian cancer populations by combining ctDNA with traditional imaging and serological tumor markers.
Ovarian Cancer
The prognostic value of MRD, The sensitivity of MRD in CA125 low level ovarian patients., 12 months
Progress Free Survival, PFS differences in patients with different MRD level, From date of the beginning of therapy to disease metastasis or recurrence due to any cause,assessed up to 24 months
Ovarian cancer ranks third in the incidence of gynecologic malignancies, while mortality ranks first. The tumor marker CA125 is the most concerned tumor marker in the clinical monitoring prognosis of ovarian cancer, and an elevated CA125 indicates a later stage and a worse prognosis. However about 20% of patients with ovarian cancer have low CA125 expression. Therefore, CA125 is not sensitive to some ovarian cancers with a high risk of recurrence. How to improve the diagnostic performance of these CA125-insensitive patients is a difficult problem in current research. Minimal residual disease (MRD) refers to the residual tumor components in the body of tumor patients after achieving complete remission through treatment. MRD detection is mainly achieved by liquid biopsy, and residual tumor components can be detected by circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). This study aims to explore the value of MRD (ctDNA) in the risk assessment of CA125 non sensitive ovarian cancer populations by combining ctDNA with traditional imaging and serological tumor markers.