A Study of Lower Radiotherapy Dose to Treat Children With CNS Germinoma
This phase II trial studies how well lower dose radiotherapy after chemotherapy (Carboplatin \& Etoposide) works in treating children with central nervous system (CNS) germinomas. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Carboplatin is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works in a way similar to the anticancer drug cisplatin, but may be better tolerated than cisplatin. Carboplatin works by killing, stopping or slowing the growth of tumor cells. Etoposide is in a class of medications known as podophyllotoxin derivatives. It blocks a certain enzyme needed for cell division and DNA repair and may kill cancer cells. Researchers want to see if lowering the dose of standard radiotherapy (RT) after chemotherapy can help get rid of CNS germinomas with fewer long-term side effects.
Basal Ganglia Germinoma|Central Nervous System Germinoma|Diabetes Insipidus|Pineal Region Germinoma|Suprasellar Germinoma|Thalamic Germinoma
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Lumbar Puncture|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure
Event-free survival (EFS) (Stratum I), Will be estimated for eligible and evaluable patients assigned to Stratum 1 using Kaplan-Meier (KM) EFS estimates at 2 and 3 years with respective 80% two-sided confidence intervals. Time from initiation of radiation to the first occurrence of any of the following events: biochemical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause., Evaluated at 2- and 3-years post-radiation initiation
EFS (Stratum II), Will be estimated for eligible and evaluable patients assigned to Stratum 2 using KM methods at 2 and 3 years with respective 80% two-sided confidence intervals. Time from initiation of radiation to the first occurrence of any of the following events: biochemical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause., Evaluated at 2- and 3-years post-radiation initiation|EFS (Stratum III), Will be estimated for eligible and evaluable patients assigned to Stratum 3 using KM methods at 2 and 3 years with respective 80% two-sided confidence intervals. Time from initiation of radiation to the first occurrence of any of the following events: biochemical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause., Evaluated at 2- and 3-years post-radiation initiation|Radiographic response rate, Will report the response rates using the respective sample proportions and exact binomial two-sided 95% confidence intervals., Following the completion of Induction therapy, approximately 12 weeks post-chemotherapy initiation|Marker tumor response rate, Will report the response rates using the respective sample proportions and exact binomial two-sided 95% confidence intervals., Following the completion of Induction therapy, approximately 12 weeks post-chemotherapy initiation|Overall survival (OS), Will use KM methods to estimate stratum-specific OS., Time from initiation of radiation therapy until death by any cause, up to 10 years post-enrollment|Neuroendocrine dysfunction (including growth hormone deficiency), Will be summarized by the Kalbfleisch-Prentice cumulative incidence function (CIF) approach, separately by stratum and by neuroendocrine dysfunction event. Competing risks will include disease progression and death, and patients without events or competing risks will be censored at the time of their last follow-up., Time from initiation of RT until date of diagnosis of neuroendocrine dysfunction event, up to 10 years post-enrollment|Processing speed, Will be assessed by processing speed index tasks for the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence - Fourth Edition (WPPSI-IV), Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children - Fifth Edition (WISC-V) or Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) depending on age. The mean processing speed at 30-months post-diagnosis in ACNS2321 Stratum 1 patients will be compared to the respective mean in ACNS1123 Stratum 2 patients who had a CR/CCR and received 18 Gy WVI + 12 Gy boost to primary site., At 9 months (+/- 3 months), 30 months (+/- 3 months), and 60 months (+/- 3 months) after diagnosis
EFS (Stratum IV and Stratum V), Will be estimated separately for eligible and evaluable patients assigned to Stratum 4 and 5 using KM methods at 2 and 3 years with respective 80% two-sided confidence intervals. Time from initiation of radiation to the first occurrence of any of the following events: biochemical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause., Evaluated at 2- and 3-years post-radiation initiation|EFS (Stratum VI and Stratum VII), Will be estimated separately for eligible and evaluable patients assigned to Stratum 6 and 7 using KM methods at 2 and 3 years with respective 80% two-sided confidence intervals. Time from initiation of radiation to the first occurrence of any of the following events: biochemical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause., Evaluated at 2- and 3-years post-radiation initiation|Incidence of cerebral vascular events (stroke or transient ischemic attacks), Will be reported as the number of cerebral vascular events., Up to 10 years post-enrollment|Working memory, Will be assessed by Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children - Fifth Edition (WISC-V) or Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) Digit Span subtest depending on age. Mean scores over time will be computed for each stratum., At 9 months (+/- 3 months), 30 months (+/- 3 months), and 60 months (+/- 3 months) after diagnosis|Verbal learning, Will be assessed by California Verbal Learning Test - Children's Version for 5 years through 17 years or California Verbal Learning Test - Third for ages 17 and up depending on age. Mean scores over time will be computed for each stratum., At 9 months (+/- 3 months), 30 months (+/- 3 months), and 60 months (+/- 3 months) after diagnosis|Patient-reported outcome measures of executive function, Will be assessed by the Behavioral Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF-2 and BRIEF-A) depending on patient's age. Mean scores over time will be computed for each stratum., At 9 months (+/- 3 months), 30 months (+/- 3 months), and 60 months (+/- 3 months) after diagnosis|Health-reported quality of life, Will be assessed by the PedsQL 4.0 Generic Module. Mean scores over time will be computed for each stratum., At 9 months (+/- 3 months), 30 months (+/- 3 months), and 60 months (+/- 3 months) after diagnosis
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether 12 Gy whole ventricular irradiation (WVI) and 12 Gy tumor boost would maintain similar efficacy compared to ACNS1123 stratum 2 as measured by event-free survival (EFS) in eligible patients with localized primary central nervous system (CNS) germinoma who present with serum and/or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) human chorionic gonadotropin-beta (hCGbeta) ≤ 100 IU/L and normal alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and meet complete response (CR) or continued complete response (CCR) criteria following chemotherapy/second-look surgery (Stratum 1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the EFS distribution for patients with localized midline - including bifocal - CNS germinoma with partial response (PR) after chemotherapy, followed by 18 Gy WVI and 12 Gy tumor boost (Stratum 2).

II. To estimate the EFS distribution for patients with localized midline - including bifocal - CNS germinoma with less than a PR after chemotherapy, followed by 24 Gy WVI and 12 Gy tumor boost (Stratum 3).

III. To estimate the overall survival (OS), response rates to chemotherapy and radiotherapy (RT), as well as the patterns of failure of the various cohorts based on tumor characteristics, treatment regimen, and treatment modality.

IV. To determine the impact of tumor characteristics, treatment regimen and treatment modalities on the long-term neuroendocrine function for patients with CNS germinomas.

V. To prospectively evaluate processing speed of children and young adults with CNS germinoma through the Children's Oncology Group (COG) Standardized assessment battery.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the EFS distribution for patients with metastatic germinomas treated with chemotherapy followed by craniospinal irradiation (CSI) \[18 Gy for CR/CCR (Stratum 4)\] or \[24 Gy for less than CR (Stratum 5)\] with a 12 Gy tumor boost to the pre-treatment volume, including metastatic sites.

II. To estimate the EFS distribution for patients with basal ganglia and thalamic germinomas (BGTG) treated with chemotherapy followed by whole brain irradiation (WBI) \[18 Gy for CR/CCR (Stratum 6)\] or \[24 Gy for less than CR (Stratum 7)\] with a 12 Gy tumor boost to the pre-treatment volume.

III. To prospectively collect blood, cerebrospinal fluid, and tumor tissue at diagnosis and second-look surgery (if feasible) for future biology studies.

IV. To prospectively measure the incidence of cerebral vascular events (stroke or transient ischemic attacks) in the follow-up period and longitudinally evaluate and model the cognitive, social and behavioral functioning of children and young adults with CNS germinoma through the COG Standardized assessment battery, and compare these outcomes based on tumor characteristics, treatment regimen, and treatment modality.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION PHASE: All patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 15-60 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 90-120 minutes on days 1-3 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are then assigned to 1 of 7 strata.

STRATUM I: Patients with localized germinoma achieving CR with normalization of markers undergo 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3DCRT) or intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) 5 days a week for 16 days. Patients achieving PR with normalization of markers may undergo second-look surgery. Patients found to have mature teratoma or non-viable tumor undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 16 days. Patients with normalization of markers who fail to achieve CR or PR may undergo second-look surgery. Patients found to have mature teratoma or non-viable tumor undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 16 days. Patients with bifocal germinoma undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 16 days.

STRATUM II: Patients with localized germinoma achieving PR with normalization of markers who do not undergo second-look surgery undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 20 days.

STRATUM III: Patients with localized germinoma with normalization of markers who fail to achieve CR or PR who do not undergo second-look surgery undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 24 days.

STRATUM IV: Patients with metastatic germinoma achieving CR undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 20 days. Patients with metastatic germinoma and normalization of markers who fail to achieve CR may undergo second-look surgery. Patients found to have mature teratoma or non-viable tumor undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 20 days.

STRATUM V: Patients with metastatic germinoma with normalization of markers who fail to achieve CR who do not undergo second-look surgery undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 24 days.

STRATUM VI: Patients with basal ganglia and thalamic germinoma achieving CR undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 20 days. Patients with basal ganglia and thalamic germinoma and normalization of markers who fail to achieve CR may undergo second-look surgery. Patients found to have mature teratoma or non-viable tumor undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 20 days.

STRATUM VII: Patients with basal ganglia and thalamic germinoma with normalization of markers who fail to achieve CR who do not undergo second-look surgery undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 24 days.

Patients with non-normalized tumor markers or PD and no second-look surgery or viable tumor during second-look surgery discontinue protocol therapy.

All patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and optional blood and tissue sample collection throughout the study. Patients may undergo lumbar puncture (LP) for CSF sample collection during screening and follow up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months, every 4 months for 24 months, and then annually for up to 120 months.