Deescalation of Endocrine Therapy Duration in Women With HR+ HER2- Breast Cancer at Very Low Risk
Hormone therapy is recommended for five years in all patients with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer, but there is no consensus on its duration in low-risk tumours and especially in postmenopausal women. Adjuvant endocrine therapy (ET) is associated with substantial side effects and long-term decreased quality of life.

Moreover, while it has been shown that ET provides a real benefit in reducing the relapse rate over time, the deterioration in quality of life may also have a negative effect on patient adherence to treatment. It is therefore important to offer treatment to women with low-risk cancer less intensive treatment strategies. If recent trials tested longer durations as compared to 5 years for high-risk cancers, older trials have tested shorter durations. The 5-year duration appeared at that time as the gold standard because of optimal benefit-risk ratios of tamoxifen among high-risk patients. However shorter treatments of 2-3 years were already associated with substantial benefits and may be enough for very low risk patients.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Anti-aromatase inhibitor
Distant relapse-free interval (DRFI), Distant relapse-free interval (DRFI) is defined as the time from date of beginning of hormonotherapy to the date of first event of distant recurrence or breast cancer related death, From date of beginning of hormonotherapy to onset of metastases or death, up to 5-years.
Distant Disease-Free Survival (DDFS), DDFS is defined as the time from date of beginning of hormonotherapy to the date of first event of distant recurrence, death from any cause or secondary non-breast cancer., From date of beginning of hormonotherapy to the date of first event of distant recurrence, death from any cause or secondary non-breast cancer up to 10 years|Invasive disease free survival (iDFS), Invasive disease free survival is defined as duration of time from date of registration until first appearance of invasive local, regional, or distant recurrence (including invasive ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence), invasive contralateral breast cancer, second primary non breast invasive cancer (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer), or death from any cause., From date of beginning of hormonotherapy to onset of invasive event, second cancer, or death, up to 10 years.|Invasive breast cancer-free survival (iBCFS), Invasive disease free survival is defined as the delay between date of inclusion and first appearance of invasive local, regional, or distant recurrence (including invasive ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence), invasive contralateral breast cancer, or death from any cause., From date of beginning of hormonotherapy to onset of invasive event or death, up to 10 years.|Breast cancer-specific survival (BCSS), Breast cancer-specific survival is defined as the time from inclusion to death from breast cancer., From date of beginning of hormonotherapy to death from breast cancer, up to 10 years.|Overall survival (OS), The overall survival is the length of time from inclusion to death from any cause., From date of beginning of hormonotherapy to death from any cause, up to 10 years.|Quality of life (QoL) questionnaire - Core 30 (QLQ-C30), Developed by the EORTC, this self-reported questionnaire assesses the health-related quality of life of cancer patients in clinical trials. The questionnaire includes five functional scales (physical, everyday activity, cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting), a health/quality of life overall scale, and a number of additional elements assessing common symptoms (including dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, and diarrhea), as well as, the perceived financial impact of the disease. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., At baseline, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years|Quality of life (QoL) questionnaire - EORTC QLQ-BR23/QLQ-BR45, This EORTC breast cancer specific questionnaire is intended to supplement the QLQ-C30.

The QLQ-BR23 contains 23 items incorporating five multi-item scales to assess systemic therapy side effects, arm symptoms, breast symptoms, body image and sexual functioning. In addition, single items assess sexual enjoyment, hair loss and future perspective. All items are rated on a four-point Likert-type scale (1 = "not at all", 2 = "a little", 3 = "quite a bit", and 4 = "very much"), and are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale. For all items but sexual functioning and sexual enjoyment, higher scores indicate more severe symptoms. The QLQ-BR-23 was updated and 22 new questions were added to provide a more accurate and comprehensive assessment of the impact of new and scalable treatments on patients'QoL, At baseline, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years|Quality of life (QoL) questionnaire - Cancer related fatigue (QLQ-FA12), This EORTC cancer related fatigue questionnaire is intended to supplement the QLQ-C30.

The QLQ-FA12 contains 12 items organized in three subscales: physical fatigue (5 items), emotional fatigue (3 items), and cognitive fatigue (2 items). The remaining two items serve as global indicators for interference of fatigue with daily activities and social sequelae of fatigue.

All items are rated on a four-point Likert-type scale (1 = "not at all", 2 = "a little", 3 = "quite a bit", and 4 = "very much"), and are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores indicating greater degree of fatigue., At baseline, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years|Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS), The HADS is a 14 items questionnaire: 7 items related to anxiety and 7 items related to depression scored on a scale. Scores for items in each subscale of the HADS are summed to produce an anxiety score (HADS-A) or a depression score (HADS-D), or can be added to produce a total score corresponding to emotional distress (HADS-T). Each item is rated on a 4-point Likert scale (1 = "not at all", 2 = "a little", 3 = "quite a bit", and 4 = "very much"), for a total score ranging from 0-21 for each subscale. The entire scale (emotional distress) range from 0 to 42, with higher scores indicating more distress., At baseline, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog), The FACT-Cog is a self-assessment questionnaire to estimate memory, attention, concentration, language, and thinking abilities of patients before, during, and after chemotherapy. This questionnaire, composed of 37 items consists of four subscales: cognitive impairments perceived by the patient (20 items), comments from others (4 items), cognitive abilities perceived by the patient (9 items), and impact on quality of life (4 items). The Perceived Cognitive Impairments and the Comments from Others subscales are rated on 5-point Likerttype scale (from 0 = "Never" to 4 = "Several times a day"). An intensity 5-point Likert-type scale (from 0 "Not at all" to 4 "Very much") is used to rate perceived cognitive abilities and the impact on quality of life. For all subscales, a higher score represents better cognitive functioning or quality of life., At baseline, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years|Impact of Cancer (including fear of recidivism), The Impact of Cancer Version 2 (IOCv2) is a 47-item questionnaire. The first 37 items are intended to measure 4 positive (Altruism/Empathy, Health Awareness, Meaning of Cancer, and Positive SelfEvaluation) and 4 negative (Appearance Concerns, Body Change Concerns, Life Interferences, and Worry) subscales, which total to two summary scores (Positive and Negative Impact). The 10 additional items constitute conditional dimensions applicable to subsets of survivors assessing employment concerns, relationship concerns for individuals with a partner, and relationship concerns for those without a partner. All items are scored on a five-point scale (1 = "strongly disagree", 2 = disagree, 3 = neutral, 4 = agree, and 5 = "strongly agree"). Higher scores on the positive impact indicate greater positive impacts, while higher scores on the negative impact indicate greater negative impacts., At baseline, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years|Geriatric Core Dataset (G-CODE), The G-CODE was developed by the DIalog for personALization of management in geriatric OncoloGy (DIALOG) intergroup to assess the general health status of the older patient.

The G-Code contains 10 tools incorporating seven scales to assess social environment, functional status, mobility, nutritional status, cognitive status, depressive mood, and comorbidities. The total scale range 0-62. High score indicate better condition., At baseline, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years|Evaluate the safety of the treatment in the study population, The National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 (NCI-CTCAE v5.0) is widely accepted in the community of oncology research as the leading rating scale for adverse events. This scale, divided into 5 grades (1 = "mild", 2 = "moderate", 3 = "severe", 4 = "life-threatening", and 5 = "death") determined by the investigator, will make it possible to assess the severity of the disorders., Throughout study completion, up to 10 years.
Adjuvant ET is the cornerstone treatment of localized hormone-receptor positive breast cancer, with demonstrated benefits on overall survival (30-40% relative decrease in mortality) but also on the risk of local and contralateral relapse (43-50% relative decrease). While the relative benefit of 5 years ET is identical for small tumors as compared to larger ones, the absolute benefit is much lower, and the risk-benefit ratio may therefore become very questionable given the frequent and impactful side effects of ET. If recent trials tested longer durations as compared to 5 years for high-risk cancers, older trials have tested shorter durations. Five years appeared at that time as the gold standard because of optimal benefit-risk ratios of tamoxifen among rather high-risk patients. However shorter treatments of 2-3 years were already associated with substantial benefits and may be enough for very low risk patients. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that adjuvant hormone therapy limited to 2 years of antiaromatase in postmenopausal women with a good prognosis can ensure very high survival without metastatic relapse and allows a reduction of side effects and a better quality of life. The 5-year DMFS was excellent in patients with low risk Luminal A tumors who received endocrine therapy.