Short Term Outcomes After PRoton and PhotoN RadiOtherapy for IDH Mutated Grade 2 and 3 Gliomas
Rationale:

Proton beam therapy has recently become available for the treatment of patients with WHO grade 2 and 3 IDH mutated (IDHmt) glioma in the Netherlands. The dose distributions associated with proton therapy have substantially reduced the volume of the normal brain irradiated with low and intermediate radiotherapy doses. Whether this impacts rates of progressive disease or safety issues and how this compares with a similar population treated with photon therapy is currently unknown.

Objective:

To investigate short term outcomes after proton and photon radiotherapy for grade 2 and 3 IDHmt glioma.
Glioma|Radiotherapy; Complications
RADIATION: proton therapy|RADIATION: photon therapy
Next intervention-free survival, Time from the last day of radiotherapy until the start of a new next intervention. Next intervention is defined as either neurosurgical re-operation, re-irradiation, start of new chemotherapy (other than the standard adjuvant chemotherapy), start of VGEF inhibitors such as bevacizumab, or new start of dexamethasone for either tumor progression or radiotherapy effects., 24 months
Adverse Events, Assessed and scored based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAEv5.0). Only grade 3, 4 and 5 adverse events will be recorded., 24 months|Overall survival, Measured from the last day of radiotherapy to death from any cause, 24 months|Progression-free survival, Time from the last day of radiotherapy until progressive disease, 24 months|Pseudoprogression-free survival, time from the last day of radiotherapy and the development of any transient contrast-enhancing lesion between the end of radiotherapy and disease progression, or any new contrast-enhancing lesion that remained stable over a period of 12 months, 24 months
Patients with grade 2 and 3 IDHmt glioma treated with proton therapy in Holland PTC, Maastro and UMC Groningen and referred Erasmus MC, Haaglanden MC, LUMC, Amsterdam UMC, Verbeeten Institute, Maastro, UMC Groningen, and Leuven University Hospital between 1st of January 2018 and the 30th of June 2022. The outcomes will be compared to those from patients with grade 2 and 3 IDHmt glioma treated with photon therapy in the same institutes and during the same period of time. The applied clinical target volume (CTV) margins and the chemotherapy are preferably similar for proton and photon therapy.

Retrospective data will be collected from the electronic records of each participating institute. For the primary outcome, data will be collected on interventions (radiotherapy, surgery, chemotherapy, medication) for either tumor progression or toxicity after radiotherapy. This will be used to calculate next intervention free survival as primary outcome.

For the secondary outcomes, data on survival, disease progression, pseudoprogression, and toxicity will be used to calculate overall survival, progression free survival, and pseudoprogression free survival, as well as toxicity incidence.