SMAC Mimetic LCL161 Alone or With Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well second mitochondrial-derived activator of caspases (SMAC) mimetic LCL161 alone or with cyclophosphamide works in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has returned or does not respond to treatment. Biological therapies, such as SMAC mimetic LCL161, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not yet known whether giving SMAC mimetic LCL161 alone or with cyclophosphamide is more effective in treating multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Smac Mimetic LCL161
Confirmed Overall Response Rate (Stringent Complete Response [sCR], Complete Response [CR], Very Good Partial Response [VGPR], or Partial Response [PR]) With Single Agent SMAC Mimetic LCL161, The primary endpoint of this study is the confirmed overall response rate with single agent LCL161 (prior to initiation of cyclophosphamide). A confirmed overall response is defined as sCR (CR as defined+Normal FLC ratio+Absence of clonal PCs by immunohistochemistry), CR (Negative immunofixation of serum and urine+Disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytoma+\<5% PCs in Bone Marrow+a normal FLC ratio), VGPR (Serum and urine M-component detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis), or PR (If present at baseline, ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-hour urinary M-protein or to \<200 mg/24hrs) noted as the objective status on two consecutive evaluations while receiving single agent LCL161.The rate (percentage) of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients times 100. 95% confidence intervals for the true success percentage will be calculated by the exact binomial method., Up to 1 year
Combination Agent Response Rate, The overall response rate (percentage) with the addition of cyclophosphamide will be estimated by the number of patients who achieve a confirmed overall response at any time (with SMAC mimetic LCL161 plus cyclophosphamide) divided by the number of evaluable patients times 100. 95% confidence intervals for the true confirmed overall response rate will be calculated by the exact binomial method., Up to 1 year|Event-free Survival, The event-free survival time is defined as the time from registration to disease progression while receiving LCL161 and cyclophosphamide, death due to any cause, or subsequent treatment for multiple myeloma. Date of progression will be defined as the date that the criteria for progressive disease were first met after initiation of cyclophosphamide. If a patient goes off study treatment and never received cyclophosphamide, they will be censored on the date they went off study treatment. If a patient initiates cyclophosphamide but later discontinues cyclophosphamide due to toxicity and continues LCL161 alone, disease progression on LCL161 alone will be considered an event in this case. The distribution of event-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to disease progression while receiving SMAC mimetic LCL161 and cyclophosphamide, death due to any cause, or subsequent treatment for multiple myeloma, assessed up to 1 year|Incidence of Toxicities Graded Using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0 (All Treatment), The maximum grade for each type of adverse event, regardless of causality, will be recorded and reported for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration. The percentage of patients with a maximum grade 3 or higher adverse event are reported below., Up to 30 days after the last day of study drug treatment|Overall Survival, Survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year
Activating Mutations of the NFKB Pathway, Continuous biomarker levels will be explored in a graphical manner including mean plots and plots of change and percent change from baseline and other summary measures. Any potential relationships between the baseline level or change in the level of each biomarker and clinical outcome such as confirmed overall response, 6-month progression-free survival, and adverse event incidence will be further analyzed using Wilcoxon rank sum tests or logistic regression methods, as appropriate. Association between a mutation status and confirmed overall response will be assessed using a chi-squared test., Up to 1 year|Change in Patient-reported Outcomes (Quality of Life and Symptoms), Scale score trajectories over time will be examined using stream plots and mean plots with standard deviation error bars overall. Changes from baseline at each cycle will be statistically tested using paired t-tests, and standardized response means (mean of the change from baseline scores at a given cycle, divided by the standard deviation of the change scores) will be interpreted (after applying Middel's adjustment) using Cohen's cut-offs. Correlation between outcomes will employ Pearson and/or Spearman correlations at individual time points., Baseline up to 1 year|Changes in Immune Cell Subsets, Continuous biomarker levels will be explored in a graphical manner including mean plots and plots of change and percent change from baseline and other summary measures. Any potential relationships between the baseline level or change in the level of each biomarker and clinical outcome such as confirmed overall response, 6-month progression-free survival, and adverse event incidence will be further analyzed using Wilcoxon rank sum tests or logistic regression methods, as appropriate. Association between a mutation status and confirmed overall response will be assessed using a chi-squared test., Baseline up to 1 year|Changes in Serum Cytokines, Continuous biomarker levels will be explored in a graphical manner including mean plots and plots of change and percent change from baseline and other summary measures. Any potential relationships between the baseline level or change in the level of each biomarker and clinical outcome such as confirmed overall response, 6-month progression-free survival, and adverse event incidence will be further analyzed using Wilcoxon rank sum tests or logistic regression methods, as appropriate. Association between a mutation status and confirmed overall response will be assessed using a chi-squared test., Baseline up to 1 year|Degradation of cIAP1 in PBMC, Continuous biomarker levels will be explored in a graphical manner including mean plots and plots of change and percent change from baseline and other summary measures. Any potential relationships between the baseline level or change in the level of each biomarker and clinical outcome such as confirmed overall response, 6-month progression-free survival, and adverse event incidence will be further analyzed using Wilcoxon rank sum tests or logistic regression methods, as appropriate. Association between a mutation status and confirmed overall response will be assessed using a chi-squared test., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the confirmed overall response rate (\>= partial response \[PR\]) to LCL161 (SMAC mimetic LCL161), used as a single agent, in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma (MM).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the confirmed overall response rate to LCL161 in combination with cyclophosphamide, when cyclophosphamide is added to LCL161 for lack of response or progression.

II. To estimate the overall survival and event-free survival of patients treated with LCL161 in combination with cyclophosphamide, when cyclophosphamide is added to LCL161 for lack of response or progression.

III. To evaluate the tolerability of LCL161 alone and in combination with cyclophosphamide in patients with relapsed MM.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine degradation of cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein-1 (cIAP1) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), changes in serum cytokines, and changes in immune cell subsets by flow cytometry.

II. To correlate the effect of LCL161 with the presence of activating mutations of the nuclear factor kappa beta (NFKB) pathway.

III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of LCL161 alone, and LCL161 in combination with cyclophosphamide.

IV. To describe patient-reported health-related quality of life and symptoms.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive SMAC mimetic LCL161 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients lacking a minor response by end of course 2 or partial response by end of course 4 may also receive cyclophosphamide PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients taking cyclophosphamide with less than a 25% interval reduction in paraprotein receive SMAC mimetic LCL161 on days 2, 9, 16, and 23. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6 months for 1 year.