Virus DNX2401 and Temozolomide in Recurrent Glioblastoma
Phase I trial, unicentric, uncontrolled. Intratumoral injection or intramural (into the resected tumor cavity) of DNX2401 into brain tissue will be followed by up to two 28 - day cycles of oral temozolomide (TMZ) in schedule of 7 days on/7 days off to evaluate safety of the combination. Completion of two full cycles of TMZ will be dependent upon tolerance and toxicity.

The rationale in using the virus with chemotherapy begins with the lessons learned in many clinical trials in glioblastoma (GBM) about both the great difficulty of treating this disease with monotherapy and the limitations of the therapeutic virus. The best clinical results in recent years have been achieved with combinations of multiple therapeutics efforts, including, maximum resection and chemotherapy, immunotherapy and targeted therapies.

There are very strong preclinical data about the synergy of DNX-2401 and TMZ proposed in our trial design. The dose-dense schemes of TMZ like the one we will use, have been developed with the aim to saturate o6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT). The published results to date have shown reasonable toxicity albeit with modest efficacy' these schemes are now in phase III trials. In addition, autophagy triggered by TMZ could help viral replication in the tumor cells 11.

The last argument in favor of this virus + TMZ combination is the proved efficacy in killing GBM tumor stem cells. In vitro and animals models have shown this combination is much more effective that any of the treatments alone against GBM stem cells and the tumors derived from them.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Recurrent Tumor
PROCEDURE: DNX2401 and Temozolomide
Number of participans with adverse events, Tolerance of the combination of DNX-2401 and temozolomide will be evaluated through neurological and hematological status. Any toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03., 3 months
Efficacy of the combination: PFS6 and OS12, To determine, using the Revised Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria, time to disease progression, progression-free survival at 6 months (PFS6), median progression-free survival, overall survival at 12 months (OS12) and median overall survival following intratumoral or intramural injection of DNX-2401 and two cycles of temozolomide, 12 months|Tumor response, To assess tumor response using RANO criteria, 12 months|Quality of life, To measure quality of life (QoL) baseline assessment and any changes over time, 18 months|Biological response, To determine immunogenicity, biomarkers and tumor genetics, 3 months
DNX2401 will be injected after stereotactic biopsy reveals intraoperative pathology confirming the presence of recurrent glioblastoma. The injection will be either intratumoral or intramural with injections throughout the post-resection cavity.