European Prospective Investigation Into Childhood Cancer
Over the last decades, research has shown that poor nutritional status can adversely impact prognosis and increase toxicities during treatment for childhood cancer. EPICkids is a collaboration between the International Initiative for Pediatrics and Nutrition, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, and sites throughout three Southern European countries (Spain, Greece, and Italy). The primary aim of EPICkids is to establish an informational resource on critical nutrition parameters wherein we can describe the trajectory of nutritional status among Southern European children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and favorable biology brain tumors, investigate lifestyle behaviors, sociodemographic factors, and quality of life and correlate these indicators with clinical outcomes. The specimens obtained with the proposed study will foster future studies on nutrition and prevalent childhood cancer as well as establish a framework to develop evidence-based guidelines for European children with cancer, utilizing regional, European data. We plan to recruit 900 patients with ALL and 1400 patients with a favorable biology brain tumor over five years. Nutrition parameters and lifestyle factors will be measured at systematic timepoints over the study period. Stool and blood specimens will be collected at each timepoint. Eligible patients will be between 3 and 21 years of age.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Brain Tumor
OTHER: Observational
Evaluate the association of dietary and lifestyle variables to examine the association of nutritional status and dietary intake with side-effects from treatment and survival in children and adolescents with ALL and favorable biology brain tumors., From diagnosis to 1 year post-end of treatment
Examine the association of nutritional status and quality of life in children and adolescents with ALL and favorable biology brain tumors., From diagnosis to 1 year post-end of treatment|Develop evidence-based, regional guidelines on dietary intake and nutritional status in children and adolescents diagnosed with ALL and favorable biology brain tumors., From diagnosis to 1 year post-end of treatment|Provide evidence-based, regional guidelines in order to standardize the delivery of nutritional care during and after cancer treatment for children and adolescents with ALL and favorable biology brain tumors., From diagnosis to 1 year post-end of treatment|Create a prospective biorepository of specimens (stool, blood) obtained at diagnosis, during treatment, at the end of treatment, and after treatment among children and adolescents undergoing treatment for ALL and favorable biology brain tumors., From diagnosis to 1 year post-end of treatment
Over the last decades, research has shown that poor nutritional status can adversely impact prognosis and increase toxicities during treatment for childhood cancer. EPICkids is a collaboration between the International Initiative for Pediatrics and Nutrition, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, and sites throughout three Southern European countries (Spain, Greece, and Italy). The primary aim of EPICkids is to establish an informational resource on critical nutrition parameters wherein we can describe the trajectory of nutritional status among Southern European children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and favorable biology brain tumors, investigate lifestyle behaviors, sociodemographic factors, and quality of life and correlate these indicators with clinical outcomes. We will also create a prospective biorepository of specimens (stool, blood) obtained at diagnosis, during treatment, at the end of treatment, and after treatment among children and adolescents undergoing treatment for ALL and favorable biology brain tumors. We plan to recruit 900 patients with ALL and 1400 patients with a favorable biology brain tumor over five years. Eligible patients will be between 3 and 21 years of age receiving standard treatment at one of the participating institutions. Data will be collected at systematic timepoints over the study period and include demographics, food security, clinical data and disease characteristics, quality of life, physical activity, dietary intake, and nutritional anthropometric data. Blood and stool specimens will be collected at each timepoint throughout the study period.