Effectiveness of Experiential Learning on Dietary Fiber Literacy
Acute symptom onset is the most common problem in colorectal cancer surgery, and it is also the source of the most painful impact on patients' lives. The second is the fear of cancer recurrence and complications, and psychological problems such as fear or depression are prone to occur. Studies have found that colorectal cancer is gradually suffering from complications and symptoms for six months, and even uncontrollable gas, leakage and incontinence, causing frequent occurrence of underwear. , The body and mind are severely impacted, and affect daily activities and quality of life. The problem of initial symptom management after colorectal cancer surgery is highly complex, and patients even have to self-manage diseases and symptoms in the face of physical and psychological adjustment. The provision and consultation of knowledge and information from nursing staff can prepare patients for discharge and meet their needs for knowledge and information, and can help patients achieve effective self-management capabilities.The foundation of health awareness emphasizes health knowledge. Health awareness is a more advanced knowledge achievement; it is the ability to make judgments and decisions in daily life related to health care, disease prevention and health promotion, and is the basic element of achieving self-management of health. Dietary knowledge is also a higher-level knowledge, which reflects dietary knowledge in behavior, food choices and criticism, and reflects on food choices and health decisions. Insufficient dietary knowledge will affect food choices, judgments and decisions, resulting in insufficient diet-related knowledge.Studies have confirmed that the health-related knowledge of cancer patients is significantly related to disease self-management. Only when patients understand their own diseases can they actively participate in self-health management. Nursing staff play a pivotal role in the care of patients with colorectal cancer. Through the knowledge transfer of nursing staff and guiding patients to take care of themselves, they can help improve postoperative dietary intake behaviors, thereby enhancing dietary awareness. Literature review of chronic disease self-management, nursing staff provide patients with sufficient relevant knowledge education, which can enhance patients' self-efficacy and enhance disease self-management ability.
Literacy|Bowel Symptoms
OTHER: dietary fiber literacy|OTHER: routine care
Bowel Symptom, LARS; minimum to maximum scores by 5-42, higher is mean severe bowel symptoms, 20 minutes
Dietary Fiber food Literacy, Dietary Fiber Literacy scale；the maximum scores is 41, higher is better, 50 minutes|food frequency, food frequency questionnaire, 20 minutes
Through the re-giving and encouragement of knowledge information, personal behavior control and reframing can be achieved, which can be effective To promote personal health. Nursing staff's consultation and face-to-face interviews can significantly improve patients' health-related knowledge, effective education strategies and assist patients in self-management of disease-related problems.

Experiential learning interaction can deepen the patient's impression and memory, improve the patient's knowledge and skills about the disease, increase patient participation in self-decision-making, improve self-efficacy, present better health-related knowledge, and achieve self-management capabilities. Past studies have also found that telephone tracking and consultation, emails, and giving diet manuals can help patients with colorectal cancer make significant changes in their healthy diet choices.