A Study Comparing Siltuximab Plus Best Supportive Care to Placebo Plus Best Supportive Care in Anemic Patients With International Prognostic Scoring System Low- or Intermediate-1-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of siltuximab, demonstrated by a reduction in red blood cell (RBC), transfusions to treat the anemia of Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS).
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Siltuximab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Best supportive care (BSC)
Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a Reduction in Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusions to Treat Anemia of Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS), Reduction in RBC transfusions to treat the anemia of MDS is defined as a ≥50 percentage relative decrease and a ≥2 unit absolute decrease in RBC transfusions in the 8 weeks before the unblinding (scheduled to occur after 12 weeks of treatment) compared with RBC transfusions in the 8 weeks before the date the informed consent form was signed., Up to Week 13
Change From Baseline in the Mean Hemoglobin Concentrations at Week 13, Baseline and Week 13|Percentage of Participants Achieving Hemoglobin Improvement (≥1.5 g/dL Increase From Baseline) Unrelated to Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusion at Week 13, Week 13|Percentage of Participants Who Did Not Require a Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusions to Treat Anemia of Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) in the 8 Weeks of Treatment Before Unblinding at Week 13, 8 weeks|Mean Changes From Baseline in Percentages of Bone Marrow Blast Cells at Week 13, Baseline and Week 13|Median Number of Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusions to Treat Anemia of Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) During the 8 Weeks of Treatment Before Unblinding at Week 13, 8 weeks
The study treatments will be administered double-blind for 12 weeks, meaning that the patient and study personnel will not know the identity of the treatment. Approximately 75 patients will be randomized (patients are assigned to a treatment by a chance) in a 2:1 ratio to receive siltuximab plus best supportive care (BSC) (Group A) or placebo plus BSC (Group B). BSC includes RBC transfusion, antimicrobials, white blood cell (WBC) growth factors, and platelet transfusions. Patients who complete 12 weeks of treatment may qualify to receive siltuximab as open-label (identity of treatment will be known) treatment. Treatment may continue until death, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or the clinical cutoff (defined as 24 weeks after the last patient is randomized), whichever occurs first. The study will end approximately 36 weeks after the last patient is randomized. Patient safety will be monitored. Siltuximab and matching placebo will be supplied as a sterile, lyophilized formulation for reconstitution and intravenous (IV) infusion. Group A: siltuximab (15 mg/kg) administered as a 1-hour infusion every 4 weeks + BSC, or Group B: placebo administered as a 1-hour infusion every 4 weeks + BSC.