Using FDG-PET/CT to Assess Response of Bone-Dominant Metastatic Breast Cancer, FEATURE Study
This phase II trial studies how well FDG-PET/CT works in assessing the response of patients with breast cancer that has spread to the bones or mostly to the bones (bone-dominant metastatic breast cancer). Diagnostic procedures, such as FDG-PET/CT, may work better in measuring breast cancer activity before and after treatment compared to other standard imaging tests.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Performance of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) response criteria as a binary predictor of progression-free survival (PFS), Will evaluate the performance of FDG-PET/CT response criteria (modified PET Response Criteria in Solid Tumors complete, partial and stable metabolic disease versus progressive metabolic disease) as a binary predictor of PFS in patients with bone-dominant (BD) metastatic breast cancer (MBC) treated with systemic therapy., Up to 3 years after study registration
Ability of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria (complete versus [vs] partial vs stable vs metabolic progression) to independently predict PFS in patients with BD MBC, Will keep the multiple categories of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria and test the PFS differences across them using the Kaplan-Meier survival curve and the corresponding log-rank test. The multivariable Cox proportional hazard model will be also fitted with the adjustment of the same set of confounders (e.g., age, line of therapy - early line treatment versus late line treatment, type of therapy - endocrine therapy versus chemotherapy). Since the categories of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria are ordered, will also apply the method of C-statistics to evaluate the performance after quantifying the criteria (i.e., 1-complete response, 2-partial response, 3-stable, 4-metabolic progression)., Up to 3 years after study registration|Ability of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria (complete, partial, and stable vs progressive metabolic disease) to predict time to skeletal related events (SRE) in patients with BD MBC, Will keep the multiple categories of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria and test the time to SRE differences across them using the Kaplan-Meier survival curve and the corresponding log-rank test. The multivariable Cox proportional hazard model will be also fitted with the adjustment of the same set of confounders (e.g., age, line of therapy - early line treatment versus late line treatment, type of therapy - endocrine therapy versus chemotherapy). Since the categories of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria are ordered, will also apply the method of C-statistics to evaluate the performance after quantifying the criteria (i.e., 1-complete response, 2-partial response, 3-stable, 4-metabolic progression)., Up to 3 years after study registration|Ability of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria (complete, partial, and stable vs progressive metabolic disease) to predict overall survival (OS) in patients with BD MBC, Will keep the multiple categories of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria and test the OS differences across them using the Kaplan-Meier survival curve and the corresponding log-rank test. The multivariable Cox proportional hazard model will be also fitted with the adjustment of the same set of confounders (e.g., age, line of therapy - early line treatment versus late line treatment, type of therapy - endocrine therapy versus chemotherapy). Since the categories of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria are ordered, will also apply the method of C-statistics to evaluate the performance after quantifying the criteria (i.e., 1-complete response, 2-partial response, 3-stable, 4-metabolic progression)., Up to 3 years after study registration|Ability of FDG-PET/CT metrics to predict PFS in patients with BD MBC, For each participant, will collect up to 5 lesions from FDG-PET/CT scans and calculate the percent change in peak standardized uptake value corrected for lean body mass (SULpeak), maximum standardized uptake value corrected for body weight (SUVmax) from T0 to T1 scans. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models will be used to model the ability of these changes to predict PFS. The analysis will first be conducted on the index lesion (i.e., associating the change of SUVpeak or SUVmax for the index lesion with outcomes), and then be applied to the average change of up to 5 lesions (i.e., associating the average change of SUVpeak or SUVmax from all detected lesions with outcomes). The C-statistics will be used to measure the performance., Up to 3 years after study registration|Ability of FDG-PET/CT metrics to predict time to SRE in patients with BD MBC, For each participant, will collect up to 5 lesions from FDG-PET/CT scans and calculate the percent change in SULpeak, SUVmax from T0 to T1 scans. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models will be used to model the ability of these changes to predict time to SRE. The analysis will first be conducted on the index lesion (i.e., associating the change of SUVpeak or SUVmax for the index lesion with outcomes), and then be applied to the average change of up to 5 lesions (i.e., associating the average change of SUVpeak or SUVmax from all detected lesions with outcomes). The C-statistics will be used to measure the performance., Up to 3 years after study registration|Ability of FDG-PET/CT metrics to predict OS in patients with BD MBC, For each participant, will collect up to 5 lesions from FDG-PET/CT scans and calculate the percent change in SULpeak, SUVmax from T0 to T1 scans. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models will be used to model the ability of these changes to predict OS. The analysis will first be conducted on the index lesion (i.e., associating the change of SUVpeak or SUVmax for the index lesion with outcomes), and then be applied to the average change of up to 5 lesions (i.e., associating the average change of SUVpeak or SUVmax from all detected lesions with outcomes). The C-statistics will be used to measure the performance., Up to 3 years after study registration|Utility of FDG-PET/CT to identify disease progression by identification of new lesions not identified by standard CT and bone scan, For the cases where progression is documented in the study, will record and tabulate the number of new lesions uniquely identified by the 12-week FDG-PET/CT research scan., Up to 3 years after study registration
Defining of criteria for selection of FDG-avid bone lesions for analysis based on thresholds for SULpeak or SUVmax, Will vary the threshold for inclusion in the PERCIST criteria to get optimum performance. To reduce the over-optimism, will apply the statistical technique of 5-fold cross-validation in the threshold discovery and subsequent performance assessment., Up to 3 years after study registration|Exploration of alternative methods for measuring metabolic response with FDG-PET/CT to predict clinical endpoints in patients with BD MBC, Will collaborate with National Cancer Institute Quantitative Imaging Network to explore alternative methods for measuring metabolic response with FDG-PET/CT scans. Will then implement Kaplan Meier survival curve (and log-rank test) or multivariable Cox proportional hazard model in the analyses of associations with PFS, time to SRE, or OS., Up to 3 years after study registration|Automated image analysis of FDG-PET/CT, Will evaluate automated image analysis of FDG-PET/CT by AutoPERCIST., Up to 3 years after study registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the performance of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) response criteria (modified PET Response Criteria in Solid Tumors \[PERCIST\] complete, partial and stable metabolic disease versus progressive metabolic disease) as a binary predictor of progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with bone-dominant (BD) metastatic breast cancer (MBC) treated with systemic therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the ability of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria (complete versus \[vs\] partial vs stable vs metabolic progression) to independently predict PFS in patients with BD MBC.

II. Evaluate the ability of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria (complete, partial, and stable versus progressive metabolic disease) to predict time to skeletal related events (SRE) and overall survival (OS) in patients with BD MBC.

III. Evaluate the ability of FDG-PET/CT metrics (percent change in peak standardized uptake value corrected for lean body mass (SULpeak), maximum standardized uptake value corrected for body weight (SUVmax) as continuous variables in index or up to 5 lesions) to predict PFS, time to SRE and OS in patients with BD MBC.

IV. Assess the utility of FDG-PET/CT to identify disease progression by identification of new lesions not identified by standard CT and bone scan.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Define criteria for selection of FDG-avid bone lesions for analysis based on thresholds for SULpeak or SUVmax.

II. In collaboration with National Cancer Institute (NCI) Quantitative Imaging Network (QIN), explore alternative methods for measuring metabolic response with FDG-PET/CT (e.g., total lesion glycolysis, quantitative total bone imaging, MD Anderson bone criteria, and radiomics) to predict clinical endpoints in patients with BD MBC.

III. Evaluate automated image analysis of FDG-PET/CT by AutoPERCIST.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive FDG intravenously (IV) and undergo PET/CT scan over 15-30 minutes at baseline (within 21 days before start of standard systemic treatment) and at 12 weeks after start of standard systemic treatment in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically for up to 3 years after study registration.