A Study to Learn How Patients With Triple Class Refractory Multiple Myeloma (TCR-MM) Are Treated in Italian Centers for Blood Related Diseases
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a type of cancer of the white blood cells, called plasma cells. These plasma cells help in fighting infections.

TCR-MM is when the cancer does not get treated with the 3 main classes of medicines used to treat this disease.

The purpose of this study is to learn about the present clinical practice in Italy and describe the standard of care that will be given to patients with TCR-MM, and their treatment costs, in around 25 centers who treat patients with blood diseases.

Standard of care (SoC) is the treatment that is accepted as a proper treatment for a certain type of disease and that is widely used by doctors.

The study is seeking for participants who are:

* 18 years of age or older
* Confirmed to have MM
* do not show any response when treated with the 3 main classes of medicines used to treat MM Data of participants who received the TCR treatment between 01 December 2021 and 31 May will be collected.

The main data source for the study will be the patient medical record. No clinical visits, examinations, or procedures are required as part of this study.
Relapse Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
Real-World Overall Response Rate (ORR) for each TCR MM therapy, The proportion of patients with confirmed Stringent Complete Response (sCR), Complete Response (CR), Very good partial response (VGPR), Partial Response (PR) by investigators per the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria, 3-18 months|Real-World Progression Free Survival (PFS), The time from initiation of therapy until Progressive Disease (PD) by investigators per IMWG criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 3-18 months|Real-World Overall Survival (OS), Time from initiation of therapy until death due to any cause., 3-18 months|Real-World Duration of response (DOR), For participants with an objective response (OR) per IMWG criteria, as the time from the first documentation of OR by investigators that is subsequently confirmed, until PD per IMWG criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 3-18 months
In Italy, MM represents 1.6 percent of all cancers diagnosed in men and 1.5 percent of those diagnosed in women. The 2020 Italian epidemiological data show 5759 new diagnosis of MM. Most MM patients relapse or become refractory to various therapeutic approaches and typically cycle through many lines of treatment. Survival among patients refractory to newer therapies, including PIs, IMiDs and anti-CD38 mAbs, is very low and measured in months. An Italian real life data collection is important to analyse the current therapeutic approaches in TCR patients and the costs incurred by the therapy based on the different treatments.