A Patient-centered Intervention Using Technology to Reduce Colorectal Cancer Disparities in Primary Care
The purpose of this proposal is to test the efficacy of a patient-centered, tailored message intervention delivered via virtual technology for increasing colorectal cancer (CRC) screening within guidelines among racial/ethnic minority and rural patients. This protocol focuses on the clinical portion of grant NCI 1RCA207689-01A1
Colo-rectal Cancer
OTHER: virtual technology
Intention to Screen for Colorectal Cancer (CRC), Measure: Intention to Screen for Colorectal Cancer Item: I want to get screened for colorectal cancer. Scale: 5-point Likert scale (1 = strongly disagree to 5 = strongly agree). Mean scores near 1 indicate a lower intention to get screened for colorectal cancer. Mean scores near 5 indicate a higher intention to get screened for colorectal cancer.

Construct: Behavioral intention to screen No subscales, within the first 12 months
Communication With a Provider About Colorectal Cancer (CRC), Measure: Intention to talk to doctor about colorectal cancer screening. Construct: Behavioral intention to communicate Item: I will talk to my healthcare provider about colorectal cancer screening. Scale: 5-point Likert scale (1 = strongly disagree to 5 = strongly agree). Mean scores near 1 indicate a lower intention to talk to a healthcare professional about colorectal cancer screening. Mean scores near 5 indicate a high intention to talk to a healthcare professional about colorectal cancer screening.

No subscales, Assessed after 24 months
Patients will be recruited via a secure, clinical data warehouse to complete a patient-randomized test of the efficacy of the intervention for promoting initial and repeat FIT testing. Patients identified as eligible will be contacted through MyChart to test a web-based, culturally-sensitive virtual human intervention for CRC screening. The web-application will provide information to encourage CRC screening. Therefore, this study is a minimal risk study.