The MORDIS Study Clinical Investigational Plan
To demonstrate the use of WavSTAT4 system during colonoscopy in identifying diminutive colorectal lesions (e.g. hyperplastic polyps) that can be resected and discarded (or even left in-situ) without adverse clinical impact.
Adenoma
To demonstrate potential of the WavSTAT4 Optical Biopsy System to predict adenomatous histology with a NPV > = 90% for diminutive colorectal lesions., The WavSTAT4 Optical Biopsy System result will be compared to physician visual diagnosis as well as the subsequent pathological report., WavSTAT4 Optical Biopsy System gives real-time result. Outcomes are measured when comparing the physician and WavSTAT4 system result to pathology results, which usually take one to two weeks.
Improved determination of post-polypectomy surveillance intervals, To show that use of the WavSTAT4 system used to determine histology of colorectal polyps ≤5 mm in size, when combined with the histo- pathologic assessment of polyps \>5 mm in size, provides a ≥ 90% agreement in assignment of post-polypectomy surveillance intervals when compared to decisions based on pathology assessment of all identified polyps., Outcome is measured when patients return for routine follow up. which is a long-term study as patients are not usually requested to return for another colonoscopy for many years.
To demonstrate the performance of the WavSTAT4 Optical Biopsy System when used at multiple centers.

Endpoint targets are based on the ASGE PIVI recommendations on real-time endoscopic assessment of the histology of diminutive colorectal polyps.

* Primary endpoint: To demonstrate potential of the WavSTAT4 Optical Biopsy System to predict adenomatous histology with a NPV \> = 90% for diminutive colorectal lesions.
* Secondary Endpoint: To show that use of the WavSTAT4 system used to determine histology of colorectal polyps ≤5 mm in size, when combined with the histo- pathologic assessment of polyps \>5 mm in size, provides a ≥ 90% agreement in assignment of post-polypectomy surveillance intervals when compared to decisions based on pathology assessment of all identified polyps.