A Study to Measure the Effect of Brain Stimulation on Hand Strength and Function in Patients with Brain Tumors
The neurosurgical standard of care for treating a patient with a tumor invading hand primary motor cortex (M1) includes performing a craniotomy with intraoperative direct electrical stimulation (DES) mapping and to resect as much tumor as possible without a resultant permanent neurological deficit. However, the subjective nature of current intraoperative hand motor assessments do not offer a comprehensive understanding of how hand strength and function may be impacted by resection. Additionally, there is a paucity of data to inform how altering DES parameters may effect motor mapping. Here, the investigators seek to demonstrate a feasible, standardized protocol to quantitatively assess hand strength and function and systematically assess several stimulation parameters to improve intraoperative measurements and better understand how cortical stimulation interacts with underlying neural function.
Brain Tumor|Brain Cancer|Motor Cortex; Lesion
PROCEDURE: Intraoperative Brain Simulation - Alternate Stimulation Parameters
Change in Hand strength - Manual Motor Scale (0-5), Quantitative assessment on a scale of 0 - 5 5 - normal strength 4 - give away weakness 3 - movement against gravity 2 - movement in anti-gravity position 1 - muscle twitch 0 - no movement, Pre-op, intra-op, 1 week post-op and 3 months post-op; 2 visits 3 weeks apart for healthy volunteers|Change in Hand strength - Dynamometer grip and pinch strength (Newtons), Scored using force production in kilograms (0-90) Standardized procedure for positioning, Pre-op, intra-op, 1 week post-op and 3 months post-op; 2 visits 3 weeks apart for healthy volunteers|Chang in Hand function (Velocity), The Cyberglove III collects data on the movement of the joints in the hand. Subjects will be asked to wear the Cyberglove III while doing various tasks. Velocity will be measured in degrees per second., Pre-op, intra-op, 1 week post-op and 3 months post-op; 2 visits 3 weeks apart for healthy volunteers|Chang in Hand function (Finger Individuation), The Cyberglove III collects data on the movement of the joints in the hand. Subjects will be asked to wear the Cyberglove III while doing various tasks. Finger individuation will be calculated using joint angles., Pre-op, intra-op, 1 week post-op and 3 months post-op; 2 visits 3 weeks apart for healthy volunteers|Chang in Hand function (Smoothness), The Cyberglove III collects data on the movement of the joints in the hand. Subjects will be asked to wear the Cyberglove III while doing various tasks. Smoothness will be calculated using joint angles., Pre-op, intra-op, 1 week post-op and 3 months post-op; 2 visits 3 weeks apart for healthy volunteers
The neurosurgical standard of care for treating a patient with a tumor invading hand primary motor cortex (M1) includes performing a craniotomy with intraoperative direct electrical stimulation (DES) mapping and to resect as much tumor as possible without a resultant permanent neurological deficit. However, the subjective nature of current intraoperative hand motor assessments do not offer a comprehensive understanding of how hand strength and function may be impacted by resection. Additionally, there is a paucity of data to inform how altering DES parameters may effect motor mapping. Here, the investigators seek to demonstrate a feasible, standardized protocol to quantitatively assess hand strength and function and systematically assess several stimulation parameters to improve intraoperative measurements and better understand how cortical stimulation interacts with underlying neural function.