Chemotherapy & Erlotinib in Treating Patients w/ Esophageal or Gastroesophageal Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
The purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of erlotinib and FOLFOX in patients with esophageal or gastro-esophageal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from enrollment into the run-in period of the study to objective tumor progression as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. The proportion of patients with PFS will be reported and evaluated using Kaplan-Meier survival curves with median survival and 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years
Objective Response Rate (RR), The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for Progressive Disease (PD) the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). Best response assignment will depend on the achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria using RECIST for both target and non-target lesions. For target lesions, response is defined as follows: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \>= 30% decrease in sum of the LD, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; PD: \>=20% increase in sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started or appearance of one or more new lesions , Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Up to 2 years|Time to Progression (TTP), Patient with objective tumor response or stable disease will be treated with single agent Tarceva until tumor progression. For this study, time to progression will be determined as the number of days following the first day of single agent treatment with Tarceva following the last and completed cycle of Tarcerva/FOLFOX combination therapy. TTP will be calculated for the entire patient population as well as for patients that objectively responded to the combination therapy versus those that did not., Up to 2 years
More than 50% of patients with advanced esophageal cancer present with disease that cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other parts of the body. Improved therapies for patients with advanced esophageal cancer are therefore urgently needed. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor erlotinib (in combination with chemotherapy) has lead to improved survival in patients with pancreatic and lung cancer. EGFR is a target in esophageal cancer therapy since its overexpression is associated with more aggressive disease and poor survival. Early studies have shown some clinical activity of EGFR inhibitors in this disease alone or in combination with chemotherapy. This study aims to explore how safe and effective treatment with erlotinib and FOLFOX is in patients with advanced esophageal or gastro-esophageal cancer.