Study of HuMab-5B1 (MVT-5873) in Subjects With Pancreatic Cancer or Other Cancer Antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) Positive Malignancies
Phase 1 Safety and Tolerability Study in Subjects with Pancreatic Cancer or Other CA19-9 Positive Malignancies.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: MVT-5873|DRUG: modified FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX)|DRUG: gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel
Group D - Determine the safety (treatment related adverse events as assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] V5.0) of MVT-5873 on a Q2 week schedule, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Group D - Determine the MTD and/or RP2D of MVT-5873 on a Q2 week schedule, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Group E - Determine the safety (treatment related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE V5.0) of MVT-5873 in combination with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen (mFOLFIRINOX) in the metastatic disease setting, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Group E - Determine the MTD and/or the RP2D of MVT-5873 in combination with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen (mFOLFIRINOX) in the metastatic disease setting, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Group F - Determine the safety (treatment related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE V5.0) of MVT-5873 in combination with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen (mFOLFIRINOX) in the PDAC adjuvant setting, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Group F - Determine the MTD and/or the RP2D of MVT-5873 administered in combination with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen (mFOLFIRINOX) in the PDAC adjuvant setting, Through study completion. Estimated at one year
Group D - Evaluate the hepatic safety profile (treatment related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE V5.0) of MVT-5873 in participants without elevated circulating CA19-9 expression, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|All groups - Evaluate pharmacokinetics (PK): Area Under the Curve (AUC) for MVT-5873, Determined using non-compartmental model., Through study completion. Estimated at one year|All groups - Evaluate PK: Maximum concentration (Cmax) for MVT-5873, Determined using non-compartmental model., Through study completion. Estimated at one year|All groups - Evaluate PK: Plasma half-life (T1/2) for MVT-5873, Determined using non-compartmental model., Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Groups A, B, C, D, E - Evaluate tumor response rate, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Groups A, B, C, D, E - Evaluate duration of response, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Groups A, B, C, D, E - Evaluate time to response, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Groups A, B, C, D, E - Evaluate progression free survival, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|All groups - Evaluate overall survival, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Group F - Evaluate disease free survival, Through study completion. Estimated at one year|Group F - Evaluate time to recurrence, Through study completion. Estimated at one year
Open label, multicenter, non-randomized, dose escalation/expansion trial of MVT-5873 as a single agent and in combination with standard of care chemotherapy or modified FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX) in subjects with pancreatic and other CA19-9 positive malignancies. The study was designed to define a Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of MVT-5873 as monotherapy (Group A), in combination with a standard of care chemotherapy (Group B), for a Q2 week schedule (Group D), an MTD of MVT-5873 for a Q4 week schedule (Group C), and an MTD for a Q2 week schedule of MVT-5873 in combination with mFOLFIRINOX (Groups E and F). Each group utilized a conventional 3+3 study design to identify the MTD and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D).

Following the definition of the MTD in each group, the RP2D of MVT-5873 as a single agent and in combination with mFOLFIRINOX was defined. Following completion of monotherapy dose escalation, an expansion cohort of 30 additional subjects was treated at the RP2D for Group D. Subjects were subdivided into two groups of 15 subjects; those without peripheral blood expression of C19-9 and those with peripheral blood expression of CA19-9. MVT-5873 pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) were determined for each group.