A Study to Compare Treatment With the Drug Selumetinib Alone Versus Selumetinib and Vinblastine in Patients With Recurrent or Progressive Low-Grade Glioma
This phase III trial investigates the best dose of vinblastine in combination with selumetinib and the benefit of adding vinblastine to selumetinib compared to selumetinib alone in treating children and young adults with low-grade glioma (a common type of brain cancer) that has come back after prior treatment (recurrent) or does not respond to therapy (progressive). Selumetinib is a drug that works by blocking a protein that lets tumor cells grow without stopping. Vinblastine blocks cell growth by stopping cell division and may kill cancer cells. Giving selumetinib in combination with vinblastine may work better than selumetinib alone in treating recurrent or progressive low-grade glioma.
Recurrent Low Grade Astrocytoma|Recurrent WHO Grade 2 Glioma|Refractory Low Grade Astrocytoma|Refractory Low Grade Glioma|Refractory WHO Grade 1 Glioma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Selumetinib Sulfate|DRUG: Vinblastine Sulfate
Maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase II dose (MTD/RP2D) of selumetinib and vinblastine combination (feasibility), The MTD is empirically defined as the highest dose level at which 6 patients have been treated with at most one patient experiencing a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and the next higher dose level has been determined to be too toxic., 1 month post enrollment|Event-free survival (efficacy), Will use Kaplan-Meier (KM) methods and stratified log-rank tests to estimate EFS per arm and compare the EFS outcome between the two arms to assess difference in efficacy. EFS is defined as the interval from randomization to the first occurrence of clinical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, subsequent malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause. Patients who are event-free will be censored at the time of last follow-up., Up to 5 years after enrollment
Radiographic tumor response rate (efficacy), Will summarize the radiologic response rates (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\] per arm and test for a difference between the 2 arms using an exact binomial test. PR is defined as greater than or equal to 50% reduction in target lesion size by bi-dimensional measurement on T2/FLAIR, as compared with the baseline measurements, on a stable or decreasing dose of corticosteroids, accompanied by a stable or improving neurologic examination, and maintained for at least 8 weeks. CR must also be sustained for at least 8 weeks and requires complete disappearance of the target lesion on T2/FLAIR imaging (if enhancement had been present, it must have resolved completely); No new lesions, no new T2/FLAIR abnormalities, and no new or increased enhancement; Patients must be off corticosteroids or only on physiological replacement doses; and Patients should be stable or improved clinically., Up to 2 years after enrollment|Overall survival (OS) (efficacy), Will use the KM methods to estimate OS for each treatment arm and use stratified log-rank tests to determine whether there is a difference in OS between the 2 arms. OS is defined as the interval from randomization to death from any cause or to the time of last follow-up for patients who are alive at the time of analysis, Up to 5 years after enrollment|EFS by BRAF Status, Will use KM methods to estimate the difference in EFS and between patients with BRAF rearranged LGG and patients with non-BRAF rearranged LGG after treatment with selumetinib + vinblastine versus single-agent selumetinib. EFS is defined as the interval from randomization to the first occurrence of clinical or radiographic disease progression, disease recurrence, subsequent malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause. Patients who are event-free will be censored at the time of last follow-up, Up to 5 years after enrollment|Incidence of adverse events (feasibility), Toxicities will be summarized by dose level and by attribution to vinblastine versus selumetinib during the feasibility component., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (efficacy), Reported toxicities will be summarized per arm for the efficacy component., Up to 5 years|Quality of life (QOL), Will use 2-sample 2-sided t-tests to compare the change from baseline in the PedsQL™ Generic Module Total Scale Score between the two treatment arms at Cycle 7 Day 1 for both patient and parent-proxy report., Baseline to cycle 7 day 1|Visual outcome comparison, Will use an exact binomial test to compare the difference in the proportion of subjects in each arm that show improvement in visual acuity per Teller Acuity assessment after 12 months of treatment using a 1-sided test with 10% type 1 error., 12 months after enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase 2 dose (MTD/RP2D) of selumetinib sulfate (selumetinib) + vinblastine sulfate (vinblastine) for children with progressive or recurrent low-grade gliomas (LGGs).

II. To determine if selumetinib + vinblastine will lead to improved event-free survival (EFS) outcome compared with selumetinib alone for children with progressive or recurrent LGGs.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the objective response rates and overall survival associated with treatment with selumetinib + vinblastine versus single-agent selumetinib.

II. To estimate the difference in EFS and response rate between patients with BRAF rearranged LGG and patients with non-BRAF rearranged LGG after treatment with selumetinib + vinblastine versus single-agent selumetinib.

III. To evaluate toxicities associated with selumetinib + vinblastine and single-agent selumetinib for children with progressive or recurrent LGGs.

IV. To compare the quality of life among patients treated with selumetinib + vinblastine and single-agent selumetinib.

V. To examine the vision outcomes among patients with optic pathway gliomas (OPGs) treated with selumetinib + vinblastine and single-agent selumetinib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To obtain paired blood and tumor specimens for future biology studies, including studies to correlate genomic drivers to response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation feasibility study of vinblastine sulfate in combination with selumetinib, followed by a randomized efficacy study. Patients in the feasibility study are assigned to Arm I, while patients in the efficacy study are randomized to Arm I or Arm II.

ARM I: Patients receive vinblastine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute or IV infusion on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and selumetinib sulfate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days. Patients receive selumetinib and vinblastine for a total duration of 17 cycles followed by 10 additional cycles of selumetinib alone in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial. Patients also undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

ARM II: Patients receive selumetinib sulfate PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 27 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo MRI throughout the trial. Patients also undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for year 1, every 6 months for years 2-3, and annually for years 4-5.