Prehabilitation to Improve Cancer Surgery Outcomes
This is a randomized control trial aiming to investigate the use of a prehabilitation regimen for patients undergoing major GI cancer surgery and its effects on measurements of HRQOL, LOS, and post-operative complications. Participants will be randomized to either the Prehabilitation arm or the Usual Care arm (control group). The Prehabilitation arm will be prescribed both physical and psychological prehabilitation prior to undergoing surgery for their GI cancer. The Usual Care arm will be counseled to continue their current level of activity and given the information on exercise as outlined in the Cancer Care Ontario guidelines. Participants in the Usual Care arm will also be given the same activity tracker as patients in the Prehabilitation arm in order to eliminate the activity tracker as an intervention itself. Clinical, patient-reported outcomes and health system outcomes will be evaluated. Outcomes will be measured at consent (baseline), immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3 and 6 months. The investigators will collect measures of recruitment, attrition and self-reported compliance via a log completed by the coordinator during weekly patient phone calls.
Gastrointestinal Cancer|Prehabilitation|Surgery|Physical Activity
BEHAVIORAL: Physical Prehabilitation|BEHAVIORAL: Psychological Prehabilitation
Global Health Score, The primary outcome is the difference between the baseline and 90-day global health score on the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLC-C30, Baseline to postoperative day 90
Presence and severity of postoperative complications, The presence and severity of postoperative complications at 30 and 90 days will be recorded from the patient's medical records, Postoperatively through to day 30 and day 90|Postoperative hospital length of stay, The patient's postoperative length of stay will be recorded from the medical records, Length of stay will be calculated from the date of surgery until to the date of discharge from the hospital, reported in days, assessed up to 6 months postoperatively.|Changes in functional capacity from baseline, Patients will perform a 6-Minute Walk Test., Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Changes in self-reported physical activity from baseline, Changes in self-reported physical activity will be measured using the Godin Leisure-time Exercise Questionnaire, Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Changes in health-related quality of life from baseline, HRQOL will be measured using the EQ-5D Health Questionnaire, Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Presence and severity of symptoms, The presence and severity of nine common symptoms in cancer patients will be examined using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS). This self-report measure examines: pain, tiredness, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, appetite, wellbeing, and shortness of breath., Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Changes in anxiety and depression from baseline, Changes in anxiety and depression will be examined using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). HADS assesses anxiety and depression through self-reporting based on the frequency of symptoms over the past week. There are 2 subscales, one for anxiety and for depression, each with 7 items. Items are scored on a 4 point Likert scale (0-3), with the subscale scores being sums of each item (0-21). A higher score is indicative of higher or worse anxiety and depression., Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Changes in fatigue from baseline, Changes in cancer-specific fatigue will be assessed using the 13-item Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F)., Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Interference with occupational performance and productivity, The degree to which the patient's health problems interfere with occupational performance and productivity will be examined using the Work Limitations Questionnaire, Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Changes in multidimensional social support, Changes in the perceived availability of multidimensional social support will be evaluated using the Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Scale (MOS-SSS SF-20). The MOS-SSS SF-20 is a 20 item questionnaire that measures physical functioning, social functioning, mental health, current health perceptions, and pain. After reverse scoring of the appropriate items according to the MOS-SSS core scoring manual, a higher value indicates better functioning, health, and more pain in the respective measures. All measure scores are transformed linearly to scales from 0-100, with 100 being the highest score possible., Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Changes in attachment (closeness in relationships with others), The Experiences in Close Relationships Scale (ECR M16) will be used to examine adult attachment or closeness in both romantic and non-romantic relationships. There are two domains that are measured - attachment anxiety and avoidance. Each domain includes 8 items. Items are scored on a 7 point Likert Scale (1-7). After appropriate reverse scoring, a high score indicates higher attachment anxiety or avoidance., Baseline, immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months|Health care utilization, Health care utilization will be assessed at the postoperative 3 and 6 month time points using the Health Service Utilization Inventory, post-operatively at 3 and 6 months
This is a randomized control trial aiming to investigate the use of a prehabilitation regimen for patients undergoing major GI cancer surgery and its effects on measurements of HRQOL, LOS, and post-operative complications. Participants will be randomized to either the Prehabilitation arm or the Usual Care arm (control group). The Prehabilitation arm will be prescribed both physical and psychological prehabilitation prior to undergoing surgery for their GI cancer. The Usual Care arm will be counseled to continue their current level of activity and given the information on exercise as outlined in the Cancer Care Ontario guidelines. Participants in the Usual Care arm will also be given the same activity tracker as patients in the Prehabilitation arm in order to eliminate the activity tracker as an intervention itself. Clinical, patient-reported outcomes and health system outcomes will be evaluated. Outcomes will be measured at consent (baseline), immediately preoperatively, and postoperatively at 1, 3 and 6 months. The investigators will collect measures of recruitment, attrition and self-reported compliance via a log completed by the coordinator during weekly patient phone calls.