Optic Neuritis and Ganglion Cell Layer
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The recent expansion of the applications of optical coherence tomography (OCT) demonstrated a higher correlation between the analysis of ganglion cells and visual function, in comparison with the analysis of the nerve fiber layer for several diseases of the optic nerve. Atrophy of the ganglion cells tends to induce the visual function deficits. In the case of optic neuritis, inflammation of the optic nerve causes a deficit of visual function initially with low vision, color blindness and visual field. Secondary atrophy of ganglion cell can result. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the correlation between the analysis of ganglion cells at the time of diagnosis of optic neuritis and the resulting visual acuity at 6 months and visual function (visual acuity, color vision and perimetry) 1 year regardless of treatment. A predictive effect could help predict the patient's clinical course and management of uncertainty and anxiety. MATERIALS AND METHODS: An assessment at diagnosis and follow-ups at 6 months and 1 year with a measurement of best corrected visual acuity, a test color vision HRR (Hardy-Rand-Rittler), an OCT with analysis of ganglion cells and perimetry Humphrey 30 -2 fast will be done. Simple linear and logistic regressions will be used. RESULTS: We expect that there will be a significant association between atrophy of ganglion cells in the diagnosis and residual visual function after an episode of optic neuritis. We believe that the initial atrophy is associated with poorer visual prognosis. CONCLUSION: A predictive effect could help to inform the patient about the evolution of the disease and provide early visual rehabilitation.
Optic Neuritis
Association between the analysis of ganglion cells at diagnosis and the resulting visual acuity at 6 months after optic neuritis, Evaluation of best corrected visual acuity at 6 months post optic neuritis episode in correlation with initial ganglion cell layer analysis measures in order to predict the visual acuity in the future., 6 months post optic neuritis|Association between the analysis of ganglion cells at diagnosis and the visual function at 12 months after optic neuritis, Evaluation of the visual function (best corrected visual acuity, perimetry, color vision) at 12 months post optic neuritis episode in correlation with initial ganglion cell layer analysis measures in order to predict the visual acuity in the future., 12 months post optic neuritis
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The recent expansion of the applications of optical coherence tomography (OCT) demonstrated a higher correlation between the analysis of ganglion cells and visual function, in comparison with the analysis of the nerve fiber layer for several diseases of the optic nerve. Atrophy of the ganglion cells tends to induce the visual function deficits. In the case of optic neuritis, inflammation of the optic nerve causes a deficit of visual function initially with low vision, color blindness and visual field. Secondary atrophy of ganglion cell can result. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the correlation between the analysis of ganglion cells at the time of diagnosis of optic neuritis and the resulting visual acuity at 6 months and visual function (visual acuity, color vision and perimetry) 1 year regardless of treatment. A predictive effect could help predict the patient's clinical course and management of uncertainty and anxiety. MATERIALS AND METHODS: An assessment at diagnosis and follow-ups at 6 months and 1 year with a measurement of best corrected visual acuity, a test color vision HRR (Hardy-Rand-Rittler), an OCT with analysis of ganglion cells and perimetry Humphrey 30 -2 fast will be done. Simple linear and logistic regressions will be used. RESULTS: We expect that there will be a significant association between atrophy of ganglion cells in the diagnosis and residual visual function after an episode of optic neuritis. We believe that the initial atrophy is associated with poorer visual prognosis. CONCLUSION: A predictive effect could help to inform the patient about the evolution of the disease and provide early visual rehabilitation.