Research on Hybrid Operation Technique in the Treatment of Complex Brain Arteriovenous Malformations
Complex brain arteriovenous malformations (bAVMs) in ≥3 Spetzler-Martin grades have long been challenges among cerebrovascular diseases. None of the traditional methods, such as microsurgical operation, endovascular intervention, or stereotactic radiotherapy, can completely eliminate complex bAVMs without a risk of neural function deterioration. The multistaged hybrid operation solved part of the challenge but remained risky in the installment procedures and intervals. The one-staged hybrid operation was applied in the surgical treatment of cerebrovascular diseases and proved to be a potentially safe and effective method for curing complex bAVMs. However, lacking the support of high-level evidence, its advantages remain unclear. This study was proposed to validate the benefits and risks of one-staged hybrid operation in the treatment of complex bAVMs, as well as its indications, key technologies, and workflows.
Cerebrovascular Disease|Arteriovenous Malformations|Complex; Primary
PROCEDURE: one-staged hybrid operation|PROCEDURE: Traditional microsurgical operation
neural function deterioration, Increasing of mRS and mRS\>2, 3 months after operation
neural function deterioration in 6 months, Increasing of mRS and mRS\>2, 6 months after operation|neural function deterioration in 12 months, Increasing of mRS and mRS\>2, 12 months after operation|postoperative mortality, the fatality due to operation, 7 days after operation|operation-related complications, any complications that occur within 7 days from the date of operation, including intracranial hemorrhage or infarction, infection of the central nervous system, infection of the respiratory system, cranial nerve deficits, and other symptomatic complications, 7 days after operation|postoperative bAVMs residue, the bAVMs residue revealed by postoperative DSA or computed tomographic angiography, 7 days after operation|3 months bAVMs residue, the bAVMs residue revealed by postoperative DSA or computed tomographic angiography, 3 months after operation|6 months bAVMs residue, the bAVMs residue revealed by postoperative DSA or computed tomographic angiography, 6 months after operation|12 months bAVMs residue, the bAVMs residue revealed by postoperative DSA or computed tomographic angiography, 12 months after operation
The study is being conducted from Jan 2016 to Dec 2020 with 20 cooperation units. It consists of 2 sets. The registry set is designed as a prospective real-world registry. The trial set is designed as a prospective pragmatic clinical trial, specifically for the patients with perforating arterial feeders. The two sets share a common grouping: the traditional operation group and the one-staged hybrid operation group. The assignment is based on the clinical condition in the registry set and is randomized in the trial set. End points will be evaluated at scheduled time points. The safety and efficiency of one-staged hybrid operation in treating complex bAVMs will be validated.