Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining alvocidib, irinotecan hydrochloride, and cisplatin in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: alvocidib|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: cisplatin
MTD alvocidib when administered in conjunction with irinotecan hydrochloride and cisplatin, Defined as the dose one level below the dose at which two or more of the patients in the initial cohort experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first treatment course. DLT is defined as the occurrence of Grade 4 hematologic toxicity, Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity including diarrhea despite antidiarrheal prophylaxis, or any delay in treatment resulting in less than 2 treatments in 3 weeks., Course 1
Clinical pharmacokinetics of the regimen, Week 1 of courses 1 and 2|Therapeutic activity of alvocidib in combination with irinotecan hydrochloride in patients with advanced solid tumors, Evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST)., After 2 courses of treatment|Safety and tolerability, Evaluated using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria. Tabulated individually, and summarized by body system, according to dosage of study medication., Weekly
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of flavopiridol (alvocidib), irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride), and cisplatin in patients with advanced solid tumors.

II. Determine the clinical pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine, preliminarily, the therapeutic activity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients are stratified according to the number of prior treatment regimens (0 or 1 vs more than 1). Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes followed immediately by cisplatin IV over 30 minutes followed 7 hours later by alvocidib IV over 1-4.5 hours weekly for 2 weeks. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of cisplatin, alvocidib, and irinotecan hydrochloride until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of each is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 12 additional patients are treated at the recommended phase II dose.