Clinical Outcomes and Prognostic Factors of Robotic Assisted Rectal Cancer Resection Alone vs. Robotic Rectal Cancer Resection With Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction
Robotic rectal cancer resection with natural orifice extraction is a recently developed minimally invasive surgery for patients with rectal cancer. However, it's safety and feasibility remain undiscussed and controversial. This study reported the clinical outcomes and prognostic factors of robotic assisted rectal cancer resection alone vs. robotic rectal cancer resection with natural orifice extraction to discuss aforementioned question.
Rectal Neoplasms|Robotic Surgery|Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction Surgery
PROCEDURE: Robotic Assisted Rectal Cancer Resection Alone|PROCEDURE: Robotic Assisted Rectal Cancer Resection With Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction
Overall survival, To determine the survival differences between NOSE group and RARC group. Overall survival is defined as the time from surgery to death from any causes, Up to 36 months|Disease-free survival, To determine the survival differences between NOSE group and RARC group. Disease-free survival is defined as the time from surgery to local or distant recurrence, Up to 36 months
Operation time, To determine the differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 1 day|Estimated intraoperative blood loss, To determine the differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 1 day|Postoperative hospital stay, To determine the surgical and patients burdern differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days|Postoperative visual analogue scale scale on day 1, To determine the surgical differences between NOSE group and RARC group. Maxium sacle is 10, miniun scale is 0. 0 represents no pain. 10 represents maximun pain., 1 day|Time to pass flatus, To determine the surgical differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days|Hospitalization costs, to determine the patients burden differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 day|Specimen length, To determine the surgical differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 day|Proximal margin, To determine the pathological differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 day|Distal margin, To determine the pathological differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days|Histological differentiation, To determine the pathological differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days|Number of lymph nodes harvested, To determine the pathological differences between NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days|Postoperative white blood cell count, To determine the surgical stress response differences NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days|Postoperative procalcitonin, To determine the surgical stress response differences NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days|Postoperative C-reactive protein, To determine the surgical stress response differences NOSE group and RARC group, 30 days
Robotic rectal cancer resection with natural orifice extraction is a recently developed minimally invasive surgery for patients with rectal cancer. However, it's safety and feasibility remain undiscussed and controversial. This study reported the clinical outcomes and prognostic factors of robotic assisted rectal cancer resection alone vs. robotic rectal cancer resection with natural orifice extraction to discuss aforementioned question. From January 2015 to November 2016, a consecutive wave of 49 patients underwent robotic rectal cancer resection with natural orifice extraction and 49 matched patients underwent conventional robotic assisted rectal cancer resection were systematically analyzed in this study.