Brain and Pelvic Floor Muscle Activity of Patients Who Had or Are Undergoing Robot-Assisted Radical Prostatectomy
This trial investigates brain and pelvic floor muscle activity in patients undergoing robot-assisted radical prostatectomy. This trial may help identify the brain waves that are associated with muscles involved in giving patients control over the bladder.
Prostate Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Electroencephalography|PROCEDURE: Electromyography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Urodynamics (UDS)
EEG measures obtained during urination., Recordings of brain and muscle activity will be collected during urination, Up to 6 months after surgery|Pelvic floor muscle (PFM) EEG measures, Simultaneous recordings of brain activity using electrodes attached to the scalp and muscle activities of muscles of the anal sphincter with electrodes bonded to the skin., Up to 6 months|Identification of Areas of synchrony in EEG Patterns and associated Urodynamics (UDS) findings, UDS data of Incontinence/continence will be monitored along with EEG recordings of brain activity during urination., UP to 6 months
EEG and EMG biofeedback, Patients will perform Kegel exercises while brain and muscle activity are monitored using a 128-channel EEG headset and up to 24 channel EMG system, Up to 6 months|Improvement of continence, International Prostate Symptom score - an 8 question screening tool -with a score from 0= never experienced to 5= almost always experienced., Throughout life of study up to 6 months after surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

* Identify pelvic floor muscle (PFM) activity on electromyogram (EMG) and electroencephalography (EEG).
* Identify any synchrony in EMG and EEG for PFM activity.
* Identify any relationship between EEG activity and UDS findings.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify changes in EEG and EMG activity with Kegel exercise. II. Examine relationship between EEG activity and continence.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Examine feasibility of replacing EMG with EEG monitoring for muscle activity.

OUTLINE:

Patients perform standard of care Kegel exercises while undergoing brain and muscle activity monitoring by EEG and EMG and UDS, respectively, before surgery, 6 weeks after surgery, 3,months after surgery and 6 months after surgery.. Patients complete questionnaires over 5-10 minutes about urinary function.