Safety and Efficacy of Pucotenlimab in pLECC
Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma (LELC) in children is a rare epithelial malignant tumor. Regarding pediatric lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma (pLELC), its clinicopathological features, prognosis, and molecular characteristics remain unknown. In preclinical studies, this study aims to explore the safety and efficacy of the PD-1 monoclonal antibody pucotenlimab combined with the chemotherapy regimen of gemcitabine and cisplatin as the first-line treatment for lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma in children and adolescents.
Lymphoepithelioma-like Carcinoma|Lymphoepithelioma|Carcinoma
DRUG: Pucotenlimab combined with GP regimen
PFS, progression of the disease or the death, PFS is defined as the time interval from the start of treatment until the occurrence of disease progression or death of the patient from any cause, whichever happens first (up to 24 months）.
ORR, The objective response rate is an important indicator for measuring the effect of a treatment regimen in shrinking tumors.Starting from the initiation of the combination therapy, regular imaging examinations (such as CT, MRI, etc.) and clinical evaluations of patients will be conducted., The objective response rate will be assessed over an estimated period of up to 3 months（after first 2 cycles, before the 3rd cycle, each cycle is 21 days).|OS, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the initiation of treatment with pucotenlimab in combination with the GP regimen until the patient's death from any cause. Death is determined based on official medical records or other reliable documentation. The follow - up for OS will continue throughout this estimated assessment period., The assessment of OS will be carried out over an estimated period of up to 24 months.
Lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma (LELC) in children is a rare epithelial malignant tumor, and its most prominent feature is the presence of a large number of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the tumor background. LELC can occur in various organs of the digestive, respiratory, skin, urinary, reproductive and other systems, but it is most commonly found in the lungs, salivary glands and stomach. In children, the common sites of LELC are the thymus, parotid gland, lymph nodes and other parts. Clinically, there is no standard treatment guideline for LELC, and currently, the same treatment regimens as those for other tumors in the same system are mostly used. At present, there is a lack of systematic reports on pediatric lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma (pLELC), and most of the known reports are case studies.

For pediatric lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma (pLELC), its clinicopathological features, prognosis and molecular characteristics remain unknown. Previously published research of the investigators showed that in preclinical studies, the clinical features and prognosis of pLELC were reported, and a retrospective study explored the real-world efficacy data of the investigators' center over more than 10 years. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis for children and adolescents showed that for patients who only received chemotherapy, the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) was 60.72% (95% CI: 45.07% - 81.79%), and the 2-year progression-free survival was 56.92% (95% CI: 41.18% - 78.68%). The 1-year overall survival (OS) of the patients was 96.4% (95% CI: 89.79% - 100%), and the 2-year overall survival was 76.53% (95% CI: 61.66% - 95.00%).

For the group treated with PD-1 inhibitor combined with chemotherapy, only 1 patient (1/10) died due to disease progression. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that for patients who received anti-PD-1 combined with chemotherapy, the 1-year progression-free survival was 100%, and the 2-year progression-free survival was 72.92% (95% CI: 46.80% - 100%). In addition, the 1-year overall survival of patients who received anti-PD-1 combined with chemotherapy was 100%, and the 2-year overall survival was 87.5% (95% CI: 67.34% - 100%). Both the median progression-free survival and the median overall survival have not been reached.

In addition, the investigators determined its genomic landscape through whole exome sequencing (WES), including single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and copy number variants (CNVs). Furthermore, the investigators comprehensively compared the genomic landscape of pLELC with other related cancer types (such as nasopharyngeal carcinoma in children and adult LELC) to further deepen understanding of this malignant tumor.

The preclinical data provide a theoretical basis for the immunotherapy with PD-1 antibody for pediatric lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma.

This study aims to explore the safety and efficacy of the PD-1 monoclonal antibody pucotenlimab combined with the chemotherapy regimen of gemcitabine and cisplatin as the first-line treatment for lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma in children and adolescents.