Exercise in Metastatic Breast Cancer: EMBody
The purpose of this study is to study exercise in a novel population with indolent MBC (no progression on current therapy in prior 12 months and not receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy). The study team hypothesizes that delivering virtual, supervised, progressive intensity aerobic and resistance training exercise for 16 weeks in this population will significantly improve 1) cardiorespiratory fitness, functional status, and sarcopenia (low muscle mass), all established predictors of survival, and 2) patient- reported outcomes.
Breast Cancer|Indolent Metastatic Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention
Change in cardiorespiratory fitness, Measured by minutes on the treadmill, baseline, 16 weeks
physical performance battery, total score on short physical performance battery, baseline, 8, and 16 weeks|Mean quality of life, as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System-29, Likert-scaled questionnaire, with response scores ranging from 1 to 5. Scores alternate from 1 or 5 being the lowest value., baseline, 8, and 16 weeks|muscle mass, measured by mg/kg2 on HU on PET/CT scans, baseline, and 16 weeks|muscle density, measured by mg/kg2 on HU on CT scans, baseline, and 16 weeks|adipose mass, measured by mg/kg2 on HU on CT scans, baseline, and 16 weeks|Change in physical activity minutes, measured by accelerometer data, baseline to post 16-week intervention|Change in steps per day, measured by accelerometer data, baseline to post 16-week intervention|Mean fatigue score as measured by the basic fatigue inventory (BFI), Likert-scaled questionnaire, with response scores ranging from 0 to 10, with 10 being the worse response., baseline, and16-weeks|Change intention and habits, as measured by the Behavioral Theory Scales, Likert-scaled questionnaire, measured with a 5-point Likert scale with response options ranging from "strongly disagree" to "strongly agree." Total scores are summed in the range of 40 to 200, with a higher score indicating stronger motivation that could predict exercise behavior., baseline, and 16-weeks|Uptake of the study, the proportion of total patients approached, screened, and ultimately completing the baseline assessments, date open to accrual until closed to accrual, up to 2 years|Adherence with the intervention defined, the proportion of scheduled sessions attended by participants randomized to the exercise intervention arm, baseline to post 16-week intervention|change in patient-reported functional limitations, as measured by a functional limitations scale, mean score of 5 question scale, where participants responses are either scored 0 or 1, with "some difficulty" a 1 and "no difficulty" as a 0., baseline, and16-weeks
This is a randomized, two arm, single-center study designed to compare the effect of exercise versus usual care control on the clinical parameter of cardiorespiratory fitness, in patients with metastatic breast cancer with indolent disease biology over a 16-week period. This study will be enrolling up to 100 participants. Participants will be randomized 1:1 in blocks of 4 to the exercise intervention or usual care, stratified by frailty yes/no defined by baseline SPPB score ≤ 8 or \> 8.

Primary Objective To compare the effect of a 16-week multimodality, virtually delivered exercise intervention on cardiorespiratory fitness measured by a modified Bruce ramp protocol treadmill test to usual care, in patients with indolent metastatic breast cancer.

Secondary Objectives

1. To compare the effect of exercise versus usual care on objective physical function measured by the short physical performance battery (SBBP)
2. To compare the effect of exercise versus usual care on subjective physical functioning measured by PROMIS-29 questionnaire
3. To compare the effect of exercise versus usual care on body composition, measured by visceral adiposity, lean muscle mass, and muscle density on CT scans obtained as standard of care using SliceOmatic software
4. To compare the effect of exercise versus usual care on objective physical activity measured by accelerometer wear
5. To compare the effect of exercise versus usual care on patient reported outcomes, including fatigue (BFI) and health related quality of life (PROMIS-29)
6. To determine the fidelity of the exercise intervention, measured by changes in measures of constructs of habit and intention administered by questionnaire
7. To describe patient uptake and adherence with the intervention, measured by proportion of approached patients who consent to the study, and proportion of assigned training sessions attended by patients randomized to the exercise arm.