Breaststroke Swimming After Breast Cancer Treatment/Surgery as a Means of Treatment for Seroma, Lymphedema, and Chronic Arm and Chest Pain
Following surgery and treatment for breast cancer, many patients experience swelling of lymph nodes (lymphedema) or accumulation of fluid (seroma) that can cause pain, restrict movement, and reduce quality of life. Current treatments include massage, pressure dressings, and drainage, but these are often ineffective and do not last. Physical activity, in particular swimming, has been linked to improvement in lymphedema/seroma symptoms, but more research is required to determine whether or not this type of treatment is effective.
Lymphedema|Seroma|Pain, Postoperative|Pain, Chest
BEHAVIORAL: Swimming
Post-operative pain following breast cancer, The primary outcome will be pain as assessed using a visual analog scale (VAS). The VAS scale is a 100mm-long horizontal line with the word "no pain" at one end and "pain as bad as it can be" at the other. This will be pain levels of patients after the swimming program in comparison with the control group who will receive no swimming program., The primary measure will be calculated after swimming is completed. This will last approximately 14 months.
In 2016, an estimated 25,700 Canadian women were diagnosed with breast cancer. With advances in detection, management and treatment, the 5-year relative survival has improved to 87%. Consequently, breast cancer survivors represent a significant proportion of Canadian society. Research suggests that 30-60 % of women with breast cancer will experience some form of arm morbidity between 6 months and 3 years after breast cancer. Both lymphedema and seroma can cause substantial discomfort, chronic pain, mobility issues, and psychological distress, such as social isolation, anxiety and depression. The current treatment for seroma and lymphedema is drainage, massage, and the use of compression dressings, but these can be ineffective and costly and the effects of the treatment do not last over time. This project will provide crucial knowledge regarding the utility of a simple, swimming based exercise regimen involving the breaststroke in reducing chronic pain related to post-surgical lymphedema or seroma in breast cancer patients. The breaststroke uses a full range of motion in the water, with the water creating a pressure back onto the seroma/damaged tissues. This study will be a randomized, two-arm, pilot study. Patients allocated to the swimming group will participate in 8 weeks of the swimming program, which involves three weekly swimming sessions of 30 minutes minimum. The control group will include patients who receive standard of care. This includes the recommendation to undertake exercise and physiotherapy; however, no formal exercise program will be provided. Breast cancer survivors represent a significant proportion of Canadian society, with most recent data suggesting that at least 157,000 Canadian women who had a breast cancer diagnosis in 1999 were still living. Many of these women still suffer from long term complications of their cancer and its treatment. Given the high prevalence of chronic pain in breast cancer survivors, it is unsurprising that the use of pain medications is prevalent as well. A recent U.S. analysis of 10,000 breast cancer patients treated with adjuvant endocrine therapy demonstrated a 56.9% crude probability of opioid use. Within the context of the current opioid crisis in North America, the opportunity to reduce pain and the need for pain medication is absolutely critical.