Study to Evaluate the Efficacy of Afatinib in Skull Base Chordoma
This is a single arm, open label, single center, and prospective, interventional study to explore clinical efficacy of afatinib in patients with chordoma of skull base. Subject meeting the inclusion criteria will take afatinib (40 mg daily) orally, 4 weeks for a cycle. The primary objective is to assess the efficacy of afatinib in chordoma of skull base by objective response rate (ORR). The Secondary objectives is to assess progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), tumor response duration and tumor shrinkage degree in patients with chordoma of skull base after using afatinib; to evaluate the safety and tolerability of afatinib in patients with chordoma of skull base.
Chordoma of Clivus
DRUG: Afatinib
Objective response rate, Proportion of patients with reduction in tumor volume to a predefined value for a minimum period. Generally, ORR is defined as the sum of complete response and partial response. The best response, that is, the best response throughout the study, will be evaluated., 12 months after enrollment
Progression-free survival, duration from the date of inclusion until the date of objective tumor progression or death., 12 months after enrollment|Overall survival, duration from the date of inclusion until the date of death., 12 months after enrollment|Duration of response, duration of partial response and complete response, that is, duration from effective date to the date of proved tumor progression., 12 months after enrollment
This is a single arm, open label, single center, and prospective, interventional study to explore clinical efficacy of afatinib in patients with chordoma of skull base. Subject meeting the inclusion criteria will take afatinib (40 mg daily) orally, 4 weeks for a cycle. The primary objective is to assess the efficacy of afatinib in chordoma of skull base by objective response rate (ORR). The Secondary objectives is to assess progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), tumor response duration and tumor shrinkage degree in patients with chordoma of skull base after using afatinib; to evaluate the safety and tolerability of afatinib in patients with chordoma of skull base.