68Ga-RM2 PET/CT in Detecting Regional Nodal and Distant Metastases in Patients With Intermediate or High-Risk Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well gallium Ga 68-labeled gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) antagonist BAY86-7548 (68Ga-RM2) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works in detecting regional nodal and distant metastases in patients with intermediate or high-risk prostate cancer. 68Ga-RM2 PET/CT scan may be able to see smaller tumors than the standard of care CT or magnetic resonance imaging scan.
Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Gallium Ga 68-labeled GRPR Antagonist BAY86-7548|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Sensitivity, Specificity, Positive, and Negative Predictive Value of 68Ga-RM2 PET for the Detection of Regional Nodal Metastases Compared to Pathology at Radical Prostatectomy, True positive patient is defined as PET positive for regional nodes, pathology at prostatectomy positive for regional nodes or PET positive for regional nodes, pathology negative for regional nodes, imaging after prostatectomy demonstrates node was not removed at surgery, and follow-up biopsy or imaging demonstrates presence of nodal disease. True negative patient is defined as PET negative for regional nodes, pathology at prostatectomy negative for regional nodes. False positive patient is defined as PET positive for regional nodes, pathology at prostatectomy is negative, and imaging after prostatectomy, week 1 study visit following radiopharmaceutical administration, up to 2 hours to assess
Sensitivity, Specificity, Negative and Positive Predictive Value for Detection of Regional Nodal Metastases in Comparison to Cross Sectional Imaging Performed Contemporaneously With the 68Ga-RM2 PET, True positive patient is defined as PET positive for regional nodes, pathology at prostatectomy positive for regional nodes or PET positive for regional nodes, pathology negative for regional nodes, imaging after prostatectomy demonstrates node was not removed at surgery, and follow-up biopsy or imaging demonstrates presence of nodal disease. True negative patient is defined as PET negative for regional nodes, pathology at prostatectomy negative for regional nodes. False positive patient is defined as PET positive for regional nodes, pathology at prostatectomy is negative, and imaging after prostatectomy, week 1 study visit following radiopharmaceutical administration, up to 2 hours to assess
Incidence of Osseous and Distant Metastatic Lesions, Up to 3 years|Maximum Standardized Uptake Value (SUVmax) From 68Ga-RM2 PET, Correlation between SUVmax from gallium Ga 68-labeled GRPR antagonist BAY86-7548 PET and short axis diameter of nodal disease on cross sectional imaging correlate to presence of true pathology will be performed., Up to 3 years|PSA Progression Free Survival, Patients with and without pelvic nodal metastases will be compared., At 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate 68Ga-RM2 PET/CT for detection of intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer prior to prostatectomy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 68Ga-RM2 intravenously (IV). Within 45-60 minutes, patients undergo a PET/CT scan. Patients may undergo a second PET/CT scan immediately after the first scan for attenuation correction. Patients may undergo also a repeat 68Ga-RM2 PET/CT scan after the completion of their treatment to evaluate response to therapy, if requested by the treating physician.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 24-48 hours and within 3-12 months.