Multi-canceR Early-detection Test in Asymptomatic Individuals (PREVENT)
PREVENT is a prospective, multicenter, interventional study evaluating the performance of the OverC multi-cancer detection blood test in asymptomatic individuals with cancer risk.
Cancer|Early Detection of Cancer|Circulating Cell-free DNA
DEVICE: OverC multi-cancer detection blood test
The cancer clinical stages of cancer patients diagnosed via the multi-cancer detection blood test, Up to 5 years|Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) for the multi-cancer detection test alone or with standard-of-care screening as evaluated after 1-year follow-up, Up to 1 year
Changes in health-related quality of life in individuals with a positive result of the multi-cancer detection test assessed by Short Form Health Survey (SF-12v2), The SF-12v2 is a measure of health related quality of life including physical component summary (PCS) and mental component summary (MCS). Both PCS and MCs have scores that range from 0 to 100. Higher values represent better health., Up to 5 years|Changes in anxiety as evaluated by Self-rating Anxiety Scale (SAS) of individuals with a positive result of the multi-cancer detection test, Assessed by Self-rating Anxiety Scale (SAS). Range in score from 25 to 100 with higher scores indicate greater severity of anxiety., Up to 5 years|Satisfaction with the multi-cancer detection test, Satisfaction will be measured by a self-reported questionnaire. Range in ranks from very satisfied, satisfied, general, unsatisfied, to very unsatisfied., Up to 5 years|Sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV for the multi-cancer detection blood test alone or with standard-of-care screening as evaluated after 3- and 5-year follow-up, Up to 5 years
Participants will receive the OverC multi-cancer detection blood test along with standard-of-care screening, whose results will be returned to health care providers and participants. The diagnostic procedures will be guided firstly by the OverC multi-cancer detection blood test and then by the standard-of-care screening. The number, cancer types, and cancer clinical stage of cancer patients diagnosed via the OverC multi-cancer detection blood test will be recorded.

The study will enroll approximately 12,500 participants as defined by eligibility criteria with an anticipated enrollment period of approximately 9 months at up to 30 clinical sites within China. Participants will be actively followed for approximately 5 years from the date of their enrollment.