Liver Transplantation in Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
The aim of the current study is to determine the potential efficacy of liver transplantation in the form of patients' overall survival (OS) after neoadjuvant systemic therapy in patients with biologically responsive locally advanced non-metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) in comparison to patients historically treated with chemotherapy alone.
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma|Cholangiocarcinoma, Intrahepatic
PROCEDURE: Liver Transplant
5-year Overall Survival Rate (ORS), 5-year ORS is the length of time that patients diagnosed with locally advanced non-metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) treated with neoadjuvant systemic therapy followed by liver transplant (LT) are still alive post-LT., 5 years from the time of transplant or until death of patient, whichever came first
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), RFS is the length of time from liver transplantation (LT) to the time of disease recurrence, time of patient death, or time of study completion for patients with locally advanced non-metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma treated with neoadjuvant systemic therapy followed by liver transplantation., From date of transplant until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years|Intent-to-treat Overall Survival Rate (ITT ORS), ITT ORS is the length of time that patients diagnosed with locally advanced non-metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) treated with neoadjuvant systemic therapy and waitlisted for liver transplant for iCCA are still alive after being waitlisted for liver transplantation., 5 years from time of waitlist or until death of patient, whichever came first|Post-liver transplant functional assessments to identify postoperative complications, short-term morbidities, and long-term morbidities, All serious adverse events will be followed and documented, including bleeding requiring re-operation, hepatic artery or portal vein thrombosis, bile duct leak, bile duct stricture, primary non-function of the transplant liver, need for re-transplant of the liver., From date of emergence of a post-transplant adverse event until the date the adverse event is designated as resolved by investigator or its effect on patient's condition stabilizes, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years
Research Significance:

Cholangiocarcinoma, which arises from biliary epithelium, can be anatomically subdivided into distal, hilar, and intrahepatic subgroups. Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) constitutes the second most common primary liver cancer after hepatocellular carcinoma, with a rising incidence but without parallel advances in treatment or patient outcome. At present, surgical resection is the only widely accepted potentially curative therapy for iCCA; however, 5-year survival rates for resectable disease are less than 25%. This high mortality is attributed to high tumor recurrence. Two-thirds of patients who undergo curative-intent resection for iCCA suffer from postoperative disease recurrence, most commonly in the remnant liver, followed by the peritoneum and abdominal lymph nodes. Approximately 83% of recurrences occur within the first 2 years after resection, suggesting inadequate local tumor control with resection in this highly infiltrative cancer.

Liver transplantation for intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma:

While liver transplantation has been previously investigated for unresectable iCCA, the outcomes have been poor in comparison to the results for hepatocellular carcinoma, with 18-25% OS and RFS after 5 years; however, most studies evaluated patients with either incidental iCCA or iCCA misdiagnosed prior to transplant as hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Thus, iCCA is considered by most centers to be a formal contraindication to liver transplantation.

Neoadjuvant therapy with subsequent liver transplantation for perihilar cholangiocarcinoma:

Similar to iCCA, liver transplantation outcomes for perihilar cholangiocarcinoma were initially poor; however, an analysis of the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) database found a significant survival benefit for patients with perihilar cholangiocarcinoma who received pre-transplant neoadjuvant systemic therapy compared with patients who transplanted for incident disease. Subsequently, several studies reported improved survival for hilar cholangiocarcinoma treated with neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by liver transplantation. A multicenter study reported a 65% 5-year survival rate; liver transplantation has thus become the preferred treatment for patients with locally advanced unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma. Response to neoadjuvant therapy probably offers a means to select patients with hilar cholangiocarcinoma who might benefit from transplantation.

Neoadjuvant therapy with subsequent liver transplantation for intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA):

The published literature regarding liver transplantation (LT) for iCCA is mostly limited to incidental or misdiagnosed tumors identified on pathology, with most patients not receiving neoadjuvant therapy. Retrospective analysis including a small cohort of patients receiving neoadjuvant therapy showed that pre-transplant therapy appeared to decrease disease recurrence; however, reports did not distinguish between hilar cholangiocarcinoma and iCCA. In 2016, a multi-center, international, retrospective study investigated outcomes of liver transplantation in 48 iCCA patients who had not received neoadjuvant chemotherapy or locoregional therapy. In that study, 5-year OS was 65% for iCCA ≤2 cm and 45% for advanced larger lesions. Survival outcomes for locally advanced iCCA were worse, but patients having received pre-transplant neoadjuvant therapy in this series were excluded. The effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with larger and multifocal tumors remains largely undefined. In 2020, another multicenter study compared the outcomes of patients with cirrhosis undergoing liver transplantation or liver resection who had iCCA or combined hepatocellular-cholangiocarcinoma (cHCC-CCA). The retrospective study analyzed a total of 49 LT and 26 liver resected patients with cirrhosis and histologically confirmed iCCA/ cHCC-CCA ≤5 cm. Results suggested that liver transplanted patients had a significantly lower tumor recurrence (diameter of largest nodule and tumor differentiation were independently predictive) and had a significantly higher 5-year recurrence-free survival. The effects of liver transplantation may provide a benefit for highly selected patients with cirrhosis and unresectable iCCA/cHCC-CCA with specific tumor dimensions. These findings suggests that liver transplantation might be a viable option for small, solitary iCCA in the absence of pre-transplant therapy or with locoregional therapy alone.

A subset of patients with iCCA experienced sustained response to neoadjuvant therapy, and it has been postulated that response duration might be an appropriate surrogate marker for the selection of patients for liver transplantation. Through the Methodist-MD Anderson Joint Cholangiocarcinoma Collaborative Committee, a recent prospective case-series of 6 patients with locally advanced unresectable iCCA without extrahepatic disease or vascular involvement was performed. Patients treated with neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy with a minimum of 6 months radiographic disease stability or regression received liver transplantation. The median post-transplant follow-up duration was 36 months (range; 29-51). The OS rate was 100% (95% Confidence interval \[CI\]; 100-100) at 1-year, 83·3% (95% CI; 27·3-97·5) at 3 years, and 83·3% (95% CI; 27·3-97·5) at 5 years. Three patients developed post-transplant recurrence at a median of 7·6 months with 50% (95% CI; 11·1-80·4) RFS at 1-, 3-, and 5-years. Since publication, an additional 5 patients have been transplanted, and all patients have been followed for an additional 24 months. More recent data indicates a 5-year OS of 79.5% with RFS of 42.4%. In regards to recurrence, 4 of 5 occurred within 12 months of transplant. Retrospective evaluation of the pre-transplant imaging demonstrated evidence of pre-transplant extrahepatic disease. More stringent patient selection, such as the addition of a PET-CT scan, would likely avoid early recurrence in the majority of patients. Adverse events have been reported, including grade 3 postoperative ileus in one patient and grade 4 acute kidney injury requiring temporary dialysis in another patient. Both adverse events were among those commonly occurring with liver transplantation for any indication. No post-operative complications could be directly related to this protocol. Therefore, the investigators anticipate that selected patients with locally advanced non-metastatic iCCA who show pre-transplant disease stability on neoadjuvant therapy might benefit from liver transplantation.

Research Design and Methods:

This is a single-center phase II study. Patients with locally advanced unresectable iCCA with no evidence of vascular invasion or extrahepatic disease who have at least 6 months of disease stability or regression on neoadjuvant systemic therapy will be enrolled. Eligible patients who also meet center-specific medical criteria for transplant listing will be listed in the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) national registry. When a decision is made to list the patient, the patient will be assigned a subject identification number. All organ offers will be received as per UNOS regulations. When a matching donor liver becomes available, the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be re-verified.