Testing the Addition of an Anti-cancer Drug, Elimusertib (BAY 1895344) ATR Inhibitor, to the Chemotherapy Treatment (Gemcitabine) for Advanced Pancreatic and Ovarian Cancer, and Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial identifies the best dose, possible benefits and/or side effects of gemcitabine in combination with elimusertib (BAY 1895344) in treating patients with pancreatic, ovarian, and other solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body (advanced). Gemcitabine is a chemotherapy drug that blocks the cell from making DNA and may kill tumor cells. elimusertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving gemcitabine and elimusertib in combination may shrink or stabilize cancer.
Advanced Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Advanced Ovarian Carcinoma|Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Imaging Testing|DRUG: Elimusertib|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Incidence of adverse events, The toxicity of the combination of gemcitabine plus elimusertib will be assessed with Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 5.0 criteria., Up to 1 year|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), A conventional algorithm (3+3 design) will be used to identify the MTD, escalating on zero of three or one of six dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), and de-escalating if two DLTs are encountered. The MTD will be the highest dose level at which zero of three or one of six subjects experience a DLT., Up to completion of dose-escalation phase|Overall response rate (ORR) (expansion cohort), Radiological response will be assessed with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria and will be graded as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease and progressive disease., Up to 1 year|Duration of response (expansion cohort), Time at which measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date on which recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 1 year|Progression free survival (PFS) (expansion cohort), Time from study enrollment until the identification of disease progression or death, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival (expansion cohort), Time from study enrollment until death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year
Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of elimusertib in combination with gemcitabine, Individual PK parameters will be estimated for the maximum concentration (Cmax), area under the concentration-time curve (AUC), half-life (t1/2), apparent clearance (Cl/F) and apparent volume of distribution (V/F), as feasible with non-compartmental methods. The PK variables will be tabulated, and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) will be calculated for each dose level. PK parameters will be reported descriptively., Day 1 of dose-escalation phase|Gemcitabine pharmacokinetics, The CDA phenotype will be correlated with gemcitabine half-life, AUC and the dFdU/gemcitabine metabolic ratio., Days 1 and 8 of dose-escalation|Presence or absence of homologous recombination (HR) repair proficiency, Will be defined according to formation of RAD51 foci. Will also be evaluated in relation to the clinical outcomes of ORR and PFS time., Pre-treatment to time of disease progression, assessed up to 1 year|Presence or absence of replication stress, Will be defined at the gene expression and protein levels for phosphorylated (p)KAP1, pRPA32, cyclin E and MYC. Will also be evaluated in relation to the clinical outcomes of ORR and PFS time., Pre-treatment to time of disease progression, assessed up to 1 year|Presence or absence of ATR activation, Will be defined by the expression of pATR and pCHK1. Will also be evaluated in relation to the clinical outcomes of ORR and PFS time., Pre-treatment to time of disease progression, assessed up to 1 year|Conversion of cancer with stable replication forks to one with unstable replication forks, DNA fiber assays will be used to assess whether gemcitabine/elimusertib treatment converts a cancer with stable replication forks to one with unstable replication forks. Will also be evaluated in relation to the clinical outcomes of ORR and PFS time., Pre-treatment to time of disease progression, assessed up to 1 year|Increase in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage level (expansion cohort), Changes in immunohistochemical markers of DNA damage, gamma-H2AX and phosphorylated (p)NBS1., Pre-treatment and on-treatment
Pharmacodynamic (biological endpoints, toxicity and efficacy) parameters, Will be analyzed with nonparametric statistics., Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of gemcitabine in combination with elimusertib (BAY 1895344), as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0. (Dose Escalation and Expansion Cohort) II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of gemcitabine in combination with elimusertib (BAY 1895344). (Dose Escalation Cohort)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. Analyze the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the gemcitabine and elimusertib (BAY 1895344) combination.

III. Assessing whether immunohistochemical markers of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage, gamma-H2AX and phosphorylated (p)NBS1, increase in on-treatment biopsies compared to the levels seen in pre-treatment biopsies.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore biomarkers that predict response to this combination. II. Evaluate mechanisms of acquired resistance to this combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of gemcitabine followed by a dose expansion study.

Patients receive gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and elimusertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 2-3 and 9-10. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients also undergo medical imaging scans after cycle 2 and then every 9 weeks throughout the trial and collection of blood samples during screening and on days 1, 2, and 9-10 of cycle 1. Patients in the dose-expansion portion of the trial also undergo biopsies during screening and on day 9 of cycle 1.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.