Administration of Tadalafil in Conjunction With Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in Patients With Multiple Myeloma
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the anti-tumor efficacy of tadalafil in combination with Lenalidomide/dexamethasone (Rd) in multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Tadalafil|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Clarithromycin
Response Rate, Percentage of participants who responded to the addition of tadalafil. Response is defined as a complete remission (CR), very good partial remission (VGPR), partial remission (PR), or stable disease (SD) by International Uniform Response criteria., Up to 6 months
Duration of Response, Median length of response in months., Up to 6 months|Time to Progression, Median time to progression of disease in days., Up to 71 days|Quality of Life Scores, Median change in symptom scores. Scale is the EORTC QLQ-C30. There are three domains: symptom scale (score range 7-14); past week (score range 21-82); and global health status (score range 2-14). Higher or increasing scores mean worse outcomes; lower or decreasing scores mean better outcomes., 3 months (M3) and 6 months (M6)|Effect of PDE5 Inhibition on Immune Function as Assessed by MDSC Quantification, Percentage change in the amount of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in peripheral blood., Up to 6 months
This is an early phase study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of tadalafil with lenalidomide and dexamethasone (Rd) or BiRd. 19 patients on Rd or BiRd will be treated with tadalafil for a minimum of 6 months. The investigational drug will be discontinued if there is evidence of disease progression as defined by the International Uniform Response criteria \[1\]. For responding patients (patients who have a CR, VGPR, PR or SD), the therapy will be continued until progression or intolerable adverse effects. Blood and bone marrow will be collected for various studies as detailed in section 14.10. Clinical response will be monitored every month during the study.