Clinical Trial of BAT8003 (for Injection) for Patients With Advanced Epithelial Cancer
The trial is divided into three periods. Dosing will be the first day of each cycle, 21 days per cycle. The first period is the day of first study drug delivery until the 21st day, that is, the first treatment cycle. The DLT observation, exploration of MTD, safety of single administration, tolerance and pharmacokinetics, immunity Original research will happen during this period. The second period is a 2-8 dosing cycle, with multiple doses of tolerance, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity studies, and preliminary efficacy evaluations. After a 2-4 cycle study, patients with good tolerance and no tumor progression will continue to the 5-8 cycle dosing study. The third period is to expand the study. After exploring the MTD, the investigator and the sponsor can discuss to extend another 10-30 cases in a safe and effective dose group to further study the effectiveness and safety of BAT8003 and its pharmacokinetics.
Advanced Solid Cancer
DRUG: BAT8003
dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), safety and tolerability endpoint, 3weeks|maximum tolerated dose (MTD), safety and tolerability endpoint, 3weeks|Area under the curve（AUC）, pharmacokinetic endpoint, no more than 24weeks|Maximum serum drug concentration（Cmax), pharmacokinetic endpoint, no more than 24weeks|half-life period（t1/2）, pharmacokinetic endpoint, no more than 24weeks|Maximum serum drug time（Tmax）, pharmacokinetic endpoint, no more than 24weeks
The trial is divided into three periods. Dosing will be the first day of each cycle, 21 days per cycle. The first period is the day of first study drug delivery until the 21st day, that is, the first treatment cycle. The DLT observation, exploration of MTD, safety of single administration, tolerance and pharmacokinetics, immunity Original research will happen during this period. The second period is a 2-8 dosing cycle, with multiple doses of tolerance, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity studies, and preliminary efficacy evaluations. After a 2-4 cycle study, patients with good tolerance and no tumor progression will continue to the 5-8 cycle dosing study. The third period is to expand the study. After exploring the MTD, the investigator and the sponsor can discuss to extend another 10-30 cases in a safe and effective dose group to further study the effectiveness and safety of BAT8003 and its pharmacokinetics.