Quality of Life After Treatment for Bladder Cancer: The Bladder Cancer Survivorship Study
This study evaluates the effect of bladder cancer treatment on quality of life.
Stage 0a Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0is Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Bladder Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Change in quality of life outcomes - PROMIS-29, Assessed using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-29, a 29-item instrument with 29 questions in eight categories of Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL): physical function, sleep disturbance, pain interference and pain intensity, fatigue, anxiety, depression) and ability to participate in social roles and activities. Questions are answered on a 5-point scale with varying responses assigned to the scale based on the category/question., At baseline, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months|Change in quality of life outcomes - Bladder Cancer Index, Assessed using the Bladder Cancer Index (BCI). The BCI consists of 36 items, with 4- or 5-point Likert response scales for each item, covering 3 primary domains: urinary (14 items), bowel (10 items), and sexual (12 items). The items focus on the frequency of the disease symptoms, with answer scales such as: "Never, rarely, about half the time, usually, or always"., At baseline, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months|Patient level characteristics, Will be assessed by the effect of race/ethnicity, comorbid conditions, education level, gender, and age on patient reported outcomes. Interactions between intervention type and patient-level characteristics will be included. The distributions of variables will be summarized graphically and numerically., At baseline, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months after treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare general and disease-specific quality of life outcomes at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months after treatment for localized bladder cancer using the PROMIS-29 and the Bladder Cancer Index (BCI) respectively.

II. To identify patient level characteristics that may influence quality of life outcomes after treatment for localized bladder cancer.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Patients complete surveys and also have their medical records reviewed on study.