Surveys, Blood Testing, and Fibroscan in Screening for Liver Fibrosis and Liver Cirrhosis
This clinical trial studies the use of surveys, blood testing, and fibroscan in screening for liver fibrosis and liver cirrhosis in new or existing patients of the HOPE clinic seeking usual clinical care. Fibroscan is an imaging procedure of the liver which uses a probe like an ultrasound. Information gathered from this study may help researchers learn more about how to prevent or find liver cancer in patients who are currently receiving care at the HOPE clinic. Early detection of liver cancer may improve survival.
Liver and Intrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma
OTHER: Clinical Evaluation|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Liver Ultrasonographic Elastography|OTHER: Survey Administration
Positive hepatitis B surface antigen test result, The presence of at least one risk factor for hepatitis B virus (HBV) on the screening questionnaire will indicate a positive (versus negative) screening for HBV infection., At baseline
Positive anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) test result, Will assess positive anti-HCV test result AND either 1) detectable HCV ribonucleic acid, or 2) history of HCV infection and past anti-HCV treatment. Will estimate the prevalence and exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for each of the fibrosis and cirrhosis risk factors examined in this study. For each risk factor, we will first present a cross tabulation of the dichotomous screening test result by the dichotomous gold standard result. To evaluate the performance of each screening method, will calculate point estimates and 95% confidence intervals for the sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratio, and diagnostic odds ratio., At baseline|Fibroscan result >= F2, Will estimate the prevalence and exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for each of the fibrosis and cirrhosis risk factors examined in this study. For each risk factor, we will first present a cross tabulation of the dichotomous screening test result by the dichotomous gold standard result. To evaluate the performance of each screening method, will calculate point estimates and 95% confidence intervals for the sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratio, and diagnostic odds ratio., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the sensitivity of the modified Center for Disease Control (CDC) hepatitis survey in diagnosing chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) among HOPE clinic patient.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the sensitivity of the modified CDC hepatitis survey in identifying chronic active hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection among HOPE clinic patients.

II. To estimate the sensitivity of fibrosis serum biomarkers, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease fibrosis score (NFS), fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4), and fatty liver index (FLI) in detecting fibrosis (fibroscan result \>= F2) among HOPE clinic patients with metabolic conditions.

III. To estimate the sensitivity of the Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test Alcohol Consumption (AUDIT-C) in identifying fibrosis (fibroscan result \>= F2) among HOPE clinic patients.

IV. To estimate the sensitivity of the AUDIT-10 survey in identifying fibrosis (Fibroscan result \>= F2) among Hope Clinic patients who scored \>= 4 for men or \>= 3 for women on the AUDIT-C.

V. To estimate the specificity and accuracy of each of these risk factor screening tools in HOPE clinic patients.

VI. To estimate the prevalence of fibrosis and cirrhosis risk factors among HOPE clinic patients.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore factors associated with each fibrosis/cirrhosis risk factor. II. To investigate differential diagnostic accuracy of screening methods by fibrosis severity.

III. To evaluate the diagnostic performance of each dichotomized biomarker (NFS, FIB-4, and FLI) separately and assess biomarker optimal cutpoints for identifying fibrosis in the study population.

OUTLINE:

Patients complete surveys over 10-15 minutes, and undergo blood testing, clinical evaluation, and fibroscan at baseline.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 3 months.