Onvansertib in Combination With Abiraterone and Prednisone in Adult Patients With Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
The purpose of the phase 2 study is to determine whether Onvansertib is safe and tolerable in adult participants with Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer who have disease progression while receiving abiraterone acetate (abiraterone) and prednisone therapy, and to observe the effects of Onvansertib in combination with abiraterone and prednisone on disease control.
Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Onvansertib|DRUG: Abiraterone|DRUG: Prednisone
Percentage of Participants Achieving Disease Control at or Before 12 Weeks, Disease control was defined as lack of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression per Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria: not having an increase in PSA from Baseline or nadir ≥ 25% and ≥ 2 ng/mL during the first 12 weeks of PSA assessments. Participants that do not have 12 weeks of PSA assessments were considered not to have demonstrated PSA progression control in this analysis. If a participant achieved disease control prior to Week 12, but relapsed at, or before Week 12, disease control was still considered achieved. The 90% confidence intervals were calculated using Wilson Confidence Interval., Baseline up to Week 12
Mean Percentage Change From Baseline in PSA at 12 Weeks, PSA level was measured via blood sample. Mean and standard deviation change is reported., Baseline and Week 12|Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in PSA at 12 Weeks, PSA level was measured via blood sample. Mean and standard deviation change is reported., Baseline and Week 12|Median Percentage Change From Baseline in PSA at 12 Weeks, PSA level was measured via blood sample. Median, minimum and maximum change is reported., Baseline and Week 12|Median Absolute Change From Baseline in PSA at 12 Weeks, PSA level was measured via blood sample. Median, minimum and maximum change is reported., Baseline and Week 12|Time to PSA Progression or Death, Time to PSA progression in weeks is defined as time from Cycle 1 Day 1 (initiation of treatment) until initiation of any PSA progression per PCWG3 criteria: an increase in PSA from Baseline or nadir ≥ 25% and ≥ 2 ng/mL. If a participant discontinued from the study without confirmed PSA progression or death, then they were censored at the last PSA laboratory date. Kaplan-Meier method was used., Up to approximately 100 weeks|Time to Radiographic Progression or Death, Time to radiographic progression in weeks is defined as time from Cycle 1 Day 1 (initiation of treatment) until initiation of any radiographic progression per PCWG3 criteria. If a participant discontinued from the study without confirmed radiographic progression or death, then they were censored at the last valid assessment date., Up to approximately 110 weeks|Percentage of Participants Achieving Radiographic Responses at or Before 12 Weeks, Radiographic response is defined as the best overall response between Cycle 1 Day 1 and 12 weeks post-baseline being stable disease (SD) or better (partial response \[PR\] or complete response \[CR\]) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1):

CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have had a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. All lymph nodes must have been non-pathological in size (\< 10mm short axis).

PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters.

SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD).

PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an increase of at least 5mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Baseline up to Week 12|Percentage of Participants Who Are Adherent to Study Treatment (PP Analysis) Achieving Disease Control at or Before 12 Weeks, Disease control was defined as lack of PSA progression per PCWG3 criteria: not having an increase in PSA from Baseline or nadir ≥ 25% and ≥ 2 ng/mL during the first 12 weeks of PSA assessments. Participants that do not have 12 weeks of PSA assessments were considered not to have demonstrated PSA progression control in this analysis. If a participant achieved disease control prior to Week 12, but relapsed at, or before Week 12, disease control was still considered achieved. The 90% confidence intervals were calculated using Wilson Confidence Interval., Baseline up to Week 12|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Adverse events (AEs) are defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. TEAEs are defined as AEs with a start date after Cycle 1 Day 1. AE severity was graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 on a scale from Grade 1 (mild) to Grade 5 (death related to AE)., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants With DLTs, DLTs are defined as a CTCAE Grade 4 hematologic AE or CTCAE Grade ≥ 3 non-hematologic AE that is considered related to the study drug., Arms A and B: up to one 21-day cycle; Arm C: up to two 14-day cycles
The purpose of the phase 2 study is to determine whether Onvansertib is safe and tolerable in adult participants with Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer who have disease progression while receiving abiraterone acetate (abiraterone) and prednisone therapy, and to observe the effects of Onvansertib in combination with abiraterone and prednisone on disease control.