Traction vs. No Traction in Colonic ESD
The goal of this prospective, randomized, controlled trial conducted at Baylor St. Luke's Medical Center is to compare the effectiveness and clinical outcomes of using a traction device in colonic endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) to those of using conventional ESD.

The investigators of this study hypothesize that use of the traction device will help expedite colonic endoscopic submucosal dissections.
Gastrointestinal Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection|DEVICE: Traction Device
Dissection speed, Length of time to perform endoscopic submucosal dissection by the operator as measured by calculating area of lesion divided by time (cm\^2/hours)., Day 1 (procedure day)
En-bloc, R0, and curative resection rates, As collected for each group, Day 1 (procedure day)|Total procedure time, Total procedure time to perform ESD from scope in to scope out, Day 1 (procedure day)|Intraprocedural adverse events, Such as muscularis propria injury and bleeding (related to or not related to the traction devices)., Day 1 (procedure day), up to 48 hours after procedure.|Post-procedural adverse events, As reported per subject follow-ups with the patient within 1 month., 1 month post-procedure|Abdominal pain, Collected at 1 hour and 24 hours after procedure utilizing the Visual analogue scale (VAS), 1 hour post-procedure, 24 hours post-procedure.
Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is the mainstay for the treatment of complex colorectal polyps particularly those with a higher risk of superficial submucosal invasion. However, colonic ESD is technically difficult given the thin colon wall and difficult locations of lesion. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) of colonic lesions can be difficult because the thins wall of the colon wall and the lack of submucosal space expansion to the degree seen in the submucosal dissection in the esophagus or the stomach. ESD can be done in a standard fashion with circumferential incision followed by submucosal dissection according to gravity, tunneling methods, pocket methods or traction. Traction is frequently used to expedite submucosal dissection in particularly in tough locations or in fibrotic lesions. Traction assisted ESD is particularly attractive in colonic ESD given the above-mentioned difficulties and the challenge with performing other techniques such as tunneling or pocket formation in fibrotic lesions or lesions over folds. Tissue traction can be applied by several methods including gravity, mucosal tension, water pressure, and adjusting the patient's body position. Traction can also be applied using devices such as clip and line, snare or using additional endoscope. Data regarding the value of traction in colonic ESD is controversial. Despite multiple publications about the efficacy of traction devices in the east, there are few published data from the west. The Sure trac system was recently approved in the US for traction assisted ESD. The system has 2 devices, the primary device comes preloaded with a silicone band, while the secondary device features a clip of the same size as the primary device to apply traction on the opposite wall. Traction with sure trac system, is readily assembled and easily accessible and it is equipped with its own clip for swift implementation, thus expediting the process. The purpose of this research is to compare the effectiveness and safety of the sure trac traction system (Micro Tec endoscopy, USA) to standard ESD without applying traction.