Dasatinib and Cyclosporine in Treating Patients With Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Refractory or Intolerant to Imatinib Mesylate
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best way to give dasatinib and cyclosporine in treating patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) refractory or intolerant to imatinib mesylate. Dasatinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Cyclosporine may help dasatinib work better by making cancer cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving dasatinib together with cyclosporine may be an effective treatment for CML.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
DRUG: dasatinib|OTHER: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study|DRUG: cyclosporine
Safety and tolerability of combining dasatinib and cyclosporine, as assessed by the incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events in this patient population, Serious adverse events, toxicity, and patient withdrawals/discontinuations will be determined by the severity, duration, causality, seriousness, and type of event as defined in the protocol., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
Pharmacokinetic profiles of patients taking dasatinib alone versus dasatinib with cyclosporine, Exposure to dasatinib will be determined and compared using peak levels (Cmax) and areas under the curve (AUC). Paired t-tests will be used to determine statistical significance., At baseline and on days 7, 21, 49, 77, and 105
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the safety and tolerability of cyclosporine A in combination with dasatinib in adults with Bcr-Abl+ chronic myelogenous leukemia in chronic phase, or when used in specified patients with accelerated phase CML.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess pharmacokinetic parameters of dasatinib when combined with cyclosporine.

II. To assess whether the combination of dasatinib and cyclosporine alters T cell number and function.

III. To assess the feasibility of determining phosphorylation of Src in peripheral blood mononuclear cells by flow cytometry as a surrogate measure of dasatinib activity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and cyclosporine PO twice daily (BID) on days 8-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo peripheral blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during treatment for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies and T-cell number and function by flow cytometry.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.