Nivolumab & IRX-2 With Surgery for Resectable Stage III-IVA Oral Cavity Cancer or HPV-Positive Oropharyngeal Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects of nivolumab and IRX-2 and how well they work in treating participants with stage III-IVA oral cavity cancer or human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive oropharyngeal cancer that can be removed by surgery. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. IRX-2 may "turn on" the immune system and stimulate an immune response against tumor cells. Giving nivolumab and IRX-2 followed by surgery may work better at treating oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer.
Human Papillomavirus Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: IRX-2|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Surgery
Incidence of adverse events (AEs) described using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 4.03, Non-hematologic toxicities will be evaluated via the ordinal Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) standard toxicity grading. Hematologic toxicity measures of thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and leukopenia will be assessed using continuous variables as the outcome measures (primarily nadir) as well as categorization via CTC standard toxicity grading. Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level and patient will be explored and summarized., Up to 4 years|Change in tumor size determined by central radiology review by radiologists blinded to the treatment regimen, Tumor changes will be determined by a comparison of the imaging studies (contrast-enhanced computed tomography \[CECT\] or magnetic resonance imaging \[MRI\]) obtained pre-treatment and just prior to surgery. Percent changes in tumor size will be determined by radiology at the site. If the change is not clear to the radiologist at the site, then the PI must be notified and two radiologists at Emory will be asked to independently review the scans and a decision will be made., Baseline up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of combination immunotherapy, nivolumab + IRX-2, for HPV+ oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) and HPV- oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OCSCC).

II. To assess the oncologic efficacy of neo-adjuvant immunotherapy using pathologic confirmation of response after surgical resection.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate tumor microenvironment histopathology with pathologic findings, with progression free survival (PFS) and other outcome parameters in patients with resectable OPSCC and OCSCC after the above treatments.

II. To evaluate swallowing function before and after surgery and risk-adjusted adjuvant therapy.

III. To evaluate quality of life (QOL), swallowing perception and performance, voice outcomes, and head and neck symptoms.

OUTLINE: Participants receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15, cyclophosphamide IV on day 1, and IRX-2 subcutaneously (SC) over 10 consecutive days between days 4-21 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning days 25-30, participants undergo surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months, every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years.