PD-1 Antibody for The Prevention of Adenomatous Polyps and Second Primary Tumors in Lynch Syndrome Patients
This study aims to explore the role of PD-1 Antibody in preventing adenomatous polyps and second primary tumors in patients with Lynch Syndrome. There two arms, one is the experimental arm (PD-1 antibody prevention group) and the other is the control arm (routine follow-up group). For the experimental group, Tripleitriumab (PD-1 antibody) is given every 3 months for a year.
Lynch Syndrome
DRUG: PD-1 Antibody
The percentage of patients from randomization to the first appearance of one of the following: adenomatous polyps or second primary tumors, up to 5 years
The percentage of patients developing polyps greater than 1cm within 5 years from randomization, up to 5 years|The percentage of patients developing high-grade polyps on pathology within 5 years from randomization., up to 5 years|Treatment-related adverse events, Incidence and severity of adverse events as assessed by NCI CTCAE V4.0, up to 5 years|Effectiveness with different genotypes or phenotypes, Estimated the percentage of patients with different genotypes or phenotypes not developing polyps or second primary tumors within 5 years from randomization., up to 5 years|Disease-free Survival, defined as the time from randomization to the first appearance of one of the following: primary tumor recurrence, or death without cancer event; or censored at date of last follow-up, up to 5 years|Overall Survival, defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Participants who were alive or lost to follow-up at the time of the analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive, up to 5 years
Lynch syndrome (LS) is a hereditary cancer syndrome that causes the majority of hereditary CRC and approximately 3% of all CRC. LS significantly increases the risk for an individual to develop CRC during their lifetime. Individuals with LS also have an increased risk to develop extracolonic cancers, including endometrial, gastric, ovarian, upper urinary tract, small bowel, biliary tract, CNS, and certain types of skin cancer. Given the hereditary nature of this syndrome, preventing second primary tumors in patients with Lynch Syndrome after surgery to the primary site is very important.

The purpose of this study is to prevent adenomatous polyps and second primary tumors using PD-1 antibody (Tripleitriumab) in patients with Lynch Syndrome.

The primary outcome of this study is the incidence of intestinal adenomatous polyps and secondary primary tumors. The secondary outcomes are the incidence of colorectal adenomatous polyps greater than 1cm, incidence of high-grade colorectal polyps, treatment-related adverse events, disease-free Survival and overall Survival.

There are two groups: the PD-1 antibody prevention group and the routine follow-up group. For the PD-1 antibody prevention group, participants will receive Toripalimab 240mg IV every 3 months for a year. For the routine follow-up group, there is no drug intervention.

This whole study will take 5 years: the first year for recruiting and the latter four years for follow-up.