A Phase I/II Study of the Pan-immunotherapy in Patients With Local Advanced/Metastatic BTC
Biliary tract cancer (BTC) is a rare heterogeneous collection of malignancies arising within the biliary tract, characterized by innate chemoresistance and abysmal prognosis. PD-1 blockade has been developed to a new class of cancer immunotherapy that could restore an adequate immunosurveillance against the neoplasm and enhance T-cell-mediated anticancer immune responses. Manganese has been confirmed to activate antigen-presenting cells and function as mucosal immunoadjuvants in pre-clinical studies. This open-label, phase I/II study is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of Manganese primed combined therapy of anti-PD-1 antibody and gemcitabine/cisplatin chemotherapy.
Biliary Tract Cancer (BTC)
DRUG: Manganese Chloride|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: anti-PD-1 antibody
Number of Subjects with treatment-related adverse events (AEs), Incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events graded according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0. AEs were considered to be treatment-related if they had started or worsened within the interval from first study drug administration until the follow-up visit., 12 months|Progression-free survival (PFS) at 6 months, Progression free survival (PFS) at 6 months in patients with local advanced /metastatic BTCs treated with the combined regimen. Progression will be defined clinically or on imaging as per immune related response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST V1.1) definition, 6 months
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a stable disease (SD), partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., 12 months|Object response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., 12 months|Overall survival (OS), OS time was measured from the study entry to the date of death., 24 months|Number of participants with laboratory test abnormalities, The laboratory tests of serum cytokines and chemokines will be performed on day 1 and 3 of each cycle, and the abnormality will be determined by the investigator., 12 months
Biliary tract cancer (BTC) is a rare heterogeneous collection of malignancies arising within the biliary tract, characterized by innate chemoresistance and abysmal prognosis. PD-1 blockade has been developed to a new class of cancer immunotherapy that could restore an adequate immunosurveillance against the neoplasm and enhance T-cell-mediated anticancer immune responses. Manganese has been confirmed to activate antigen-presenting cells and function as mucosal immunoadjuvants in pre-clinical studies. This open-label, phase I/II study is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of Manganese primed combined therapy of anti-PD-1 antibody and gemcitabine/cisplatin chemotherapy.