HAIC Combine Tislelizumab and Lenvatinib in the Treatment of HCC With Type IV (Vp4) Portal Vein Tumor Thrombus (HAI-TL)
To estimate the safety and efficacy of hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) combine Tislelizumab and Lenvatinib (HAI-TIS-LEN) in the Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with type IV(Vp4) portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma With PVTT
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Overall Survival (OS), Duration from the date of initial HAI-TIS-LEN treatment to the date of death due to any cause., From the date of treatment initiation until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months.
Progression-free survival (PFS), Defined as the time from the treatment initiation to the date of the first objectively documented tumor progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed by IRC and investigators, respectively, per RECIST v 1.1 and mRECIST., The average expectation is 36 months.|Time-to-progression (TTP), Defined as the time from treatment initiation to radiological progression., The average expectation is 36 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of participants in the study population who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as determined by investigators using the RECIST v 1.1 and mRECIST criteria, at any time during the study., On average once every month, assessed up to 36 months.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as the proportion of patients whose best overall response is CR, PR, or SD, assessed by investigators, per RECIST v 1.1 and mRECIST, On average once every month, assessed up to 36 months.|Adverse Events (AE), Any adverse events related to treatment drugs, including details such as adverse event type, frequency, and severity., From the date of treatment initiation until 60 days after the last treatment.
According to the Chinese guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of primary liver cancer, patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accompanied by portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) are classified as being in an advanced stage (CNLC IIIa). PVTT, particularly the type IV (Vp4), is considered a highly concerning complication of HCC due to its significant morbidity and mortality rates. Furthermore, the absence of effective treatment options contributes to an unfavorable prognosis.

Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) delivers chemotherapy drugs directly through a catheter into the nourishing arteries of the tumor, maintaining a high concentration of chemotherapeutic agents within the tumor and tumor thrombus, thereby promoting necrosis. HAIC with modified FOLFOX (oxaliplatin, 85 mg/m2, leucovorin 400 mg/m2, 5-fluorouracil bolus 400 mg/m2 on day 1; and 5-fluorouracil infusion 2400 mg/m2 for 46 h) could significantly prolong survival time for HCC patients with PVTT.

In recent years, official guidelines have approved several immune checkpoint inhibitors for advanced HCC. Lenvatinib, an innovative oral anti-neovascularity inhibitor, has demonstrated comparable efficacy to sorafenib in HCC patients, as evidenced by the REFLECT study. Additionally, the exploration of programmed death-1 (PD-1) inhibitors, either alone or in combination with targeted therapy, has been confirmed as effective for advanced HCC.

Against this background, researchers have initiated a prospective, single-arm, Stage II clinical trial to assess the effectiveness and safety of HAIC combined with Tislelizumab and Lenvatinib (HAI-TIS-LEN) for advanced HCC with Vp4 involvement. A total of 45 subjects will be enrolled in this trial. The primary endpoint of the study is the median overall survival (mOS), the secondary endpoints including the overall response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), median progression-free survival (mPFS), time-to-progression (TTP), and safety assessment. The safety assessment will be conducted in accordance with the standard adverse reaction classification outlined in the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0).