Binimetinib and Palbociclib Before Surgery for the Treatment of Operable KRAS-Positive Lung, Colorectal, or Pancreatic Cancer
This early phase I trial studies the direct effects on cancer cells of the drugs binimetinib and palbociclib, in patients with KRAS-positive lung, colorectal, or pancreatic cancer that can be removed by surgery (operable). Binimetinib and palbociclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving binimetinib and palbociclib may halt the growth of cancer cells and improve access of the immune system cells, a patient's own cells that fight infection and cancer, into the tumor.
Colorectal Carcinoma|Lung Adenocarcinoma|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Pancreatic Carcinoma
DRUG: Binimetinib|DRUG: Palbociclib|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Change in Ki67 labeling index of > 70%, Pathologic response by change in Ki-67% from pre and surgical biopsies, Up to 30 days post treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities and adverse events (as per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0) will be summarized by attribution and grade using frequencies and relative frequencies., Up to 30 days post-treatment
Gene expression analysis, Correlative analysis of gene expression analysis will focus on suppression of MEK and CDK4/6 regulated genes and induction of gene expression programs related to antigen presentation and inflammation., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Immune subsets within the pre and posttreatment tumor tissue, Multispectral imaging will be employed to define immune subsets within the pre and posttreatment tumor tissue with an emphasis on approaches to exploit the response to drug with immunologically active agents., Up to 30 days post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the on-target efficacy of binimetinib and palbociclib in patients with operable RAS-mutant lung adenocarcinoma, colorectal, or pancreatic cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Correlative analysis of gene expression analysis. II. Define immune subsets within the pre and post-treatment tumor tissue.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive palbociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and binimetinib PO twice daily (BID) for 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 1 week after last dose of study medication, patients undergo surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.