Oscillating Positive Expiratory Pressure Therapy for Patients With Thoracic Neoplasms Undergoing Chest Surgery
This randomized clinical study aims to assess the use of an oscillating positive expiratory pressure device (AEROBIKA) in patients with thoracic neoplasms who undergo chest surgery.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

If the use of the AEROBIKA device reduces the incidence of atelectasis in oncological patients undergoing lung resection.

If the use of the AEROBIKA device reduces hospital readmission and days of hospital stay.

Participants who accept to participate will be sorted to receive a conventional rehab therapy (group A), otherwise a conventional rehab therapy plus AEROBIKA device (group B).

Researchers will compare patients from group A versus group B to see if patients develop atelectasis.
Lung Cancer|Mediastinal Tumor|Pleural Tumor
DEVICE: oscillating positive expiratory pressure device|PROCEDURE: Pulmonary rehabilitation
Reduction of lung atelectasis, The reduction of atelectasis will be assessed according to a visual examination of thoracic radiography.

In radiography, it is defined as a reduction of lung volume accompanied by an increase in opacity (radiography) or attenuation (CT) in the affected portion of the lung. Atelectasis is often associated with displacement of the cisura, bronchi, vessels, diaphragm, heart, or mediastinum. The distribution can be lobar, segmental, or subsegmental. They are classified: as linear, discoid, or platellary., Radiographs will be taken after 3 months of surgery
Clinical evaluation

1. At patients´ first visit, demographic, clinical, and imaging variables will be obtained from INCan medical history and electronic record.
2. The patient will be called one week before the date of surgery to the Pulmonary Rehabilitation service. Evaluation of lung function will be carried out through tests by means of spirometry, oscilometry, gas exchange with oxygen saturation measurement and a submaximal exercise test which is the 6 minute walk. Tests will be performed at the following times: before surgery (basal) and after surgery (one month, 2 months and 3 months).
3. The EORTC, QLQ-C30 and QLQ LC13 quality of life questionnaires and a respiratory symptom questionnaire, St. George, will be performed at the same time (before surgery and after surgery (per month, 2 months and 3 months).
4. Patients will be referred to the Lung Rehabilitation Service and a respiratory rehabilitation programme will be initiated. All patients, regardless of the assigned group will carry out a conventional rehabilitation program which consists of TWO PHASES (Pre-surgical Rehabilitation and Post-surgical Rehabilitation).

INTERVENTION GROUP

1. At the first visit to the Pulmonary Rehabilitation service, the patient in the intervention group will receive an AEROBIKA device, at no cost, which the patient can take home.
2. The patient will be instructed on the use of the device by the lung rehabilitation service and knowledge will be reinforced at each visit.
3. The patient will place the date and time of use to assess adherence to treatment.