Ribociclib and Aromatase Inhibitor in Treating Older Participants With Hormone Receptor Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase IIA trial studies the side effects of ribociclib and aromatase inhibitor and how well they work in treating participants with hormone receptor positive breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Ribociclib and aromatase inhibitors may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Estrogen Receptor and/or Progesterone Receptor Positive|HER2/Neu Negative|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Aromatase Inhibitor|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacokinetic Study|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Ribociclib
Number of Participants With Grade 2 and Above Toxicities Attributed to Ribociclib, Number of participants with grade 2 and above toxicities attributed (possible, probable or definite) to ribociclib, Up to 30 days of last study drug, about 3 years and 3 months
Number of Participants With Dose Reductions, Up to 3.5 years|Number of Participants With Dose Delays, Up to 3.5 years|Number of Participants With Dose Discontinuations, Up to 3.5 years|Objective Response Rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria, Objective response rate (defined as complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) as determined by RECIST criteria

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Lymph node CR is when the lymph node has decreased to less than 10mm in the short axis.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 3.5 years|Clinical Benefit Rate as Determined by RECIST, Clinical benefit rate (defined as CR+PR+ stable disease) as determined by RECIST

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Lymph node CR is when the lymph node has decreased to less than 10mm in the short axis.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Up to 3.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the safety and tolerability of the combination of ribociclib and an aromatase inhibitor in adults age 70 or older with hormone receptor positive metastatic breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the full toxicity profile including all grades. II. To estimate the rate of worst grades of myelosuppression (neutropenia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia), neutropenic fever, gastrointestinal (GI) side effects (nausea, diarrhea, decreased appetite, vomiting, stomatitis), fatigue, neuropathy, and thromboembolism.

III. To describe rates of dose reductions, dose holds, and hospitalizations. IV. To estimate objective response rate and clinical benefit rate as defined by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (1.1) criteria.

V. To estimate median progression-free and overall survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the rate of adherence to ribociclib. II. To explore factors other than chronologic age that can affect toxicity rates as identified using a cancer-specific geriatric assessment.

III. To describe the results of the Was It Worth It (WIWI) and the results of the Overall Treatment Utility (OTU) Questionnaires.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive ribociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and aromatase inhibitor per treating investigator's discretion. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, then annually thereafter.