Role of Gut Microbiome and Fecal Transplant on Medication-Induced GI Complications in Patients With Cancer
This trial studies the role of the gut microbiome and effectiveness of a fecal transplant on medication-induced gastrointestinal (GI) complications in patients with melanoma or genitourinary cancer. The gut microbiome (the bacteria and microorganisms that live in the digestive system) may affect whether or not someone develops colitis (inflammation of the intestines) during cancer treatment with immune-checkpoint inhibitor drugs. Studying samples of stool, blood, and tissue from patients with melanoma or genitourinary cancer may help doctors learn more about the effects of treatment on cells, and help doctors understand how well patients respond to treatment. Treatment with fecal transplantation may help to improve diarrhea and colitis symptoms.
Clinical Stage 0 Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage I Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Colitis|Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Malignant Genitourinary System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Pathologic Stage 0 Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage I Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage II Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIID Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Stage 0 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA1 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA2 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA3 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Procedure|PROCEDURE: Fecal Microbiota Transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Infliximab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: Vedolizumab
Difference in stool microbiome pattern, The primary endpoint is alpha diversity of bacteria species (measured using inverse Simpson index). It is a measure of diversity which takes into account the number of species present, as well as the relative abundance of each species. As species richness and evenness increase, so diversity increases., Up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events (AE) of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) (Project 3), Adverse events will be recorded by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 as well as FMT-specific events. All events will be recorded with grade and attribution to FMT. Adverse events that are related to fecal microbiota transplantation will be summarized using frequency and percentage by AE grade, type and attributions., Up to 1 year
Immune profile factors associated with onset of ICPI-related colitis in blood and colon tissue, Immunohistochemistry study for inflammatory markers will be performed on colon biopsies to measure the change in pattern after treatment. Blood and stool samples will be compared before and after immunosuppressive treatment longitudinally and also horizontally between quick response patients and slow/refractory patient., Up to 1 year|Genetic factors associated with onset of ICPI-related colitis in blood and colon tissue, Genomic bacterial DNA will be extracted from fecal samples, with the addition of a bead-beating lysis step. Genomic 16S ribosomal-RNA V4 variable region will be amplified and sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq platform to obtain the microbiome structure and composition., Up to 1 year|Endoscopic and histologic features of ICPI-related colitis before and after medical treatment, We will assess the resolution of the following endoscopic presentations of ICPI-related colitis including large, deep ulcerations, erosions, diffuse or patchy erythema, inflammatory exudate, loss of vascular pattern, aphthae, and edema after medical treatment.

We will assess the resolution of the following histological features of acute colitis and lymphocytic colitis including neutrophilic infiltration, cryptitis, crypt abscess, eosinophilia, intraepithelial apoptosis, and increased intraepithelial lymphocytic infiltration after medical treatment., Baseline up to 1 year|Changes of ICPI-related symptoms, We will use MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI)-Colitis module to capture ICPI-related symptoms, which include 22 physical, psychological, and cognitive symptoms and colitis related symptoms. The ratings are on 0-10 numeric scales, ranging from "not present" to "as bad as you can imagine., Up to 1 year|Changes of quality of life (QoL), MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI)-Colitis module includes 6 symptom interference items which could capture the impact of therapy on patient's physical and affective functioning. The ratings are on 0-10 numeric scales, ranging from "did not interfere " to "interfered completely "., Up to 1 year|Cytokine features that are associated with good response to FMT, We will compare the levels of many cytokines/chemokines by Luminex assays including IL-6, IL-17A, TNF-α, etc. between patients with good response and poor response to FMT., Up to 1 year|Genetic factors associated with onset of ICPI-related colitis in blood and colon tissue, Genomic bacterial DNA will be extracted from fecal samples, with the addition of a bead-beating lysis step. Genomic 16S ribosomal-RNA V4 variable region will be amplified and sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq platform to obtain the microbiome structure and composition. We will evaluate these factors between patients with good response and poor response to FMT., Up to 1 year|Changes of endoscopic and histologic features of ICPI-related colitis before and after fecal microbiota transplantation, We will assess the resolution of the following endoscopic presentations of ICPI-related colitis including large, deep ulcerations, erosions, diffuse or patchy erythema, inflammatory exudate, loss of vascular pattern, aphthae, and edema after FMT.

We will assess the resolution of the following histological features of acute colitis and lymphocytic colitis including neutrophilic infiltration, cryptitis, crypt abscess, eosinophilia, intraepithelial apoptosis, and increased intraepithelial lymphocytic infiltration after FMT., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the difference in stool microbiome pattern between patients who develop immune-checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI)-related colitis and patients who don't develop ICPI-related colitis.

II. To compare the difference in stool microbiome pattern in patients who developed ICPI-related colitis before and after colitis medical treatment.

III. To assess the safety and tolerability and efficacy of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify and characterize immune profile and genetic factors associated with onset of ICPI-related colitis in blood and colon tissue.

II. To identify and characterize immune profile and genetic factors in blood and colon tissue that are associated with quick response of ICPI-related colitis to medical treatment.

III. To characterize the endoscopic and histologic features of ICPI-related colitis before and after medical treatment.

IV. To document the changes of ICPI-related symptoms and the impact on functioning and quality of life (QoL) from fecal microbiota transplantation by patient-reported outcomes (PRO).

V. To assess stool microbiome and cytokine features that are associated with good response to fecal microbiota transplantation.

VI. To assess the factors in genetic/immune profile obtained from blood and colon tissue that are associated with good response to fecal microbiota transplantation.

VII. To characterize the endoscopic and histologic features of ICPI-related colitis before and after fecal microbiota transplantation.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify and characterize immune profile and genetic factors associated with onset of ICPI-related colitis in inflamed colonic mucosa and its matched normal mucosa.

II. To characterize the immune profile and genetic factors from the colon tissue in these colitis patients among different histological subtypes.

III. To assess the pattern of stool microbiome that is associated with good tumor response to ICPI treatment.

IV. To assess the association between stool inflammatory markers (i.e. lactoferrin and calprotectin) and the severity of endoscopic/histologic inflammation.

V. To assess the sensitivity and specificity of stool inflammatory markers (i.e. lactoferrin and calprotectin) as an indicators of ICPI-relate colitis response to treatment.

VI. To assess the microbiome pattern that triggers the infections on immunosuppressant treatment for ICPI colitis.

OUTLINE:

PROJECT 1: Patients receive standard of care and undergo collection of stool and blood samples.

PROJECT 2: Patients receive prednisone, infliximab, or vedolizumab per standard of care and undergo standard of care endoscopy 2 months after treatment. Patients also undergo collection of stool, blood, and tissue samples.

PROJECT 3: Patients undergo fecal microbiota transplant (FMT).

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.