Short-course Radiotherapy With Induction and Consolidation Chemotherapy in Patients With Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
Short-course radiotherapy followed by consolidation chemotherapy has shown a better response rate when compared to chemoradiotherapy treatment.

In addition, recent studies have shown better tolerance with total neoadjuvant treatment, with induction or consolidation chemotherapy. Induction chemotherapy could reduce the size of the tumor, treat micrometastases early and allow treatment to start immediately (avoiding potential delays in waiting for radiotherapy). While consolidation chemotherapy allows longer waiting times for surgery, with higher response rates.
Rectal Cancer|Total Neoadjuvant Treatment
OTHER: Approach
Evaluate MRI good response rate after the total neoadjuvant treatment, Good response rate is defined as the proportion of patients who reached mrTRG 1 or 2 and the absence of remote disease in the reevaluation period, with the denominator being the total number of patients who started total neoadjuvant treatment., 16-20 weeks after SCRT
Disease-free survival in 3 years, defined as the time from the date of MRI of the pelvis of the reassessment period to relapse, death or last contact date., 3 years|Overall survival, defined as the time from the date of the induction chemotherapy until the death or date of last contact, 3 years|Describe the safety and tolerability of total neoadjuvant treatment., Incidence of adverse events (AEs), serious AEs, deaths and laboratory abnormalities in participants who received at least one dose of study treatment, 1 year
Methods: This trial aim to evaluate induction treatment with CAPOX, followed by short-course radiotherapy consolidation chemotherapy with CAPOX. After 5-7 weeks, patients will be evaluate by MRI. Patients with incomplete clinical response will be referred to immediate surgery and patients with complete clinical response will be managed with "watch and wait" approach. Patients with progression disease during the treatment phase will be withdrawn from the study and will receive their treatment according to the investigator's judgment.

The sample size was calculated according to Simon's optimal two-stage design. Accordingly, 21 patients must be included in each group during the first stage and 24 during the second stage. Treatment regimen will be considered effective if 9 or more patients show good response (final analysis), reaching 80% power with an alpha of 0.10 level of significance.