Nivolumab and Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin or Hodgkin Lymphoma
This I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with nivolumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with non-Hodgkin or Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back and does not respond to treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving nivolumab and lenalidomide may work better in treating patients with non-Hodgkin or Hodgkin lymphoma.
Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia|Refractory Burkitt Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Incidence of adverse events summarized by NCI CTCAE version 4, Will be assessed and tabulated across all patients who received any treatment with a focus on severe (grade 3+) adverse events and toxicities (ie those deemed at least possibly related to study treatment). Will also assess tolerability of the regimens through assessing the number of patients who required dose modifications and/or dose delays. Will capture the proportion of patients who go off treatment due to adverse events or those who refuse to continue treated for lesser toxicities., Up to 5 years|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) defined as the dose level at which no more than one of 6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity summarized by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4, Will be assessed and tabulated across all patients who received any treatment with a focus on severe (grade 3+) adverse events and toxicities (ie those deemed at least possibly related to study treatment). Will also assess tolerability of the regimens through assessing the number of patients who required dose modifications and/or dose delays. Will capture the proportion of patients who go off treatment due to adverse events or those who refuse to continue treated for lesser toxicities., Up to 28 days
Complete response rate (CR) in patients, Complete response rate (CR) in patients with relapsed/refractory HD receiving the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab, Up to 5 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall Response Rate in patients with relapsed/refractory HD receiving the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab, Up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Will be evaluated for each of the cohorts and graphically summarized using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., From study entry to the time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Will be evaluated for each of the cohorts and graphically summarized using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., From study entry to the time of progression and/or death, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). (Phase I) II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL. (Phase I) III. To evaluate the feasibility and toxicities of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's disease (HD). (Phase IB) IV. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in terms of overall response rate in patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL in terms of overall response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase I) II. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory HD in terms of complete response rate (CR). (Phase IB) III. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory HD in terms of duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase IB) IV. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL in terms of duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase II)

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the relationship between prognostic parameters including ki-67 staining, PD-1 staining and cell of origin (activated B-cell or ABC versus germinal center B-cell or GCB) with ORR to the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL. (Phase I) II. To evaluate and monitor effects on B-, T-, and natural killer (NK)-cell function with the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL. (Phase I) III. To explore the relationship between prognostic parameters including ki-67 staining, PD-1 staining and cell of origin (activated B-cell or ABC versus germinal center B-cell or GCB) with ORR to the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate and monitor effects on B-, T-, and NK-cell function with the combination of lenalidomide and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory FL and DLBCL. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of courses 1-4 and on day 1 of courses 5-12. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for up to 3 years.