Cost Talk: Discussing Cancer Care Costs
The purpose of this study is to investigate whether an encounter decision aid (used during a consultation) containing cost information about options, combined with clinician training about cost discussions and available financial resources, influence surgeon-patient cost conversations, referrals to address costs, patients' financial stress, and high-quality decision-making for patients with slow-growing prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Option Grid Decision Aid
Frequency of cost conversations, Immediately after the clinic or virtual visit|Initiator (surgeon, patient, or caregiver) of cost conversations, Immediately after the clinic or virtual visit|Whether or not a referral is made to address costs, Immediately after the clinic or virtual visit
Number of patients who had a decisional conflict, The Decisional Conflict Scale assesses whether individuals feel they have enough information to make a choice, have enough support to make a choice, and are clear about their values for risks and benefits of the choice. The 4-item SURE measure of decisional conflict will be used which is scored with a cutoff value indicating whether there is the presence of decisional conflict or not., Immediately after the clinic or virtual visit|Number of patients who engaged in high-quality shared decision-making - CollaboRATE, -CollaboRATE is a validated, 3-item measure of the patient's perspective on the level of engagement in their decision. Using the recommended "top score" method of analysis, each encounter is coded as '1', if the response to all three collaboRATE items is 9, or '0' if the response to any of the three collaboRATE items less than 9. Higher scores represent more shared decision making., Immediately after the clinic or virtual visit
Decision regret, -The validated Decision Regret Scale consists of five items on a five-point scale from strongly disagree to strongly agree. Higher scores indicate greater decision regret. The investigators will measure regret at the 3-month follow-up and and compare outcomes between groups, 3 month follow-up|Number of patients who had a decisional conflict, The Decisional Conflict Scale assesses whether individuals feel they have enough information to make a choice, have enough support to make a choice, and are clear about their values for risks and benefits of the choice. The 4-item SURE measure of decisional conflict will be used which is scored with a cutoff value indicating whether there is the presence of decisional conflict or not., 3 month follow-up|Financial toxicity, * The investigators will use the validated COST measure of financial toxicity to examine the burden of care costs on patients and their distress about these costs. Higher values indicate more financial toxicity.
* COST (Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity) is a short questionnaire made up of 11 statements. Items are scored on a Likert scale from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Total scores can range from 0 to 44., 3 month follow-up
The study will use a stepped wedge design to evaluate the encounter decision aid. Each participating urologic surgeon will begin in the usual care arm of the study. Subsequently, the surgeons will be randomized to the intervention arm at staggered time points to undergo training and begin using the decision aid intervention with patients who are diagnosed with slow-growing prostate cancer. This study will consist of two aims. The first aim is to examine the use of an encounter decision aid with cost information on the presence and impact of out-of-pocket cost conversations. The investigators will train participating clinicians on how to use the decision aid intervention and available financial resources. With patient and clinician consent, the investigators will audio record clinical encounters and measure cost conversations using a previously-developed checklist to code transcripts derived from the audio recordings. Patients can still participate if they do not consent to audio recording as these topics will be assessed in the self-report survey after their clinic or virtual visit. The second aim will examine the impact of an encounter decision aid with cost information on high-quality decision-making. The investigators will collect a post-visit questionnaire from participating patients, including patient-reported measures of decisional conflict, decision regret, and the shared decision-making process. Participants will be sent a follow-up questionnaire 3 months after their initial study enrollment to assess decision regret and financial toxicity.