Cadonilimab Plus CapeOX as First-Line Treatment for Advanced GC/GEJC With High TMEscore
This is a single-arm, open-label, multi-center clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-1/CTLA-4 bispecific cadonilimab in combination with oxaliplatin/capecitabine (CapeOX) in the first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma with a high tumor microenvironment score (TMEscore). The study plans to enroll 50 patients to receive cadonilimab 100mg/kg, iv, q3w + CapeOX (oxaliplatin 130mg/m2, vd, d1 + capecitabine 1000mg/m2, po, bid, D1-14, q3w, with 3 weeks as a cycle and a maximum of 8 cycles of treatment. Then the maintenance treatment phase with cadonilimab ± capecitabine is entered, and the specific dosage is the same as the treatment period. Effectiveness is assessed every 9 weeks (±7 days) using RECISIT 1.1 until disease recurrence, metastasis, death, or loss of follow-up. The primary endpoint of this study was PFS, and secondary endpoints were OS, ORR, and safety.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Cadonilimab plus CapeOX chemotherapy
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time between the onset of PD or death when a patient first receives the study drug, whichever occurs first., 3 years
Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time between the patient's first receipt of the study drug to death., 3 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of patients who achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., 3 years|Safety, The occurrence of various AEs, including SAEs, will be monitored based on changes in various indicators such as vital signs, physical examination, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), laboratory tests, etc. AEs will be graded for severity according to NCI CTCAE 5.0., 3 years
This is a single-arm, open-label, multi-center clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-1/CTLA-4 bispecific cadonilimab in combination with oxaliplatin/capecitabine (CapeOX) in the first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma with a high tumor microenvironment score (TMEscore). The study plans to enroll 50 patients to receive cadonilimab 100mg/kg, iv, q3w + CapeOX (oxaliplatin 130mg/m2, vd, d1 + capecitabine 1000mg/m2, po, bid, D1-14, q3w, with 3 weeks as a cycle and a maximum of 8 cycles of treatment. Then the maintenance treatment phase with cadonilimab ± capecitabine is entered, and the specific dosage is the same as the treatment period. Effectiveness is assessed every 9 weeks (±7 days) using RECISIT 1.1 until disease recurrence, metastasis, death, or loss of follow-up. The primary endpoint of this study was PFS, and secondary endpoints were OS, ORR, and safety.