Blood Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Hematologic Cancer
RATIONALE: Giving chemotherapy drugs and total-body irradiation before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It also helps stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the effectiveness of donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant in treating patients with hematologic cancer.
Adult Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Childhood Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation
Toxicity, Number of irreversible severe (grade 3) or life-threatening or lethal (grade 4-5) organ toxicities., 6 months|Time to engraftment, Days from infusion of stem cells to recovery of PMN \> 500/ul for two consecutive determinations, transfusion independence for platelets (\>20,000/ul) and RBCs (Hct \> 25%). The bone marrow function is considered durable if reconstitution persists for at least 6 months., 6 months
Clinical response, Number of participants with a partial response (residual though reduced evidence of active disease) and/or complete response (disappearance of all measurable disease, signs, symptoms, and hematologic or biochemical changes related to the disease, for \>3 months)., 6 months|Survival rate, 6 months|Number of participants with Graft-versus-host disease, 6 months|Time to treatment failure and relapse, Time from day 1 of chemoradiotherapy to transplant-related death or disease relapse., 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the efficacy and safety of allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in achieving engraftment in patients with hematologic malignancy.
* Determine the hematopoietic recovery, incidence of chemoradiotherapeutic toxicity, relapse, graft-versus-host disease, and survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients receive a preparative chemoradiotherapeutic regimen and graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis prior to transplantation. Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

Patients are followed every 1-2 weeks for 6 months and at 9, 12, 24, and 36 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 62 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.