Testing Teclistamab (TECVAYLI) in Combination With Iberdomide for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase Ib trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of iberdomide in combination with teclistamab in treating multiple myeloma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that does not respond to treatment (refractory). Iberdomide is a medication that belongs to a group of drugs known as cereblon E3 ligase modulators. Iberdomide works by targeting and destroying proteins that help myeloma cancer cells to survive. A monoclonal antibody is a type of protein that can bind to certain targets in the body, such as molecules that cause the body to make an immune response (antigens). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as teclistamab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving iberdomide in combination with teclistamab may be safe and tolerable in treating patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Iberdomide|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Teclistamab
Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of iberdomide when combined with teclistamab, The RP2D will be defined as the pharmacologically optimal dose of iberdomide that can be combined with teclistamab and will be selected based on all available pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, target engagement, efficacy, safety and tolerability data., At 28 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of iberdomide when combined with teclistamab, The MTD will be is defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 8 new patients)., At 28 days
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be described and graded using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0. The maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. The relationship of the AEs to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Overall response rate (ORR), The ORR will be estimated by the total number of patients who achieve a stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, or partial response divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 2 years after last dose of study treatment|Minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity, MRD negativity will be summarized descriptively at each specified timepoint., Up to 2 years after last dose of study treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years after last dose of study treatment|Time to progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 2 years after last dose of study treatment|Duration of response (DOR), The distribution of DOR will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From earliest documentation of disease response to disease progression, assessed up to 2 years after last dose of study treatment|Overall survival (OS), The distribution of OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years after last dose of study treatment
Tumor immune microenvironment, Flow cytometry will be utilized to assess the tumor immune microenvironment in the bone marrow and peripheral blood at baseline and during active treatment at specified time points. Values over time will be summarized graphically and descriptively. Paired sample approaches (Wilcoxon signed rank test) will be used to assess differences over time. The relationship between changes over time in each measure with response outcome measures will be explored using Wilcoxon's rank sum test., Up to 2 years after last dose of study treatment|Soluble B-cell maturation antigen levels, Values over time will be summarized graphically and descriptively. Paired sample approaches (Wilcoxon signed rank test) for these types of quantitative measures will be used to assess differences over time. The relationship between changes over time in each measure with response outcome measures will be explored using Wilcoxon's rank sum test., At baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Estimate the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of iberdomide in combination with teclistamab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of iberdomide in combination with teclistamab.

II. To observe and record antitumor activity.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the changes in the tumor immune microenvironment (exhausted T-cell phenotypes, percent T regulatory cells \[T regs\], T-cell activation) in peripheral blood and bone marrow caused by the addition of iberdomide to teclistamab and how they relate to minimal residual disease (MRD) status, responses rates and survival outcomes.

II. To evaluate soluble B-cell maturation antigen (sBCMA) levels at baseline and how they correlate to response rates and survival outcomes in patients treated with teclistamab plus iberdomide.

III. To identify the immunophenotypic and transcriptomic characterization of malignant plasma cells that are resistant to teclistamab and iberdomide.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of iberdomide in combination with teclistamab.

Patients receive teclistamab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 4, 7, 15 and 22 for cycle 1 and days 1, 8, 15 and 22 for subsequent cycles. Patients also receive iberdomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 for cycle 2 and beyond. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 4 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood and urine sample collection, bone marrow aspiration and biopsy and computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET)/CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 2 years.