Efficacy and Safety of NaviFUS System add-on Bevacizumab (BEV) in Recurrent GBM Patients
This is a prospective, single-arm, two stages, open-label, pilot study to investigate the efficacy and safety of FUS add-on bevacizumab (BEV) in rGBM patients. The BEV is the best physician's choice of standard of care for rGBM after prior radiotherapy and temozolomide chemotherapy in the LinKou Chang Gung Memorial Hospital. Eligible patients will be enrolled through the process of informed consent.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Glioblastoma|Glioma|Brain Tumor|Neoplasms|Neoplasms, Nerve Tissue
DEVICE: NaviFUS System|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Adverse Event, Number and severity of adverse event, 38 weeks|Progression-free survival at 6 months (PFS-6), Estimated rate of patients treated during 6 months without experiencing disease, 6 months
Tumor shrinkage, The tumor shrinkage rate (TSR) by measuring the longest diameter and perpendicular diameter of the main mass on MRI scans, 38 weeks|Objective response rate (ORR), Proportion of subjects in the analysis population who have complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) using Radiologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria (RANO) criteria, 38 weeks|PET uptake, The uptake of PET (as standard uptake value - SUV and tumor-to-background ratio - TBR) in tumor and in normal contralateral gray matter before start of BEV+FUS treatment will be determined., 38 weeks|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time in months from study treatment to death or last follow-up if alive from any cause, 38 weeks|Degree of the BBB opening, The FUS with microbubbles can temporally open the BBB. The spatial permeability of the BBB-opened region will be assessed using dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI)., 38 weeks|Corticosteroid consumption, Increase or decrease in corticosteroid use compared to baseline. The mean corticosteroid dosage prior to study treatment will be considered as the patient's baseline., 38 weeks|Quality of life (QoL) assessment with the EORTC QLQ-C30, The validated European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) will be used. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire. All of the response scale to questions are rated on a 4-point Likert scale from 1 = not at all, 2 = a little, 3 = quite a bit, to 4 = very much, and are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores indicating more severe symptoms., 38 weeks|Quality of life (QoL) assessment with the EORTC QLQ-BN20, The EORTC QLQ-BN20 is a QoL assessment specific to brain neoplasms. The questionnaire includes 20 items. All of the response scale to questions are rated on a 4-point Likert scale from 1 = not at all, 2 = a little, 3 = quite a bit, to 4 = very much, and are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores indicating more severe symptoms., 38 weeks
This trial will be divided into two stages. The study design and procedures will be as follows:

Stage 1:

Eligible patients will first be administered with BEV 10 mg/kg intravenous (IV) infusion. After 30-60 minutes, patients will receive microbubbles (MB) (SonoVue®) 0.1 mL/kg and optimal ultrasound exposure doses (based on the acoustic emission feedback FUS power control algorithm) generated from the NaviFUS System single exposure unit for up to two minutes every 2 weeks to transiently open the BBB.

After 4 weeks of treatment with BEV and single unit FUS-MB treatment, if the patient experienced BBB opening using FUS treatment and BEV IV infusion without any serious adverse effects (such as brain significant bleeding), then the patient may proceed to stage 2.

Stage 2:

Patients who complete stage 1 will enter stage 2 to receive the BEV with MB-mediated multiple units of FUS treatment for up to five minutes (but the maximum exposure time per single unit is two minutes) every 2 weeks for up to 30 weeks or until evidence of progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity, non-compliance with study follow-up, or withdrawal of consent.

After completion of study treatment, patients will be followed up for 28 days.