Nano-X Image Guidance: CBCT With Gravity-induced Motion
A pilot stage, device feasibility trial, to investigate the feasibility of acquiring cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) images for image guidance for radiation therapy by maintaining a fixed imaging system and rotating the participant about the horizontal axis using the Nano-X patient rotation system. It is a single-arm, controlled, single-blinded, non-treatment, non-invasive, single-institution trial.
Cancer
DEVICE: Nano-X Patient Rotation System|RADIATION: Conventional CBCT scan|OTHER: Psychometrically validated questionnaires
Number of Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) images acquired with horizontal patient rotation that are deemed to be of comparable image quality to clinical CBCT or deemed acceptable for radiotherapy image guidance as scored by a panel of experts., Observers will view the image sets in 3 orthogonal views and grade the image quality considering geometrical accuracy, anatomical visualisation, sharpness of the image, soft tissue contrast, image noise and uniformity and overall clinical usability.

The imaging method will be deemed technically feasible if \>70% of CBCT images acquired with horizontal patient rotation are deemed of clinical quality., 6 months
Change in Short Form State/Trait Anxiety inventory (STAI) and Fast Motion Sickness (FMS) questionnaire scores before and after rotation as assessed by the Wilcoxon signed rank test., Wilcoxon signed rank test used to determine statistically significant differences in anxiety and motion sickness assessed using psychometrically validated surveys completed prior to and post horizontal rotation CBCT scan.

The STAI questionnaire is used to assess anxiety and is comprised of 6 questions scored 1-4. These are combined for a final score between 6 and 24, where a higher number indicates a greater level of anxiety.

The FMS questionnaire is used to assess motion sickness. Participants rate their levels of motion sickness on a scale of 0-20 where 0 is no feeling of nausea and 20 is feeling terrible and very sick., 6 months
Primary objective:

To investigate the feasibility of volumetric image guidance for the Nano-X patient rotation system (PRS).

Secondary objectives:

1. To develop image reconstruction methods that allow target and normal tissue visualisation at all treatment angles to a clinical cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) standard.
2. To determine the reproducibility and variability in Nano-X CBCT compared to clinical CBCT.
3. To measure the magnitude of gravity-induced anatomical deformation and translation.
4. To develop treatment plan adaptation methods to compensate for gravity-induced target motion based on Nano-X CBCT image reconstruction at varying treatment angles.
5. To quantify the participant experience of horizontal rotation using the Nano-X PRS for volumetric image guidance CBCT acquisition.

The investigators will perform a pilot stage, device feasibility trial, to investigate the feasibility of acquiring CBCT images for image guidance by maintaining a fixed imaging system and rotating the participant about the horizontal axis using the Nano-X PRS. It is a single-arm, controlled, single-blinded, non-treatment, non-invasive, single-institution trial.

Eligible participants will be asked to attend the Nelune Comprehensive Cancer Centre (NCCC) at the Prince of Wales Hospital on two separate occasions to obtain Nano-X CBCT scans. For each scan the participant will be rotated 360° about the horizontal axis which will take approximately 72 seconds to complete.

Participants will be asked to complete validated psychometric questionnaires before and after each Nano-X CBCT. The questionnaire responses will be used to quantify their experiences of anxiety and motion sickness, and report previous experiences of claustrophobia, in order to identify determinants of tolerance level.

The projection data sets from the Nano-X CBCT scans, along with conventional CBCTs obtained for the participants' standard radiotherapy treatment, will be used to investigate the image-related objectives. The two Nano-X CBCT data sets from each participant will be used to compare Nano-X CBCT variability and reproducibility to clinical CBCT acquisition.