Sandostatin for Patients With Androgen Independent Prostate Cancer
This is an open label, single center Phase II trial of Sandostatin LAR in patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer. Patients will receive Sandostatin LAR 30 mg intramuscularly every 28 days. Patients will be treated until the time of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent. The study will require 27 evaluable patients.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Sandostatin
PSA Response, Number of participants with a PSA decline of at least 50% from Baseline during the first 3 cycles of therapy, confirmed by a second measurement at least 2 weeks later., 12 weeks
Pre-post Percent Change in Circulating Levels of IGF-1 and IGF-Binding Protein 1., Serum was batched and IGF and IGFBP levels were assayed at one time at the end of the study using an enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA) method by Diagnostic Systems Laboratories (Webster, TX)., Baseline, 12 weeks|Grade 4-5 Adverse Events, 12 weeks|Pre Versus Post Treatment Mitogenic Effects., 12 Weeks
Primary Objective:

To evaluate changes in prostate specific antigen (PSA) in patients with androgen independent prostate cancer who are treated with Sandostatin LAR.

Secondary Objective:

To evaluate the effects of Sandostatin LAR on circulating levels of Insulin Growth Factor-1 and Insulin Growth Factor Binding Protein 1.

To evaluate the safety of Sandostatin LAR in this patient population. To evaluate the pre versus post treatment mitogenic effects of serum derived from subjects with prostate cancer compared to pretreatment serum.

Patients with androgen independent prostate cancer who do not have bone or visceral metastases are selected for this trial because they are a patient population that is likely to have no symptoms from the disease or rapid progression that would suggest the need for chemotherapy. Additionally, given the preclinical data suggesting that IGF-1 expression and signaling occurs concomitantly with the onset of androgen independent growth, it is felt that testing in the "early" androgen independent state is warranted. This trial is consistent with overall goal to develop IGF-1 targeted therapies in patients with disease progression and a lower disease burden.