Prospective Cohort Study for Validation of Predictive Immune Biomarkers of Response to PAPR Inhibitors
Increasing number of ovarian cancer patients are receiving PARP inhibitor as maintenance therapy. Predictive factors to PARP inhibitor other than BRCA mutation or HRD status are unknown. Previous study, we analyzed the dynamic immunological changes in peripheral T cells during PARP inhibitor maintenance therapy and found predictive biomarkers. The purpose of this study is to prospectively validate the biomarkers for predicting response to PAPR inhibitors in ovarian cancer. We collect serial blood samples (before initiation of therapy and after 1, 3, and 6 months) in ovarian cancer patients who receive PARP inhibitor and analyze immunological characteristics of peripheral CD8 and regulatory T cells. Through assessment of the baseline properties and dynamic changes in T cells, we aim to validate the predictive biomarker and develope promising novel targets to enhancing survival outcomes of high-risk patients.
Ovarian Cancer
Validation of biomarkers for predicting response to PAPR inhibitor, Investigators will utilize baseline peripherap blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to validate predictive biomarkers to PARP inhibitor. Response to PAPR inhibitor was defined by BRCA1/2 status and duration of PAPR inhibitor treatment., The primary endpont will be accessed 12 months after last patient registration.
Identify dynamic immunological changes during PAPR inhibitor therapy, Investigators will utilize serial samples to identify dynamic immunological changes during PAPR inhibitor therapy., Immunological changes (Time Frame: 6 months|Identify promising novel targets to enhance survivla outcomes of high-risk pateints in PAPR inhibitor therapy., Investigators will utilize serial samples to identify dynamic immunological changes during PAPR inhibitor therapy., Identify promising novel targets (Time Frame: 12 months)
Increasing number of ovarian cancer patients are receiving PARP inhibitor as maintenance therapy. Predictive factors to PARP inhibitor other than BRCA mutation or HRD status are unknown. Previous study, we analyzed the dynamic immunological changes in peripheral T cells during PARP inhibitor maintenance therapy and found predictive biomarkers. The purpose of this study is to prospectively validate the biomarkers for predicting response to PAPR inhibitors in ovarian cancer. We collect serial blood samples (before initiation of therapy and after 1, 3, and 6 months) in ovarian cancer patients who receive PARP inhibitor and analyze immunological characteristics of peripheral CD8 and regulatory T cells. Through assessment of the baseline properties and dynamic changes in T cells, we aim to validate the predictive biomarker and develope promising novel targets to enhancing survival outcomes of high-risk patients.