Indocyanine Green Fluoroscopy and SPY Angiography for the Assessment of Lymphatic Structure in Breast Cancer Patients at Risk for Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema
This clinical trial assesses the change in lymphatic structure from placement of an intravenous (IV) line and fluid administration using a diagnostic agent, indocyanine green (ICG), with SPY (Trademark) angiography in breast cancer patients at risk for breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL). Patients that are diagnosed with breast cancer with lymph node involvement often undergo treatment that includes surgery to remove the axillary nodes and radiation. Unfortunately, this procedure increases the incidence of BCRL in the surgical arm, as well as other problems including heaviness of the arm, fibrotic skin changes, and an increase in infection risk. Because of these symptoms, venipuncture (blood draw) is often avoided in these arms. Researchers want to show that placement of an IV line and fluid administration in patients at risk for BCRL will indeed not alter the lymphatic structure of the arm and will not change the incidence of BCRL by administering indocyanine green (ICG) dye to patients and assessing their arm lymphatics. ICG is a fluorescent dye that is able to be visualized by the SPY angiography imaging system as it travels through the lymphatic system, allowing researchers to assess how well blood flows throughout the body. Receiving ICG and undergoing SPY angiography may be effective in showing that placement of an IV and fluid administration in breast cancer patients at risk for BCRL will not alter the lymphatic structure of their arm and will not change the incidence of BCRL.
Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema|Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Fluid Therapy|DRUG: Indocyanine Green|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Research or Clinical Assessment Tool|PROCEDURE: SPY Elite Fluorescence Imaging|OTHER: Survey Administration
Percentage of patients with worsening lymphedema in the affected arm, Measured by the MD Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC) lymphedema score (LS) (measured on a scale of 0 to 5) increased by at least 1 level. Will be estimated as a percentage of patients with MDACC lymphedema score that is at least 1 unit worse at 12 months than at baseline; 95% confidence interval (CI) will be calculated., Baseline to 12 months
Change in lymphedema severity based on SOZO Digital Health Platform scale, Will be calculated (with appropriate confidence intervals); Pearson (or Spearman, as appropriate) correlation coefficients will be calculated to assess the strength of relationship between all four assessment methods (all time points). Graphical representation of data will be used to help understand and assess the nature of the relationship of these modalities., Baseline to 12 months|Change in patient self-reported outcomes scores, Will be calculated (with appropriate confidence intervals); Pearson (or Spearman, as appropriate) correlation coefficients will be calculated to assess the strength of relationship between all four assessment methods (all time points). Graphical representation of data will be used to help understand and assess the nature of the relationship of these modalities., Baseline to 12 months|Change in arm circumference measurements, Will be calculated (with appropriate confidence intervals); Pearson (or Spearman, as appropriate) correlation coefficients will be calculated to assess the strength of relationship between all four assessment methods (all time points). Graphical representation of data will be used to help understand and assess the nature of the relationship of these modalities., Baseline to 12 months|Correlation between lymphedema assessment methods (1) MDACC LS, (2) patient-reported outcomes, (3) SOZO scale, and (4) arm circumference, Will be calculated (with appropriate confidence intervals); Pearson (or Spearman, as appropriate) correlation coefficients will be calculated to assess the strength of relationship between all four assessment methods (all time points). Graphical representation of data will be used to help understand and assess the nature of the relationship of these modalities., Baseline to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the change in lymphatic architecture resulting from placement of an IV line and fluid administration in patients at risk for BCRL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify changes in presence/severity of lymphedema based on:

Ia. SOZO Digital Health Platform scale; Ib. Patient self-reported outcomes; Ic. Arm circumference. II. Assess association between SOZO scale, MD Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC) lymphedema score (LS), and patient-reported outcomes.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Observe changes in mapping of superficial lymphatics that are responsible for the upper extremity arm with use of ICG dye and SPY angiography.

II. Identify risk factors associated with higher rates of lymphedema after IV line/fluid administration.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ICG dye subcutaneously (SC) and receive fluids IV over one hour and undergo SPY imaging and lymphedema assessment on day 1. Patients also receive ICG dye and undergo imaging and lymphedema assessments again at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months on study.