Activity Based Program to Improve Quality of Life Outcomes in Women Diagnosed With Cancer
Implementation and Evaluation of an Activity Based Program to Improve Quality of Life Outcomes in Women Diagnosed With Cancer. Demonstrate improved life satisfaction (with evidenced gathered at three consecutive periods and geographical locations through Quality of Life surveys).
Cancer
OTHER: Camp Discovery
Change in Canadian Occupational Performance Measure Scores at Day 5 and Week 6, Individualized, client-centered measure designed for use by occupational therapists to detect change in a client's self-perception of occupational performance and satisfaction over time, Day 1, Day 5 and week 6|Change in World Health Organization-Quality of Life Brief (WHO-QoL BREF )scores at Week 6, Quality of Life Measure: Assesses the individual's perceptions in the context of their culture and value systems, and their personal goals, standards and concerns., Day 1 and week 6|Change in Short Form 36 (SF 36) at Week 6, Multi-purpose, short-form health survey with 36 questions. Yields a profile of functional health and well-being scores. Provides psychometrically based physical and mental health summary measures., Day 1 and week 6
This research study focused on developing and implementing eight one-week activity camps in the summer of 2012, 2013, and 2014 for women diagnosed with cancer. Each camp was held in a different geographical location: rural (Renovo, PA), suburban (Gilda's Club in Warminster, PA), MD Anderson of Camden, and urban (University of the Sciences with the Cancer Support Community of Philadelphia). The focus of this programming was to allow women to engage in activities they may not be engaged in since the diagnosis of cancer and to provide them with opportunities to socially interact and communicate with individuals who may have encountered the same difficulties as them. Quality of life information was collected before, during and after implementation of the activity program. The main objective was to demonstrate improved life satisfaction (with evidenced gathered at three consecutive periods and geographical locations through Quality of Life surveys). 77 women were recruited over a three year period. 6 dropped out and 71 completed the entire study.