A Study of Herceptin (Trastuzumab) in Combination With Cisplatin/Capecitabine Chemotherapy in Participants With Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2)-Positive Metastatic Gastric or Gastro-Esophageal Junction Cancer
This randomized, open-label, multicenter, international Phase IIIb study will compare the efficacy and safety of two Herceptin dosing regimens in combination with cisplatin/capecitabine chemotherapy in participants with HER2-positive metastatic gastric or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma. Participants who have not received prior treatment for metastatic disease will be randomized to receive Herceptin intravenously as either an 8-milligram per kilogram (mg/kg) loading dose followed by 6 mg/kg every 3 weeks (q3w) as standard of care or an 8-mg/kg loading dose followed by 10 mg/kg q3w until disease progression. Capecitabine will be administered for 6 cycles at a dose of 800 milligrams per meter-squared (mg/m\^2) orally twice a day on Days 1 to 14 of each 3-week cycle, and cisplatin will be administered intravenously for 6 cycles at a dose of 80 mg/m\^2 on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle. Herceptin will be continued until disease progression occurs.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Herceptin
Percentage of Participants Who Died - FAS, The percentage of participants who died as of the analysis data cutoff date of 13 February 2015 was reported among participants from the FAS with available data., From date of randomization until death or premature withdrawal (up to approximately 31 months or data cutoff date of 13 February 2015)|Overall Survival - FAS, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. Overall survival was estimated among participants from the FAS using the Kaplan-Meier approach. The 95 percent (%) confidence interval (CI) for median was computed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., From date of randomization until death or premature withdrawal (up to approximately 31 months or data cutoff date of 13 February 2015)
Percentage of Participants Who Died - Per Protocol Set (PPS), The percentage of participants who died as of the analysis data cutoff date of 13 February 2015 was reported among participants from the PPS., From date of randomization until death or premature withdrawal (up to approximately 31 months or data cutoff date of 13 February 2015)|Overall Survival - PPS, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. Overall survival was estimated among participants from the PPS using the Kaplan-Meier approach. The 95% CI for median was computed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., From date of randomization until death or premature withdrawal (up to approximately 31 months or data cutoff date of 13 February 2015)|Percentage of Participants With Disease Progression or Death - PPS, Disease progression was defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 as a ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including Baseline (nadir). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum was also required to demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 millimeters (mm). The percentage of participants who died or experienced disease progression as of the analysis data cutoff date of 13 February 2015 was reported among participants from the PPS., From date of randomization until first occurrence of disease progression or death; assessed every 6 weeks (up to approximately 31 months or data cutoff date of 13 February 2015)|Progression-Free Survival - PPS, Progression-free survival was defined as the time between the day of randomization and the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death, whichever occurred first, measured following RECIST Version 1.1 criteria. Disease progression was defined as a ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including Baseline (nadir). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum was also required to demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The 95% CI for median was computed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., From date of randomization until first occurrence of disease progression or death; assessed every 6 weeks (up to approximately 31 months or data cutoff date of 13 February 2015)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response - PPS, Objective response was defined as the occurrence of either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by RECIST Version 1.1 based on investigator assessment. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) were required to have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as a ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters. The 95% CI was constructed using Blyth-Still-Casella method., From date of randomization until first occurrence of disease progression or death; assessed every 6 weeks (up to approximately 31 months or data cutoff date of 13 February 2015)|Trastuzumab Cmin on Day 21 of Cycles 1 to 11 - FAS, Cmin samples were obtained in all participants randomized to receive Herceptin (FAS). The observed Cmin was recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in μg/mL., Day 21 of Cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11 (cycle length = 21 days)|Trastuzumab Serum Concentration on Day 1 of Cycle 1 - FAS, Trastuzumab serum concentration samples were obtained in all participants randomized to receive Herceptin (FAS). The observed concentration values were recorded, averaged among all participants, and expressed in μg/mL., Pre-dose (0 minutes) and within 15 minutes after end of 2-hour Herceptin infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1 (cycle length = 21 days)
This randomized, open-label, multicenter, international Phase IIIb study will compare the efficacy and safety of two Herceptin dosing regimens in combination with cisplatin/capecitabine chemotherapy in participants with HER2-positive metastatic gastric or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma. Participants who have not received prior treatment for metastatic disease will be randomized to receive Herceptin intravenously as either an 8-milligram per kilogram (mg/kg) loading dose followed by 6 mg/kg every 3 weeks (q3w) as standard of care or an 8-mg/kg loading dose followed by 10 mg/kg q3w until disease progression. Capecitabine will be administered for 6 cycles at a dose of 800 milligrams per meter-squared (mg/m\^2) orally twice a day on Days 1 to 14 of each 3-week cycle, and cisplatin will be administered intravenously for 6 cycles at a dose of 80 mg/m\^2 on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle. Herceptin will be continued until disease progression occurs.