Intermittent Androgen Deprivation Therapy for Stage IV Castration Sensitive Prostate Cancer
Adaptive Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) plus Standard of Care. The purpose of this study is to develop adaptive therapy for high risk metastatic castration sensitive prostate cancer (mCSPC).
Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer|Advanced Prostate Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
DRUG: Adaptive Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT)|DRUG: Abiraterone|DRUG: Prednisone
Rate of Participant Retention, Percentage of participants who remain on study at month 12. The study will be terminated early if 2 or more of the first 6 enrolled subjects discontinued study due to cancer progression within a year of study enrollment., 12 months from participant's first dose of ADT
Median Time to Progression From the First Dose of Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT), Median time to prostate specific antigen (PSA) progression while on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), abiraterone and prednisone. Progression is per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) and the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3)., 12 months from participant's first dose of ADT|Median Time to Radiographic Progression From the First Dose of ADT, Median time to radiographic progression while on ADT, abiraterone and prednisone. Progression is per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) and the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3)., 12 months from participant's first dose of ADT
Investigators proposed this pilot feasibility study to use prostate specific antigen (PSA) response and testosterone level to guide the treatment with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) \[Leuprolide, Goserelin, and Triptorelin are the most commonly used GnRH agonists for ADT\] and/or abiraterone plus prednisone. Adaptive therapy is a program of chemotherapy where the type and dosage of drug changes in an attempt to kill more of the cancer.

Abiraterone acetate with prednisone is a standard of care treatment for mCRPC (metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer). It works by interrupting the male hormone (androgen) making process in the testes, adrenal glands, and tumors. This helps to prevent the growth of tumors that need these hormones to grow.