Erlotinib Hydrochloride or Crizotinib and Chemoradiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well erlotinib hydrochloride or crizotinib with chemoradiation therapy works in treating patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, etoposide, paclitaxel, and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether giving erlotinib hydrochloride is more effective than crizotinib with chemoradiation therapy in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7
RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Crizotinib|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) guideline v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions at any location. Progression-free survival time is measured from the date of randomization to the date of first progression, death, or last known follow-up (censored). No statistical testing was done due to early study termination., From randomization to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 39.0 months
Percentage of Patients With Complete or Partial Response, Per the RECIST guideline v1.1 complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. No statistical testing was done due to early study termination., From randomization to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 39.0 months|Number of Patients With Grade 3-5 Adverse Events, Adverse events (AE) are graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE v4.0 assigns Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild AE, Grade 2 Moderate AE, Grade 3 Severe AE, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE, Grade 5 Death related to AE., From randomization to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 39.0 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause. Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients last known to be alive are censored at the date of last contact., From randomization to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 39.0 months|Local-regional Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using the RECIST guideline v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new regional lesions. Local progression is defined as progression within the planning target volume (PTV). Regional progression is defined as progression outside of the PTV but within the same lobe of the lung as the primary tumor or in regional lymph nodes as defined by the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) 7th edition nodal stations. Local-regional progression-free survival time is measured from the date of randomization to the date of first local-regional progression, death, or last known follow-up (censored). Local-regional progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. No testing was done due to early study termination., From randomization to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 39.0 months|Distant Progression-free Survival, Distant progression is defined as the first occurrence of distant metastasis. Distant progression-free survival time is measured from the date of randomization to the date of first distant progression, death, or last known follow-up (censored). Distant progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. No testing was done due to early study termination., From randomization to study termination. Maximum follow-up was 39.0 months|Correlation Between Clinical Outcomes and Tumor Molecular Aberrations, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether patients with unresectable local-regionally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with targeted agents based on molecular characteristics have a longer progression-free survival than those treated with standard care therapy alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate response rate. II. To assess toxicity. III. To assess overall survival. IV. To correlate clinical outcomes with tumor molecular aberrations identified from deep sequencing of selected kinomes in patients from whom adequate baseline tissue is available.

OUTLINE: Eligible patients are assigned to one of two cohorts based on pre-enrollment screening by the enrolling institution for two biomarkers: EGFR TK mutation and EML4-ALK fusion arrangement. Within each cohort, patients are randomized to either an experimental or control arm, resulting in a total of four treatment arms overall. Patients with both the EGFR mutation and ALK arrangement are placed in the ALK Cohort.

Planned Sample Size: 156 for the EGFR mutation cohort and 78 for the ALK translocation cohort

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 and 2 months, 4-6 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.