Study of Melphalan and Topotecan (MT) Followed by Autologous Stem Cell Rescue in Patients With Multiple Myeloma.
The purpose of this research study is to determine the safest dose of topotecan when given in a high dose before a stem cell transplant; topotecan will be given with melphalan.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: topotecan (TPT)|PROCEDURE: Autologous Stem Cell Rescue
Phase I - Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) Level, MTD of topotecan in multiple myeloma patients receiving autologous transplant when give with melphalan 150 mg/m\^2 for three days. Two parallel dose escalations were used, one each for young (18-60 years of age) and elderly patients (\> 61 years of age). Elderly patients began a dose level once it had been found to be safe for the young cohort. The purpose of this approach was to expand the access of this trial to elderly patients while ensuring safety.

Phase I Dose Escalation: Level 1 - 20 mg/m\^2; Level 2 - 30 mg/m\^2; Level 4 - 54 mg/m\^2; Level 5 - 72 mg/m\^2; Level 6 - 96 mg/m\^2; Level 7 - 127.8 mg/m\^2; Level 8 - 170.1 mg/m\^2, Phase I - 5 years, 2 months|Phase II Participants - Overall Response Rate, Re-evaluation of participants who had responsive disease prior to transplant. All changes in monoclonal protein and immunoglobulins will be referenced to those levels obtained immediately prior to cyclophosphamide priming chemotherapy. Complete Response (CR): A CR will be defined as the disappearance of the monoclonal protein by immunofixation studies of serum and urine (100x concentrate) and less than or equal to 5% plasma cells in a bone marrow aspirate. Partial Response (PR): 50% - 74% decrease in the measurable monoclonal protein (M-component from an SPEP and/or UPEP with immunofixation)., Phase II - Phase start at 62 months up to 120 months
Phase II Event Free Survival (EFS), Time to treatment failure, which is defined as the time from day 0 to the time of progressive disease. Progressive disease is defined by unequivocal objective evidence and constitutes any of the following: 1). an increase in the total amount of monoclonal protein (M-component from Serum Protein Electrophoresis (SPEP) and/or Urine Protein Electrophoresis (UPEP) with immunofixation) by more than 100% from the lowest level of serum myeloma protein seen after high-dose chemotherapy by serum protein electrophoresis; 2). an increase in the total amount of monoclonal protein above the remission level of the myeloma peak (i.e., an increase of \>25% above the lowest level in a 24 hour urine or serum protein; 3). the reappearance of the M-protein if the patient had entered a CR: 4). definite increase in the size (\> 1 cm) or number of lytic bone lesions. Compression fractures do not constitute a relapse., Phase II - Phase start at 62 months up to 120 months|Phase II Overall Survival (OS), Time from start of treatment until death from any cause., Phase II - Phase start at 62 months up to 120 months
Pharmacokinetic Profiles of High Dose Topotecan and Melphalan, Evaluate the pharmacokinetic profiles of high dose topotecan and melphalan and to investigate the pharmacodynamic relationships with respect to the efficacy and toxicity of this regimen in each age group. Pharmacokinetics of Topotecan: For all dose levels, topotecan levels on Day -4 will be obtained at -15 min, 20 min into 30 min infusion, and 5 min, 15 min, 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 8 h, and 23 h after the 30 min infusion. Pharmacokinetics of Melphalan: For all dose levels, melphalan levels during the first day of cytoxan priming chemotherapy and on Day -4 will be obtained before, at the end of the infusion, and 5 minutes (min), 15 min, 30 min, 45 min, 60 min, 90 min, 120 min and 180 min after the infusion. The infusion time for the test dose of melphalan is over 5 min and for the high-dose is over 30 min., Predetermined time points in protocol|Amount, Activity and Subcellular Distribution of Topoisomerase I With Clinical Response and Toxicity, Laboratory Correlates will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Laboratory study (no specific time points)|DNA Topoisomerase I Amount, Activity, or Subcellular Distribution, Laboratory Correlates will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Laboratory study (N/A)|Genomic DNA Sequence Variations and Correlate With Toxicity to Melphalan and Topotecan, Laboratory Correlates will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Laboratory study (N/A)|Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) Expression, BCRP function will be assayed in multiple myeloma patient bone marrow aspirates obtained before and during high dose chemotherapy. BCRP function is expressed as the change in relative fluorescence in topotecan versus control cells. The distribution of paired differences in BCRP, a continuous variable, will be summarized using descriptive statistics and will be correlated with response and toxicity., Laboratory study (N/A)
The stem cells being transplanted are cells found in the bone marrow and blood that are responsible for making red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. The stem cells are collected by a process called leukapheresis and will be frozen for later use. After receiving the chemotherapy drugs, the stem cells will be thawed and given like a blood transfusion. This is called autologous stem cell transplant or rescue. The study doctors will be measuring how well the disease responds to the drugs as well as any side effects to the drugs. During the course of this study, blood and bone marrow samples will be obtained to measure levels of the chemotherapy drugs as well as levels of certain enzymes (proteins).

The staff of the Blood and Marrow Transplant program will continue to collect information about the participant's disease and its treatment for the rest of their life.