Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant vs Bone Marrow Transplant in Individuals With Hematologic Cancers (BMT CTN 0201)
The study is designed as a Phase III, randomized, open label, multicenter, prospective, comparative trial of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) versus marrow from unrelated donors for transplantation in patients with hematologic malignancies. Recipients will be stratified by transplant center and disease risk and will be randomized to either the PBSC or marrow arm in a 1:1 ratio.
Leukemia|Myeloproliferative Disorders|Myelodysplastic-Myeloproliferative Diseases
BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Two-year Overall Survival, Overall survival rate at 2 years according to an intention-to-treat analysis., Measured at 2 years
Neutrophil Engraftment, Measured at Day 28|Platelet Engraftment, Measured at Day 180|Graft Failure, Measured at 28 and 100 days|Extensive Chronic Graft-versus-host Disease (GVHD), Measured at 730 days|Chronic GVHD, Measured at 2 years|Relapse, Analysis restricted to patients who received the transplant., Measured at 2 years|Infections, Number of infection reports per patient., Measured at 1 and 2 years|Grades III-V Unexpected Adverse Events, Measured by 2 years|Acute GVHD Grade II-IV, 100 days, 180 days|Acute GVHD Grade III-IV, 100 days, 180 days|Current Immunosuppressive (IS) Free Survival, This outcome measure takes into account subsequent immunosuppressive therapy that may occur following discontinuation of initial immunosuppressive therapy., Measured at 2 years|Immune Reconstitution, Measured at 100 days, 6 months, and 1 and 2 years|Donor Recovery of Baseline Complete Blood Count (CBC) and White Blood Cell Count (WBC) Differential, Measured at 1, 6, and 12 months|Donor Recovery to Baseline Toxicity Scores, Measured at 1, 6, and 12 months|Donor Quality of Life, Measured at 1, 6, and 12 months|Patient Quality of Life, Measured at baseline, 6 months, and 1, 2, and 5 years
BACKGROUND:

Many studies of allogeneic marrow transplantation have shown that a higher dose of marrow cells correlates with more robust hematopoietic engraftment and lower mortality from infectious complications. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) collected after mobilization with granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) contain a larger number of CD34-positive (CD34) progenitors and total cells than bone marrow. These observations led to the hypothesis that transplantation of PBSC would lead to lower mortality compared to transplantation of marrow. In addition, PBSC grafts have a higher T cell content, predicting a possibly more powerful anti-leukemia effect. However, the higher T cell content of PBSC may also lead to increased incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). This concern is especially serious when the donor is unrelated to the recipient. This prospective, randomized, multicenter clinical trial of unrelated donor transplantation will test the hypothesis that transplantation of PBSC leads to similar patient survival compared to transplantation of marrow.

DESIGN NARRATIVE:

This is a Phase III randomized, open label, multicenter clinical trial sponsored by the National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The objective of the trial is to test the null hypothesis that there is no difference in overall survival after PBSC versus marrow transplants from HLA compatible unrelated donors. The study will compare G-CSF-mobilized PBSC transplantation with bone marrow transplantation from HLA-compatible unrelated donors for patients with leukemia, myelodysplastic or myeloproliferative syndromes. Conditioning and GVHD prophylaxis regimens will vary by center and within centers, however, the center must declare before randomization what regimens will be used for each patient. The primary endpoint of this trial is 2-year survival following randomization. Secondary analyses will consider neutrophil and platelet recovery, acute and chronic GVHD, time off all immunosuppressive therapy, relapse, infections, adverse events and immune reconstitution. The trial will include evaluation of patient and donor quality of life, composition of the graft, and immune reconstitution. Accrual is anticipated for 3 years with a follow-up period of 3 years.