Combination Chemotherapy With Nintedanib / Placebo in Endometrial Cancer
This study will evaluate the role of addition of an anti-angiogenic agent (Nintedanib/placebo) to conventional combination chemotherapy as concomitant and maintenance treatment in primary advanced or with first relapse of endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Nintedanib or Placebo; Carboplatin, Paclitaxel
PFS: Difference in months of Median Progression-Free Survival in experimental arm versus comparator arm, Superiority of Nintedanib arm vs. placebo arm by median PFS increase of 4 months (from 10 months to 14 months) HR: 1.4; power80%; one-sided alpha: 15%. Inclusion period 18 months. Median PFS matures after 14 months of end inclusion, 36 months
PFS in the sub-populations as described under stratification factors, To be measured (in months) and reported, 32 months|PFS after consecutive treatment (PFS2). To be measured (in months) and reported, PFS2 is defined along the same timelines as PFS but accounts for the time from randomization to progression or death by any cause on any subsequent line of anticancer therapy., 48 months|Disease Specific Survival (DSS), To be measured (in months) and reported, 48 months|TSST (Time to Second Subsequent Therapy), To be measured (in months) and reported, 48 months|TFST (Time to First Subsequent Therapy), To be measured (in months) and reported, 48 months|Overall Survival (OS), To be measured (in months) and reported, 48 months|Response Rate (RR)., To be measured (CRs \& PRs in %) and reported, 32 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR = Complete Response, Partial Response or Stable Disease for at least 12 weeks). To be measured (CRs, PRs \& SDs in %) and reported, 32 months|Patient Related Outcomes (PROs), Patient questionnaire results to be presented as as narrative (1-10 scale), 48 months|Number of patients with Grade 3 through Grade 5 Adverse Events that are related to study drug., NCI CTCAE Version 4.0, 36 months|Compliance in the two treatment arms, Percentage of missed dosages during the treatment, 32 months
This multicenter, prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised phase 2 study is evaluating combination chemotherapy with nintedanib in patients with primary advanced stage (3C2 \& 4), or with first relapse of endometrial cancer.

Patients are stratified according to:

1. Stage of disease (stage 3C2 vs. stage 4 vs. recurrent disease)
2. Prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes/no)
3. Disease status (Measurable disease vs. non-measurable /RECIST 1.1)

Patients are randomized to one of the two treatment arms 1:1 randomization:

* Arm A: Paclitaxel and Carboplatin (6 courses) and Nintedanib (until PD). (Experimental arm)
* Arm B: Paclitaxel and Carboplatin (6 courses) and Placebo (until PD) (Control Arm)

Primary endpoint is PFS. 148 patients to be enrolled.