Short-course Radiotherapy Followed by Chemotherapy and PD-1 Inhibitor for Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
This phase II/III trial studies how well neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy and chemotherapy with or without PD-1 inhibitors works in treating patients with locally advanced rectal adenocarcinoma. Neoadjuvant short-course radiation therapy followed by two-drug regimen chemotherapy, such as CAPOX, were shown to be non-inferior to standard long-course chemoradiotherapy in our previous STELLAR study. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) using monoclonal antibodies, such as PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor, show promising efficiency and reliable security in some limited sample prospective or retrospective studies. When treating patients with locally advanced rectal cancer, giving sequential neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy and chemotherapy with PD-1 inhibitor may work better.
Rectal Neoplasms Malignant|Radiotherapy
DRUG: Sintilimab|RADIATION: Short-course radiotherapy|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: CAPOX/mFOLFOX
complete remission, The rate of pathological complete remission plus clinical complete remission, one year|Disease-free survival rate, three year
Incidence of acute toxicities during radiation, chemotherapy ± immunotherapy, three months|Incidence of surgical complications, 30 days|Overall survival rate, three year|Locoregional recurrence rate, three year|Distance metastasis rate, three year|Radical resection (R0), one year|Quality of life (QoL), Quality of life will be evaluated using EORTC QLQ-C30 (range 0-100). It evaluates the quality of life from 30 aspects, including appetite, mental status, sleep quality, fatigue, etc. The higher scores mean a better quality of life., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Quality of life (QoL), Quality of life will be evaluated using EORTC QLQ-Cr29 (range 0-100). It evaluates the quality of life from 29 aspects, including defecation function, urine function，pain, sex function, etc. The higher scores mean a better quality of life., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Quality of life (QoL), Quality of life will be evaluated using Wexner score(range 0-20). It evaluates the defecation function. The lower scores mean a better quality of life., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years
This phase II/III trial studies how well neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy and chemotherapy with or without PD-1 inhibitors works in treating patients with locally advanced rectal adenocarcinoma. Neoadjuvant short-course radiation therapy followed by two-drug regimen chemotherapy, such as CAPOX, were shown to be non-inferior to standard long-course chemoradiotherapy in our previous STELLAR study. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) using monoclonal antibodies, such as PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor, show promising efficiency and reliable security in some limited sample prospective or retrospective studies. When treating patients with locally advanced rectal cancer, giving sequential neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy and chemotherapy with PD-1 inhibitor may work better.