Exercise and Tumor Blood Flow
This research aims at investigating tumor blood flow response to acute exercise in human cancer patients. It is hypothesized and expected that acute exercise increases tumor blood flow, which could plausibly increase the efficacy of cancer treatment.
Tumor Blood Flow at Rest and During Exercise
OTHER: Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging at rest and during supine bicycle exercise
Tumor blood flow, Measured with PET and radiowater (\[(15)O\]H2O) tracer. Tumor perfusion will be determined as mean tumor blood flow., Tumor blood flow is measured at one time point, at least two (2) days apart from baseline fitness test assessment. Tumor blood flow at rest and during supine cycling exercise will be measured on the same day.
Spatial dispersion (heterogeneity) of tumor blood flow, Measured with PET and radiowater (\[(15)O\]H2O) tracer. Tumor blood flow heterogeneity will be determined as voxel variation in perfusion divided by the mean perfusion of the voxels., The heterogeneity of tumor blood flow is measured at one time point, at least two (2) days apart from baseline fitness test assessment. The heterogeneity of tumor blood flow at rest and during supine cycling exercise will be measured on the same day.
Physical activity has been applied as an adjunctive therapy in the secondary prevention of many cancers, but very little is currently known clinically and mechanistically about the effects of physical activity and exercise on tumor itself. Based on recent evidence from pre-clinical studies, it is plausible to expect that changes in tumor blood flow and its heterogeneity, oxygenation, and metabolism due to exercise would increase the delivery of chemotherapy and other cancer drugs into the tumor increasing the efficacy of cancer treatment.

Eight (8) newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma cancer patients will be recruited to investigate whether these pre-clinical findings can be extended to humans to serve as an evidence-based proof-of-concept for the possible inclusion of exercise in the treatment of cancer during chemotherapy. To study the effect of acute physical exercise on tumor blood flow and its heterogeneity, supine bicycle exercise in a positron emission tomography (PET) scanner will be used to exercise Hodgkin lymphoma cancer patients. These experiments are additional measurements to their normal treatments, and no new interventional approaches will be conducted in this study.

The study consists of one fitness test assessment, and tumor blood flow measurements with PET at rest and during supine cycling exercise.