Rifaximin for Preventing Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (AGVHD)
Acute graft versus host disease is a frequent and often life threatening complication of allogeneic blood and marrow transplantation. The bacteria that normally reside in the intestine play a critical role in its development. Injury to the lining of the bowel that results from the high dose chemotherapy or radiation that transplant patients receive during the week preceding the transplant allows the bacteria to invade the intestines and spread to nearby lymph nodes. This, in turn, causes inflammation which has been shown to promote GVHD. Both pre-clinical and clinical research has demonstrated that oral antibiotics can prevent graft versus host disease by inhibiting these gut bacteria. Rifaximin has several features that suggest it could be effective in preventing GVHD. Rifaximin prophylaxis might also provide an added benefit by protecting highly immunocompromised transplant patients from severe bacterial infections. This pilot trial will allow the investigators to determine the feasibility of using Rifaximin for prevention of GVHD and infection in patients undergoing allogeneic blood and marrow transplantation. The preliminary results will be used to plan a more definitive trial.
Malignancy|Bone Marrow Transplantation
DRUG: Rifaximin
Determine the feasibility of this approach; to gather preliminary data on the incidence of GVHD and other clinical outcomes; to obtain pre-clinical data on the serial plasma levels of three biologic markers- endotoxin, soluble IL-2 receptor and TNF., 1 year after last patient enrolled
Obtain preliminary data on the efficacy of administering rifaximin for prophylaxis against serious bacterial infections in BMT patients., 1 year after last patient enrolled
Acute graft versus host disease is a frequent and often life threatening complication of allogeneic blood and marrow transplantation. The bacteria that normally reside in the intestine play a critical role in its development. Injury to the lining of the bowel that results from the high dose chemotherapy or radiation that transplant patients receive during the week preceding the transplant allows the bacteria to invade the intestines and spread to nearby lymph nodes. This, in turn, causes inflammation which has been shown to promote GVHD. Both pre-clinical and clinical research has demonstrated that oral antibiotics can prevent graft versus host disease by inhibiting these gut bacteria. Rifaximin has several features that suggest it could be effective in preventing GVHD. Rifaximin prophylaxis might also provide an added benefit by protecting highly immunocompromised transplant patients from severe bacterial infections. This pilot trial will allow the investigators to determine the feasibility of using Rifaximin for prevention of GVHD and infection in patients undergoing allogeneic blood and marrow transplantation. The preliminary results will be used to plan a more definitive trial.