Carcinogenicity Study of Bupropion
There is a lack of toxicology data on one bupropion metabolite, and limited literature examining bupropion use and cancer risk. This study evaluates the association between bupropion exposure and the development of cancer of the prostate, breast, lung, colon/rectum, urinary bladder, and uterus by comparing the risk of cancer in bupropion users with other antidepressant users. Because there is no evidence that bupropion is associated with any particular cancer, we have chosen the six most common cancers diagnosed in the United States to optimize statistical power/precision for cancer-site specific comparisons. Two US population-based data resources with automated claims, pharmacy, and tumor registry data are included in this study. Using a nested case-control design, this study will compare the incidence of cancer in patients exposed to bupropion with the incidence in patients exposed to other antidepressants.
Depressive Disorder|Cancer
DRUG: Regular bupropion use|DRUG: Regular SSRI (Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) use|DRUG: Regular TCA (Tricyclic antidepressants) use|DRUG: Regular use of any other antidepressant
Number of Participants Diagnosed With Any of the Cancers Under Investigation Who Were Regularly Exposed to the Indicated Antidepressant, The following are the cancers under investigation: colorectal, lung, bladder, uterus, breast, and prostate. Cancer case were nested within a cohort of new antidepressant users. New antidepressant users were defined as no previous antidepressant prescription in the previous 6 months. Cases were identified and matched with controls from the same new-user cohort. Cal year, calendar year; dx, diagnosis; IBD, Inflammatory Bowel Disease; OC, oral contraceptive; HRT/ERT, hormone replacement therapy/estrogen replacement therapy; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug., January 1, 1996 - December 31, 2006
Number of Participants Diagnosed With Colorectal Cancer Who Were Regularly Exposed to the Indicated Antidepressant, In this outcome, colorectal cancer is under investigation: Cancer case were nested within a cohort of new antidepressant users. New antidepressant users were defined as no previous antidepressant prescription in the previous 6 months. Colorectal cancer cases were identified and matched with controls from the same new-user cohort. Cal year, calendar year; dx, diagnosis; IBD, Inflammatory Bowel Disease; OC, oral contraceptive; HRT/ERT, hormone replacement therapy/estrogen replacement therapy; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug., January 1, 1996 - December 31, 2006|Number of Participants Diagnosed With Lung Cancer Who Were Regularly Exposed to the Indicated Antidepressant, In this outcome, lung cancer is under investigation: Cancer case were nested within a cohort of new antidepressant users. New antidepressant users were defined as no previous antidepressant prescription in the previous 6 months. Lung cancer cases were identified and matched with controls from the same new-user cohort. Cal year, calendar year; dx, diagnosis; IBD, Inflammatory Bowel Disease; OC, oral contraceptive; HRT/ERT, hormone replacement therapy/estrogen replacement therapy; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug., January 1, 1996 - December 31, 2006|Number of Participants Diagnosed With Bladder Cancer Who Were Regularly Exposed to the Indicated Antidepressant, In this outcome, bladder cancer is under investigation: Cancer case were nested within a cohort of new antidepressant users. New antidepressant users were defined as no previous antidepressant prescription in the previous 6 months. Bladder cancer cases were identified and matched with controls from the same new-user cohort. Cal year, calendar year; dx, diagnosis; IBD, Inflammatory Bowel Disease; OC, oral contraceptive; HRT/ERT, hormone replacement therapy/estrogen replacement therapy; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug., January 1, 1996 - December 31, 2006|Number of Participants Diagnosed With Uterine Cancer Who Were Regularly Exposed to the Indicated Antidepressant, In this outcome, uterine cancer is under investigation: Cancer case were nested within a cohort of new antidepressant users. New antidepressant users were defined as no previous antidepressant prescription in the previous 6 months. Uterine cancer cases were identified and matched with controls from the same new-user cohort. Cal year, calendar year; dx, diagnosis; IBD, Inflammatory Bowel Disease; OC, oral contraceptive; HRT/ERT, hormone replacement therapy/estrogen replacement therapy; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug., January 1, 1996 - December 31, 2006|Number of Participants Diagnosed With Breast Cancer Who Were Regularly Exposed to the Indicated Antidepressant, In this outcome, breast cancer is under investigation: Cancer case were nested within a cohort of new antidepressant users. New antidepressant users were defined as no previous antidepressant prescription in the previous 6 months. Breast cancer cases were identified and matched with controls from the same new-user cohort. Cal year, calendar year; dx, diagnosis; IBD, Inflammatory Bowel Disease; OC, oral contraceptive; HRT/ERT, hormone replacement therapy/estrogen replacement therapy; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug., January 1, 1996 - December 31, 2006|Number of Participants Diagnosed With Prostate Cancer Who Were Regularly Exposed to the Indicated Antidepressant, In this outcome, prostate cancer is under investigation: Cancer case were nested within a cohort of new antidepressant users. New antidepressant users were defined as no previous antidepressant prescription in the previous 6 months. Prostate cancer cases were identified and matched with controls from the same new-user cohort. Cal year, calendar year; dx, diagnosis; IBD, Inflammatory Bowel Disease; OC, oral contraceptive; HRT/ERT, hormone replacement therapy/estrogen replacement therapy; NSAID, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug., January 1, 1996 - December 31, 2006
Patients were not recruited for nor enrolled in this study. This study is a retrospective observational study. Data from medical records or insurance claims databases are anonymised and used to develop a patient cohort. All diagnoses and treatment are recorded in the course of routine medical practice.