Dabrafenib and Trametinib for BRAF-inhibitor Pretreated Patients
Patients with BRAF V600 mutant advanced melanoma benefit from treatment with a BRAF-inhibitor (e.g. dabrafenib, vemurafenib) and from combination of a BRAF- and MEK-inhibitor (e.g. dabrafenib and trametinib). Following initial tumor regression, progression is diagnosed in a majority of patients treated with BRAF-inhibitor mono-therapy within the first 12-months of therapy. Various molecular mechanisms that underlie the development of resistance to treatment with a BRAF-inhibitor have been reported. These mechanisms do not include secondary mutations in the BRAF-gene and therefore resistance to BRAF-inhibition could potentially be reversible when selective pressure by BRAF-inhibition is withheld for a sufficient period of time of melanoma progression. This clinical trial protocol addresses the potential renewed anti-tumor activity of combined BRAF- and MEK inhibition with the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib in patients with unresectable AJCC stage III or - IV BRAF V600 mutant melanoma who are documented with progression of disease at least 12 weeks following the last day of dosing of a BRAFinhibitor containing treatment regimen.
Malignant Melanoma
DRUG: Dabrafenib + Trametinib
Overall response rate, Participants will be monitored until progression, with an expected average of 6 months
Progression-free survival, Participants will be monitored until progression, with an expected average of 6 months|Overall Survival, 2 years|Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Detect adverse events, Participants will be monitored until progression, with an expected average of 6 months
Tumour-specific cfDNA levels, To explore if tumor specific cfDNA levels can be used as a monitoring tool to detect early progression of disease, Participants will be monitored until progression, with an expected average of 6 months
Patients with BRAF V600 mutant advanced melanoma benefit from treatment with a BRAF-inhibitor (e.g. dabrafenib, vemurafenib) and from combination of a BRAF- and MEK-inhibitor (e.g. dabrafenib and trametinib). Following initial tumor regression, progression is diagnosed in a majority of patients treated with BRAF-inhibitor mono-therapy within the first 12-months of therapy. Various molecular mechanisms that underlie the development of resistance to treatment with a BRAF-inhibitor have been reported. These mechanisms do not include secondary mutations in the BRAF-gene and therefore resistance to BRAF-inhibition could potentially be reversible when selective pressure by BRAF-inhibition is withheld for a sufficient period of time of melanoma progression. This clinical trial protocol addresses the potential renewed anti-tumor activity of combined BRAF- and MEK inhibition with the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib in patients with unresectable AJCC stage III or - IV BRAF V600 mutant melanoma who are documented with progression of disease at least 12 weeks following the last day of dosing of a BRAFinhibitor containing treatment regimen.