A National Phase IV Study With Ipilimumab for Patients With Advanced Malignant Melanoma.
The goal of this study is to understand how ipilimumab is being used, its safety profile, and the manner in which Adverse Reactions are managed in routine clinical practice. Another goal is to identify predictive biomarkers. The study is an observational study and not intended to test any hypothesis, but can be hypothesis generating.
Malignant Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Blood sampling for Pre-existing immunity|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Number of Patients with Serious and Non-Serious Adverse Reactions, CTCAE version 4, Up to 5 years
Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL), EORTC QLQ-C30 at baseline, before each ipilimumab infusion and every 12 week until progression., Up to 5 years|Time to Overall Survival (OS), From date of start treatment until date of death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years., Up to 10 years|Time to Disease Progression, From date of treatment start until the date of first documented progression by RECIST 1.1 or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 10 years., Up to 10 years|Time to Overall Response, From date of treatment start until the date of best documented response by RECIST 1.1, assessed up to 10 years., Up to 10 years|Time to Duration of Response, From date of treatment response until the date of first documented progression by RECIST 1.1 or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 10 years., Up to 10 years
Biomarkers associated with clinical efficacy and toxicity, Serum and plasma biomarkers, SNP, RNA, and immunological response analyses., Pre-dose week 1, 4, 7, and month 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36.
In Norway ipilimumab (Yervoy®) has been available for treating patients with advanced, locally advanced or metastatic melanoma, but was not approved for reimbursement until recently. The Department of Health and Social Services decided that in Norway a national Phase IV interventional study examining survival and Quality of Life should be performed. In addition a research project should be launched aiming at isolating biological markers to identify patients who would benefit the most from ipilimumab therapy.

Because ipilimumab is a new therapeutic agent with a novel mechanism of action, it is important to understand the scope of its impact once being widely available as a treatment option, i.e. real-world experience. Treatment guidelines and clinical research provide information on how unresectable or metastatic melanoma is to be treated with ipilimumab and how Adverse Events should be managed, but may not reflect what actually occurs in clinical practice compared to controlled trials.

The results of the study will provide a more extensive understanding of the safety profile of ipilimumab in oncology practices in Norway in patients who may differ substantially from those included in the clinical trial program. In addition, the study results will provide information on how treatment patterns, patient-reported outcomes, clinical outcomes such as survival and disease progression may be influenced by ipilimumab. The proposed study objectives are: assessment of the safety of ipilimumab and analysis of health outcomes, in routine clinical practice, to ensure appropriate patient and provider utilization of ipilimumab.