Impact of a Coordinated Regional Organization to Secure Patient's Care Treated by Oral Antineoplastic Agents
The purpose is to estimate evolution of patients treated by oral neoplastic agents, in term of early or unforeseen recourse to the hospital for adverse events.
Cancer
Number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for adverse event., within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction
all deaths and deaths from AE, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|number of hospitalization for AE, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|number of consultation for AE, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for grade 1 / 2 AE, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|disease progression, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|drug dose-intensity taken by the patient during his treatment, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|number of recourses to the health care system, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|number of AE per detection grade, AE maximal grade, AE all grade, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|quality of life, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|patient's satisfaction, patient's satisfaction will be characterized with a questionnaire, within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction|medical economic evaluation, Medical economic evaluation use The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER. This is an equation used commonly in health economics to provide a practical approach to decision making regarding health interventions., within the first 6 monts after oral neoplastic agent introduction
Introduction :

Oral antineoplastic agents know a full development in particular targeted therapies. Their adverse events (AE) lately detected can lead to non compliance or treatment discontinuation which can be at the origin of disease progression. They can also lead to hospitalization or recourse to emergency department associating to cost for the society.

Hypothesis :

A coordinated intervention of cancer network in relation with primary healthcare professionals, would improve safety of care's patient treated with oral antineoplastic agent by preventing serious AEs through rapid detection.

Primary objective :

The primary objective is to estimate the effect of coordinated intervention of cancer network, in terms of number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for AE, within the first 6 months after oral neoplastic agent introduction.

Secondary objectives :

The secondary objective is to estimate the effect of coordinated intervention of cancer network, within the first 6 months after oral neoplastic agent introduction, in terms of number of hospitalization for AE, number of consultation for AE, number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for grade 1 / 2 AE, number of AE per detection grade, AE maximal grade, AE all grade, disease progression, the global survival (death for any causes and for AE), drug dose-intensity taken by the patient during his treatment, number of recourses to the health care system, quality of life, patient's satisfaction, medical economic evaluation

Primary outcome :

The main outcome is the number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for AE.

Secondary outcomes :

The secondary outcomes are all deaths and deaths from AE, number of hospitalization for AE, number of consultation for AE, number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for grade 1 / 2 AE, disease progression, drug dose-intensity taken by the patient during his treatment, number of recourses to the health care system, number of AE per detection grade, AE maximal grade, AE all grade, quality of life, patient's satisfaction, medical economic evaluationMethodology, design :

A comparative, controlled, not randomized, multicenter, prospective, "quasi-experimental" study, allows estimating evolution of patients according to the existence of a cancer network in their residence place.

Number of needed subjects: 440 patients.

Total duration of the study: 27 months. Inclusion Period: 21 months. length of participation period for one patient: 6 months. Number of participating centers: 21. Average number of inclusions a month by center: 4.