Pazopanib Plus Cetuximab for Incurable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC)
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of pazopanib hydrochloride (pazopanib) when given together with cetuximab in treating patients with incurable recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer. Pazopanib may stop the growth of cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Pazopanib may also block some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody that blocks the ability of some tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving pazopanib with cetuximab may provide a more effective treatment for patients with advanced head and neck cancer.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Pazopanib|DRUG: Cetuximab
Maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of pazopanib suspension when combined with fixed dose cetuximab in patients with incurable HNSCC., 9 weeks (completion of all patients in part 1 of study through 1st cycle)
Early Adverse events, Graded by NCI-CTC criteria version 4 and described in a frequency distribution analysis for the first 8 weeks of pazopanib and cetuximab, 8 weeks|Late adverse events, Graded by NCI-CTC criteria version 4 and described in a frequency distribution analysis for subsequent interval (after first 8 weeks of therapy) of receiving pazopanib and cetuximab, Weeks 8 through 16|Anatomic tumor response, Assessed by CT and clinical exam, 8 weeks|Overall metabolic response, Assessed by FDG-PET, 8 weeks|Overall response rate, CR+PR, 8 weeks|Duration of overall response, Time from CR or PR until relapse, 8 weeks|Best overall response rates in patients treated with MTD, According to RECIST criteria, 8 weeks
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of pazopanib hydrochloride (pazopanib) when given together with cetuximab in treating patients with incurable recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer. Pazopanib may stop the growth of cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Pazopanib may also block some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody that blocks the ability of some tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving pazopanib with cetuximab may provide a more effective treatment for patients with advanced head and neck cancer.