Determination of Baseline Levels for Prostate Cancer-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Following Local Treatment of Prostate Cancer
This study is being done to determine whether levels of prostate cancer derived extracellular vesicles from blood and urine specimens correlate with response to primary local treatment (surgery) in prostate cancer.
Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Levels of prostate cancer-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) - radical prostatectomy, Levels of prostate cancer-derived EVs will be assessed using blood and urine samples, Pre-surgery; once post-surgery, 6 weeks to 6 months after surgery (likely collected during routine visits); annual blood collection until (optional)|Levels of prostate cancer-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) - negative controls, Levels of prostate cancer-derived EVs will be assess using blood and urine samples, Baseline|Correlation between prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels and prostate cancer-derived EVs, PSA levels and EVs will be determined from blood and urine samples and will be assessed by correlation analysis., Baseline|Prostate cancer-derived EV levels, Prostate cancer-derived EV levels will be determined from blood and urine samples and will be assessed by comparative analysis between prostate cancer patients and female patients (negative controls)., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the levels of prostate cancer-derived extracellular vesicles pre- and post-RP.

II. Determine the correlation between levels of prostate cancer-derived extracellular vesicles and PSA.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study. Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I (RADICAL PROSTATECTOMY): Prostate cancer patients undergo blood and urine sample collection on study. Patients' medical records are also reviewed.

COHORT II (NEOADJUVANT): Prostate cancer patients undergo blood and urine sample collection throughout the study. Patients' medical records are also reviewed.

COHORT III (NEGATIVE CONTROLS): Female urology clinic patients and female volunteers undergo blood and urine sample collection on study.