Effects of Exercise Therapy Adjuvant Device on Head and Neck Cancer Patients in the Treatment of Cancer Therapy Induced Trismus
Trismus is traditionally considered being a late effect of cancer therapy with functional deficits becoming clear in the first year after completing radiation therapy. These deficits can rapidly progress to a state of functional impairment. The most common treatment for trismus is physical therapy comprising an active range of motion (ROM) exercises, hold and relax techniques. Once trismus has developed, it may be hard to reverse. Thus, prevention with a program of self-care is important for managing this side effect. This study want to test the effect with adjunctive devices plus exercise to prevent trismus.
Maximum Interincisal Opening
BEHAVIORAL: exercise therapy plus jaw device|BEHAVIORAL: exercise therapy
The change of maximum interincisal opening (MIO), Using Gothenburg Trismus Questionnaire, GTQ to measure the trismus condition and mouth opening, baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months.
The change of fatigue level, using the Brief Fatigue Inventory, BFI to measure fatigue level, baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months.|Quality of life (QOL), using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 Head and Neck 35-questions, EORTC-QLQ-C30-H\&N35 to meaure QOL, baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months.
Trismus is traditionally considered being a late effect of cancer therapy with functional deficits becoming clear in the first year after completing radiation therapy. These deficits can rapidly progress to a state of functional impairment. The most common treatment for trismus is physical therapy comprising an active range of motion (ROM) exercises, hold and relax techniques. Once trismus has developed, it may be hard to reverse. Thus, prevention with a program of self-care is important for managing this side effect. This study want to test the effect with adjunctive devices plus exercise to prevent trismus.