Fostering Shared Decision-making About Prostate Cancer Screening Among Clinicians and African American Men
This behavioral clinical trial assesses the efficacy of a educational intervention to increase shared decision making about prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-based screening for prostate cancer among African American males. Half of participants will receive a multimedia educational intervention, while the other half will receive usual care.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Educational Shared Decision-Making Intervention
Shared decision-making, Patient-provider visits will be audio-recorded and coded for the extent of shared decision making about prostate cancer using a defined scheme. The Observing Patient Involvement (OPTION) Scale will be used for the coding. Total OPTION scale ranges from 0 to 48. Higher values mean higher patient involvement during the shared decision making process., One month after audio-recorded visit
Quality of Decision (QD), A percentage score of the following four subscales. The total QD score ranges from 0 to 100. Higher percentage scores mean higher quality of the decision made.

1. Prostate Cancer Screening Knowledge (20 items): Total score ranges from 0 to 20. Higher values mean higher knowledge of prostate cancer screening.
2. Decision Confidence (10 items): Total score ranges from 0 to 40. Higher values mean higher confidence in the decision made.
3. Decisional Self-efficacy questionnaire (4 items): Total score ranges from 4 to 20. Higher values mean higher efficacy in the communication used during the shared decision encounter.
4. Satisfaction with Decision (6 items): Total score ranges from 6 to 30. Higher values mean higher satisfaction with the decision made., Up to one 24 weeks after the audio-recorded visit|Preference-Congruent Decision Making, The Intention-to-Screen score ranges from 0 to 1. Score = 0 means no intention to receive the PSA test while score = 1 means intention to receive the PSA.

Preference-concordant decision making will be scored as 1 (POSITIVE) for those patients with Intention-to-Screen value = 1 who actually receive the PSA test during the study timeframe, or for those patients with Intention-to-Screen value = 0 who did not receive it.

Preference-concordant decision making will be scored as 0 (NEGATIVE) for those patients with Intention-to-Screen value = 1 who did not receive the PSA test during the study timeframe, or for those patients with Intention-to-Screen value = 0 who did receive it.

A congruence score of 1 means congruence between patient intention and real action, while a congruence score of 0 means patient in-congruence between intention and real action., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Acceptability, Participants will complete a structured questionnaire to rate the acceptability of the enrollment process, the delivery of the intervention, and their overall satisfaction with the study. The score ranges from 12 to 60. Higher scores mean higher acceptability with the intervention procedures., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
The 2018 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) final recommendation states that male patients and their providers engage in a shared-decision making process about the benefits and harms of PSA-based screening. As characterized by the USPSTF, these conversations are particularly important for African American men given increased ambiguity due to the lack of PSA-based research specific to this population and increased risk of prostate cancer mortality attributed to late stage at diagnosis and more aggressive prostate cancer phenotypes seen in African American men.

The goal of this randomized behavioral clinical trial is to advance the translation path of implementing the decision-making process in clinical encounters by evaluating the efficacy of an educational intervention for African American males to increase shared decision making about PSA-screening versus usual care. The intervention will use multimedia educational training materials to increase understanding of prostate cancer, PSA-based screening, and shared decision making among patients and their primary care providers (PCPs).