Daratumumab Plus Ibrutinib in Patients With Waldenstrӧm's Macroglobulinemia
This study evaluates the safety and efficacy of daratumumab in combination with ibrutinib in patients with Waldenstrӧm's macroglobulinemia (WM). The study will evaluate this combination in two cohorts. Cohort A will comprise of ibrutinib naïve WM patients. Patients in this cohort may be treatment naïve or relapsed but who remain ibrutinib naïve. Cohort B will comprise of patients who are currently receiving ibrutinib but whose response to treatment has plateaued. In this cohort, daratumumab will be added on to ibrutinib in an attempt to deepen response.
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia|Waldenstrom's Disease|Waldenström; Hypergammaglobulinemia|Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia Recurrent|Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia of Lymph Nodes|Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinaemia, Without Mention of Remission|Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia Refractory
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Daratumumab
Safety of Combination Treatment With Ibrutinib and Daratumumab as Measured by the Number of Patients That Experience 1 or More Adverse Event, Number of patients that experience 1 or more adverse event, 3 months
Major Response Rate in Cohort A, Number of patients in Cohort A who achieve VGPR, PR, or CR, 5 years|Deepening of Response Rate in Cohort B After Daratumumab Addition, Number of patients in Cohort B who achieve a VGPR, PR, or CR from baseline IgM prior to ibrutinib, 5 years|Duration of Response, Measured from time of first response to progression or death, measured in months., 5 years|Time to Progression, Measured from time of study drug administration to progression, measured in months., 5 years|Progression Free Survival, Measured from time of study drug administration to progression or death, measured in months., 3 months|Overall Survival, Measured from time of study drug administration to death, measured in months., 3 months
This is a multi-center, two cohort Phase 2 clinical trial investigating the effectiveness of adding daratumumab to ibrutinib in WM patients. Cohort A will consist of patients who are ibrutinib naïve and appropriate for ibrutinib based treatment. Cohort B will consist of patients who have achieved a response plateau less than a complete remission (CR) on single agent ibrutinib. Subjects in Cohort A will be identified by their treating physician and eligible for enrollment if they are treatment naïve or relapsed after 1 prior therapy for WM and eligible for ibrutinib based treatment.

Subjects in Cohort B will be identified by their treating physician and eligible for enrollment if they have had at least 6 months of exposure to single agent ibrutinib and demonstrate an IgM response plateau defined by two IgM measurements, at least 8 weeks apart that have changed \<15% from the previous mark. In Cohort B response assessment will be measured from initial IgM level prior to ibrutinib initiation.

Enrolled subjects will be prescribed commercial ibrutinib, 420mg PO daily. The investigational agent, daratumumab will be administered based on FDA approved dosing in multiple myeloma (16mg/kg) with 8 weekly induction treatments during Cycles 1 and 2, followed by every other week dosing for Cycles 3-6, then monthly dosing from Cycle 7 until Cycle 25 at which point subjects will continue with ibrutinib as monotherapy until Cycle 52 (4 years total) which is the predefined study completion for enrolled subjects at which point they will complete follow-up. Study visits and response assessments with IgM measurements will occur with each cycle for the first year then every three cycles after cycle 13. Subjects with measureable extramedullary disease will have CT scans every 6 cycles until radiographic CR. Patients will be considered evaluable for response if they completed the initial 8 weeks of daratumumab induction therapy and evaluable for toxicity if receiving one dose of daratumumab. Patients will continue on combination therapy for 2 years or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities at which point subjects will come off trial. Patients achieving a CR after two years of combination therapy will be given an option to continue with single agent commercial ibrutinib.