A Study of ABT-414 in Participants With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma (GBM) With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Amplification
This study seeks to determine whether the addition of ABT-414 to concomitant radiotherapy and temozolomide (TMZ) followed by combination of ABT-414 with adjuvant TMZ prolongs overall survival (OS) among participants with newly diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) amplification.

In addition, there is a Phase 1, open-label, multicenter sub-study to assess the pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of ABT-414 in participants with newly diagnosed EGFR-amplified GBM who have mild or moderate hepatic impairment.
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Depatuxizumab mafodotin|RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Placebo for ABT-414
Overall Survival (OS), Time to OS is defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).
OS for the O6-methylguaninemethlytransferese (MGMT) Unmethylated Group, Time to OS is defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause.

Unmethylated MGMT promoter is associated with a worse prognosis in GBM, Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).|OS for the MGMT Methylated Group, Time to OS is defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).|OS for the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)vIII-Mutated Tumor Subgroup, Time to OS is defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of earliest disease progression based on Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria (see Wen et al. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Apr 10;28(11):1963-72) or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).|PFS for EGFRvIII-Mutated Tumor Subgroup, PFS will be defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of earliest disease progression based on Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria or to the date of death, if disease progression does not occur., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).|Deterioration Free Survival in M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor Module (MDASI-BT) Symptom Severity Score, The MDASI-BT assesses the severity of multiple brain tumor-related symptoms and the impact of these symptoms on daily functioning in the last 24 hours. It consists of 22 symptom items and 6 interference items, each rated from 0 to 10. MDASI-BT symptom severity score is defined as average over 13 core symptom items and 9 brain tumor symptom items, with a total score of 0 to 10, with higher score indicating worse symptoms/interference. Changes in symptom severity score were classified into 3 categories: improved (≤ -1), stable (\> -1 and \< 1), and deteriorated (≥ 1). Deterioration is defined as satisfying the deterioration criteria (i.e., increase in symptom severity score by ≥ 1 unit) without further improvement (i.e., failing to satisfy deterioration criteria) within 8 weeks or occurrence of death., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).|Deterioration Free Survival in MDASI-BT Symptom Interference Score, The MDASI-BT assesses the severity of multiple brain tumor-related symptoms and the impact of these symptoms on daily functioning in the last 24 hours. It consists of 22 symptom items and 6 interference items, each rated from 0 to 10. MDASI-BT symptom interference score is defined as an average of 6 interference items, with a total score of 0 to 10, where higher scores indicate worse interference. Changes in symptom interference score were classified into 3 categories: improved (≤ -1), stable (\> -1 and \< 1), and deteriorated (≥ 1). Deterioration is defined as satisfying the deterioration criteria (i.e., increase in symptom interference score by ≥ 1 unit) without further improvement (i.e., failing to satisfy deterioration criteria) within 8 weeks or occurrence of death., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).|Deterioration Free Survival in Neurocognitive Functioning on the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test Revised (HVLT-R) Total Recall Score, The HVLT-R consists of 3 parts. Free call has a range of 0 to 36, delayed recall has a range from 0 to 12, and delayed recognition has a range of -12 to 12. Higher scores indicating better function in all 3 parts. When scoring the HVLT-R, the 3 learning trials are combined to calculate a total recall score (range -12 to 60). Deterioration is defined as satisfying the deterioration criteria (i.e., decrease in HVLT-R total recall score by 5 units) without further improvement within 8 weeks or occurrence of death., Overall median duration of follow-up was 15.5 months (range: 0.1, 35.6).
This study seeks to determine whether the addition of ABT-414 to concomitant radiotherapy and temozolomide (TMZ) followed by combination of ABT-414 with adjuvant TMZ prolongs overall survival (OS) among participants with newly diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) amplification.

In addition, there is a Phase 1, open-label, multicenter sub-study to assess the pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of ABT-414 in participants with newly diagnosed EGFR-amplified GBM who have mild or moderate hepatic impairment.