Apalutamide in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer Before Radical Prostatectomy
This phase II trial studies how well apalutamide works in treating patients with prostate cancer before radical prostatectomy. Androgen can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy using apalutamide may fight prostate cancer by lowering the amount of androgen the body makes and may make it less likely for patients to receive radiation therapy after surgery.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Apalutamide|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy
Aggregate Pathologic Risk Features, Aggregate pathologic risk features defined as any of the 3 pathologic staging features on a radical prostatectomy specimen that indicate elevated future risk of a patient needing pelvic radiation therapy. It can be any single or combination of the three. The three drivers per AUA/ASTRO guidelines are positive surgical margins, extraprostatic extension, and/or seminal vesicle invasion. These will be determined by a single expert genitourinary pathologist. The primary objective is to show a 20% decrease in these aggregate pathologic features., 2 weeks after last dose of study drug
Adverse Events (AE_) of Neoadjuvant Apalutamide Followed by Radical Prostatectomy, AE scored using CTC AE Version 4.0 for toxicity and adverse event reporting., Beginning of study drug up to 6 months|Estimation of the frequency of clinical complete responses (pT0) and "near" complete responses (<6mm total tumor volume), The proportion of patients having clinical complete responses and "near" complete responses estimated, along with the exact 95% confidence interval. The Kaplan-Meier method used to assess time to biochemical recurrence and to estimate the rate of biochemical recurrence., 24 weeks up to 1 year after surgery|To characterize the molecular features of the treated prostate cancers and link them to morphologic characterization, 5 years|Biochemical Recurrence Rate, The Kaplan-Meier method used to assess time to biochemical recurrence., 3 to 5 years|Quality of Life, The EPIC quality of life data summarized by domains and compared pre- and post-treatment using paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test as appropriate., 3 to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether 6 months (24 weeks) of neoadjuvant apalutamide prior to prostatectomy for intermediate risk prostate cancer results in a reduction of aggregate pathologic risk features that drive post-operative radiotherapy recommendations from 35% to 15%.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of 6 months (24 weeks) neoadjuvant apalutamide followed by radical prostatectomy for intermediate risk prostate cancer.

II. To estimate the frequency of clinical complete responses and "near" complete responses (currently defined as \< 6 mm total tumor volume).

III. To characterize the molecular features of the treated prostate cancers and link them to morphologic characterization.

IV. To measure the 3-5 year biochemical recurrence rate of treated patients as a baseline to inform a larger phase III trial.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive apalutamide orally (PO) daily for 24 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 2 weeks of completing apalutamide, patients undergo radical prostatectomy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12 months.