High-Dose Vitamin D Supplementation for ADT-Induced Bone Loss in Older Prostate Cancer Patients
This phase III trial tests whether high-dose vitamin D works in treating androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT)-induced bone loss in patients with prostate cancer who are undergoing androgen-deprivation therapy. Vitamins are substances that the body needs to grow and develop normally. Vitamin D helps the body absorb calcium. Calcium is one of the main building blocks of bone. A lack of vitamin D can lead to bone diseases such as osteoporosis or rickets. This trial may help researchers determine if high-dose vitamin D helps keep bones strong, lowers number of falls, and lessens fatigue in men getting androgen-deprivation therapy.
Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: D Vitamin|PROCEDURE: Dual X-ray Absorptiometry|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Reduction of bone mineral density (BMD) loss as measured at the total hip, Will determine the efficacy of high-dose vitamin D (HDVD) supplementation versus placebo in reducing BMD loss as measured at the total hip via dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) at 52 weeks. Will use analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with group (vitamin D or placebo) as the main factor, baseline timepoint (\[T\]1) BMD as covariate, and week 52 (T3) BMD as the outcome. Study site will be included as a random effect independent of residual error. An initial linear mixed model (LMM) will be fit using Restricted Maximum Likelihood (REML) estimation. The significance of the variance due to study site will be tested using the Wald Test., At 52 weeks|Reduction of BMD loss as measured at the femoral neck, Will determine the efficacy of HDVD supplementation versus placebo in reducing BMD loss as measured at the femoral neck via DXA at 52 weeks. Will use ANCOVA with group (vitamin D or placebo) as the main factor, baseline (T1) BMD as covariate, and week 52 (T3) BMD as the outcome. Study site will be included as a random effect independent of residual error. An initial LMM will be fit using REML estimation. The significance of the variance due to study site will be tested using the Wald Test., At 52 weeks|Reduction of BMD loss as measured at the distal radius, Will determine the efficacy of HDVD supplementation versus placebo in reducing BMD loss as measured at the distal radius via DXA at 52 weeks. Will use ANCOVA with group (vitamin D or placebo) as the main factor, baseline (T1) BMD as covariate, and week 52 (T3) BMD as the outcome. Study site will be included as a random effect independent of residual error. An initial LMM will be fit using REML estimation. The significance of the variance due to study site will be tested using the Wald Test., At 52 weeks|Reduction of BMD loss as measured at the lumbar spine, Will determine the efficacy of HDVD supplementation versus placebo in reducing BMD loss as measured at the lumbar spine via DXA at 52 weeks. Will use ANCOVA with group (vitamin D or placebo) as the main factor, baseline (T1) BMD as covariate, and week 52 (T3) BMD as the outcome. Study site will be included as a random effect independent of residual error. An initial LMM will be fit using REML estimation. The significance of the variance due to study site will be tested using the Wald Test., At 52 weeks
Change in falls, Will use generalized linear mixed models. Logistic regression models will be used to estimate the between group difference in (1) the proportion of participants who experience a fall/fracture (YES/NO) from T1 to T3. Will evaluate the distribution of total number of falls/fractures by Poisson models analysis to estimate the between group difference in (2) the total number of falls/fractures from T1 to T3. Both models (1, 2) will contain group as fixed effect and site as a random effect. Additional adjustment covariates will include falls in the previous 6 months, fractures in the previous 5 years, androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) dose and duration, stage, radiation therapy, prior surgery, baseline vitamin D, age, body mass index (BMI), and race. Nonsignificant (P \> 0.05) covariates will be removed from the model. Will report the estimates and associated 95% confidence intervals as (1) relative risk or (2) rate ratio., Baseline up to 52 weeks|Change in fractures, Will use generalized linear mixed models. Logistic regression models will be used to estimate the between group difference in (1) the proportion of participants who experience a fall/fracture (YES/NO) from T1 to T3. Will evaluate the distribution of total number of falls/fractures by Poisson models analysis to estimate the between group difference in (2) the total number of falls/fractures from T1 to T3. Both models (1, 2) will contain group as fixed effect and site as a random effect. Additional adjustment covariates will include falls in the previous 6 months, fractures in the previous 5 years, ADT dose and duration, stage, radiation therapy, prior surgery, baseline vitamin D, age, BMI, and race. Nonsignificant (P \> 0.05) covariates will be removed from the model. Will report the estimates and associated 95% confidence intervals as (1) relative risk or (2) rate ratio., Baseline up to 52 weeks|Change in quality of life, Will be evaluated by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate Trial Outcome Index score., Baseline up to 52 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of high-dose vitamin D (HDVD) supplementation in prostate cancer patients on ADT-induced bone mineral density loss in the total hip over 52 weeks as measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA).

II. To evaluate the effect of HDVD supplementation in prostate cancer patients on ADT-induced bone mineral density loss in the femoral neck, distal radius, and lumbar spine (L1-L4) over 52 weeks as measured by DXA.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of HDVD supplementation on falls over 52 weeks as measured by the Falls History questionnaire.

II. To evaluate the effect of HDVD supplementation on fractures over 52 weeks as determined by the Clinical Record Information - Follow-up Form.

III. To evaluate the effect of HDVD supplementation on quality of life over 52 weeks as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Prostate (FACT-P).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the effect of HDVD supplementation on bone biomarkers measured by Millipore Luminex/enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays from serum.

II. To evaluate the effect of HDVD supplementation on pain, fatigue, sleep, and activities of daily living over 52 weeks as measured by patient-reported outcomes.

OUTLINE: After undergoing collection of blood and DXA scan, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive HDVD orally (PO) once a week (QW) for 52 weeks. Patients also undergo collection of blood and DXA scan on study.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QW for 52 weeks. Patients also undergo collection of blood and DXA scan on study.