Video-Based Intervention in Reducing Anxiety in Patients Undergoing Lung Cancer Screening
This pilot trial studies a video-based intervention in reducing anxiety in patients undergoing lung cancer screening. Giving a video-based intervention to patients prior to lung cancer screening may reduce anxiety and improve the well-being and quality of life.
Anxiety|No Evidence of Disease|Lung Carcinoma
OTHER: educational intervention|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: Best Practice
Percent of patients who complete the intervention, Descriptive statistics will be presented on participation in all components of the intervention., Baseline|Patient satisfaction with the timing, content, and delivery of the video-based intervention assessed by survey, This self-reported measure will be completed by subjects who received the intervention., Up to 7 months
Patient screen-related anxiety as assessed by the mean score of the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), The survey is used to diagnose anxiety and to distinguish it from depressive syndromes, with items rated on a 4-point scale (with 1 being "Almost Never" and 4 being "Almost Always")., Baseline to 7 months|Health-related quality of life as assessed by the mean survey score of the Short Form-12 (SF-12) questionnaire, The SF-12 is designed for assessment of general health status and contains 7 items that measure physical functioning, role functioning, bodily pain, energy/fatigue, social functioning, mental health, emotional functioning, general health perceptions, and changes in health., Up to 7 months|Consequences of screening, assessed by the mean survey score of the Consequences of Screening in Lung Cancer (COS-LC) questionnaire, This questionnaire is a non-validated adapted version of a validated two part tool used to assess the psychological impact to breast cancer screening using mammography., Up to 7 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Test the feasibility and acceptability of the video-based intervention.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe incidence, degree, and duration of screen-related anxiety among individuals scheduled to undergo low-dose computed tomography (CT) scan (LDCT) for lung cancer screening (LCS).

II. To describe baseline patient characteristics and pre-screening anxiety levels.

III. To describe the preliminary outcomes on screen-related anxiety for patients both not in the intervention group and those in the intervention group.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive standard of care following LCS consisting of routine visits and telephone contact with the LCS program nurse practitioner and coordinator.

GROUP II: Patients undergo a video-based intervention prior to undergoing LCS. Patients watch a 5-minute video that focuses on preparing patients for LCS by providing information on the following: program team and contact information; reason to be screened; screening eligibility; how screening is performed; what to expect on the day of screening; what to expect after screening; what to expect if result is positive; what to expect if result is negative; and risks of screening. Patients also receive an educational handbook. Patients with positive scans (a Lung-Imaging Reporting and Data Systems \[RADS\] 3 or 4) receive additional brochure and nursing support within 1 week after notification of scan results.

After completion of LCS, patients are followed up at 1 week and then at 3 and 7 months.