Dosing Study of Radiation Combined With Tislelizumab and Pamiparib in Patients With Previously Treated Head and Neck Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose of tislelizumab in combination with pamiparib plus chemoradiotherapy (chemotherapy and radiation) in individuals with recurrent head and neck cancer, which means that the person's cancer has come back after treatment.

Participation in the study should last for about 15 months while participants receive tislelizumab and chemoradiotherapy with pamiparib. Afterwards, they will return to the clinic for follow up every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 month for the next 2 years, and then once a year for the rest of their life.
Head and Neck Cancer|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Head and Neck Carcinoma|Head and Neck Cancer Stage IV|Head and Neck Cancers - Throat
RADIATION: Chemoradiation|DRUG: Pamiparib|DRUG: Hydroxyurea|DRUG: Fluorouracil (5FU)|DRUG: Tislelizumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose/Recommended Phase 2 Dose of Pamiparib in Combination with 5 Fluorouracil-Hydroxea (FHX) and Tislelizumab, Determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD)/ recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for pamiparib in combination with FHX and tislelizumab in subjects with recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) as assessed by the incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (side effects) reported among study participants. Dose-limiting toxicities will be assessed according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5., 15 months
Progression Free Survival of Participants Receiving Pamiparib in Combination with 5 Fluorouracil-Hydroxea (FHX) and Tislelizumab, The progression free survival (PFS) of participants receiving pamiparib in combination with FHX and tislelizumab in subjects with recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, defined as the time from initiation of treatment with tislelizumab to the earliest of disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) or death from any cause., 15 months|Overall Free Survival of Participants Receiving Pamiparib in Combination with 5 Fluorouracil-Hydroxea (FHX) and Tislelizumab, Overall survival (OS) of participants receiving pamiparib in combination with FHX and tislelizumab in subjects with recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, defined as the time from initiation of treatment with tislelizumab to death due to any cause., 15 months
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose of tislelizumab in combination with pamiparib plus chemoradiotherapy (chemotherapy and radiation) in individuals with recurrent head and neck cancer, which means that the person's cancer has come back after treatment.

During the study, participants will first receive one dose of tislelziumab. Tislelzumab is an experimental drug, meaning, it is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat cancer. Next, participants will receive pamiparib in combination with CRT (chemotherapy and radiation). Pamiparib is also an experimental drug and not approved by the FDA.

Chemoradiotherapy will consist of chemotherapy drugs, 5-FU and hydroxyurea, plus radiation therapy. 5-FU is approved by the FDA to treat many types of cancer such as colon cancer but has not been approved for the treatment of head and neck cancer. Its use is experimental in this study. Hydroxyurea is approved by the FDA to treat many types of cancer, including in combination with radiation therapy for the local control of squamous carcinoma of the head and neck. The combination of tislelizumab, hydroxyurea with 5-FU, radiation, and pamiparib, is considered experimental in this study.

Participation in the study should last for about 15 months while participants receive tislelizumab and chemoradiotherapy with pamiparib. Afterwards, they will return to the clinic for follow up every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 month for the next 2 years, and then once a year for the rest of their life.