Solution-Focused Brief Therapy for Support of Psychological Distress in Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial evaluates the how well a virtually delivered solution-focused brief therapy (SFBT-C) works to decrease adolescent and young adult cancer survivors' psychological distress in comparison to enhanced treatment-as-usual care. Cancer and its treatment can have immediate and long-term impacts on adolescent and young adult cancer survivor's lives, including education and employment, financial stability, sexual health, and social, romantic, and family relationships. Consequently, many adolescent and young adult cancer survivors report psychological distress, often manifesting as depression and anxiety, and may benefit from psychotherapy to improve their engagement with medical treatment and overall quality of life. SFBT-C is a theory-driven and brief hope-based psychotherapy designed for the unique psychosocial needs facing adolescent and young adult cancer survivors. Undergoing SFBT-C may work better than treatment-as-usual care for the support of psychological distress in adolescent and young adult cancer survivors.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Communication Intervention|OTHER: Discussion|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Efficacy of solution-focused brief therapy in cancer survivors (SFBT-C), The primary analysis will be a linear regression model with the change score from baseline (T1) to 4 weeks post-intervention completion (T3) in participants' Brief Symptom Inventory, 18-item (BSI-18) t-score as the dependent variable, the intervention assignment, and the randomization strata (age and sex) as the independent variables, i.e., covariates to control for., At baseline, immediate post-intervention, and 4 and 8 weeks post-intervention
Patient's level of hope, Will be measured using Snyder's Hope Scale (SHS). Will use structural equation modeling (in Mplus) to perform mediation analysis. The primary analysis will be a simple mediation model with the T1 to 8 weeks post-intervention (T4) BSI-18 change score as the dependent variable, treatment assignment as the independent variable, and SHS at immediate post-intervention (T2) as the mediator. An estimated indirect effect (i.e., joint significance testing with bootstrapped standard error) will be computed, and its corresponding 95% confidence interval will determine if hope is a significant treatment mediator., Baseline to 8 weeks|Quality of life, Measured by Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System-29 Profile version 2.0. The primary analysis will be a linear regression model with the change score from T1 to T3 (4-week post) in participants' BSI-18 t-score as the dependent variable, the intervention assignment, and the randomization strata (age and sex) as the independent variables, i.e., covariates to control for., At baseline, immediate post-intervention, and 4 and 8 weeks post intervention
This clinical trial evaluates the how well a virtually delivered solution-focused brief therapy (SFBT-C) works to decrease adolescent and young adult cancer survivors' psychological distress in comparison to enhanced treatment-as-usual care. Cancer and its treatment can have immediate and long-term impacts on adolescent and young adult cancer survivor's lives, including education and employment, financial stability, sexual health, and social, romantic, and family relationships. Consequently, many adolescent and young adult cancer survivors report psychological distress, often manifesting as depression and anxiety, and may benefit from psychotherapy to improve their engagement with medical treatment and overall quality of life. SFBT-C is a theory-driven and brief hope-based psychotherapy designed for the unique psychosocial needs facing adolescent and young adult cancer survivors. Undergoing SFBT-C may work better than treatment-as-usual care for the support of psychological distress in adolescent and young adult cancer survivors.