A Study of Olaratumab Alone and in Combination With Standard Chemotherapies in Children With Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of different doses of olaratumab and to determine which dose should be used for future pediatric studies. The present study is open to children with advanced cancer or cancer that has spread to another part of the body. The study has three parts. In the first two parts, a specific dose of olaratumab will be given in 21 day cycles, followed by one of three standard chemotherapy regimens. In the third part, a specific dose of olaratumab will be given with one of three standard chemotherapy regimens in 21 day cycles. Participants will only enroll in one part.
Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: Olaratumab|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Ifosfamide
Number of Participants With Olaratumab Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as an adverse event (AE) during the first 21 days that was possibly related to the study drug and fulfilled any of the following criteria using the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 4.0: CTCAE Grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity, grade 4 neutropenia that lasted longer than 2 weeks, grade ≥3 thrombocytopenia complicated by hemorrhage, and any hematologic toxicity that caused a cycle delay of \>14 days., Parts A and B: Cycle 1 through Cycle 2 in each arm (21-day cycle); Part C: Cycle 1 only (21-day cycle)
Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Olaratumab Part A, Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum serum concentration (Cmax) data of Olaratumab was reported from available sample data., Cycle 1, Day 8 and Cycle 2, Days 1 and 8: 1.25 hour (h), 2.5 h, 3.5h Postdose|PK: Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Olaratumab Part B, PK: Maximum serum concentration (Cmax) data of Olaratumab was reported from available sample data., Cycle 1, Day 8 and Cycle 2, Days 1 and 8: 1.25 hour (h), 2.5 h, 3.5h Postdose|PK: Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Olaratumab Part C, Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum serum concentration (Cmax) data of Olaratumab was reported from available sample data., Cycle 1, Days 1 and 8; Cycle 2, Days 1 and 8: 1.25 hour (h), 2.5 h, 3.5h Postdose|PK: Trough Serum Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of Olaratumab Part A, PK: Trough serum concentration (Cmin) of Olaratumab was reported. A sample was collected every other cycle from cycles 1, 2, 3-25., Cycles 1, 2, 3-25; Day 8: 336 Hours Postdose|PK: Trough Serum Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of Olaratumab Part B, PK: Trough serum concentration (Cmin) of Olaratumab was reported. A sample was collected every other cycle from cycles 1, 2, 3-25., Cycles 1, 2, 3-25; Day 8: 336 Hours Postdose|PK: Trough Serum Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of Olaratumab Part C, PK: Trough serum concentration (Cmin) of Olaratumab was reported. A sample was collected every other cycle from cycles 1, 2, 3-25., Cycles 1, 2, 3-25; Day 8: 336 Hours Postdose|Percentage of Participants With a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (Objective Response Rate [ORR]), Objective Response Rate (ORR) is the percentage of participants achieving a confirmed best overall tumor response of CR or PR. According to RECIST v1.1, PR defined as a \>30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of the target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the LD; CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions., Baseline to objective progression or start of new anti-cancer therapy (Up to 7 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from baseline to the first date of radiological disease progression or death due to any cause. Progressive disease (PD) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including the baseline sum if that is the smallest). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression. If participant started new treatment before PD, the participant was censored at the date of last tumor assessment prior to new therapy. If treatment was discontinued for reasons other than PD and no further assessment, censoring occurred at last tumor assessment., Baseline to radiological disease progression or death from any cause (Up to 2 Years)|Percentage of Participants With Treatment Emergent (TE) Positive Anti-Olaratumab Antibodies, Percentage of participants with a TE positive anti-olaratumab antibodies defined as a participant with a 4-fold (2 dilutions) increase over a positive baseline antibody titer., From Baseline to Study Completion (Up to 33 Months)
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of different doses of olaratumab and to determine which dose should be used for future pediatric studies. The present study is open to children with advanced cancer or cancer that has spread to another part of the body. The study has three parts. In the first two parts, a specific dose of olaratumab will be given in 21 day cycles, followed by one of three standard chemotherapy regimens. In the third part, a specific dose of olaratumab will be given with one of three standard chemotherapy regimens in 21 day cycles. Participants will only enroll in one part.