The Effect of Wearable Vibration Therapy on Shoulder Functionality in Individuals Receiving Adjuvant Radiotherapy After Breast Cancer Surgery
The aim of our study is to investigate the effect of vibration therapy to be applied to patients undergoing breast cancer surgery and adjuvant radiotherapy on upper extremity joint range of motion, muscle strength, grip strength, pain, functionality, and quality of life.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: MYOVOLT (MyovoltTM, Myovolt Limited, Christchurch, New Zealand ) wearable vibration therapy device|OTHER: Home based exercise
Muscle strength, Hand-held dynamometer will be used to evaluate shoulder flexion, abduction, external and internal rotation muscles' strength, 6 weeks|Range of motion, Shoulder range of motion will be evaluated by digital goniometer. Shoulder flexion degree, shoulder extension degree, abduction and adduction degree, internal rotation and external rotation degree will be assessed with digital goniometer. The results will be recorded in degrees., 6 weeks
Pain - Visual Analogue Scale, Visual Analogue Scale is one of the simple and common methods used in pain assessment. Self reported pain intensity during the rest and the activity measured by 0-10 centimeter chart. Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), where 0 indicates no pain or best and 10 indicates the most intense pain imaginable or worst. The patient will mark the severity of the pain on a 10 cm long chart., 6 weeks|Grip strength, Grip strength was evaluated by hand grip dynamometry (Saehan Hydraulic Hand Dynamometer ) Measurements were performed in affected side according to positions defined by American Society of Hand Therapists (sitting with the shoulder adducted to the side and the elbow flexed 90° with the forearm and wrist in the neutral mid-position), 6 weeks|Disability, Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand ( DASH) questionnaire is a self-administered region-specific outcome instrument developed as a measure of self-rated upper-extremity disability and symptoms.The DASH questionnaire consists of three parts.The first part consists of 30 questions. 21 questions assess the difficulty of the patient in daily life activities, 5 question symptoms, and the remaining 4 questions assess social function, work, sleep, and self-confidence of the patient.In the DASH questionnaire, questions are answered in 5-point likert system. 1: no difficulty, 2: mild difficulty, 3: moderate difficulty, 4: extreme difficulty, 5: not at all. The total score varies between 0 and 100 points and the low score indicates good health, 6 weeks|Quality of Life- Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast" (FACT-B), It is designed to evaluate the quality of life in breast cancer patients from multiple perspectives. Its validity and reliability have been demonstrated. It consists of 5 subscales that assess quality of life as physical condition (7 questions), social life and family status (7 questions), emotional status (6 questions), activity status (7 questions), and other breast cancer-specific concerns (9 questions). The survey has 5-point likert scoring (0=not at all, 1=a little, 2=a little, 3=quite a lot, 4=a lot) . The total score is calculated by summing the subscale scores. A higher score on the questionnaire indicates a higher quality of life, 6 weeks|Tone - Myoton® PRO, Myoton® PRO (Myoton Ltd, Myoton AS, Estonia) device will be used to objectively evaluate the measurement of Pectoralis Major muscle tone of the patients who will participate in the study. Myoton® PRO is a portable digital device that measures the tone with an objective and noninvasive method.

A constant pre-pressure (0.18 N) is applied to the skin surface to compress the subcutaneous superficial tissues. The tension state of the tissue that characterized by the natural oscillation frequency; Hz., 6 weeks|Stiffness of Muscle- Myoton® PRO, Myoton® PRO (Myoton Ltd, Myoton AS, Estonia) device will be used to objectively evaluate the measurement of Pectoralis Major muscle stiffness of the patients who will participate in the study. Myoton® PRO is a portable digital device that measures the stiffness with an objective and noninvasive method.

A constant pre-pressure (0.18 N) is applied to the skin surface to compress the subcutaneous superficial tissues. The stiffness of the tissue that characterized by the natural oscillation stiffness; N/m, 6 weeks|Elasticity of Muscle -Myoton® PRO, Myoton® PRO (Myoton Ltd, Myoton AS, Estonia) device will be used to objectively evaluate the measurement of Pectoralis Major muscle elasticity of the patients who will participate in the study. Myoton® PRO is a portable digital device that measures the elasticity with an objective and noninvasive method.

A constant pre-pressure (0.18 N) is applied to the skin surface to compress the subcutaneous superficial tissues. The elasticity of the tissue that characterized bythe logarithmic decrease of the natural oscillation;, 6 weeks
The aim of our study is to investigate the effect of vibration therapy to be applied to patients undergoing breast cancer surgery and adjuvant radiotherapy on upper extremity joint range of motion, muscle strength, grip strength, pain, functionality, and quality of life.