Cancer Survival Through Weight Loss and Exercise
To test the effectiveness and feasibility of intensive motivational, behavior modifying intervention aimed at improving physical activity and dietary habits to produce at least 7% weight loss in women with a history of breast cancer in a community health setting.
Breast Cancer Survivors
BEHAVIORAL: Group-based Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Telephone-based Intervention
Weight loss, To examine the effectiveness of using motivational, behavioral interventions aimed at improving physical activity levels and dietary habits to produce weight loss in women with a history of breast cancer., 1 year
Feasibility of recruiting breast cancer survivors, To examine the feasibility of recruiting, administering, and maintaining interventions in a small sample of women with a history of breast cancer in a community health setting for pilot data., 1 year|Examination of health outcomes, breast cancer reoccurrence, and mortality., To examine health outcomes, cancer reoccurrence, and mortality in women with a history of breast cancer within the 12 month period via adverse events. Additional procedures include resting ECG, waist circumference, weight, and blood work., 1 year
This study will be divided into two phases (Phase I and II) that will differ by the intensity of motivational intervention. In Phase I, participants will receive 6 months of intensive weekly group-based or telephone-based motivational, behavior modifying intervention aimed at improving physical activity levels and dietary habits. Phase II will be an additional 6 months of monthly individualized motivational intervention in order to attain and maintain at least 7% body weight loss. All participants will attend an orientation, 2 run-in sessions, and a baseline assessment prior to the intervention. Participants will then be assigned to either the group based intervention or telephone intervention. The first 30 participants will enter into the group-based intervention and the second 30 will enter into the telephone-based intervention. Follow-up visits will be completed at the end of Phase I (week 25) and Phase II (week 50). Up to 60 women with a previous history of breast cancer will participate in this study.