Personalized Cellular Vaccine for Brain Metastases (PERCELLVAC3)
Cancer patients with brain metastases (BM) have poor prognosis. Current treatments produce limited efficacy. Recent advance in cancer immunotherapy has provided important new means to treat cancer patients at advanced stages. This study is designed to perform a clinical trial to treat advanced caner patients with brain metastases with personalized dendritic cell-based cellular vaccines. The patients will receive vaccines consisting of mRNA tumor antigen pulsed DCs. Immune response to the immunized tumor antigens will be monitored. Safety and efficacy will be observed in this study.
Brain Cancer|Neoplasm Metastases
BIOLOGICAL: Personalized cellular vaccine
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events and severe adverse events (safety and tolerability), Incidence of adverse events and severe adverse events to measure safety and tolerability of mRNA-TAA pulsed autologous DC vaccines., 3 years since the beginning of the first vaccine
Antitumor specific T cell response, The frequency of the peripheral CD8+ and CD4+ T cell response to the vaccine will be measured., 4 weeks after the last vaccine|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival will be monitored for 2 year, 24 months since the beginning of the first vaccine|Overall survival, Overall survival will be monitored for 3 years, 3 years since the beginning of the first vaccine
This is an open label, single-arm, single-institution, Phase I study designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of personalized cellular tumor vaccines for cancer patients with brain metastases (BM). BM patients will undergo tumor resection or biopsy and the tumor tissues will be analyzed for the expression of tumor antigens and immune-related genes. The patients will be immunized with DCs pulsed with mRNA encoded tumor antigens. Patients will be immunized with DC vaccines on a biweekly basis. Safety and efficacy will be monitored. The objective of this study is to assess the safety of the personalized cellular vaccines and to deterimine the antitumor specific T cell responses. The efficacy of the vaccines will be determined using RANO-BM criteria, progression-free survival and overall survival.