Radiotherapy - Cerebrovascular Reactivity (RT-CVR Study)
Brain tumours often have low oxygen levels, and that makes them more resistant to radiation therapy. If patients breathe the right mixture of oxygen during treatment, radiation may work better. In this study, patients with brain tumour will undergo a special MRI test while they breathe different mixtures of oxygen and carbon dioxide to find out whether oxygen levels improve in the tumor. Patients will also be asked to repeat this MRI test during the second week of radiation therapy, as well as 3 months, 6 months and 1 year after RT. The MRI test after RT will help us understand how the blood vessels in the normal brain are affected by radiation.
Brain Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: MRI
- To measure the inter-patient variability of change in tumour oxygenation with carbogen adminstration using MRI, 2 years
- To determine whether modulation of oxygen and carbon dioxide administration can improve tumour oxygenation relative to standard carbogen breathing on MRI, 2 years|- To determine whether changes in tumour oxygenation with carbogen administration are different during the second week of radiotherapy compared to baseline measurements, 2 years|- To determine whether the normal brain cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) measured with MRI changes through a course of radiotherapy and follow-up, 2 years|- To determine whether CVR differs between radiation exposed and non-exposed normal brain tissue in a given patient after radiotherapy, 2 years
Brain tumours often have low oxygen levels, and that makes them more resistant to radiation therapy. If patients breathe the right mixture of oxygen during treatment, radiation may work better. In this study, patients with brain tumour will undergo a special MRI test while they breathe different mixtures of oxygen and carbon dioxide to find out whether oxygen levels improve in the tumor. Patients will also be asked to repeat this MRI test during the second week of radiation therapy, as well as 3 months, 6 months and 1 year after RT. The MRI test after RT will help us understand how the blood vessels in the normal brain are affected by radiation.