Survey of Post-Acute Inpatient Rehabilitation Safety Concerns in Participants With Cancer
This trial studies a survey of post-acute inpatient rehabilitation safety concerns in participants with cancer. Collecting patients' feedback via surveys may help doctors to learn more about the safety concerns that patients have when they are discharged from the acute inpatient cancer rehabilitation unit.
Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Survey Administration
Patients' perceptions regarding safety after acute inpatient rehabilitation, Will be assessed by Patient Continuity of Care Checklist and Perceptions Regarding Safety after Rehabilitation. At the end of study, patients' demographics and clinical characteristics will be summarized for all the patients who participated in the study by standard descriptive statistics such as mean, standard deviation, median, and range for continuous variables and frequency and proportion for categorical variables. The association between these characteristics and feeling safe will be evaluated by Wilcoxon rank sum test and chi-square (or Fisher's exact) test for continuous and categorical variables, respectively. The proportion of patients who claim they feel safe at each time will be estimated and reported along with the 95% Clopper-Pearson exact confidence interval. McNemar's test will be applied to evaluate whether the status of feeling safe has changed from the time of discharge to one month afterwards., 1 month after discharge
Frequency of experiencing falls and/or near falls, Will be calculated and reported along with a 95% confidence interval. Furthermore, circumstances surrounding reported falls collected by question 19 and 20 in the survey will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Answers about other aspects of safety concerns collected by the questionnaire will be reported by descriptive statistics. To further investigate the association of sociodemographic and disease characteristics of patients with their perception of safety logistic regression models may be applied. Answers to "Patient Continuity of Care Checklist" questionnaire will be summarized and subscale scores will be calculated. Subscale scores will be compared between patients with different safety perception by applying Wilcoxon rank sum test. All tests will be performed two-sided and at 5% nominal significance level unless otherwise stated. Other statistical approaches may be utilized when appropriate., 1 month after discharge
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess patients' perceptions regarding safety after acute inpatient rehabilitation at discharge and after approximately one month from discharge date.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess patient's perception of factors impacting continuity of care at discharge and after approximately one month from discharge date.

II. Determine the frequency of reported falls and the circumstance surrounding reported falls during hospitalization and within approximately one month from discharge date.

III. Determine the frequency of reported near falls and the circumstance surrounding reported near falls within approximately one month from discharge date.

IV. Identify demographic and clinical characteristics associated with feeling safe and unsafe.

OUTLINE:

Participants complete surveys over 15 minutes at 1-2 days before discharge and at 1 month after discharge.