Assessment of Decision Tool to Select Women for Gynecologic Sparing Radical Cystectomy
Currently, the standard of care for female patients undergoing radical cystectomy includes the removal of the bladder, pelvic lymph nodes, anterior vagina, uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries. Removal of female ancillary organs, both in pre and post-menopausal stages is associated with reduction in various quality of life metrics, including sexual health, cognitive decline and depression. Furthermore, removal of ovaries has been associated with increased cardiovascular events, metabolic acidosis, osteoporosis and bone fractures. In premenopausal women, the removal of the ovaries is associated with increased all-cause mortality. From an oncologic standpoint, multi institutional retrospective reviews have demonstrated certain pre-operative radiographic and cystoscopic risk factors that are associated with bladder cancer involvement of female reproductive organs. The absence of these unfavorable risk factors may provide an opportunity to spare women from undergoing unnecessary reproductive organ removal during RC. In doing so, this may eliminate the associated sequelae of removing these additional organs while also providing acceptable oncologic care. The investigators thus propose a decision tool to stratify women undergoing radical cystectomy as favorable and unfavorable for reproductive organ sparing radical cystectomy. This decision tool classification will be used to decide which patients will undergo reproductive organ sparing radical cystectomy versus radical cystectomy in this study.
Urothelial Carcinoma Bladder
PROCEDURE: Reproductive organ sparing radical cystectomy|PROCEDURE: Radical cystectomy
Positive margin rate, Determine the positive margin status rate (based on the surgical pathology report) for the favorable cohort who successfully undergo reproductive organ sparing radical cystectomy, 120 days
Sexual function, Evaluate sexual function as measured by the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI). The FSFI consists of 19 questions measuring female sexual function across six domains, including desire (2 items), arousal (4 items), lubrication (4 items), orgasm (3 items), satisfaction (3 items), and pain (3 items). Each response is assigned a score of either 0 to 5 or 1 to 5, with a higher score meaning a greater level of sexual functioning. The scores are summed to produce a composite score ranging from 4 to 36, with a higher score meaning better sexual functioning., 15 months|Quality of life, Evaluate quality of life as measured by the FACT-G questionnaire. The FACT-G measures various aspects of physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being over the past 7 days on a scale of 0-4 (with 0 meaning "Not at all" and 4 meaning "Very much")., 15 months|Local recurrence, Determine the local recurrence rate., 12 months|Distant recurrence, Determine the distant recurrence rate., 12 months|Incidence rate of adjacent pelvic organ involvement, Determine the incidence of adjacent pelvic organ involvement in women undergoing radical cystectomy deemed "unfavorable" based on the decision tool., 12 months|Prediction of extravesicular disease, Evaluate the ability of staging MRI of the pelvis to predict extravesicular disease., 15 months|Prediction of adjacent pelvic organ involvement, Evaluate the ability of staging MRI of the pelvis to predict adjacent pelvic organ involvement, 15 months
Currently, the standard of care for female patients undergoing radical cystectomy includes the removal of the bladder, pelvic lymph nodes, anterior vagina, uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries. Removal of female ancillary organs, both in pre and post-menopausal stages is associated with reduction in various quality of life metrics, including sexual health, cognitive decline and depression. Furthermore, removal of ovaries has been associated with increased cardiovascular events, metabolic acidosis, osteoporosis and bone fractures. In premenopausal women, the removal of the ovaries is associated with increased all-cause mortality. From an oncologic standpoint, multi institutional retrospective reviews have demonstrated certain pre-operative radiographic and cystoscopic risk factors that are associated with bladder cancer involvement of female reproductive organs. The absence of these unfavorable risk factors may provide an opportunity to spare women from undergoing unnecessary reproductive organ removal during RC. In doing so, this may eliminate the associated sequelae of removing these additional organs while also providing acceptable oncologic care. The investigators thus propose a decision tool to stratify women undergoing radical cystectomy as favorable and unfavorable for reproductive organ sparing radical cystectomy. This decision tool classification will be used to decide which patients will undergo reproductive organ sparing radical cystectomy versus radical cystectomy in this study.