Study of Oral Topotecan With Bevacizumab for Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer
Combination of Hycamtin (topotecan) and Avastin (bevacizumab) could allow killing of both endothelial and neoplastic cells. We postulate that addition of bevacizumab to topotecan will increase delivery of topotecan to tumor cells and may enhance activity of topotecan in patients with previously treated small cell lung cancer and improve progression free survival.
Recurrent Small-cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)|Lung Cancer, Small Cell
DRUG: Oral Hycamtin (topotecan) Capsules + IV Avastin (bevacizumab)
Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 3 Months, PFS = time from initiation of drug to time of first disease progression/death due to any cause. Progression assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria (RECIST): \>=20% increase in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started, or appearance of new lesion(s). If participant did not progress or die, the time of initiation of post-treatment anti-cancer therapy or time of last contact used. PFS at 3 months calculated by taking the Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimate at 90 days from the initiation of treatment. SE = standard error., 3 months
PFS - Overall, Progression-free survival at any site was defined as the time from initiation of investigational product to the time of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause. Progression was assessed using the RECIST guidelines: \>= 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started, or appearance of new lesion (s). For participants who did not progress or die, the time of initiation of post-treatment anti-cancer therapy or the time of last contact was used., Baseline to disease progression or death (up to 82.4 weeks)|Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease (PD), Tumor response was determined using the RECIST guidelines.CR, disappearance of all target lesions; PR, \>=30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; SD, neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since treatment started; PD, \>=20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Baseline to disease progression or death (up to 82.4 weeks)|Number of Participants With a Tumor Response (CR and PR), Tumor response was determined using the RECIST guidelines. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline to disease progression or death (up to 82.4 weeks)|Duration of Tumor Response (CR and PR), Tumor response was determined using the RECIST guidelines. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Duration of response is defined as the time from start of response (CR or PR) until progression or death due to any cause. For participants who did not progress or die, the time of initiation of post-treatment anti-cancer therapy or the time of last contact was used., Baseline to disease progression or death (up to 82.4 weeks)|Time to Tumor Response (CR and PR), Tumor response was determined using the RECIST guidelines. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Time to response is defined as the time from initiation of investigational product to the time of first documented response (CR or PR)., Baseline to disease progression or death (up to 82.4 weeks)|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from initiation of investigational product to death due to any cause. For participants who did not die, the time of last contact was used., Baseline to disease progression or death (up to 82.4 weeks)
Combination of Hycamtin (topotecan) and Avastin (bevacizumab) could allow killing of both endothelial and neoplastic cells. We postulate that addition of bevacizumab to topotecan will increase delivery of topotecan to tumor cells and may enhance activity of topotecan in patients with previously treated small cell lung cancer and improve progression free survival.