Acalabrutinib in Combination With Venetoclax for the Treatment of Refractory or Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, The AVENUE-2 Trial
This phase II trial is to evaluate the effects of acalabrutinib in combination with venetoclax in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma that does not respond to treatment (refractory) or that has come back (recurrent). Acalabrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as venetoclax, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Given acalabrutinib and venetoclax may kill more cancer cells.
Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Venetoclax|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Rate of undetectable measurable residual disease (uMRD), MRD will be assessed using multicolor flow cytometry (sensitivity 10\^-4) (uMRD4) from peripheral blood (PB)., At the end of treatment (26 cycles, 1 cycle = 28 days)
Overall response rate (ORR), Evaluated as defined by International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL) 2018., Up to 10 years|Complete response (CR), Evaluated as defined by International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL) 2018., Up to 10 years|Partial response (PR), Evaluated as defined by International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL) 2018., Up to 10 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier curves and median time-to-event estimation with 95% confidence intervals will be presented., Time from receiving the first treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 10 years|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier curves and median time-to-event estimation with 95% confidence intervals will be presented., Time from receiving the first treatment to death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Toxicity of combination, Defined as grade 3-4 hematologic and non-hematologic malignancies., Up to 10 years
OUTLINE:

Patients receive acalabrutinib orally (PO) twice a day (BID) and venetoclax PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Patients receive acalabrutinib alone for the first three 28 day cycles. Venetoclax is added beginning with Cycle 4. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection, bone marrow aspiration and biopsy, and computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed-up every 12 weeks and annually for 10 years.