A Study to Compare Treatments for a Type of Kidney Cancer Called TFE/Translocation Renal Cell Carcinoma (tRCC)
This phase II trial studies how well axitinib and nivolumab work in treating patients with TFE/translocation renal cell carcinoma that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Axitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving axitinib and nivolumab may work better in treating patients with TFE/translocation renal cell carcinoma compared to standard treatment, including surgery, chemotherapy, or immunotherapy.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8|TFE3-Rearranged Renal Cell Carcinoma|Unresectable Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Axitinib|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Progression free survival (PFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate 1-year PFS, defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or death due to any cause., Up to 1 year from study entry
Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate 1-year OS, defined as the time from study entry until death., Up to 1 year from study entry|Overall response rate (ORR), The ORR will be defined as the proportion of patients that achieve a complete or partial response according to RECIST version 1.1 among patients who initiated protocol therapy and completed at least one subsequent imaging assessment., Up to 1 year from study entry|Percentage of patients experiencing adverse events (AEs), Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3+ non-hematologic and all grade 4-5 AEs occurring during protocol therapy or within 30 days of treatment will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 2 years from study entry
Translocation morphology renal cell carcinoma clinical behavior, Site(s) of disease at presentation (including extent of lymph node involvement), site(s) of relapse, surgical and radiotherapy practices on protocol therapy., Up to 2 years from study entry|Type of antitumor immune response and stability of T cell activation, Levels of protocol-specified marker analytes and tumor expression before and after treatment and changes due to treatment will be described using descriptive statistics., Up to 1 year from study entry|Pharmacokinetics (PK) parameters of axitinib, PKs will be evaluated at day 1 of cycles 1, 2, and 3., Up to 12 weeks from study entry
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To establish the clinical activity, assessed primarily by progression-free survival, of nivolumab therapy with or without axitinib for advanced transcription factor E3/translocation morphology renal cell carcinoma (TFE/tRCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To further define the toxicities of the study arms in the treatment of translocation morphology RCC across all ages.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize tRCC clinical behavior across all age groups. II. To evaluate type of antitumor immune response and stability of T cell activation before and after treatment with immunotherapy or antiangiogenic therapy.

III. To develop a tumor bank of tRCC tumor samples treated on study for further biological investigations.

IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of axitinib when given in combination with nivolumab in pediatric patients with tRCC.

OUTLINE: Patients are now randomized to 1 of 2 arms - Arm A or Arm C.

ARM A: Patients receive axitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes, or per institutional guidelines, on days 1 and 15 (if \< 18 years old) or on day 1 (if \>= 18 years old). Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 cycles (2 years) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive axitinib PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 cycles (2 years) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL AS OF 1/23/2020 - PROSPECTIVE PATIENTS ARE RANDOMLY ASSIGNED TO ARMS A OR C)

ARM C: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes, or per institutional guidelines, on days 1 and 15 (if \< 18 years old) or on day 1 (if \>= 18 years old). Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 cycles (2 years) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and every 6 months for 2 years. Follow-up at year 5 and beyond is at the discretion of the treating physician.