KanSurvive: Testing a Model for Improving Cancer Survivorship Care in Rural Practice
Approximately, 20 rural primary care practices to participate in a delayed intervention-controlled trial.

Phase I: Formal and structured work flow evaluations to better identify specific gaps in processes of care while assessing what on-going training is needed for adoption of high-quality cancer survivorship care in rural practice. These will be incorporated into the ECHO sessions (Aim 1).

Phase II: Conduct and test the effectiveness of the novel KanSurvive-ECHO intervention (Aim 2) and finally identify barriers and facilitators to implementation of KanSurvive-ECHO (Aim 3).
Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Lung Cancer|Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Telementoring with Practice Facilitation
Percent change in evidence based cancer screening, Percent change in evidence-based cancer screening practices as documented in the electronic health record from pre- to 15-months post intervention., 60 months
Participation rates in the Telementoring and Practice Facilitation Sessions, Participation rates will calculated as the total number of rural primary care practices who express interest in the program divided by the total number of eligible rural primary care sites., 60 month
While evidence-based practice (EBP) guidelines exist for cancer survivorship care, implementation in rural practices has fallen short. Approximately 72.5% of Kansas cancer survivors who have completed their cancer treatment receive a majority of their health care from Primary Care Providers, yet these providers describe a lack of basic awareness of risk-based surveillance, effects of cancer treatment and their management, as well as inadequate resources, and growing administrative demands as reasons for not working to improve survivorship care. These factors may also prevent shared care management of cancer survivors between primary care and rural oncology care providers. There is a pressing need to understand primary care practice capacity to implement guideline informed management and follow-up for cancer survivors in the acute and extended phases of care.

Specific Aim 1. Formally assess gaps in processes of care and additional training needed to result in actual adoption of high-quality care for acute and chronic survivors of breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer in 20 rural primary care practices. Utilize this formative information to further refine the KanSurvive-ECHO.

Specific Aim 2. Evaluate the effectiveness of KanSurvive-ECHO for enhancing evidence-based survivorship care for rural breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer survivors.

Hypothesis: Compared to delayed intervention control, rural primary care practices randomized to KanSurvive-ECHO will demonstrate greater concordance with evidence-based survivorship care guidelines as measured by a composition score determined by change in EHR documentation consistent with guideline concordant care.

Specific Aim 3: Utilizing the Integrated Promoting Action on Research Implementation in Health Services (i-PARIHS) framework describe key facilitators and barriers to implementation of KanSurvive-ECHO including innovation, recipients, context, and facilitation.

This novel project will provide a model for development of a community of practice using practice facilitation and Project ECHO to improve the management and follow-up of cancer survivors in the acute and extended phases of cancer survivorship.