Combined PECS II and Transversus Plane Blocks Versus Erector Spinae Block in Modified Radical Mastectomy
The aim of this study is to compare the total morphine consumption in the first 24 hour postoperative between combined modified pectoralis block (PECS II) and transversus plane block versus erector spinae block in modified radical mastectomy.
Breast Cancer|Acute Postoperative Pain
PROCEDURE: Combined Modified Pectoralis and Transversus Plane Blocks|PROCEDURE: Erector Spinae block
The total morphine consumption postoperative (mg), Morphine consumption in mg, The first 24 hours postoperative.
Postoperative pain score by Verbal numeric rating scale, Verbal numeric rating scale (VNRS) for postoperative pain monitoring using 11-point where zero equals no pain and 10 equals the worst pain imaginable., 0, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24 hours postoperatively.|Time to first request analgesia postoperative (min), Time from postoperative period to time of first analgesic request in minutes, The first 24 hours postoperatively|Postoperative level of IL6 (interleukin 6) (pg/mL), Preoperative baseline and postoperative levels of IL6 will be measured (pg/mL), Two blood samples will be withdrawn from the patient. The first one is immediately preoperative and the second one after 24 hours postoperative|Arterial blood gas: Arterial blood gas: Arterial blood gases, Oxygen (mmHg) and carbon dioxide (mmHg), Before surgery and 24 hours postoperative.
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women in the United States and is second only to lung cancer as a cause of cancer death. Breast surgery is commonly performed as a part of the management of breast cancer, is associated with considerable acute postoperative pain. Ultrasound guided Regional anesthesia is recommended to be a part of multimodal analgesia in order to manage the acute post-operative pain. New techniques are proposed to give adequate control of postoperative analgesia with less opioid needs in the first day postoperative. They include pectoralis nerve modified pectoralis, and erector spinae blocks.

The investigators will compare Modified pectoralis nerve block (Pecs II) plus transversus thoracic muscle plane (TTP) block versus Erector spinae block on morphine consumption during first 24 h following modified radical mastectomy.