The Efficacy of MEDIHONEY® for Chronic Rhinosinusitis With Nasal Polyposis After Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery
This study will assess the effectiveness of MEDIHONEY® sinus rinses (alone or in combination with intranasal corticosteroids) vs. intranasal corticosteroid sinus rinses on mucosal healing and polyp recurrence in the post-operative period following functional endoscopic sinus surgery.
Chronic Sinusitis|Nasal Polyposis
DEVICE: MEDIHONEY®|DRUG: Budesonide|DRUG: Normal saline sinus rinse|DRUG: Prednisone|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic sinus surgery|DRUG: nasal saline spray
Change in Lund-Kennedy Endoscopic Scores, Characteristics of each sinonasal cavity are assessed endoscopically to provide a score based on polyp disease, mucosal edema/crusting/scarring and nasal secretions. A score is provided for the left and right. The scores are totaled to provide a number between 0 and 20.

Polyps: 0 = absence of polyp; 1 = polyps in middle meatus only; 2 = polyps beyond middle meatus Edema: 0 = absent; 1 = mild; 2 = severe Discharge: 0 = no discharge; 1 = clear, thin discharge; 2 = thick, purulent discharge Scarring: 0 = absent; 1 = mild; 2 = severe Crusting: 0 = absent; 1 = mild; 2 = severe

This scoring system has since been the instrument of choice to endoscopically evaluate outcomes of interventions in non-neoplastic sinonasal disease prospectively over time in research and clinical practice. The higher the score, the worse the outcome. Endoscopy scores from the 3 study groups are compared for the average unit change between baseline and day 119., 119 days
Nasal Drainage Cultures, Nasal drainage cultures from the 3 study groups will be compared for the average percent change between a patient's positive intraoperative cultures compared to the patient's cultures at day 35., 35 days|Change in Sinonasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22) Questionnaire Score, The SNOT-22 consists of 22 questions; items 1 to 12 represent the physical problems associated with rhinosinusitis, items 13 to 18 represent the functional limitations, and items 20 to 22 represent the emotional consequences. Each question is scored by the patient from 0 (no problem) to 5 (the problem is as bad as it can be). The overall score can theoretically range from 0 to 110, with higher scores reflecting more severe quality of life impairment as subjectively reported by the patient. Overall SNOT-22 scores from the 3 study groups are compared for the average change in score from baseline to day 119., 119 days|Change in SNOT-22 Nasal Symptom Scores, The SNOT-22 consists of 22 questions; items 1 to 12 represent the physical problems associated with rhinosinusitis, items 13 to 18 represent the functional limitations, and items 20 to 22 represent the emotional consequences. Each question is scored by the patient from 0 (no problem) to 5 (the problem is as bad as it can be).

The first seven questions relate to nasal symptoms. The nasal symptoms score is calculated by summing the scores for these first seven questions. The range is 0 to 35. Higher scores reflect more severe quality of life impairment as subjectively reported by the patient. The nasal symptom scores from the 3 study groups are compared for the average change in score from baseline to day 119., 119 days
In patients with refractory CRSwNP, functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS), is intended to restore physiologic sinus ventilation and drainage, which can facilitate the gradual resolution of mucosal disease. However, because FESS does not directly treat the underlying inflammatory disorder, a successful sinus surgery must be followed by medical maintenance therapy to control inflammatory processes.

The current mainstay of treatment of CRSwNP includes antibiotics and topical and systemic steroids. There is evidence that administration of systemic steroids in the postoperative period for patients who have polyps may have a significant impact on their postoperative course. However, the chance of significant side effects increases with the dose and duration of treatment and therefore the minimum dose necessary to control the disease should be given. Antibiotics also have their limited but documented side effects and can induce resistance.

A semi-natural product like manuka honey (brand name MEDIHONEY®), with antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties, might prove as a useful alternative since it has no major adverse events documented in the literature, does not induce resistance and is effective against resistant pathogens common in this patient population.

This study is a prospective, randomized, pilot clinical trial that will determine if the use of MEDIHONEY® sinus rinses (alone or in combination with intranasal steroids) in the postoperative period enhances recovery and prevents polyp recurrence in patients after functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS), compared with the standard regimen of topical corticosteroid sinus rinses. The study will collect and compare subjective and objective efficacy assessments of both types of rinses.