Bavituximab With Radiation and Temozolomide for Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
This research study is studying a combination of drugs with radiation as a possible treatment for Glioblastoma.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Bavituximab
* Temozolomide
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Bavituximab|RADIATION: Radiation
Overall Survival at 12 Months (OS12), Overall survival is defined as the time from study entry to death from any cause. OS12 is the percentage of subjects who are alive 12 months after study entry. Data for subjects who are lost to follow up prior to documented death will be counted as deaths at the last assessment date when the subject is known to be alive., 12 months
Radiographic Response Rate, Radiographic response (RR) is defined as a complete response or partial response per RANO (Response assessment in neuro-oncology) criteria with incorporation of iRANO (immunotherapy response assessment for neuro-oncology) criteria. The radiographic response rate is the percentage of subjects who achieved radiographic response as defined above., every 3 months for 5 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival is defined as the time of study entry to time of disease progression, or death due to any cause. Data for subjects who are lost to follow up will be censored at the date when the subject is last known to be alive. PFS results below are reported up to the data cutoff in May 2021., every 3 months for up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time of study entry to death from any cause. Data for subjects who are lost to follow up will be censored at the date when the subject is last known to be alive. OS results below are reported up to the data cutoff in May 2021., Up to 5 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Bavituximab as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA has approved Temozolomide as a treatment option for this disease.

In this research study, the investigators are studying how the combination of Bavituximab, Temozolomide, and radiation affects this cancer. The current standard care of treatment for newly diagnosed glioblastoma is the combination of Temozolomide and radiation. Temozolomide causes cell death and radiation shrinks and kills the cancer cells. Bavituximab may activate (cause) the immune system to attack the cancer cells as well as target tumor cells themselves to kill them.