Cancer and Mild Cognitive Impairment Dyadic Intervention
The purpose of this study is to see whether programs that include both a patient and their spouse or a patient and family caregiver (known as a dyad) are helpful for families in which one member of the dyad has cancer and mild memory difficulties and/or concerns. Participant and their spouse or participant and their family caregiver will have six, 60-minute video-conference sessions which will be scheduled at their convenience. The investigator will loan participants a tablet computer (iPad) to use for videoconferencing and train the participant in its use. Participant and their spouse or participant and their family caregiver will complete three assessments - one before starting the sessions, one after the sixth session, and one after 1 month. Each assessment will include surveys, which the participant will complete separately from their spouse or family caregiver. For most people, it will take upwards of 2 - 4 months to complete this study
Cancer|Cognitive Impairment
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral: COPE +
Number of completed sessions as measured by enrollment log, Up to 17 Weeks|Number of participants who are satisfied with the intervention as measured by a score of 24 or greater on the CSQ-8, The Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8) is a self report measure of satisfaction with health and behavioral services received. The CSQ-8 is measured on a four point Likert scale from 1 "Quite Dissatisfied" to 4 "Very Satisfied." Scores range from 8-32, with higher values indicating higher satisfaction, Up to 17 weeks
Change in Distress as measured by the DASS-21, The Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale (DASS-21) measure will be used for rating general distress across three emotional states of depression, anxiety, and stress. The measure has a total of 21 items. Scores range from 0- 63, with higher scores indicating greater distress., Baseline, up to 17 weeks, up to 1 month follow up|Change in Quality of Life as measured by the FACT-G, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy: General (FACT-G) measure will be used for rating quality of life. The measure has a total of 27 items. Scores range from 0-108, with higher scores indicating greater quality of life., Baseline, up to 17 weeks, up to 1 month follow up|Change in Communication Patterns as measured by the CPQ-SF, The Communication Patterns Questionnaire Short-Form (CPQ-SF) will be used for rating communication patterns in a relationship. The measure has a total of 11 items. Scores range from 11-99, higher scores indicate a greater likelihood of using a particular communication pattern during conflict interactions., Baseline, up to 17 weeks, up to 1 month follow up|Change in Relationship Satisfaction as measured by the Mutuality Scale of the Family Care Inventory, The Mutuality Scale of the Family Care Inventory will be used for rating mutual concerns and overall relationship satisfaction. The measure consists of 15 items. Scores range from 0-60, higher scores indicate greater relationship satisfaction, Baseline, up to 17 weeks, up to 1 month follow up
The purpose of this study is to see whether programs that include both a patient and their spouse or a patient and family caregiver (known as a dyad) are helpful for families in which one member of the dyad has cancer and mild memory difficulties and/or concerns. Participant and their spouse or participant and their family caregiver will have six, 60-minute video-conference sessions which will be scheduled at their convenience. The investigator will loan participants a tablet computer (iPad) to use for videoconferencing and train the participant in its use. Participant and their spouse or participant and their family caregiver will complete three assessments - one before starting the sessions, one after the sixth session, and one after 1 month. Each assessment will include surveys, which the participant will complete separately from their spouse or family caregiver. For most people, it will take upwards of 2 - 4 months to complete this study