A Dose Escalation/Expansion Study of LDK378 in Patients With Tumors Characterized by Genetic Abnormalities in Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase
This study assessed the safety and efficacy of LDK378 in adult patients with genetic abnormalities in anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK).
Tumors Characterized by Genetic Abnormalities of ALK
DRUG: LDK378
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was defined as the highest dose for a given schedule that was expected to cause DLTs in no more than 33% of patients during the first cycle of treatment. A patient with multiple occurrences of a DLT under one treatment is counted only once in the AE category for that treatment. MTD was determined at 750mg., 33 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Based on Investigator Assessment, Overall response rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.0. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI. Both CR and PR had to be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response were first met. CR was the disappearance of all target lesions. PR was at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Both CR and PR had to be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response were first met. CR = at least two determinations of CR, at least 4 weeks apart before progression. PR = at least two determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression (and not qualifying for a CR)., 275 weeks|Overall Response Rate Based on Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) Assessment, Overall response rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.0. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI, CR was the disappearance of all target lesions. PR was at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Both CR and PR had to be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response were first met. CR = at least two determinations of CR, at least 4 weeks apart before progression. PR = at least two determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression (and not qualifying for a CR)., 275 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR) Based on Investigator Assessment, Duration of response (DOR) was defined as the time from first documented response (partial response (PR) or complete response (CR)) to the date of first documented disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, among patients with a confirmed PR or CR per RECIST 1.0., 275 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR) Based on BIRC, Duration of response (DOR) was defined as the time from first documented response (partial response (PR) or complete response (CR)) to the date of first documented disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, among patients with a confirmed PR or CR per RECIST 1.0., 275 weeks|Progression-free Survival Based on Investigator Assessment, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the start date of study drug to the date of the first radiologically documented progressive disease (PD) per RECIST 1.0. or death due to any cause., 275 weeks|Progression-free Survival Based on BIRC Assessment, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the start date of study drug to the date of the first radiologically documented progressive disease (PD) per RECIST 1.0. or death due to any cause., 275 weeks|Primary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: AUC0-last, The AUC from time zero to the last quantifiable concentration point (Tlast). Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378., PK run-in of Dose Escalation phase|Primary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: AUC0-24h, Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378. AUC0 - 24 is the AUC calculated to 24 hour. Cycle 1 Day 1 = C1D1; Cycle 1 Day 8 = C1D8; Cycle 2 Day 1 = C2D1. However, there was no PK sampling during C1D1 and C2D1 except for 750 mg dose to compute PK parameter AUC0-24., PK run-in of dose escalation phase, Cycle 1 Day 8 of dose escalation phase, Cycle 1, Day 1 of dose escalation phase, Cycle 2 Day 1 of dose escalation & dose expansion phases|Primary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: Tmax, Tmax is the time to reach Cmax. Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378. Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378. Cycle 1 Day 1 = C1D1; Cycle 1 Day 8 = C1D8; Cycle 2 Day 1 = C2D1. However, there was no PK sampling during C1D1 and C2D1 except for 750 mg dose to compute PK parameter Tmax., PK run-in of dose escalation phase, Cycle 1 Day 8 of dose escalation phase, Cycle 1, Day 1 of dose escalation phase, Cycle 2 Day 1 of dose escalation & dose expansion phases|Primary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: Cmax, Cmax is the maximum observed concentration. Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378. However, there was no PK sampling during C1D1 and C2D1 except for 750 mg dose to compute PK parameter Cmax., PK run-in of dose escalation phase, Cycle 1 Day 8 of dose escalation phase, Cycle 1, Day 1 of dose escalation ion phase, Cycle 2 Day 1 of dose escalation & expansion phases|Secondary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: T1/2, T1/2 is the elimination half-life associated with the terminal slope (λz) of a semi logarithmic concentration-time curve (time). Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378. Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378., PK Run-in dose escalation phase|Secondary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: CL/F, CL/F is the apparent total body clearance of drug from the plasma, PK Run-in dose escalation phase|Secondary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: Vz/F, Vz/F is the apparent volume of distribution during terminal phase (associated with Lambda_z), PK Run-in dose escalation phase|Secondary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: CLss/F, CLss/F is the apparent total body clearance of drug from the plasma. There was no PK sampling during C1D1 and C2D1 except for 750 mg dose to compute PK parameter CLss/F., Cycle 1 Day 8 of dose escalation phase, Cycle 2 Day 1 of dose escalation & dose expansion phases|Secondary Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter: Racc, Racc is the accumulation ratio calculated using AUCtau values obtained from a dosing interval at steady-state divided by AUCtau at day 1 or PK run-in phase. AUCtau is the AUC calculated to the end of the dosing interval, tau. Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378. Blood samples for PK analysis of LDK378 were collected during the study from patients receiving LDK378. However, there was no PK sampling during C1D1 and C2D1 except for 750 mg dose to compute PK parameter Racc., Cycle 1 Day 8 of dose escalation phase, Cycle 2 Day 1 of dose escalation & dose expansion phases
This study assessed the safety and efficacy of LDK378 in adult patients with genetic abnormalities in anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK).