Chidamide in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma (R/R PTCL)
This is a phase II, open-label, non-randomized, single-arm, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and PK of chidamide in patients with R/R PTCL.
Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Chidamide
Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) according to International Working Group (IWG) criteria. The response was assessed based on clinical and radiological criteria. CR is defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease. PR is defined as a regression of measurable disease and no new sites. As pre-defined, the primary endpoint analysis for this study was based on the Independent Overall Efficacy Review Committee (IOERC) assessment of response., 24 months
Time to response (TTR), Time to response was defined as the time (in weeks) from first administration of treatment until first response. Response is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR is defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease. PR is defined as a regression of measurable disease and no new sites., 24 months|Duration of response (DOR), The Duration of Response was assessed by IWG criteria per the IRC from the date the measurement criteria were first met for CR or PR (whichever status was recorded first) until the first subsequent date that relapse or progression was documented. Response is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR is defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease. PR is defined as a regression of measurable disease and no new sites., 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) was the duration of time from first administration of study treatment to date of first documented progression or death from any cause. It was based on tumor assessments made according to the IWG criteria as assessed by the IRC. The progression is defined as any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir., 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall Survival was the time from first administration of study treatment until the date of death., 24 months|Pharmacokinetics profiles - (AUC0-t), Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to time t(AUC0-t), Blood samples collected on Days 1-4 and 25-28 of Cycle 1, pre-dose and up to 72 hours post-dose (28 days/cycle)|Pharmacokinetics profiles - (AUC0-∞), Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity(AUC0-∞), Blood samples collected on Days 1-4 and 25-28 of Cycle 1, pre-dose and up to 72 hours post-dose (28 days/cycle)|Pharmacokinetics profiles - (Cmax), Maximum plasma concentration(Cmax), Blood samples collected on Days 1-4 and 25-28 of Cycle 1, pre-dose and up to 72 hours post-dose (28 days/cycle)|Pharmacokinetics profiles - (Tmax), Time to maximum plasma concentration(Tmax), Blood samples collected on Days 1-4 and 25-28 of Cycle 1, pre-dose and up to 72 hours post-dose (28 days/cycle)|Pharmacokinetics profiles - (T1/2), Half-life(T1/2), Blood samples collected on Days 1-4 and 25-28 of Cycle 1, pre-dose and up to 72 hours post-dose (28 days/cycle)|Pharmacokinetics profiles - (Ctrough), Pre-dose trough concentration (Ctrough), PK samples collected on Day 15, Day 18, and Day 22 predose (28 days/cycle)
This is a phase II, open-label, non-randomized, single-arm, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and PK of chidamide in patients with R/R PTCL. To determine eligibility, subjects must have PTCL confirmed with a sample or specimen evaluated by the investigator.A treatment cycle is defined as 4 weeks. All eligible subjects will be treated with chidamide until disease progression, intolerable toxicity effects, death, or withdrawal of consent.