Phase 1/2 Study of Ensartinib and Durvalumab, in ALK-rearranged Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This was a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, single-arm study of combination therapy with ensartinib, an anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor, and durvalumab, an anti-programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibody, in subjects with ALK-rearranged (ALK-positive) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Primary study objectives were to determine the recommended combination dose (RCD) and safety and tolerability of the combination. Further objectives were to evaluate the clinical efficacy and biologic activity of the combination.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Carcinoma|NSCLC
DRUG: Ensartinib|DRUG: Durvalumab
Number of Subjects With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Toxicity was graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported based on clinical laboratory tests, physical examinations, and vital signs from pre-treatment through the end of the study period. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the Run-in Period was defined as ≥ Grade 2 rash or other toxicity requiring discontinuation of ensartinib dosing., up to 3 months
Number of Subjects With Best Overall Tumor Response at the Last Assessment, Tumor response was evaluated using computed tomography and categorized according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version 1.1) at Baseline, every 2 cycles, and at the end of the study. Per RECIST, target lesions are categorized as follows: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., up to 3 months|Number of Subjects With Immune-related Tumor Response at the Last Assessment, Immune-related tumor response was evaluated by computed tomography at Baseline, every 2 cycles, and at the end of the study. Tumor response was designated according to the immune-related Response Criteria (irRC) (Wolchok et al. Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:7412-20) into the following categories: immune-related complete response (irCR) requires disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart; immune-related partial response (irPR) requires ≥ 50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart; immune-related stable disease (irSD) is assigned when neither a 50% decrease from baseline tumor burden nor a 25% increase in tumor burden from nadir can be established; immune-related progressive disease (irPD) requires a ≥ 25% increase from nadir in tumor burden at any single time point in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart., up to 3 months
Prior to initiation of combination therapy with ensartinib plus durvalumab, subjects were enrolled sequentially to receive ensartinib monotherapy (orally once daily) during a pre-immunotherapy Run-in Period for one to two 28-day cycles. The purpose of the Run-in Period was to determine whether any safety signals might compromise combination therapy and to determine the effect of ALK inhibitor therapy on the immune tumor microenvironment. For subjects with no dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during the Run-in Period, combination therapy was then initiated during a dose-finding phase using a standard 3 + 3 design until determination of the RCD, which was defined as the highest dose level at which ≤ 1 of 6 subjects (i.e., \< 33%) experienced DLTs during the first 2 cycles of combination treatment.

A fixed dose of durvalumab (1500 mg by intravenous \[IV\] infusion every 4 weeks) was administered in all cohorts. Ensartinib dosing started at 200 mg, with subsequent cohorts receiving a reduced (150 mg) or escalated (225 mg) ensartinib dose depending upon observed toxicity. The study was then designed to include an expansion phase, in which the RCD cohort would be expanded to a total of 20 subjects.

Subjects were monitored for safety (including immune-related adverse events), disease status (using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] version 1.1 and immune-related RECIST), and biologic activity (peripheral blood assays and immunological changes in the tumor microenvironment) for the duration of study participation.