Surgical Recovery After Left Lateral Hepatic Sectionectomy: Laparoscopic Versus Open Surgery.
The ORANGE II trial is a double blinded randomised controlled trial that will provide evidence on the merits of laparoscopic surgery in patients undergoing a left lateral hepatic sectionectomy in terms of time to functional recovery, hospital length of stay, quality of life, readmission percentage, morbidity and mortality, hospital costs, body image and cosmesis, and long term incidence of incisional hernias.
Colorectal Cancer|Liver Metastasis|Liver Disease
PROCEDURE: laparoscopic left lateral hepatic sectionectomy|PROCEDURE: open left lateral hepatic sectionectomy
Time to functional Recovery, The functional recovery criteria consist of adequate pain control with oral analgetics only, mobility restored to an independent level, absence of intravenous fluid administration, ability to eat solid foods and finally a normal or decreasing serum bilirubin level. A patient is fully functionally recovered when all of the five criteria are satisfied. It is medically justified to discharge patients when the criteria for full functional recovery are met and if the patient is willing to go home., Date the functional recovery criteria are met
Postoperative length of hospital stay, including readmission \<30 days, 30 days|Readmission percentage, Readmission percentage during one year follow-up, 1 year|Total morbidity, Morbidity will be classified and analysed according to the validated classification for postoperative morbidity as described by Dindo et al., 1 year|Composite endpoint of liver surgery specific morbidity, Parameter composed of a combination of procedure-specific complications and considered as a single, dichotomous outcome: operative mortality, intra-abdominal haemorrhage, ascites, bile leakage, intra-abdominal abscess and postresectional liver failure. These components, which are all specific to liver surgery and have substantial clinical relevance, reflect Dindo grade 3-5 complications. A composite score of 1 (=failure) will reflect the occurrence of at least one of the above liver specific complications, consequently a score of 0 (=success) will be assigned if none occur., 1 year|Quality of life, To assess quality of life the Dutch version of the EQ-5D (EuroQol Group) status test in Dutch centres and the translated EQ-5D for international centres will be used. Furthermore, the EORTC QLQ-C30 with the LM21 module will be used for liver specific treatment measurements. Assessment of the patients' quality of life will be performed at the time of consent, discharge and 10 days, 3, 6 and 12 months after discharge., 1 year|Body image and cosmesis, To evaluate differences in postoperative body image and cosmesis, the Body image Questionnaire (BIQ) will be used. The BIQ consists of 8 questions regarding body image and cosmesis. The body image assessment will be performed preoperatively at time of consent. Both the body image and the cosmesis assessment will take place at discharge, 10 days, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after discharge, 1 year|Hospital and societal costs, The economic evaluation will include a cost-utility analysis from a Dutch societal perspective. The incremental costs per Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) gained will be based on utility scores from the EQ-5D. All hospital expenses (direct and indirect) related to both interventions will be monitored. In addition, a cost questionnaire offered at the regular follow-up consultation (3, 6 and 12 months) will help us to assess the societal and individual costs outside health care relating to patients' absence, impaired mobility, work or normal daily activities., 1 year|Incidence of incisional hernias, To assess the incidence of incisional hernias in laparoscopic and open left lateral hepatic sectionectomy patients will be contacted at a mean time of 1 year after resection to receive an ultrasound to diagnose incisional hernia., 1 year|Reasons for delay of discharge after functional recovery, Factors delaying discharge after functional recovery will be monitored., untill Discharge
Recent developments in liver surgery include the introduction of laparoscopic surgery and enhanced recovery programmes. Laparoscopic surgery and enhanced recovery programmes both focus on faster recovery and consequently shorter hospital length of stay.

The ORANGE-II trial is a prospective randomised controlled parallel group superiority trial with a double-blinded experimental and a prospective registry design to determine whether laparoscopic surgery is to be preferred over open surgery in patients undergoing a left lateral hepatic sectionectomy within an enhanced recovery programme. The experimental design produces two randomised arms; (a) open LLS and (b) laparoscopic LLS. An additional registry arm will be based on surgeons/patients that do not want to be randomised because they have an explicit preference for either the laparoscopic LLS or for the open LLS (c).

The primary endpoint of the ORANGE II trial is time to functional recovery. The functional recovery criteria consist of adequate pain control with oral analgetics only, mobility restored to an independent level, absence of intravenous fluid administration, ability to eat solid foods and finally a normal or decreasing serum bilirubin level. A patient is fully functionally recovered when all of the five criteria are satisfied.

Secondary endpoints of this trial are postoperative length of hospital stay, readmission percentage, (liver specific) morbidity, quality of life, body image and cosmetic result, hospital and societal costs during one year and long-term incidence of incisional hernias.

The ORANGE-II trial is a randomised controlled multicentre trial that will provide evidence on the merits of laparoscopic surgery in patients undergoing a left lateral hepatic sectionectomy and participating in an enhanced recovery programme.