Does the Management of Anastomotic Leakage After Low Rectal Resection Affect Survival
The aim of this retrospective cohort-study is to assess the effects of AL and its severity divided according the ISREC-classification on the long-term oncological outcome.
Rectal Cancer|Anastomotic Leak
OTHER: Anastomotic leakage
Cancer-specific survival, 30 days postoperative to 5 years postoperative
Overall survival, 30 days postoperative to 5 years postoperative|Disease-free survival, 30 days postoperative to 5 years postoperative|Recurrence-free survival, 30 days postoperative to 5 years postoperative
Rectal cancer is one of the most common malignancies in the world. Its costs and cancer-related mortality are increasing worldwide. The surgical treatment was revolutionized in recent years by the total mesorectal excision (TME) technique as well as the laparoscopic, robotic, and transanal approach. But anastomotic leakage (AL) remains one of the most feared complications after low rectal resection regarding postoperative morbidity and mortality as well as functional outcome. Several risk factors causing AL like low level of anastomosis, large tumor mass, male gender, smoking, perioperative bleeding, and preoperative radio-chemotherapy are known. Protective ileo- or colostomy formation and transanal tube placement may decrease the risk of AL and reduces the rate of reoperation due to AL. Diverting results of the association between AL and the long-term oncological outcome (local recurrence, systemic recurrence, survival) are described in the current literature.

The International Study Group of Rectal Cancer (ISREC) provides a classification of AL according to its clinical management:

* Grade A results in no change in patient's management
* Grade B requires active therapeutic intervention without re-laparotomy
* Grade C requires re-laparotomy

This classification allows a good stratification regarding postoperative morbidity and mortality. However, the association between the ISREC-classification of AL and the long-term oncological outcome is not yet clear.