Effects of Physical Activity and Dietary Change in Minority Breast Cancer Survivors
This study is testing the effects of exercise and dietary change on weight reduction and biological markers associated with breast cancer risk in breast cancer survivors of Hispanic or African descent (n=45). This is a randomized, crossover pilot and feasibility study to test the effects of a 30-minute circuit-based exercise program that combines resistance training with aerobic exercise in conjunction with a low-fat calorie reduced diet. Participants will be randomized to either an immediate 6-months of exercise and dietary change, or a delayed group who will begin their exercise and dietary change program 6-months after the study begins. Participants in the immediate group will be followed for an additional 6-months in order to evaluate adherence to the exercise and dietary change recommendations. Participants in both groups will exercise at a neighborhood Curves® facility at least 5 times per week for six months and will participate in a series of nutrition education classes.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity and dietary change
Change in weight, 6 months, 12 months|Intervention adherence, 6 months, 12 months
Barriers to participation, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Predictors of adherence, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Changes in anthropometric measures, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Changes in fitness, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Changes in hormonal biomarkers, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Changes in metabolic markers, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Changes in psychological and quality of life measures, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months
This study is testing the effects of exercise and dietary change on weight reduction and biological markers associated with breast cancer risk in breast cancer survivors of Hispanic or African descent (n=45). This is a randomized, crossover pilot and feasibility study to test the effects of a 30-minute circuit-based exercise program that combines resistance training with aerobic exercise in conjunction with a low-fat calorie reduced diet. Participants will be randomized to either an immediate 6-months of exercise and dietary change, or a delayed group who will begin their exercise and dietary change program 6-months after the study begins. Participants in the immediate group will be followed for an additional 6-months in order to evaluate adherence to the exercise and dietary change recommendations. Participants in both groups will exercise at a neighborhood Curves® facility at least 5 times per week for six months and will participate in a series of nutrition education classes.