Cancer Care Delivery in Adolescent and Young Adult Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This study investigates cancer care delivery in adolescent and young adult patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Surveying institutions, evaluating delivery of care at the patient level and seeking input from healthcare providers may help doctors increase rates of adherence to National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) treatment guidelines. It may also improve care for adolescent and young adult patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
BEHAVIORAL: Discussion|OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Proportion of patients with a documented treatment plan concordant with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines for adolescent and young adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, Primary analysis will describe the proportion of patients meeting this endpoint in overall evaluation window., Overall evaluation window, an average of 12 weeks after start of treatment|Proportion of patients with a documented treatment plan concordant with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines for adolescent and young adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, Primary analysis will describe the proportion of patients meeting this endpoint in induction evaluation window., Induction evaluation window, an average of 4 weeks after start of treatment|Proportion of patients with a documented treatment plan concordant with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines for adolescent and young adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, Primary analysis will describe the proportion of patients in post-induction therapy (PIT) evaluation window., PIT evaluation window, an average of 8 weeks after induction|Proportion of patients whose delivered treatment in induction and two months of post-induction phase chemotherapy is consistent with National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for adolescents and young adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, Primary analysis will describe the proportion of patients meeting this endpoint., An average of 12 weeks after start of treatment|Proportion of patients with a documented treatment plan consistent with the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines based upon primary physician type (pediatric oncology versus other) and facility type groups (children's hospital versus other), Descriptive analysis will be used to examine the differences in the proportion of patients with a documented treatment plan consistent with the NCCN guidelines and with induction and post-induction therapy delivered according to guidelines, between primary physician type (pediatric oncology vs. other) and facility type groups (children's hospital \[CH\] vs. other)., An average of 12 weeks after start of treatment|Proportion of patients with induction and post-induction therapy delivered consistent with the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines based upon primary physician type and facility type groups, Descriptive analysis will be used to examine the differences in the proportion of patients with a documented treatment plan consistent with the NCCN guidelines and with induction and post-induction therapy delivered according to guidelines, between primary physician type (pediatric oncology vs. other) and facility type groups (CH vs. other)., An average of 12 weeks after start of treatment|Facilitators and barriers ranked by importance to National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for adolescent and young adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, These endpoints will be defined by the issues and language used by the participants during the focus groups. Will be descriptive in nature and employ thematic analysis., Up to 6 focus groups, assessed up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of adolescent and young adult (AYA) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients with a documented treatment plan consistent with NCCN guidelines for AYAs with ALL.

II. To evaluate the proportion of AYA ALL patients whose delivered treatment during induction and post-induction therapy (PIT) is consistent with NCCN guidelines for AYAs with ALL.

III. To determine the impact of treating physician specialty and facility type on likelihood of AYA ALL patients having a documented treatment plan concordant with NCCN guidelines when stratified by age group (15-17year\[y\], 18-21y, and 22-39y).

IV. To determine the impact of treating physician specialty and facility type on the likelihood of AYA ALL patients receiving induction and post-Induction therapy (PIT) concordant with NCCN guidelines when stratified by age group (15-17y, 18-21y, and 22-39y).

V. To identify for AYAs with ALL, targetable structure- and process-level barriers and facilitators which will increase the proportion of patients having a documented treatment plan and receiving treatment according to NCCN guidelines.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore potential correlations with clinical and social demographic variables to the presence of a documented treatment plan and delivered treatment consistent with NCCN guidelines in AYAs with ALL.

OUTLINE:

CHART REVIEW: Patient medical record data is abstracted and treatment plans are reviewed for consistency to NCCN guidelines. For each patient, induction and post-induction care is recorded as either concordant with NCCN guidelines or non-concordant with NCCN guidelines.

SITE QUESTIONNAIRE: Participating sites complete a questionnaire which is designed to capture facility-oriented data.

FOCUS GROUPS: Healthcare providers participate in focus groups over 2-3 hours to discuss facilitators and barriers to AYA ALL guideline concordance. Participants provide responses which will be recorded on a flip-chart or white board, followed by discussion of the ideas for clarification.