HPV Vaccine Therapy in Interrupting Progression in Patients With High-Grade Vulvar or Anal Lesions
This phase IV trial studies how well human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine therapy works in interrupting progression in patients with high-grade vulvar or anal lesions. Vaccines made from HPV peptides or antigens may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells and decrease the chance of vulvar or anal lesions to progress or come back.
High Grade Anal Canal Intraepithelial Neoplasia|High Grade Vulvar Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Human Papillomavirus Nonavalent Vaccine
Persistent High-risk Infection Among Vaccine Compared With Placebo Recipients, Persistence will be measured as two or more consecutive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) positive swabs for the same human papillomavirus (HPV) genotype. Will use Chi-Square test to compare the number of participants with the persistent infection in the vaccinated to unvaccinated group., Up to month 36
Time to Recurrence of Anogenital High Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (HSIL), Will compare vaccine and placebo recipients. Will evaluate differences in the hazard of recurrence using Cox proportional hazards in the intention to treat population and the per protocol population., Up to month 36|Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs) Via Solicited Vaccine Reactogenicity by Arm, Will monitor safety by comparing type and frequency of AEs in the two study arms, graded according to the Food and Drug Administration criteria. Symptoms are reported at least once from any dose., Up to month 36|HPV Antibody Level, Will evaluate placebo and vaccine recipients separately. Will assess whether presence and amount of HPV antibody, detected at baseline in the placebo arm, is protective against recurrence. For the vaccine arm, will assess whether magnitude of vaccine antibody levels month 1 following the third vaccination in the vaccine arm affects recurrence., Up to month 36
OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive recombinant human papillomavirus nonavalent vaccine intramuscularly (IM) at baseline, 2 months, and 6 months.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo IM at baseline, 2 months, and 6 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at months 7, 12, 18, 24, 36, and 42.