Comparison of Dosimetry After rhTSH or Withdrawal of Thyroid Hormone in Metastatic or Locally Advanced Thyroid Cancer
Metastases of thyroid cancer with iodine uptake are treated with repeated activity of I-131 administered after thyroid hormone withdrawal. The goal of thyroid hormone withdrawal is to treat patients with elevated thyrotropin stimulated hormone (TSH), a hormone secreted by the pituitary, a gland just located under the brain. Another way to obtain elevated TSH levels is to perform intramuscular injection of recombinant human TSH, a hormone produced pharmaceutically. The goal of this study is to know whether the radioiodine uptake by the metastases is similar after rhTSH administration or after thyroid hormone withdrawal.
Thyroid Cancer|Metastases
DRUG: TSH stimulation
the 124 I uptake after TSH stimulation, For each patient, the 124 I uptake after TSH stimulation (a marker of radiation absorbed dose) will be compared to the uptake after thyroid withdrawal in all lesions (up to 16 lesions per patient maximum). A decrease in the residence time of more than 2.5 fold in 25% or more of the lesions is considered unacceptable., 4 to 96 hours
The activity of 131I that should be administered according to each TSH stimulation method, To determine the activity of 131I that should be administered following rhTSH to deliver a radiation absorbed dose similar to that delivered under hypothyroid conditions. A calculated activity above 250mCi is considered unacceptable., 96 hours|Radiation exposure of the blood, The radiation exposure of the blood, calculated from blood samples and whole body radioactivity measurements, 4 to 96 hours
Patients will undergo a rhTSH stimulation, staying on thyroid hormone treatment. Following 2 administration of rhTSH an injection of I-124 will be performed. Positron emission tomography with computed tomography scans (PET/CT), blood tests, and measurements of whole body radioactivity will occurred during the 4 to 96 hours following I-124 administration in order to perform dosimetry (i.e.) to estimate the radiation dose delivered to the metastases. After 4 weeks under thyroid hormones patients will undergo thyroid hormone withdrawal and a new administration of I-124 will be performed. The same dosimetry study will be realized with PET/CT, blood tests, and measurements of whole body radioactivity. A therapeutic activity of I-131will then be administered followed by whole body scan realized 24 to 72 hours after the administration of I-131. Dosimetry studies will be compared in order to determine whether rhTSH stimulation can replace thyroid hormone withdrawal for the treatment of distant metastases.