MBG453 in Lower Risk MDS
This research study is assessing the efficacy of MBG-453, a humanized monoclonal antibody, in treating myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).

The name of the study drug involved in this study is MBG453.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: MBG453
Overall response rate (ORR), Assessed on the proposal for the modification of the International Working Group (IWG) response criteria in myelodysplasia (Cheson et al., 2006), but modified to include complete remission with partial hematologic improvement CRh (Bloomfield et al., 2018), and the 2018 proposed update for hematologic responses and transfusion independence (TI) (Platzbecker et al., 2019). Patients with dysplastic-type CMML will use MDS risk-stratification and response assessment criteria., 6 months
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Version 5.0, The number and proportion of adverse events, graded as defined by CTCAE version 5.0 will be tabulated by type and grade., during the intervention, an average of 1 year|Overall survival (OS) 1-year, Estimated using the Kaplan and Meier method., 1 year|Progression free survival (PFS), Estimated using the Kaplan and Meier method., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Time to disease progression, Estimated using the Kaplan and Meier method., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Duration of response, Estimated using the Kaplan and Meier method., through study completion, an average of 1 year
This is an adaptive two-stage phase II clinical trial to assess the activity of the anti-TIM-3, (T cell immunoglobulin domain and mucin domain) antibody, MBG453, in patients with lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), not eligible for or progressing on frontline therapy.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved MBG453 for myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), but it has been approved for other uses.

The study drug (MBG453) may interact with TIM-3 (an antibody which is a protein that attaches to foreign infectious/invading cells and signals the immune system) which might aid the immune system's response by helping immune cells recognize, find, and destroy cancer cells in the body.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment, including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment for as long as they and their doctor believe they are benefiting from the study drug. Participants will then be followed for 12 months after their last dose of the study drug or until they withdraw their consent to be contacted.

It is expected that about 20 people will take part in this research study