Intellectual Impairment in Women With Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Breast cancer and its treatment may cause changes in a patient's ability to think, learn, and remember. Gathering information about a woman's genes, brain function, and personal history may help doctors learn more about the disease and plan the best treatment.

PURPOSE:

1. To determine changes in brain function that occur following breast cancer chemotherapy.
2. To gain further understanding of the individual differences in brain function changes and recovery based on demographic, medical and treatment variables.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Rehabilitation|BEHAVIORAL: Active Neurofeedback Training|BEHAVIORAL: Neurofeedback Training (placebo / Sham)
Examine the effectiveness of a cognitive rehabilitation program for improving executive function (EF) deficits for preventing or lessening EF impairments in women with Breast Cancer, Evaluation of efficacy of executive function (EF) will be done via Neuropsychological and Neuroimaging (using functional MRI) assessments. Measurements of executive function, memory, processing speed, attention, visual-spatial processing and language will be compared before and after 6 weeks of cognitive rehabilitation program. Neuropsychological assessment and neuroimaging assessment changes will be compared from baseline to post-assessment in the intervention groups. Mixed effects approach and reliable change index (RCI) will be used as a supplementary analysis to determine the change in cognitive testing scores from pre- to post-intervention.Specific neuroimaging data (e.g. prefrontal cortex volumes, hippocampal metabolite levels, whole brain white matter fractional anisotropy) will be correlated with neuropsychological testing scores., 6 weeks
Examine the effectiveness of neurofeedback training program for preventing or reducing cognitive deficits in women with Breast Cancer, Neurofeedback training test will be done on women with BC, prior to receiving adjuvant chemotherapy. For the sham placebo group, fabricated real-time data will be provided to the subject as feedback information. Prefrontal and parietal regions of interest will be measured by putting a nylon cap attached to 16 optode emitter/receiver pairs on each subject's head covering the bilateral frontal and parietal regions symmetrically. Measurements will be recorded every 0.1s. The pretask baseline will be determined, up to 6 months|Evaluate diurnal cortisol levels on executive function outcome in women with Breast cancer, Saliva collection for cortisol analysis will be done with women with BC/chemotherapy, women BC/ no chemotherapy and healthy women. Saliva samples for cortisol analysis will be collected from subjects on 2 consecutive days after the neuropsychological testing and MRI scan have been completed using SARSTEDT Salivettes. Cortisol analysis will be conducted using luminescence immunoassay. The cortisol slope of baseline days will be used as a measure of baseline cortisol level. Cortisol Levels will be correlated with cognitive testing scores., 2 days
This study aims to determine some of the genetic, neurobiologic and demographic factors that are associated with cognitive outcome following breast cancer (BC). Additionally, it aims to test novel behavioral interventions designed to improve executive function skills following BC treatment.