A Study of Ixabepilone as Second-line Therapy for Locally Advanced, Recurrent, or Metastatic Endometrial Cancer
The primary purpose of this study is to investigate whether administration of ixabepilone results in superior outcome as assessed by overall survival compared with that achieved with standard chemotherapy (paclitaxel or doxorubicin) in women with advanced endometrial cancer that has progressed following first-line chemotherapy.
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Ixabepilone|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Overall Survival (OS), Survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death. If the patient did not die, OS was censored on the last date he or she was known to be alive., Date of randomization to date of death or last date censored to up to approximately 26 months
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to the date of documented disease progression. Patients who died without a reported prior progression were considered to have progressed on the date of their death. Those who did not progress or die were censored on the date of their last tumor assessment. Participants who did not have any on-study tumor assessments were censored on the date they were randomized. Measurable disease was present if the patient had 1 or more measurable lesions., Date of randomization to date of disease progression or death (or date of last tumor assessment for those who did not die or progress) up to approximately 22 months|Best Overall Response Rate, Best overall response rate was defined as the number of participants whose best response was either partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) divided by the number of participants in the treatment group. Overall tumor response was based on an integration of the evaluation of target, nontarget, and new lesions. CR=Disappearance of all clinical and radiologic evidence of target lesions. PR=At least 30% reduction in the sum of diameters of all target lesions; taking as reference the baseline study measurement. Changes in tumor measurements need not be confirmed by repeat measurements performed after the criteria for response were first met., Date of randomization and every 6 weeks to end of treatment (9 cycles, or approximately Day 189)|Number of Participants With a Serious Adverse Event (SAE), an SAE Related to Study Drug, Death as Outcome, a Peripheral Neuropathy Adverse Event (AE), a Grade 3 or Higher AE, and an AE Related to Study Drug, AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Related to study drug=having certain, probable, possible, or missing relationship to study drug. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4=Life-threatening or disabling, Gr 5=Death., From Day 1 (first dose) to 30 days past last dose (up to Day 219); 9 cycles, or 189 days + 30 days
The primary purpose of this study is to investigate whether administration of ixabepilone results in superior outcome as assessed by overall survival compared with that achieved with standard chemotherapy (paclitaxel or doxorubicin) in women with advanced endometrial cancer that has progressed following first-line chemotherapy.