The Effects of Short-term Preoperative Treatment With Hormonal Therapy on Gene Profiles in Breast Cancer
The investigators would like to study the genetic and molecular outcomes that results after a short term neoadjuvant hormonal therapy on patients with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Tamoxifen Citrate|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blueprint|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Mammaprint
Change in Percent Expression of Ki67 Measured by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), This is a measure of tumor proliferation, and will be determined at baseline and at time of surgery., Baseline and at Time of surgery up to 6 weeks after the start of hormone therapy
Number of Participants With Low or High Score in MammaPrint, Mammaprint risk score is binary (high risk of recurrence or low risk of recurrence)., Baseline and at Time of surgery (up to 6 weeks)|Median Percent of Tissue ER Positive, Median percent of tissue ER positive in matched tissue measured by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), Baseline and at Time of surgery (up to 6 weeks)|Median Percent of Tissue PR Positive, Median percent of tissue PR positive in matched tissue measured by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), Baseline and at Time of surgery (up to 6 weeks)
Breast cancer is among the most common malignancies in women in the United States. Over the years breast cancer management have dramatically developed from the extensive surgical approach toward the breast conservative approach. This was mainly due to the introduction of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy. Hormonal therapy in particular has been shown to improve the oncological outcomes of the breast cancer. However, while this is well documented in the clinical outcomes. Little is known in regards what happens on the genetic level. As such in this study the investigators would like to study the genetic and molecular outcomes that results after a short term neoadjuvant hormonal therapy on patients with breast cancer.

The hypothesis of this study is that short-term, preoperative hormonal treatment will induce genetic changes associated with reduced proliferation, including lower Ki67 expression, and changes in Estrogen Receptor (ER) and Progesterone Receptor (PR) expression. The data from such investigation will be very helpful in advancing the individualized care to women with breast cancer.