Risk Factors for Neuroendocrine Neoplasms
Recent studies show an increase in neuroendocrine neoplasms, especially for the digestive tract. Previous studies suggest various risk factors that were observed for various tumor sites, e.g. a family history of cancer, tobacco and alcohol consumption as well as metabolic disorders including diabetes and obesity. A risk factor that has been little studied to date is depressive disorders, which could increase the risk of neuroendocrine neoplasms either independently or through associated risk behaviors and/or antidepressant medication. The aim of this study is to identify risk factors for neuroendocrine neoplasms based on a case-control study in order to better understand the increase of neuroendocrine neoplasms in recent decades. The study is based on a record linkage of data from the Bavarian Cancer Registry and data from the Bavarian Association of Statutory Health Insurance Accredited Physicians. While the data from the Bavarian Cancer Registry enables the identification of neuroendocrine neoplasms on the basis of histopathological findings and thus is the basis for selecting cases, the claims data from the Bavarian Association of Statutory Health Insurance Accredited Physicians provides the source population as well data on diagnoses and thus enables the investigation of risk factors.
Neuroendocrine Neoplasm of Lung|Neuroendocrine Neoplasm of Gastrointestinal Tract (Disorder)
OTHER: Case-control study (no intervention)
Assured NEN diagnosis of the BPS, Neuroendocrine neoplasm of the bronchopulmonary system, 2021-2023|Assured NEN diagnosis of the GEPS, Neuroendocrine neoplasm of the gastroenteropancreatic system, 2021-2023
Assured NET diagnosis of the BPS, Neuroendocrine tumour of the bronchopulmonary system, 2021-2023|Assured NEC diagnosis of the BPS, Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the bronchopulmonary system, 2021-2023|Assured NET diagnosis of the GEPS, Neuroendocrine tumour of the gastroenteropancreatic system, 2021-2023|Assured NEC diagnosis of the GEPS, Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gastroenteropancreatic system, 2021-2023
Recent studies show an increase in neuroendocrine neoplasms, especially for the digestive tract. Previous studies suggest various risk factors that were observed for various tumor sites, e.g. a family history of cancer, tobacco and alcohol consumption as well as metabolic disorders including diabetes and obesity. A risk factor that has been little studied to date is depressive disorders, which could increase the risk of neuroendocrine neoplasms either independently or through associated risk behaviors and/or antidepressant medication. The aim of this study is to identify risk factors for neuroendocrine neoplasms based on a case-control study in order to better understand the increase of neuroendocrine neoplasms in recent decades. The study is based on a record linkage of data from the Bavarian Cancer Registry and data from the Bavarian Association of Statutory Health Insurance Accredited Physicians. While the data from the Bavarian Cancer Registry enables the identification of neuroendocrine neoplasms on the basis of histopathological findings and thus is the basis for selecting cases, the claims data from the Bavarian Association of Statutory Health Insurance Accredited Physicians provides the source population as well data on diagnoses and thus enables the investigation of risk factors.