Study to Assess the Safety and Tolerability of MBF-118 in Healthy Volunteers
This is a single center, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled clinical study to assess the safety and tolerability of MBF-118 in healthy volunteers.This clinical phase I trial is divided in two stages and involves, first, a single ascending dose (SAD) study in healthy young male volunteers and then a multiple ascending dose (MAD) study in healthy young men and woman. MBF-118 is developed for the treatment of cancer.
Cancer
DRUG: MBF-118 oral capsules|DRUG: Placebo oral capsule
Number of Adverse events, Classification based in the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRa) Adverse Events will be qualified according to the definitions and values stated in CTCAE version 4.0, Day 1 through Day 5
This clinical phase I trial is divided in two stages. The first stage will be a dose escalation study without therapeutic benefit, in which MBF-118 will be administered as single oral ascending dose to healthy young male volunteers. Up to four different rising doses will be tested (100 mg, 200 mg, 400 mg and 600 mg) in groups/cohorts of 8 participants. Thus, four groups/cohorts will participate. For each dose level/group, the participants will be randomized to active or placebo with 2 participants being randomly assigned to placebo and 6 to the active drug. First, one volunteer will receive active drug (subgroup 1); after at least 72h of safety and tolerability assessment a second subgroup of 3 volunteers will receive 2 active drug and 1 placebo; after at least another 72h of safety and tolerability parameters assessment a third subgroup of 4 volunteers will receive 3 active drug and 1 placebo. After evaluation of safety parameters of corresponding dose level, the process will replicate one week afterwards in the following dosages.

The second stage will be a dose escalation study without therapeutic benefit, in which MBF-118 will be administered as single oral daily dose, during 5 days to young male and female healthy volunteers. Up to three different rising dose levels will be tested (100 mg, 200 mg, and 400 mg) in cohorts of 8 subjects that are randomised to active treatment and placebo (6:2) and divided into three subsequent treatment blocks, as described above in the first stage.

The pharmacokinetics profile of MBF-118 will be also assessed at each dose level tested of the Single ascending dose study and the multiple ascending dose study.