Vismodegib in Treating Younger Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Medulloblastoma
This phase II trial studies how well vismodegib works in treating younger patients with recurrent or refractory medulloblastoma. Vismodegib may slow the growth of tumor cells.
Recurrent Childhood Medulloblastoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Vismodegib
Objective Response (CR+PR) Sustained for ≥ 8 Weeks, Objective response is either a complete response or a partial response sustained for 8 weeks in a patient. The objective response rate will be reported separately for patients of each stratum. CR is complete disappearance of all enhancing tumor. PR is \>= 50% reduction in tumor size., Up to 12 months|Pharmacokinetics (Plasma) of GDC-0449, plasma GDC-0449 concentration of day 21 in first course, up to 12 month
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is measured from the date of initial treatment with GDC-0449 until the earliest of progression or death on study. PFS is censored at the last tumor assessment date for patients without disease progression who have not died within 30 days of last exposure to study treatment. Kaplan-Meier method is used to estimate the progression-free survival., From start of treatment up to 2 years|Duration of Objective Response, The duration of objective response is measured from the initial scan documenting complete or partial response that was subsequently confirmed until the earlier of documented progression or death on study. Duration of objective response is censored at the last tumor assessment date for patients without disease progression who have not died within 30 days of last exposure to study treatment., From start of treatment up to 2 years|Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Vismodegib, CSF Penetration, The estimated median of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drug penetration is reported when expressed as an AUC ratio of CSF vismodegib to that of unbound drug in plasma., up to 12 month
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the efficacy of GDC-0449 (vismodegib) treatment for pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory medulloblastoma, as measured by the sustained objective response rates for patients without (stratum A) and with (stratum B) evidence of activation of Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway in their tumors.

II. Characterize the pharmacokinetics (plasma) of GDC-0449 in children/adolescents with refractory medulloblastoma.

III. To document pathologic and genomic methods to identify medulloblastomas with activation of the Hh signaling pathway.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Document and describe toxicities associated with GDC-0449 administered on a daily schedule.

II. Estimate the duration of objective response and progression-free survival (PFS).

III. Characterize the pharmacokinetics (cerebrospinal fluid) of GDC-0449 in children/adolescents with refractory medulloblastoma.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to evidence of activation of Hedgehog signaling pathway in their tumors (without vs with vs unknown).

Patients receive vismodegib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Plasma and cerebrospinal fluid samples are collected periodically for pharmacokinetic and other correlative studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every other month for up to 12 months.