Nivolumab During Active Surveillance After Neoadjuvant Chemoradiation for Esophageal Cancer: SANO-3 Study
In an effort to prevent surgery in selected patients with esophageal cancer, the SANO-2 study offers active surveillance to patients with clinically complete response (cCR) after neoadjuvant chemoradiation (nCRT). Some of these patients will never develop locoregional and/or distant recurrence of disease (persistent cCR). However, two-thirds of the patients that undergo active surveillance still get disease recurrence. This can be locoregional regrowth or distant metastases. To increase the efficacy of active surveillance (reduce the proportion of patients that need surgery) and improve survival, effective systemic maintenance therapy is needed. The CheckMate 577 randomized, placebo controlled, clinical trial showed that Nivolumab increases disease free survival in patients after nCRT and esophagectomy.

Objective: To assess the efficacy of nivolumab during active surveillance in patients with cCR after neoadjuvant chemoradiation for esophageal cancer
Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab
Disease Free survival 18 months, No locoregional or distant recurrence of disease, evaluated by PETCT, EUS (Endoscopic Ultrasound), endoscopy + bite-on-bite biopsy, 18 months
the proportion of patients with locoregional and/or distant metastase, Locoregional or distant recurrence of disease, evaluated by PETCT, EUS (Endoscopic Ultrasound), endoscopy + bite-on-bite biopsy, occurence or end of follow-up (2 years after start immunotherapy), which comes first|the proportion of patients that undergo esophagectomy, For locoregional disease recurrence, evaluated at pre-specified time points, occurence or end of follow-up (2 years after start immunotherapy), which comes first|health-related quality of life (HRQOL) at baseline, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after inclusion, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire will be used. Scale scores will be calculated following the scoring guidelines of the EORTC questionnaires. Scores will be summarized by means of the appropriate descriptive statistics (mean + SD or median + IQR) at each measurement point., baseline, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after inclusion|overall survival at 2 years, No recurrence of disease at 2 years, evaluated by PETCT, EUS (Endoscopic Ultrasound), endoscopy + bite-on-bite biopsy, 2 years
The rationale of maintenance nivolumab in patients with cCR undergoing active surveillance is to decrease the risk for disease recurrence and improve survival as well as to optimize the chance for having an organ sparing treatment. In this non-randomized phase II study we will assess the efficacy of maintenance nivolumab in patients who are undergoing active surveillance after nCRT in the context of the SANO-2 trial: the SANO-3 study. The SANO-3 study aims to identify a new indication for immunotherapy in primary esophageal cancer: patients who have been identified as a clinical complete responders 10-14 weeks after nCRT can be included. This subgroup of patients will not undergo standard surgery but instead continue with active surveillance after nCRT when they opt for participation in the SANO-2 trial.