Clinical Impact of Enhanced Risk Assessments in Women With a BRCA1/2 Mutation, CARE Study
This clinical trial evaluates the impact of enhanced risk assessments on knowledge, perceptions, and decisional conflict about cancer prevention in women with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. BRCA1/2 mutation carriers have a much higher risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer. Due to the high risk of cancer, mutation carriers are provided guidelines on more intensive screening and preventative surgeries such as bilateral mastectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Doctors want to learn if a more personalized risk assessment impacts the patients' risk perceptions and comfort with decision-making around cancer prevention behaviors.
BRCA1/2-Associated Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome
OTHER: Best Practice|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Counseling|PROCEDURE: Discussion|PROCEDURE: Genotyping|PROCEDURE: Molecular Risk Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Decisional conflict Regarding Cancer Risk Management, Decisional conflict regarding cancer risk management will be measured via a questionnaire. Comparison of this measure between the enhanced and standard arms adjusting for stratified randomization will be made using linear regression. The alpha level for the outcome will be 0.05., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To deploy tools for delivering enhanced genetic risk predictions based on BRCA1/2 genetic risk modifiers in a clinical setting and assess the impact of risk stratification on genetic knowledge, risk perceptions and decisional conflict regarding cancer prevention decision-making.

II. To perform long-term follow-up of individuals in the randomized controlled trial (RCT) to determine if there are differences in satisfaction, decision-making and outcomes in individuals who received standard versus enhanced genetic risk predictions over time.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo collection of blood or mouthwash samples. Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo genotyping with enhanced risk assessment on study. 4 to 8 weeks later, patients receive a follow-up phone call for return of enhanced risk assessment results and tailored counseling.

ARM II: 4-8 weeks later, patients receive a standard follow-up phone call.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up for 2 years.