ZD6474 (ZACTIMA™) Phase III Study in EGFR Failures
This study is being carried out to assess if adding ZD6474 to best supportive care (BSC) is more effective than best supportive care alone, for the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer, whose disease has recurred after previous chemotherapy and an Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (EGFR TKI). ZD6474 is a new anti-cancer drug in development that works in a different way to standard chemotherapy drugs. It targets the growth of new blood vessels to a tumour and thereby might slow the rate at which the tumour may grow. Early studies indicate that ZD6474 has a positive effect on the time that a tumour may take to progress to a further stage. Approximately 930 patients will take part in this study. It will be conducted in hospitals and clinics in North and South America, Europe and Asia.
Non-Small-Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: ZD6474 (vandetanib)|OTHER: Best Supportive Care
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from date of randomization until death. Any blinded/unknown patient which have died at the time of analysis will be censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive (ie, their status must be known at the censored date and should not be lost to follow up or unknown)., Time to death in months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Median time (in months) from randomisation until objective disease progression (determined by RECIST assessments) or death (by any cause in the absence of objective progression) provided death is within 3 months from the last evaluable RECIST assessment, RECIST tumour assessments carried out every 8 weeks from randomisation until objective disease progression|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is the number of patients that are responders ie those patients with a confirmed best objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as defined by RECIST criteria.

The categories for best objective response are CR, PR, stable disease (SD)\>= 8 weeks, progressive disease (PD) or NE., Each patient was assessed for objective response from the sequence of RECIST scan data up to data cut off. RECIST tumour assessments carried out every 8 weeks from randomisation until objective disease progression.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate is defined as the number of patients who achieved disease control at 8 weeks following randomisation. Disease control at 8 weeks is defined as a best objective response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) \>= 8 weeks, RECIST tumour assessments carried out every 8 weeks from randomisation until objective disease progression|Duration of Response (DoR), Response is defined as a confirmed best objective response of CR or PR. Duration of response is defined as time from the date of first documented response until date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression (provided death is within 3 months of last RECIST assessment), RECIST tumour assessments carried out every 8 weeks from randomisation until objective disease progression|Time to Deterioration of Disease-related Symptoms (TDS) by Questionnaire - the Lung Cancer Subscale (LCS) a Selection of the FACT-L Focusing on Symptoms of Lung Cancer Plus Pain and Fatigue (LCS-PF), Time to deterioration in symptoms is defined as the interval from the date of randomization to the first assessment of 'worsened' with no visit assessment of 'improved' within the next 28 days. Where assessment is by a selection of questions from the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for Lung Cancer (FACT-L) questionnaire., Disease-related symptom assessments are to be administered at screening (within 7 days before the first dose of study medication) and every 4 weeks thereafter, at discontinuation of study treatment and at the 30-day follow-up visit
This study is being carried out to assess if adding ZD6474 to best supportive care (BSC) is more effective than best supportive care alone, for the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer, whose disease has recurred after previous chemotherapy and an Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (EGFR TKI). ZD6474 is a new anti-cancer drug in development that works in a different way to standard chemotherapy drugs. It targets the growth of new blood vessels to a tumour and thereby might slow the rate at which the tumour may grow. Early studies indicate that ZD6474 has a positive effect on the time that a tumour may take to progress to a further stage. Approximately 930 patients will take part in this study. It will be conducted in hospitals and clinics in North and South America, Europe and Asia.