A Placebo-Controlled, Phase 3 Study of Relugolix (TAK-385) 40 mg in the Treatment of Pain Symptoms Associated With Uterine Fibroids
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Relugolix (TAK-385) in patients having pain symptoms associated with uterine fibroids.
Uterine Fibroids
DRUG: Relugolix|DRUG: Relugolix placebo
Percentage of Participants With a Maximum NRS Score of 1 or Less During the 28 Days Before the Final Dose of Study Drug, Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain. The percentage of participants with a score of 1 or less is reported., For 28 days before the final dose of study drug (up to Week 12)
Percentage of Participants With a Maximum NRS Score of 0 During the 28 Days Before the Final Dose of Study Drug, Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain. The percentage of participants with a score of 0 is reported., For 28 days before the final dose of study drug (up to Week 12)|Mean NRS Score During the 28 Days Before the Final Dose of Study Drug, Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain., For 28 days before the final dose of study drug (up to Week 12)|Percentage of Days Without Pain Symptoms (NRS = 0) During the 28 Days Before the Final Dose of Study Drug, Percentage of day without pain symptoms (NRS = 0) was reported. Number of days without pain symptoms is determined by a zero score on the NRS. Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain. Percentage of days without pain symptoms (NRS=0) during the 28 days before the final dose of study drug (%) = \[(number of days without pain symptoms (NRS=0) during the last 28 days of the treatment)/(number of days with available data during the last 28 days of the treatment)\]\*100., For 28 days before the final dose of study drug (up to Week 12)|Percentage of Participants With Maximum NRS Score of 1 or Less From Day 1 to 28, From Day 29 to 56, and From Day 57 to 84, Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain. The percentage of participants with a score of 1 or less is reported., Day 1 to 28, Day 29 to 56, and Day 57 to 84|Percentage of Participants With a Maximum NRS Score of 0 From Day 1 to 28, From Day 29 to 56, and From Day 57 to 84, Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain. The percentage of participants with a score of 0 is reported., Day 1 to 28, Day 29 to 56, and Day 57 to 84|Mean NRS Score From Day 1 to 28, From Day 29 to 56, and From Day 57 to 84, Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain., Day 1 to 28, Day 29 to 56, and Day 57 to 84|Percentage of Days Without Pain Symptoms (NRS = 0) From Day 1 to 28, From Day 29 to 56, and From Day 57 to 84, Percentage of day without pain symptoms (NRS = 0) was reported. Number of days without pain symptoms is determined by a zero score on the NRS. Pain symptoms were evaluated using the NRS score. NRS score is a self-reported instrument assessing pain from 0 to 10. Higher scores reflect greater level of pain. Percentage of days without pain symptoms (NRS=0) (%) = \[(number of days without pain symptoms (NRS=0) during the last 28 days of the treatment)/(number of days with available data during the last 28 days of the treatment)\]\*100., Day 1 to 28, Day 29 to 56, and Day 57 to 84|Number of Participants Reporting Who Had One or More Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (eg, a clinically significant abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a drug, whether or not it is considered related to the drug. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., Up to Week 16|Number of Participants With Markedly Abnormal Values of Vital Signs, Vital signs included sitting blood pressure (after the participant has rested for at least 5 minutes), body temperature (oral or tympanic measurement) (degree Celsius \[°C\]) and pulse (beats per minute \[bpm\]) are reported., Up to Week 16|Number of Participants With TEAEs Related to Weight, Number of participants with TEAEs of which threshold was 5% or above in either treatment group related to weight was reported., Up to Week 16|Number of Participants With TEAEs Related to Standard 12-lead Electrocardiogram (ECG), Number of participants with TEAEs of which threshold was 5% or above in either treatment group related to ECG was reported., Up to Week 16|Number of Participants With Markedly Abnormal Values of Laboratory Tests, Number of participants with any markedly abnormal values in laboratory tests collected throughout study is reported. WBC = White blood cells, GGT = gamma-glutamyl transferase, LLN = lower limit of normal or lower reference limit, ULN = upper limit of normal or upper reference limit., Up to Week 16
The drug being tested in this study is called relugolix (TAK-385). Relugolix is being tested to treat people who have uterine fibroids.

The study enrolled 65 patients. Participants received relugolix placebo in run in period for 3 to 6 weeks. After run-in period, participants were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups in 1:1 ratio:

1. Relugolix 40 mg
2. Placebo (dummy inactive pill) - this is a tablet that looks like the study drug but has no active ingredient

All participants were asked to take one tablet at the same time each day throughout the study.

This multi-center trial was conducted in Japan. The overall time to participate in this study was 20 to 28 weeks, including run-in period of 3 to 6 weeks and a treatment period of 12 weeks. Participants made multiple visits to the clinic, and 4 weeks after last dose of study drug for a follow-up assessment.