Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy Redirected to CD4 (CD4CAR)as a Second Line Treatment for Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia, CMML.
This study is designed as a single arm open label traditional Phase I, 3+3, study of CD4-directed chimeric antigen receptor engineered T-cells (CD4CAR) in patients with relapsed or refractory CMML. Specifically, the study will evaluate the safety and feasibility of CD4CAR T-cells.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: CD4CAR
Dose finding: Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as one dose level lower than the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of the CD4CAR in CMML, In this traditional phase 1 dose escalation, cohorts of three subjects will be treated on a dose level that will be incremented to next dose level if no dose limiting toxicities (DLT) were reported or expanded if a DLT is documented, Day 0 through Day 28 post-infusion|The efficacy of treatment with CD4CAR and description of CMML response to CD4CAR, serial marrow sampling will be analysed for response as measured by reduction on the CMML clonal cells at different time points. Other measures include reduction on transfusion dependency and molecular remissions if at diagnoosis molecular markers were identified., Day 28 through 6 months post-infusion
in vivo persistence of a single dose of the CD4CAR in patients with CMML, Flowcytometry and transgene copy number by PCR will be used to evaluate the CAR T cell persistence post infusion, Day 0 through Day 28|efficiacy of the CD4CAR to target T regulatory cells and myeloid derived suppressor cells, T regs estimation in marrows will be done at diagnosis and on Day 28 post-infusion. This will be done by flowcytometry to assess the reduction on these cells phenotyped by double positivity for CD4 and FOXP3. At the same time points Myeloid Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSCs), will also be quantified. MDSCs will be identified by a master mix of commercially available antibodies against MDSC subsets including CD16, CD15, CD14, CD45, CD84.etc, Cytek® cFluor® MDSC Ki panel., Day 0 through Day 28 post-infusion
The study will be performed as a dose-escalation protocol. Due to the relatively low incidence and prevalence of cluster of differentiation 4-positive (CD4+) hematological malignancies and the associated aggressive nature of these diseases and the sequel of treatment failure, the investigators expect to recruit 20 subjects at Indiana University with an expected dropout rate of 25% primarily due to rapid progression or death and screen and or manufacturing failure. Taking this into account, the investigators expect to treat 15 patients. The study will utilize autologous CD4CAR T-cells that are engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting CD4 that is linked to the cluster of differentiation 28 (CD28), 4-1BB, cluster of differentiation 3-zeta (CD3ζ) signaling chains (third generation CAR).

At entry, disease status will be staged. Qualifying subjects will be leukapheresed to obtain large numbers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) for the manufacturing. Next, participants will receive conditioning chemotherapy. If tumor burden is sufficiently reduced (screening step), participants will receive CD4CAR cells by infusion on Day 0 of treatment.

If the disease progresses during the manufacturing period participants may be excluded from the study. Minimal chemotherapy to keep the disease under control in the meanwhile is allowed if deemed necessary by investigators.

A single dose of CD4CAR transduced T cells will consist of the cell number for the dose level to be infused.

Post-infusion monitoring of CD4CAR T-cells: Subjects will have blood drawn for cytokine levels, CD4CAR Transgene Copy Number (PCR) and flow cytometry in order to evaluate the presence of CD4CAR cells on days 0, 1, 3, 5, 7, 14, and 28 following infusion (or as clinically needed). Cytokines levels will be evaluated per schedule above in addition to and as needed every 8 +/- 2 hours as feasible if/when CRS occurs and until resolution. Active monitoring of fungal and viral infections during treatment while utilizing standard prophylaxis recommended for HIV-positive patients with T-cell aplasia and those undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplant. Investigators plan to collect data about clinicoradiologic measurements of residual tumor burden starting on day 7 and weekly afterward until Day 28 and then monthly for 6 months. This will be followed by quarterly clinical evaluations for the next two (2) years with a medical history, physical examination, and comprehensive blood testing. After these short- and intermediate-term evaluations are performed, these patients will enter a rollover study to assess for disease-free survival (DFS), relapse, and the development of other health problems or malignancies where follow-up will be up to twice a year by phone and a questionnaire for an additional thirteen (13) years. The treating physician will decide to proceed with allogeneic or autologous transplant when needed.

Dose of CD4CAR description: the main objective of this study is to establish a recommended dose and/or schedule of CD4CAR. The guiding principle for dose escalation in phase I is to avoid unnecessary exposure of patients to sub-therapeutic doses (i.e., to treat as many patients as possible within the therapeutic dose range) while preserving safety and maintaining rapid accrual. Investigators will use the rule-based traditional Phase I "3+3" design for the evaluation of safety. Based on lab experience in mice the starting dose (dose level 1) for the first cohort of three patients in phase I portion of the study will be 8x10\^5 cells. The dose escalation or de-escalation will follow a modified Fibonacci sequence as below.

If more than one patient out of the first cohort of three patients in dose level 1 experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT), the trial will be placed on hold. If zero or one out of three patients in the first cohort of dose level 1 experience DLT, three more patients will be enrolled at dose level 1; the dose escalation continues until at least two patients among a cohort of six patients experience DLT (i.e., ≥33% of patients with a DLT at this dose level)

If one of the first three patients in dose level 1 experiences a DLT, three more patients will be treated at dose level 1.

If none of the three patients or only one of the 6 patients in the dose level 1 experiences a DLT, the dose escalation continues to the dose level 2 If one of the first three patients in dose level 2 experience a DLT, three more patients will be treated at dose level 2 If none of the three patients or only one of the 6 patients in the dose level2 experiences a DLT, the dose escalation continues to the dose level 3 If one of the first three patients in dose level 3 experiences a DLT, three more patients will be treated at dose level 3 If none of the three patients or only one of the 6 patients in the dose level 3 experiences a DLT, dose level 3 will be declared the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and will be used as the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) for the phase II portion of the study.

In summary, the dose escalation continues until at least two patients among a cohort of six patients experience DLT (i.e., ≥33% of patients with a DLT at that dose level). The recommended dose for phase II trials is defined as one dose level below this toxic dose level. Since some grade 3 and possibly 4 toxicities are highly likely to be reversible, grade 3 infectious, hematological and vascular toxicities will not be considered DLTs mandating dose reduction. Also allergic or infusion-related reactions ≤ grade 3 will not be counted as DLTs. There will be no intra-patient dose escalation or reduction.

To allow for full spectrum toxicity duration evaluation and reporting, no patients within the same or a different cohort will be initiated on lymphodepleting chemotherapy sooner than 28 days from the initiation date of the preceding patient.