Trial of Radiation Fractionation Schedules for Once-a-Day Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation
This is a multi-centre randomized phase II trial in women with invasive carcinoma of the breast with negative axillary nodes or Ductal Carcinoma In-situ (DCIS) treated by Breast Conserving Surgery (BCS). Eligible, consenting patients will be randomly allocated to receive radiotherapy of 3 Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy (3DCRT) Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation (APBI) 30 Gray (Gy) in 5 daily fractions of 6Gy or 27.5Gy in 5 daily fractions of 5.5Gy over one week. Patients will be followed at 12, 24, 36 and 60 months post randomization. Cosmetic outcome will be measured using photographs and evaluated by a panel of trained radiation oncologists. Radiation toxicity will be assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE).
Breast Cancer|DCIS
RADIATION: APBI: 30 Gy|RADIATION: APBI: 27.5 Gy
Adverse cosmetic outcome using the EORTC Breast Cosmetic Rating System, The primary outcome is adverse cosmesis assessed at 2 years post randomization as determined by photographic assessment. The cosmetic outcome will be assessed by a panel of 3 trained radiation oncologists who are unaware of treatment allocation, using the EORTC Breast Cosmetic Rating System for cosmetic results for breast conserving treatment. The treated breast is compared with the untreated breast for size, shape, location of the areola/nipple, appearance of the surgical scar, presence of telangiectasia, and a global cosmetic score based on these factors. Characteristics are graded on a 4-point scale: 0 = excellent; 1 = good; 2 = fair; 3 = poor. A global cosmetic score of fair or poor will be used as the primary outcome of adverse cosmesis., 2 years post randomization
Cosmetic deterioration (defined as any adverse change in the global cosmetic score), defined as any adverse change in the global cosmetic score from baseline to 2 years. Subjects with global cosmetic scores that were stable or improved from baseline to 2 years will be scored as 'no deterioration'., Baseline to two years|Radiation toxicity assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v.4.02, defined as breast induration/fibrosis, shrinkage, and telangiectasia, which will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v.4.02., 12, 24, 36 and 60 months|Ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence (IBTR), defined as recurrent invasive or in situ cancer in the ipsilateral breast including the axillary tail. Histological evidence of local recurrence will be required., Ongoing throughout study up to 5 years|Disease free survival (DFS), defined as the time from randomization to the time of documented recurrent disease in the ipsilateral breast or regional nodes (supraclavicular, axillary or internal mammary) or distant sites (e.g. bone, liver, lung or brain)., Ongoing throughout study up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., From date of randomization until the date of death up to 5 years
Women with invasive carcinoma of the breast with negative axillary nodes or DCIS, following BCS and/or chemotherapy, who meet the inclusion criteria will be screened and approached for eligibility assessment and potential study enrollment. All potentially eligible and consenting patients who do not meet the exclusion criteria will have a Computed Tomography (CT) simulation of the ipsilateral breast prior to randomization. All cases will be required to be planned prior to the randomization to ensure that dosimetric coverage and normal tissue restrictions can be met. If the seroma is not clearly visible or if the surgical clips do not adequately identify a previous surgical cavity, the patient will not be eligible for randomization.

Eligible, consenting patients will be randomly allocated to receive radiotherapy of 3DCRT APBI 30Gy in 5 daily fractions of 6Gy or 27.5Gy in 5 daily fractions of 5.5Gy over one week. Patients will be followed at 12, 24, 36 and 60 months post randomization. Cosmetic outcome will be measured using photographs and evaluated by a panel of trained radiation oncologists using the EORTC Breast Cosmetic Rating System. Radiation toxicity will be assessed using the NCI CTCAE version 4.02. The primary outcome is adverse cosmetic outcome at 2 years. The trial will be conducted in clinical centres within Canada.