Intravenous AMD3100 for Collection of Autologous Peripheral Blood Stem Cells in Patients With Lymphoma
This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravenous AMD3100 added to a standard G-CSF mobilization regimen of patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation for lymphoma.

The investigators hypothesize that after stem cell mobilization with G-CSF plus IV AMD3100, a significantly higher proportion of lymphoma patients will collect ≥ 2 x 10E6 CD34+ cells/kg.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|Hodgkin Disease
DRUG: AMD3100|DRUG: G-CSF|PROCEDURE: Apheresis
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of IV AMD3100 + G-CSF in Mobilization of Peripheral Blood Stem Cell in Patients With Lymphoma (Phase I Only), * MTD: the highest dose level of AMD3100 at which ≤ 1 of 6 participants experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The MTD will be the Phase II dose.
* DLT: selected grade III or higher (hematologic, cardiac, pulmonary, hepatobiliary/pancreatic, renal, or CNS) not attributable to any other cause., 7 days from first dose of IV AMD3100|Number of Participants Who Experienced Dose Limiting Toxicities in Phase I Portion of Study, Dose limiting toxicity: selected grade III or higher (hematologic, cardiac, pulmonary, hepatobiliary/pancreatic, renal, or CNS) not attributable to any other cause., 7 days from first dose of IV AMD3100
Kinetics of Stem Cell Mobilization Using IV AMD3100 as Measured by Median Fold Change in the Number of CD34+ Cells After AMD3100 IV Administration, From baseline to Day 1|Pharmacodynamic Response to a Dose of SC AMD3100 as Measured by Mean Percentage of the Circulating CD34+ Count With the 34+RA-123+/- Phenotype, 1 year|Toxicity of the Combination IV AMD3100 and G-CSF to Mobilize ≥ 2 x 106 CD34+ Cells/kg as Measured by Number of Participants Who Experience Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Event Broken Down by Adverse Event, 30 days post transplant
Autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) is indicated for patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) or Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) who have primary progressive disease or who relapse after a chemotherapy-induced complete remission. For these patients, as for other patients undergoing autologous transplantation, the number of CD34+ cells collected is a reliable predictor of neutrophil and platelet (PLT) engraftment after transplantation.

AMD3100 (plerixafor) is a promising new mobilizing agent that has demonstrated efficacy in patients with NHL, HL, and multiple myeloma (MM). Although efficacious, the subcutaneous dosing of AMD3100 requires that patients receive the drug in the evening prior to apheresis, which can present logistical problems. Intravenous dosing of AMD3100 may result in a faster rise in peripheral CD34+ cell count, so that the drug can be administered the same day as apheresis. Intravenous dosing may also increase the peak CD34+ cell count, improving the number of CD34+ cells collected via apheresis.

This Phase I/II study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravenous AMD3100 added to the standard G-CSF mobilization regimen of patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation for Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphomas.