An Open-label, Phase 2 Study of ACP-196 in Subjects With Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and activity of acalabrutinib in treating subjects with WM.
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (WM)
DRUG: Acalabrutinib (ACP-196)|DRUG: Acalabrutinib (ACP-196)
Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Acalabrutinib in Subjects as Assessed by Investigator Per IWWM 6th Criteria, ORR defined as the rate of subjects achieving a Miner Response (MR) or better including complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR) and MR; The definition of responses are evaluated by investigators using both Modified 6th criteria (refer to protocol table 4-2 , 4-3) and Modified 3rd International Workshop of Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (IWWM) criteria (refer to protocol table 4-4 and table 4-5 for definition). For Modified 6th criteria, MR is defined as (1) monoclonal IgM protein is detectable, (2) no new signs or symptoms of active disease, (3) and patient has \>=25% but \< 50% reduction in serum monoclonal IgM level from baseline. PR and VGPR both require (1) and (2) as MR, but PR also requires the \>=50% and \<90% reduction in serum monoclonal IgM level as well as reduction in extramedullary disease. VGPR requires \>= 90% reduction in serum IgM and complete resolution of extramedullary disease., Up to approximately 3.8 years. Data cut at when last patient has completed Cycle 27 (28 days per Cycle).|Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Acalabrutinib in Subjects as Assessed by Investigator Per IWWM 3rd Criteria, ORR defined as the rate of subjects achieving a Miner Response (MR) or better including complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR) and MR; The definition of responses are evaluated by investigators using both Modified 6th criteria (refer to protocol table 4-2 , 4-3) and Modified 3rd International Workshop of Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (IWWM) criteria (refer to protocol table 4-4 and table 4-5 for definition). For Modified 6th criteria, MR is defined as (1) monoclonal IgM protein is detectable, (2) no new signs or symptoms of active disease, (3) and patient has \>=25% but \< 50% reduction in serum monoclonal IgM level from baseline. PR and VGPR both require (1) and (2) as MR, but PR also requires the \>=50% and \<90% reduction in serum monoclonal IgM level as well as reduction in extramedullary disease. VGPR requires \>= 90% reduction in serum IgM and complete resolution of extramedullary disease., Up to approximately 3.8 years. Data cut at when last patient has completed Cycle 27 (28 days per Cycle).
Progression-free Survival (PFS) of Acalabrutinib by Investigator, Kaplan-Meier (K-M) estimates of the PFS assessments and its 95% confidence interval are provided using both modified 3rd and 6th IWWM criteria by investigator. K-M estimates at a certain time (ex. all subjects complete Cycle 27) provides the estimated percentage of the subjects who are still alive or have not progressed by the given time over all patients at risk. Per 6th IWWM criteria, the progressive disease is defined as \>= 25% increase in serum IgM level with an absolute increase of at least 500 mg/dL from lowest nadir (requires confirmation on at least 2 consecutive measurements at least 4 weeks apart) and/or progression of clinical features attributable to the disease. Per modified 3rd IWWM criteria, besides IgM requirement as 6th criteria, it could also includes progression of clinically significant disease related symptoms and/or death from any cause or initiation of a new anti-neoplastic therapy., Up to approximately 3.8 years. Data cut at last subject have completed Cycle 27 (28 days per Cycle).|Overall Survival (OS) of Acalabrutinib by Investigator, Outcome Measure was pre-specified to summarize data per investigator assessment with respect to subject's vital/survival status is presented in the RRF and irrespective of iWWM 3rd or 6th criteria. Kaplan-Meier (K-M) estimates at a certain time (ex. all subjects complete Cycle 27) provides the estimated percentage of the subjects who are still alive by the given time over all patients at risk., Primary analysis occur when all subjects have completed Cycle 27 or have discontinued before Cycle 27.|Summary of Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the interval from the first documentation of Complete Response (CR), Very Good Partial Response (VGPR), Partial Response (PR) or Minor Response (MR) to the earlier of the first documentation of definitive PD or death from any cause. The summary statistics are provided for DOR., Primary analysis occur when all subjects have completed Cycle 27 or have exit the study
Clinical studies have shown that targeting the B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathway by inhibiting Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) produces significant clinical benefit in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, including Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM). Ibrutinib (IMBRUVICA®), an oral, small-molecule BTK inhibitor has been approved for the treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), mantle cell lymphoma, and WM.

Acerta Pharma BV (AcertaPharma) has developed a novel BTK inhibitor, acalabrutinib, that achieves significant oral bioavailability and potency in preclinical models.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and activity of acalabrutinib in treating subjects with WM.