Tumor Lysate Pulsed-Dendritic Cell Vaccines After High-Dose Chemotherapy for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
When patients relapse after primary chemotherapy for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, they may be eligible to receive high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell support. Unfortunately high-dose chemotherapy is curative in less than half the patients who receive it. This study is being conducted to determine the safety, side effects, and the ability to respond to an investigational vaccine that consists of tumor-pulsed dendritic cells given with an immune stimulating drug called interleukin-2. The patient must have a lymphomatous node accessible for excision to prepare the vaccine. Dendritic cells are immune cells that are obtained from the blood, and are important in the body's immune response to foreign substances. This study will examine the response of the immune system after three vaccinations (composed of dendritic cells, which have been exposed to dead fragments of lymphoma cells) given beginning three months after transplant. Vaccination may result in sensitizing the patient's dendritic cells to his lymphoma cells, potentially resulting in an immune response against the lymphoma. Twelve patients will be treated on study.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
BIOLOGICAL: tumor-pulsed dendritic cells
When patients relapse after primary chemotherapy for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, they may be eligible to receive high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell support. Unfortunately high-dose chemotherapy is curative in less than half the patients who receive it. This study is being conducted to determine the safety, side effects, and the ability to respond to an investigational vaccine that consists of tumor-pulsed dendritic cells given with an immune stimulating drug called interleukin-2. The patient must have a lymphomatous node accessible for excision to prepare the vaccine. Dendritic cells are immune cells that are obtained from the blood, and are important in the body's immune response to foreign substances. This study will examine the response of the immune system after three vaccinations (composed of dendritic cells, which have been exposed to dead fragments of lymphoma cells) given beginning three months after transplant. Vaccination may result in sensitizing the patient's dendritic cells to his lymphoma cells, potentially resulting in an immune response against the lymphoma. Twelve patients will be treated on study.