First Line Gemcitabine, Cisplatin and MEK162 in Advanced Biliary Tract Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to test an investigational combination of drugs for bile duct or gallbladder cancers. Gemcitabine and cisplatin are two forms of chemotherapy commonly used in combination to treat bile duct and gallbladder cancers. The investigators are looking to improve treatment results. They will attempt to do so by adding the drug MEK162 to the treatment plan. MEK162 acts by blocking a protein called MEK 1/2 which helps cancer cells grow and divide. This study will help answer the question of whether MEK162 is a helpful drug in patients with bile duct or gallbladder cancers when given with gemcitabine and cisplatin.
Advanced Biliary Tract Carcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: MEK162
MTD of MEK162 - Phase I, In the phase I portion, up to 18 patients will be enrolled in classic 3+3 cohort dose escalation design to identify the MTD of MEK162 when administered with gemcitabine and cisplatin given weeks 2 and 3 of a 3 week cycle ., 1 year|Six-month Progression Free Survival, An exact binomial single stage design will be used to discriminate between true 6-month PFS rates of 59% vs. 82%, and between true response rates of 26% and 50%. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 6 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 1 year
Median PFS, progression free survival will be calculated from study entry to documented disease progression or death from any cause, whatever occurs first., 1 year|Median Overall Survival, (survival) will be calculated from study entry to death or last follow up, 1 year|Participants Evaluated for Toxicity, All toxicities will be rated as per the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria, version 4., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to test an investigational combination of drugs for bile duct or gallbladder cancers. Gemcitabine and cisplatin are two forms of chemotherapy commonly used in combination to treat bile duct and gallbladder cancers. The investigators are looking to improve treatment results. They will attempt to do so by adding the drug MEK162 to the treatment plan. MEK162 acts by blocking a protein called MEK 1/2 which helps cancer cells grow and divide. This study will help answer the question of whether MEK162 is a helpful drug in patients with bile duct or gallbladder cancers when given with gemcitabine and cisplatin.