Peer Support Dyads in Churches
The purpose of this study is to explore how working with a partner can influence participation in a church wellness program. There are many different types of church wellness programs. Church members are more likely to participate and achieve goals in these programs when they have peer support. The researcher would like to know what African American men and women think about working with a support partner. This information will help researchers design better church wellness programs. The participants are being asked to take part in this research because the investigators believe that it is helpful to share feelings and thoughts about experiences working with a partner to achieve health goals. This knowledge will be used to create church wellness programs that will help African American men and women prevent disease and live healthier lives.
Peer Support and Chronic Disease|Obesity|Type II Diabetes|Cardiovascular Disease|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Peer Support Dyad Intervention
Feasibility as Measured by Retention, Retention will be calculated from the number of participants who continue to Phase II out of the number who complete Phase I (\>50% attendance), and the attrition rate., Baseline to week 18|Number of Participants Who Agreed That Program Component Was Acceptable, Measured by ten item feasibility survey, scored based on 5-point Likert scale administered at week 18, the last week of the program. Feasibility was measured on a scale of 1-5, where 1=strongly disagree that program component was acceptable or feasible, and 5=strongly agree that program component was acceptable or feasible), Measured at Week 18|Health Educators' Perceptions of Feasibility as Measured by Semi-structured Interviews, Reported as number of health educators who found the program to be feasible., Measured at Week 18
Goal Attainment as Measured by BMI (Body Mass Index), Mixed models will be used to assess changes in participant BMI pre and post intervention., Week 18|Goal Attainment as Measured by Weight in Pounds, A mixed model using intraclass correlation will be used used to assess changes in participant weight pre and post intervention., Week 18|Goal Attainment as Measured by Number of Participants Consuming 7 or More Fruits and Vegetables Per Day, A mixed model using intraclass correlation will be used to assess changes in participant fruit and vegetable intake pre and post intervention., Week 18|Goal Attainment as Measured by Days Per Week That Participants Exercised for 30 Minutes or More, A mixed model using intraclass correlation will be used to assess changes in physical activity at weeks 1 and 18 pre and post intervention., Week 18
The purpose of this study is to explore how working with a partner can influence participation in a church wellness program. There are many different types of church wellness programs. Church members are more likely to participate and achieve goals in these programs when they have peer support. The researcher would like to know what African American men and women think about working with a support partner. This information will help researchers design better church wellness programs. The participants are being asked to take part in this research because the investigators believe that it is helpful to share feelings and thoughts about experiences working with a partner to achieve health goals. This knowledge will be used to create church wellness programs that will help African American men and women prevent disease and live healthier lives.