Magnetic Resonance Guided Focused Ultrasound for Uterine Fibroids
This is a pilot randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial of a noninvasive, FDA approved treatment for uterine fibroids called MR Guided Focused Ultrasound (MRgFUS). Our hypothesis is that MRgFUS provides superior relief of fibroid symptoms compared with the placebo, a sham MRgFUS treatment. The investigators will recruit 20 premenopausal women with symptomatic uterine fibroids to participate in the trial. Participants will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to the active treatment arm (MRgFUS) versus the sham MRgFUS treatment. Participants will remain blinded to their group assignment for 3 months. After 3 months, participants will be told their treatment group and those assigned to the sham group will be offered complimentary MRgFUS if they desire it. Women will be excluded if they are inappropriate candidates for a 3 month delay in fibroid treatment, such as those with significant anemia. The investigators will assess the change from baseline to 1 and 3 months after treatment in fibroid symptoms, quality of life, fibroid volume measured by MRI, and hematocrit.
Uterine Fibroids
PROCEDURE: MR Guided Focused Ultrasound|PROCEDURE: Placebo MR Guided Focused Ultrasound
Fibroid volume measured on MRI, Change from baseline prior to treatment until 3 months after treatment|Fibroid symptoms reported by participant, Change from baseline prior to treatment to 1 and 3 months after treatment|Red blood cell count (hematocrit), Change from baseline prior to treatment and 3 months after treatment
This is a pilot randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial of a noninvasive, FDA approved treatment for uterine fibroids called MR Guided Focused Ultrasound (MRgFUS). Our hypothesis is that MRgFUS provides superior relief of fibroid symptoms compared with the placebo, a sham MRgFUS treatment. The investigators will recruit 20 premenopausal women with symptomatic uterine fibroids to participate in the trial. Participants will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to the active treatment arm (MRgFUS) versus the sham MRgFUS treatment. Participants will remain blinded to their group assignment for 3 months. After 3 months, participants will be told their treatment group and those assigned to the sham group will be offered complimentary MRgFUS if they desire it. Women will be excluded if they are inappropriate candidates for a 3 month delay in fibroid treatment, such as those with significant anemia. The investigators will assess the change from baseline to 1 and 3 months after treatment in fibroid symptoms, quality of life, fibroid volume measured by MRI, and hematocrit.