Study to Evaluate the Effect of Sulforaphane in Broccoli Sprout Extract on Breast Tissue
The purpose of this research is to examine the effect of a broccoli sprout preparation on specific factors in breast tissue that are related to breast cancer risk and to assess whether sulforaphane a key component of broccoli sprouts increases the levels of protective enzymes in breast tissue. In addition, the investigators will also examine how acceptable the broccoli sprouts preparation is to the study participants.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Broccoli sprout extract|DRUG: Mango juice
Absolute Change in Mean Proliferative Rate Measured by Ki67%, Pathologists score the slides without knowledge of treatment assignment at the end of the study. All pre-post samples from one individual will be evaluated together. Quality control for these stains is performed routinely in the immunohistochemistry lab (using lymphoid tissue for Ki67). Initial scoring is performed where possible on a minimum of 3000 cells, by counting the number of positive cells divided by the total number of cells. DCIS lesions will be scored separately to adjacent normal tissue. The rationale for selecting Ki67 as a measure of cellular proliferation includes the robustness of the staining reaction, correlation with the S phase fraction of the cell cycle and mitotic index and that it can be successfully ascertained from core breast biopsies provided there is an adequate yield of epithelial cells. A negative value reflects a decrease in ki67 positive cells, therefore a decrease in cellular proliferation., Change from baseline to 14 days post-intervention
Phase II Protein Expression as Assessed by Change in Cytoprotective Enzyme Expression Within Tumor, Phase II protein expression of cytoprotective enzymes known to be modulated by sulforaphane in DCIS specimens.

Cytoprotective enzymes measured (NQ01 and AKR1C1 expression) based on immunohistochemical analysis. Expression was categorized by the study pathologist based on percentage of cells expressing antibody on the slide., Change from baseline to 14 days post-intervention
A double-blind randomized Phase II chemoprevention trial of BSE versus placebo will be conducted in up to 35 women diagnosed with DCIS on core biopsy prior to their definitive surgery (study diagram below). The primary study endpoint will be a decrease in the mean proliferative rate measured by Ki67%.

Women diagnosed with DCIS on core or incisional/excisional biopsy scheduled for definitive surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital will be recruited for this study. Participants will be placed on a cruciferous free diet for the 14 days prior to their surgical date and drink a randomized intervention beverage (mango juice with or without broccoli sprout extract). Additionally participants will provide 2 blood and 2 urine sample collections, report medication use and adverse events using prepared forms and complete a daily diet check list during the 14 day intervention. On the day of definitive breast surgery, 1-2 grams of breast tissue (including normal adjacent breast tissue) will be collected during surgery.