Hypofractionated Proton Therapy for Benign Intracranial Brain Tumors, the HiPPI Study
This phase II trial studies how well hypofractionated proton or photon radiation therapy works in treating patients with brain tumors. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells. A shorter duration of radiation treatment may avoid some of the delayed side effects of radiation while providing a more convenient treatment and reducing costs.
Grade I Meningioma|Grade II Meningioma|Grade III Meningioma|Intracranial Neoplasm|Nerve Sheath Neoplasm|Pituitary Gland Adenoma|Schwannoma
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Photon Beam Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
local tumor control, Will assess local tumor control rate. Local tumor control is defined as freedom from progressive disease (PD). Will be calculated as the proportion of patients who did not experience PD within 3-year follow up with 95% binomial proportion confidence interval for the entire population and each cohort independently. The same calculation will be repeated for the entire study population and each cohort separately. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the local control rates for the entire population and each cohort independently., Up to 3 years since enrollment|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, up to 3 years
Neurocognitive effects, Will be summarized by summary statistics., Up to 3 years|Health related quality of life, Will be summarized by summary statistics., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To report 3 year local tumor control of moderately hypofractionated proton or photon therapy for benign intracranial tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate feasibility of moderate hypofractionation pencil beam scanning proton therapy for intracranial tumors.

II. To report physician reported acute and late toxicity of moderate hypofractionation pencil beam scanning proton therapy for intracranial tumors according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

III. To report neurocognitive effects, health related quality of life, and patient reported toxicity for moderate hypofractionation pencil beam scanning proton therapy for intracranial tumors.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients with benign and radiographically diagnosed intracranial tumors undergo hypofractionated proton or photon radiation therapy daily, Monday-Friday over 17 fractions for 3.5-4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients with pathologically confirmed World Health Organization (WHO) grade 2-3 meningiomas undergo hypofractionated proton or photon radiation therapy daily, Monday-Friday over 20 fractions for 3.5-4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.