Novel Light Delivery Methods for Lung Cancer Photodynamic Therapy - A Pilot Study
This research study is being conducted to assess the safety and feasibility of using a newly developed bronchoscopic light delivery method of photodynamic therapy to treat subjects with solid tumors in peripheral lung, who are inoperable or refused surgery.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)|Lung Metastasis
DRUG: Porfimer sodium|DRUG: Ethiodized oil|PROCEDURE: Novel light delivery methods of photodynamic therapy|DEVICE: Fiber optic
Feasibility to Perform Novel Photodynamic Therapy Into Tumor, Number of times photodynamic therapy was delivered into the tumor using navigational bronchoscopy for each subject., Day 3 post-treatment|Adverse Events Incidence Indicating Safety of Novel Photodynamic Therapy, The incidence of adverse events following Novel PDT will be presented as the primary safety indicator for this treatment., Up to 6 months
Tumor Response at 3 Months Post Photodynamic Therapy (PDT), From the start of treatment until 3 months post-treatment measured as per the Modified RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) Criteria, Up to 3 months|Tumor Response at Study Exit (6 Months) Post Photodynamic Therapy (PDT), Up to 6 months, From the start of treatment until 6 months post-treatment measured as per the Modified RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) Criteria
Lung cancer accounts for almost one-third of cancer deaths. Cancer screening strategies have the potential to achieve a 20% reduction in death rates. Newly developed bronchoscopic technologies (such as navigational bronchoscopy in a hybrid operation room) have been shown to enable physicians to safely reach lesions in peripheral regions of the lung and obtain a diagnosis. This new technology may now potentially offer bronchoscopic therapeutic interventions, such as photodynamic therapy, to tumors that were previously unreachable due to their peripheral anatomic location.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) uses a combination of a photosensitizing drug (a drug that is activated by light), called porfimer sodium (Photofrin®), and a light from a laser that emits no heat. This technique works to allow the medical doctor to specifically target and destroy abnormal or cancer cells while limiting damage to surrounding healthy tissue. The activation of the drug is done by lighting the abnormal area using a fiber-optic device (very fine fiber \[like a fishing line\] that permits light transmission) inserted into a flexible tube called a bronchoscope. The light activates the porfimer sodium, which is concentrated in the abnormal tissue, leading to its destruction. But the penetrating depth of light is about 1.5 to 2 cm limits the treatment range of tumor size.

We proposed a novel light delivery method of instilling a high-refractive-index (RI) liquid (Lipiodol) to enhance light delivery in the lung.

The purpose of this study is to determine if physicians can reach the tumors in the periphery of the lung via electro-navigational bronchoscopy in a hybrid operation room and inject the lipiodol to cover the whole tumor then deliver photodynamic therapy by placing the optical fiber into the tumor