Recombinant EphB4-HSA Fusion Protein and Pembrolizumab, MK-3475
This phase IIa trial studies how well recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein and pembrolizumab work in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other places in the body or head and neck squamous cell cancer that has come back or spread to other places in the body. Recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein and pembrolizumab may work better in treating patients with non-small cell lung or head and neck squamous cell cancer.
ALK Gene Mutation|BRAF Gene Mutation|EGFR Gene Mutation|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Head and Neck Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Carcinoma|Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|ROS1 Gene Mutation|Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant EphB4-HSA Fusion Protein
Overall response rate (ORR), Will be calculated based on the evaluable population of patients who received at least 1 dose of therapy. Will be analyzed in groupings of patients according to biomarkers of interest including (a) PD-L1 expression on archival tissue and current peripheral blood CTCs, (b) peripheral blood T cell subset analysis, (c) quantitative T-cell tumor infiltration, and (d) genomic complexity and (e) integrin expression pattern in tumor blood vessels., Up to 5 years
Duration of response, Duration of response is measured from date of first confirmed response until date of disease progression., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Adverse events will be tabulated for the duration of the trial and reported in tabular format., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be determined according to the method of Kaplan and Meier and analyzed for each cohort. Will be analyzed in groupings of patients according to biomarkers of interest including (a) PD-L1 expression on archival tissue and current peripheral blood CTCs, (b) peripheral blood T cell subset analysis, (c) quantitative T-cell tumor infiltration, and (d) genomic complexity and (e) integrin expression pattern in tumor blood vessels., Up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Will be determined according to the method of Kaplan and Meier and analyzed for each cohort. Will be analyzed in groupings of patients according to biomarkers of interest including (a) PD-L1 expression on archival tissue and current peripheral blood CTCs, (b) peripheral blood T cell subset analysis, (c) quantitative T-cell tumor infiltration, and (d) genomic complexity and (e) integrin expression pattern in tumor blood vessels., Up to 5 years
Biomarker analysis of PD-1 and PD-L1 assessed by archived tumor tissue by immunohistochemical testing, The impact of treatment on the levels of PD-L1 expression, T-cell subsets and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes will be compared in archival and post treatment biopsy specimens., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate of the combination of pembrolizumab and recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein (sEphB4-HSA) as combination therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the biomarkers of response. II. Determine the unique toxicities of the combination of pembrolizumab and sEphB4-HSA.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 3 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks.