Effect of Circuit Weight Training on Functional Capacity and Quality of Life in Breast Cancer Patients
The study is aimed at studying the effects of Circuit Weight Training (CWT) on functional capacity and quality of life in breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Circuit weight training|OTHER: Traditional physical therapy program
Assessment of quality of life, The 12-Item Short Form Survey (SF-12) is the abridged practical form of the SF-36. It is a widely used screening device for measuring physical, mental, and social well-being to assess quality of life. it consists of 2 components: Physical Component Summary (PCS-12) and Mental Component Summary (MCS-12). Its score ranges between 0-100. Higher score indicates better health., 8 weeks|Assessment of functional capacity, The 2-minute step test (TMST) will be used to measure exercise capacity for all participants in the study before and after treatment.

The test simply requires that participants march in place as fast as possible for 2 minutes while lifting the knees to a height midway between their patella and iliac crest when standing. Performance on the test is defined as the number of right-side steps of the criterion height completed in 2 minutes., 8 weeks
Postural stability test, It will be used to measure static balance by measuring posture sway by using the Biodex balance system. the overall stability index will be measured; lower score of overall stability index indicates better balance., 8 weeks|Limits of stability test, t will be used to measure dynamic balance by using the Biodex balance system. Higher directional control and excursion scores with lower reaction time indicate better voluntary balance control., 8 weeks|Single leg stability test, It will be used to assess unilateral balance with progressive instability. Lower stability indexes represent better single-leg balance and neuromuscular control., 8 weeks|Assessment of muscle strength, A hand-held dynamometer will be used to assess muscular strength of specific muscles of upper and lower limbs by quantifying the maximum force exerted during specific movement, with higher values indicating greater strength., 8 weeks
Breast Cancer is the most common cancer among women in Egypt causing 22 percent of all cancer-related female deaths. It is the most commonly diagnosed cancer, accounting for nearly a quarter of all cancer cases globally.

With improvements in early detection, surgery, and adjuvant therapy for breast cancer, long-term survival and cure are becoming possible. Despite providing longer survival with early diagnosis of breast cancer, the treatment leaves sequelae with adverse effects such as influence on functional capacity, fatigue, depression, neuropathic lymphoedema, low immunity, and loss of flexibility. All of these effects end up affecting the quality of life (QoL), Imbalance, gait dysfunction, and falls may have particularly severe consequences in breast cancer survivors due to comorbidities increasing the risk of fall-related injury, secondary decline in physical activity, and subsequent functional decline.

Given the profound effects that imbalance, gait dysfunction, and falls have on functional independence, QOL, and long-term health and survivorship, the treatment or prevention of these symptoms is an essential component of cancer rehabilitation for all survivors.

Furthermore, the need for this study is developed from the lack of quantitative knowledge and information in the published studies about the effect of Circuit Weight Training (CWT) on functional capacity and quality of life in breast cancer patients.