Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy and Focal Adhesion Kinase Inhibitor in Advanced Pancreas Adenocarcinoma
Patients with advanced pancreas adenocarcinoma will be randomized on a 6:1 basis to receive standard of care chemotherapy followed by adaptive stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) with concurrent and adjuvant FAK inhibitor defactinib (experimental arm) or standard of care chemotherapy followed by SBRT (control arm). Patients enrolled to the experimental arm will be assessed for clinical outcomes such as progression free survival (PFS), local control, distant control, and toxicity. The first 6 patients randomized to the experimental arm will be considered the safety lead-in and will be assessed for dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). The 6 patients randomized to the control arm will be evaluated for correlatives but will not be included in the analysis for primary and secondary endpoints.
Pancreas Cancer|Cancer of the Pancreas|Pancreas Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Adaptive stereotactic body radiation therapy|DRUG: Defactinib|PROCEDURE: Tumor biopsy|PROCEDURE: Research blood draw
Progression-free survival (PFS) (Experimental Arm only), * PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of standard of care chemotherapy treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. The alive patients without progression will be censored at the last follow-up.
* Progressive disease: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions)., After completion of treatment (estimated to be 12 months)
Number of participants with acute adverse events (Experimental Arm only), -The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be utilized for all toxicity reporting., From start of adaptive SBRT through 90 days|Number of participants with late adverse events (Experimental Arm only), -The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be utilized for all toxicity reporting., From 91 days through completion of follow-up (estimated to be 24 months)|Overall survival (Experimental Arm only), -Overall survival as defined as the time from the date of treatment until death; censored at last follow-up if death is not observed, Through completion of follow-up (estimated to be 24 months)|Distant metastasis progression-free survival (DM-PFS) (Experimental Arm only), -Defined as the days from the date of the treatment to distant metastasis progression or death, Through completion of follow-up (estimated to be 24 months)|Objective response rate (Experimental Arm only), -Objective response rate as determined by RECIST 1.1 criteria, with one change. Patients who undergo resection will be considered to have a CR if there is a pathologic complete response (pCR) on the surgical specimen. After resection, patients will no longer be evaluated for ORR., 12-14 weeks post-adaptive SBRT|Local control (Experimental Arm only), -Local control as defined by no progression of the primary tumor by RECIST 1.1 criteria, Through completion of follow-up (estimated to be 24 months)
Patients with advanced pancreas adenocarcinoma will be randomized on a 6:1 basis to receive standard of care chemotherapy followed by adaptive stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) with concurrent and adjuvant FAK inhibitor defactinib (experimental arm) or standard of care chemotherapy followed by SBRT (control arm). Patients enrolled to the experimental arm will be assessed for clinical outcomes such as progression free survival (PFS), local control, distant control, and toxicity. The first 6 patients randomized to the experimental arm will be considered the safety lead-in and will be assessed for dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). The 6 patients randomized to the control arm will be evaluated for correlatives but will not be included in the analysis for primary and secondary endpoints.