Reflectance Confocal Microscopy of Oral Cancers in Vivo: a Preliminary Trial Comparing Intra-oral Imaging With Pathology
The purpose of this study is to get images (pictures) of oral lesions, which occur inside the mouth, before the patient's surgery using a special camera. These pictures will be used in our research to evaluate a new technology that uses a laser and takes pictures of the microscopic structure of tissue. The technology is called "reflectance confocal microscopy." We would like to compare what the camera sees to biopsies (pathology) of the same area. We will evaluate the pictures obtained from the patient to determine whether this technology may be useful in the future. We hope this technology can be used as a tool for early diagnosis of oral cancers and for guiding surgery.
Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) of the Oral Cavity
DEVICE: Reflectance Confocal Microscopy
Reflectance Confocal Microscopy (RCM) images, Each set of images and the corresponding pathology will be evaluated by the study pathologist for the presence or absence of oral SCC. All images will be evaluated as a group. First, the pathologist will review the RCM images for each imaging site and will determine the presence/absence of tumor. Next, the pathologist will review the corresponding histopathologic material for the presence/absence of tumor. If there is discordance in the evaluations, the pathologist will re-evaluate the RCM images with the corresponding pathology, in a side-by-side manner, to highlight any features that may assist in the RCM evaluation., 1 year
The purpose of this study is to get images (pictures) of oral lesions, which occur inside the mouth, before the patient's surgery using a special camera. These pictures will be used in our research to evaluate a new technology that uses a laser and takes pictures of the microscopic structure of tissue. The technology is called "reflectance confocal microscopy." We would like to compare what the camera sees to biopsies (pathology) of the same area. We will evaluate the pictures obtained from the patient to determine whether this technology may be useful in the future. We hope this technology can be used as a tool for early diagnosis of oral cancers and for guiding surgery.