Pirtobrutinib and Venetoclax with MRD Detection for Previously Untreated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well pirtobrutinib and venetoclax work in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma. This study also seeks to adopt a blood test which shows a small number of cancer cells in the body after cancer treatment called minimal residual disease as a guide to determine length of treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as pirtobrutinib and venetoclax, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Identifying minimal residual disease results after combination chemotherapy may help guide future treatment decisions for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Pirtobrutinib|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Venetoclax|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Undetected minimal residual disease (uMRD), Success of uMRD (\< 1/10\^4) will be measured by ClonoSEQ in both peripheral blood and bone marrow. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true rate of uMRD by ClonoSEQ in both peripheral blood and bone marrow after cycle 15 will be calculated., After cycle 15 (1 cycle = 28 days)
Peripheral blood uMRD rate, The peripheral blood uMRD rate will be estimated by the number of patients who achieve uMRD in the peripheral blood by ClonoSEQ at any time during study divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true peripheral blood uMRD rate will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Bone marrow uMRD rate, The bone marrow uMRD rate will be estimated by the number of patients who achieve uMRD in the bone marrow by ClonoSEQ at any time during study divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true bone marrow uMRD rate will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Overall response rate, The overall response rate will be estimated by the number of patients with a response \[including complete response (CR), CR with incomplete marrow recovery (CRi), and partial response (PR) by the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL) response criteria\] during study., Up to 3 years|Complete response rate, The complete response rate will be estimated by the number of patients with a complete response (including complete response with incomplete marrow recovery) by the iwCLL response criteria during study divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true complete response rate will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Duration of response, The distribution of duration of response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From when patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR, CRi, PR, or nPR to the earliest date on which progressive disease is documented by the iwCLL criteria, assessed up to 3 years|Time to next treatment, The distribution of time to next treatment will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to initiation of subsequent anti-CLL therapy, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Defined as the time from registration to disease progression or death due to any cause., Up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Platelets and hemoglobin will be graded according to the Grading Scale for Hematologic Adverse Events in chronic lymphocytic leukemia studies. The maximum grade \[per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0\] for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the rate of undetectable minimal residual disease (MRD) (uMRD, by ClonoSEQ) in both peripheral blood and bone marrow after 15 cycles of treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess best peripheral blood uMRD rate and best bone marrow uMRD rate by ClonoSEQ.

II. To assess progression-free survival (PFS). III. To assess overall response rate (ORR) and complete response (CR) rate. IV. To assess duration of response (DOR), time to next treatment (TTNT), and overall survival (OS).

V. To assess toxicities associated with pirtobrutinib and venetoclax.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVE:

I. To analyze the dynamics of MRD (by ClonoSEQ) and its association with response to treatment and clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pirtobrutinib orally (PO) daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle and venetoclax PO QD starting in cycle 4 on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 27 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and/or positron emission tomography (PET)/CT scans during screening and on study. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy and collection of blood samples throughout the study and collection of stool and saliva on study. Patients may undergo tissue biopsy, echocardiography (ECHO), or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients follow up at 30 days and every 6 months for up to 3 years for clinical follow-up and then every 6 months for up to 5 years after registration for survival follow-up.