FHA: Characterization of Metabolic Status, Brain Circuitry, and Stress-Reactivity
Functional Hypothalamic Amenorrhea (FHA), the spontaneous cessation of the menstrual cycle for at least 6 months after menstrual cyclicity has been established, is a common and reversible form of anovulation not due to discernible organic causes. Whereas animal studies suggest an interaction of metabolic and psychosocial stress in the genesis of FHA, the distinct central mechanisms in humans are not clear. On a behavioral level, FHA appears to depend on a complex interplay between individual stress susceptibility, stressful life events, and enduring metabolic challenge due to inappropriate attitudes towards eating and body image. We will use a comparison group of ovulatory, eumenorrheic women (EW) and a contrast group of lean women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Although women with FHA and PCOS present with anovulation, each condition differs markedly in pathobiology (and health burden). Contrasting women with FHA to those with PCOS will afford an opportunity to understand more about the interaction between metabolism, stress, and reproduction and to determine the extent to which differences between FHA and EW are attributable to reproductive compromise (anovulation) per se versus specific to the pathogenesis of FHA or PCOS. We have used this approach to great advantage in the past to show that hypercortisolemia was confined to FHA and not PCOS (Berga 1997) and that dysfunctional (unrealistic) attitudes and decreased coping skills were reported more often in FHA than in PCOS and more in PCOS than EW. Further, this approach of comparing 3 groups will allow us to improve therapeutic approaches for two principle causes of anovulatory infertility in women. To accomplish this, we will study women with FHA, PCOS, and normal ovulatory women. The study will take place over 2 months and women will make 4-5 outpatient visits to the Clinical Integration Network Center and will have one overnight stay for frequent blood sampling.
Anovulation|FHA|Eumenorrhea|Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Screening evaluation|PROCEDURE: Meal Response|GENETIC: Blood Collection|PROCEDURE: Functional MRI|PROCEDURE: Endocrine Assessment
Functional Hypothalamic Amenorrhea (FHA), the spontaneous cessation of the menstrual cycle for at least 6 months after menstrual cyclicity has been established, is a common and reversible form of anovulation not due to discernible organic causes. Whereas animal studies suggest an interaction of metabolic and psychosocial stress in the genesis of FHA, the distinct central mechanisms in humans are not clear. On a behavioral level, FHA appears to depend on a complex interplay between individual stress susceptibility, stressful life events, and enduring metabolic challenge due to inappropriate attitudes towards eating and body image. We will use a comparison group of ovulatory, eumenorrheic women (EW) and a contrast group of lean women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Although women with FHA and PCOS present with anovulation, each condition differs markedly in pathobiology (and health burden). Contrasting women with FHA to those with PCOS will afford an opportunity to understand more about the interaction between metabolism, stress, and reproduction and to determine the extent to which differences between FHA and EW are attributable to reproductive compromise (anovulation) per se versus specific to the pathogenesis of FHA or PCOS. We have used this approach to great advantage in the past to show that hypercortisolemia was confined to FHA and not PCOS (Berga 1997) and that dysfunctional (unrealistic) attitudes and decreased coping skills were reported more often in FHA than in PCOS and more in PCOS than EW. Further, this approach of comparing 3 groups will allow us to improve therapeutic approaches for two principle causes of anovulatory infertility in women. To accomplish this, we will study women with FHA, PCOS, and normal ovulatory women. The study will take place over 2 months and women will make 4-5 outpatient visits to the Clinical Integration Network Center and will have one overnight stay for frequent blood sampling.