CM082 and JS001 in Patients With Advanced Small-cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)
This study was a single-arm, multi-center, phase II study, which is aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CM082 combined with JS001 as the second-line treatment of advanced small cell lung cancer. Eligible patients will receive CM082 tablets 150mg once daily orally in combination with JS001 (240mg, intravenously) every 21 days. Treatment continues until disease progresses , intolerable toxicity, or withdraw.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: CM082 plus JS001
Objective Response Rate, The proportion of patients with complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR) in all patients. Disease progression will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., 6 months
Progression-free survival, The internal between the date of enrollment and the date of disease progression, unaccepted toxicity, or death according to RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST., 12 months|Overall survival, The internal between the date of randomization and the date of death, 36 months|Disease Control Rate, The proportion of patients with complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR) and stable disease (SD) in all patients. Disease progression will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST., 6 months|Duration of Response, The time between patients's first time to complete or partial remission to disease progression., 12 months|Time to response, The internal between the date of enrollment and the date of documented tumor response, 12 months
This study was a single-arm, multi-center, phase II study, which is aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CM082 combined with JS001 as the second-line treatment of advanced small cell lung cancer. Eligible patients will receive CM082 tablets 150mg once daily orally in combination with JS001 (240mg, intravenously) every 21 days. Treatment continues until disease progresses , intolerable toxicity, or withdraw.

The primary endpoint is tumor response per investigator assessment according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (recist) version 1.1, secondary endpoints include disease control rate, progression-free survival, overall survival, safety and tolerability. iRECIST is also implemented for tumor response assessment.