Study Assessing the Efficacy and Safety of cANnabidiol Oral Solution for Joint Pain of Adjuvant enDOcrine theRApy in Patients With Early Breast Cancer
Phase III, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2x2 cross- over study, assessing the efficacy of CBD in patients with early HR+ BC, presenting aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal pain
Breast Cancer Stage I|Breast Cancer Stage II|Breast Cancer Stage III|HR+ Breast Cancer|AI-related Musculoskeletal Pain
DRUG: CBD oil|DRUG: Placebo
Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF) Interference score., The BPI is a 14-item questionnaire that asks patients to rate pain over the last 24 hours and the degree to which it interfered with activities on a 0-10 scale, where higher scores indicate more pain., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.
Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis scale (WOMAC)., This is a 24-item questionnaire that is used to assess pain, stiffness, and functioning in the knees and hips during the past week.

The test questions are scored on a scale of 0-4, which correspond to: None (0), Mild (1), Moderate (2), Severe (3), and Extreme (4).

The scores for each subscale are summed up, with a possible score range of 0-20 for Pain, 0-8 for Stiffness, and 0-68 for Physical Function. Usually a sum of the scores for all three subscales gives a total WOMAC score, however there are other methods that have been used to combine scores.\[1\]

Higher scores on the WOMAC indicate worse pain, stiffness, and functional limitations., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) contains 30 questions and assesses the quality of life of oncological patients multidimensionally over 10 subscales. All sub-scales and the 6 individual items have a score range from 0 to 100 points. A higher score represents better function and a higher quality of life. In the symptom subscale, however, a higher score represents a higher level of symptoms or problems., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|EORTC QLQ-BR45., The QLQ-BR45 is a supplementary questionnaire module to be employed in conjunction with the QLQ-C30. The QLQ-BR45 incorporates nine multi-item scales to assess body image, sexual functioning, breast satisfaction, systemic therapy side effects, arm symptoms, breast symptoms, endocrine therapy symptoms, skin mucosis symptoms, endocrine sexual symptoms. In addition, single items assess sexual enjoyment, future perspective and being upset by hair loss. All of the scales and single item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high score for the functional scales and functional single items represents a high/healthy level of functioning, whereas a high score for the symptom scales and symptom item represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|EORTC QLQ-FA12., The FA12 is the new fatigue module designed to complement the EORTC QLQ-C30. It consists of 12 items, with four response categories for each item, coded with values from 1 to 4. In accordance with the scales of the EORTC QLQ-C30, the FA12 scores are transformed to the range 0-100, with higher levels indicating greater degrees of fatigue., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)., HADS is a fourteen-item scale with seven items each for anxiety and depression subscales. Scoring for each item ranges from zero to three. A subscale score \>8 denotes anxiety or depression., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|Medication intake survey (MIS)., A 10-item survey, representing a French validated self-report instrument measuring key adherence properties. Taking adherence is computed over 1 week, 4 weeks and 4 months. A high score represents a high level of adherence, Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|AI serum levels., AI serum levels measured on 100 µL of serum sample, Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|Domain-Specific Risk-Taking (DOSPERT) scale., The DOSPERT is a risk-taking scale of the 30-item evaluates behavioral intentions, that is, the likelihood with which respondents might engage in risky behaviors originating from five domains of life (ethical, financial, health/safety, social, and recreational risks) using a 7-point rating scale ranging from 1 (Extremely Unlikely) to 7 (Extremely Likely). Higher scores suggesting perceptions of greater risk in the domain of the subscale., Baseline.|Number of side effects measured by CTCAE V.5., An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence, in a patient or clinical trial subject treated by a medicinal product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. The AE collected will be particularly focused on nausea, diarrhea or constipation, cognitive dysfunction, nervous system and psychiatric side effects, drug consumption and hospitalizations associated with nervous system and psychiatric disorders., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.|Cannabis Abuse Screening Test (CAST)., The CAST scale is a 6-item scale evaluating cannabis abuse among adolescents and young adults in general population surveys designed at the French Monitoring Center for Drug and Drug addictions (OFDT). A score of less than 3 indicates no addiction risk. A score of 3 or less than 7 indicates low addiction risk, and a score of 7 or above indicates high addiction risk., Baseline, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 17 weeks, 25 weeks, 37 weeks after starting treatment.
Phase III, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2x2 cross- over study, assessing the efficacy of CBD in patients with early HR+ BC, presenting aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal pain