Effects for Oral Mucositis Care During Chemoradiotherapy in Cancer Patients: Evaluation of the Bee Products
Oral mucositis is common among cancer patients receiving radiotherapy and chemotherapy. 80-90% of the patients are suffering from the mucositis pain; poor nutrition and even treatment discontinued. Some self-paid medications like glutamine has been used to prevent mucositis before and during radiotherapy/chemotherapy. Randomized controlled trials have shown that honey and propolis may be used for the management of mucositis. Honey demonstrates the most significant antibacterial effects; the green propolis has also been proved to comprise antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant effects. Bee products have been concerned as potential sources of natural antioxidants such as flavonoids, phenolic acids, and terpenoids. This study plan to conduct an RCT comparing the effectiveness of honey, honey and green propolis, and usual care in mucositis of cancer patients.
Oral Mucositis
OTHER: Honey product|OTHER: propolis|OTHER: Usual care
oral mucositis severity, Ulceration or inflammation of the oral mucosa characterizes oral Mucositis, up to 12 weeks
pain score, visual analogue score(VAS), up to 12 weeks|fatigue level, Brief Fatigue Inventory, up to 12 weeks|Xerostomia score, Xerostomia Inventory, up to 12 weeks|nutrition level, Mini Nutritional Assessment, up to 12 weeks|QoL questionnaire, FACT-HN, up to 12 weeks|smart bracelet data, The smart bracelet will automatically detect heart rate variability, heartbeat, sleep and activity status, The first week, the fourth week, the 8th week start wearing the smart bracelet for 7 days|Saliva specimen collection, Test the concentration of IL-1, IL-6, IL-10 and TNF in saliva, This saliva is collected Baseline (before the start of radiotherapy), week 1, week 2, week 3, and up to 12 weeks|microbiota level, Stool and oral flora collection, Baseline (Before the start of radiotherapy), week 2, week 4, and up to 12 weeks
Outcome Measures

1. Questionnaire collection: oral mucositis grade, pain scale, fatigue scale, dry mouth, nutritional status and quality of life scale.
2. Wearing the smart bracelet: The smart bracelet will automatically detect heart rate variability, heartbeat, sleep and activity status.
3. Saliva sample collection: Test the concentration of IL-1, IL-6, IL-10 and TNF in saliva.
4. Stool and oral flora collection: Test stool and oral flora microbiota.