Testing Oral Decitabine and Cedazuridine (ASTX727) in Combination With Venetoclax for Higher-Risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients
This phase Ib/II trial studies the effects of ASTX727 (decitabine and cedazuridine) in combination with venetoclax in treating patients with higher-risk acute myeloid leukemia patients who do not have a change in the gene called fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3). Decitabine is in a class of medications called hypomethylation agents. It works by helping the bone marrow produce normal blood cells and by killing abnormal cells in the bone marrow. Cedazuridine is an enzyme inhibitor. It helps to increase the amount of decitabine in the body so that the medication will have a greater effect. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. Venetoclax may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking BCL-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Venetoclax and decitabine are commonly given together for older patients with AML ASTX727 (a pill form of decitabine + cedazuridine) has been found to be equal to decitabine (given intravenously), and this part of the study is to confirm that venetoclax and ASTX727 is as safe as venetoclax and decitabine given intravenously. This study allows for lowering doses of study drugs to assure the dose chosen for the randomized study (second portion of this trial) is safe and tolerable for people. Giving ASTX727 in combination with venetoclax may help in the treatment of patients with higher-risk acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin|DRUG: Decitabine and Cedazuridine|DRUG: Venetoclax
Recommended safe phase 2 dose (RP2D) of decitabine and cedazuridine (ASTX727) in combination with venetoclax (Phase Ib), The highest dose level in which at most 1 patient in 6 experiences dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)., End of each cycle (1 cycle = 28 days)|Incidence of adverse events (Phase Ib), Will be tabulated and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Summary statistics will be provided for all adverse events reported. Descriptive statistics, including means, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous parameters, as well as percent and frequencies for categorical parameters, will be presented, Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Event-free survival (EFS) (Phase II), Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and compared among treatments and other important prognostic groups using the log-rank test., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment
Complete response rate (Phase II), Rate of complete response (CR) + complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi)., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Duration of response (Phase II), Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and compared among treatments and other important prognostic groups using the log-rank test., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Hazard rate for PFS will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, using the Cox (proportional hazards) regression model., Time from randomization date to the date of progression or death for any reason, assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Overall response rate (Phase II), Rate of partial response (PR) + CRi + CR in patients with treatment naive AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), The distribution of OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Hazard rate for OS will be estimated, along with 95% confidence intervals, using the Cox (proportional hazards) regression model., Time from randomization to death for any reason, assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|The proportion of treatment naive AML patients receiving stem cell transplantation (SCT) following treatment with venetoclax and ASTX727 (Phase II), Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Mutational burdens in venetoclax + ASTX727 sensitive vs. resistant AML leukemia initiating cells (LICs) (Phase II), Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine and compare the preliminary efficacy of venetoclax +ASTX727 versus (vs.) standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3') with a primary endpoint of event-free survival (EFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response (complete response \[CR\] + complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery \[CRi\]) rate in patients with treatment naive FLT3 wild type (WT) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3').

II. To determine the duration of response (DoR) in patients with treatment naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3').

III. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with treatment naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3').

IV. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) in patients with treatment naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3').

V. To determine the overall survival (OS) of patients with treatment naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3').

VI. To determine the proportion of patients receiving stem cell transplantation (SCT) in patients with treatment naive FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. standard anthracycline induction therapy ('7+3').

VII. To identify mutational burdens in venetoclax +ASTX727 sensitive vs. resistant AML leukemia initiating cells (LICs).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify transcriptomic signatures in venetoclax +ASTX727 sensitive vs. resistant AML LICs.

II. Determine the utility of high-throughput phenotype-based assessment of drug efficacy for predicting patient response to venetoclax +ASTX727.

III. Determine if treatment failure is a function of therapy sequence or results in resistance to the alternative therapy by conducting a co-clinical trial via patient-derived xenograft (PDX).

IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of venetoclax. V. To determine the morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS) rate in patients with treatment naïve FLT3WT AML treated with venetoclax and ASTX727 vs. 7+3 therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib dose de-escalation study followed by a phase II randomized study.

PHASE Ib: Patients receive ASTX727 (decitabine and cedazuridine) orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-4 or 1-5 of each cycle and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28 or days 1-21 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive ASTX727 PO QD at the recommended phase II dose and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) over 24 hours on days 1-7 of each cycle and daunorubicin IV over 10-30 minutes on days 1-3 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years.