A Trial of Paclitaxel and Bevacizumab vs. Gemcitabine, Paclitaxel, and Bevacizumab in Advanced Breast Cancer
This study will compare the cancer response to both treatments for locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer
Breast Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: bevacizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Response defined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria: Complete Response (CR)=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR)=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease=20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria. ORR was defined as the proportion of participants who achieved a best response of either CR or PR. ORR=number of participants with CR or PR/number of participants qualified for tumor response analysis (per-protocol population)., baseline & every 2 cycles (approximately 8 weeks) of treatment to measured progressive disease (PD) & post-therapy until PD or other therapy initiated (up to 35 months)
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was measured from date of randomization to first date of disease progression or death from any cause. For participants not known to have died or had disease progression as of data-inclusion cut-off date, PFS duration was censored at date of last study visit prior to data-inclusion cut-off date., baseline to measured progressive disease or death up to 35 months (tumor assessments were performed every 2 cycles during study therapy; every 2 months during post-therapy until disease progression or new anticancer treatment initiated)|Overall Survival, Overall survival was measured from date of randomization to date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of data-inclusion cut-off date, overall survival duration was censored at date of last study visit prior to the data cut-off date., baseline to death from any cause (up to 35 months)|Total Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy -Breast (FACT-B): Change From Baseline to End of Therapy, FACT-B measures the following domains of health-related quality of life (HR-QL): physical well-being (PWB), social/family well-being (SFWB), emotional well-being (EWB), functional well-being (FWB), \& additional concerns of breast cancer (BCS). Total FACT-B scores range from 0-144, with higher scores representing better HR-QOL. Minimally important differences estimates obtained for FACT-B is 7-8 points. FACT-B was assessed at baseline (prior to start of Cycle 1 \[Day 1\]), prior to start of each subsequent cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) during therapy, through 30-day post therapy follow-up., Baseline through 30 days post therapy follow-up (up to 35 months)|Physical Well Being (PWB) Subscale: Change From Baseline to End of Therapy, The PWB subscale of FACT-B measures physical well-being. Total PWB scores range from 0 to 28, with higher scores representing better HR-QOL. FACT-B was assessed at baseline (prior to start of Cycle 1 \[Day 1\]), then prior to start of each subsequent cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) during therapy, through 30-day post therapy follow-up., Baseline through 30 days post therapy follow-up (up to 35 months)|Social/Family Well Being (SFWB) Subscale: Change From Baseline to End of Therapy, The SFWB subscale of FACT-B measures social/family well-being. Total SFWB scores range from 0 to 28, with higher scores representing better HR-QOL. FACT-B was assessed at baseline (prior to start of Cycle 1 \[Day 1\]), then prior to start of each subsequent cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) during therapy, through 30-day post therapy follow-up., Baseline through 30 days post therapy follow-up (up to 35 months)|Emotional Well Being (EWB) Subscale: Change From Baseline to End of Therapy, The EWB subscale of FACT-B measures emotional well-being. Total EWB scores range from 0 to 24, with higher scores representing better HR-QOL. FACT-B was assessed at baseline (prior to start of Cycle 1 \[Day 1\]), then prior to start of each subsequent cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) during therapy, through 30-day post therapy follow-up., Baseline through 30 days post therapy follow-up (up to 35 months)|Functional Well Being (FWB) Subscale: Change From Baseline to End of Therapy, The FWB subscale of FACT-B measures functional well-being. Total FWB scores range from 0 to 28, with higher scores representing better HR-QOL. FACT-B was assessed at baseline (prior to start of Cycle 1 \[Day 1\]), then prior to start of each subsequent cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) during therapy, through 30-day post therapy follow-up., Baseline through 30 days post therapy follow-up (up to 35 months)|Breast Cancer Subscale (BCS): Change From Baseline to End of Therapy, The BCS subscale of FACT-B measures additional concerns of breast cancer . Total BCS scores range from 0 to 36, with higher scores representing better HR-QOL. Minimally important differences estimates obtained for BCS is 2-3 points. FACT-B was assessed at baseline (prior to start of Cycle 1 \[Day 1\]), then prior to start of each subsequent cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) during therapy, through 30-day post therapy follow-up., Baseline through 30 days post therapy follow-up (up to 35 months)|Trial Outcome Index-Breast (TOI-B): Change From Baseline to End of Therapy, The TOI-B represents the total of the subscales PWB,FWB, and BCS. Total TOI-B scores range from 0 to 92, with higher scores representing better HR-QOL. Minimally important differences estimates obtained for TOI is 5-6 points. FACT-B was assessed at baseline (prior to start of Cycle 1 \[Day 1\]), then prior to start of each subsequent cycle (approximately every 4 weeks) during therapy, through 30-day post therapy follow-up., Baseline through 30 days post therapy follow-up (up to 35 months)
This study will compare the cancer response to both treatments for locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer