Paclitaxel, Trastuzumab, and Pertuzumab in the Treatment of Metastatic HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see if a combination of drugs can help to treat this type of cancer. One drug is a chemotherapy agent called paclitaxel (Taxol速). Paclitaxel will be given every week through the vein. Although the weekly schedule of paclitaxel is not included in the label, the schedule and dose of weekly paclitaxel have been studied and have been proven to be more effective than an old standard schedule. The other two work against HER2. One is called trastuzumab (Herceptin速) and it is commonly given to women with early HER2 positive breast cancer or with advanced HER2 positive breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Trastuzumab will be given through the vein every 3 weeks (or every week at the doctor's discretion). The third drug, pertuzumab, is an investigational drug. It has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. It has been given in studies to over 800 people. It has been effective in treating HER2 positive breast cancer. Pertuzumab will be given every 3 weeks through the vein. This study is looking at the effectiveness of these three drugs together.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and paclitaxel
Percentage of Patients Who Are Progression Free at 6 Months or Later., Patients who are considered progression-free at 6 months are deemed successes. Failures are those patients who progressed before the 6 month mark. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 6 months
Number of Participants by Response Rate Using the RECIST Criteria (Version 1.1), Extent of disease evaluation will consist of a CT of chest and abdomen +/- pelvis. Bone scan and PET are optional. Every 4th cycle, this can be done within +/- 2 weeks. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR.",, every 4th cycle CT of chest and abdomen +/- pelvis up to 24 months|Number of Participants Evaluated for Cardiac Safety, We will also assess the LVEF at baseline and after every 4th cycle of treatment with an ECHO with a strain imaging analysis. When an ECHO cannot be done, a MUGA scan may be done.Patients who have surpassed the 6 month period may complete ECHO with strain imaging analysis or MUGA every 6 months +/- 1 month starting from the most recent ECHO scan date. This study will use the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) AE version 4.0 for toxicity., baseline and every 4th cycle of treatment up to 24 months|Number of Participants Evaluated With Toxicity, This study will use the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) AE version 4.0 for toxicity., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to see if a combination of drugs can help to treat this type of cancer. One drug is a chemotherapy agent called paclitaxel (Taxol速). Paclitaxel will be given every week through the vein. Although the weekly schedule of paclitaxel is not included in the label, the schedule and dose of weekly paclitaxel have been studied and have been proven to be more effective than an old standard schedule. The other two work against HER2. One is called trastuzumab (Herceptin速) and it is commonly given to women with early HER2 positive breast cancer or with advanced HER2 positive breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Trastuzumab will be given through the vein every 3 weeks (or every week at the doctor's discretion). The third drug, pertuzumab, is an investigational drug. It has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. It has been given in studies to over 800 people. It has been effective in treating HER2 positive breast cancer. Pertuzumab will be given every 3 weeks through the vein. This study is looking at the effectiveness of these three drugs together.