Sorafenib, Carboplatin, and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Stage IV Melanoma of the Eye
This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works when given together with carboplatin and paclitaxel in treating patients with stage IV melanoma of the eye. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Sorafenib may help carboplatin and paclitaxel work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs. Sorafenib may also stop the growth of melanoma by blocking some of the enzymes needed for tumor cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving sorafenib together with carboplatin and paclitaxel may kill more tumor cells.
Ciliary Body and Choroid Melanoma, Medium/Large Size|Extraocular Extension Melanoma|Iris Melanoma|Metastatic Intraocular Melanoma|Recurrent Intraocular Melanoma
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: sorafenib tosylate
Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Complete response corresponds to complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable lesions with no new lesions. Partial response corresponds to greater than or equal to 30ﬁ decrease of sum of longest diameter of all target measurable lesions with no new lesion and non unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease., Every 6 weeks for the first 8 cycles of therapy, then every three cycles (9 weeks) until progression
One-year Overall Survival, Measured from date of registration to study until death due to any caused with observations last known to be alive censored at the date of last contact, Every 6-9 weeks until progression, after progression every six months for first two years and annually thereafter up to 3 for up to 3 years after registration or until death|6-month Progression-free Survival, Measured from the date of registration to the first of progression or death due to any cause with patients last known to be alive and progression-free censored at the date of last contact, Every 6 weeks for the first 8 cycles of therapy, and then every 9 weeks until disease progression for up to 3 years after registration or until death|Toxicity, Number of patients with Grade 3-5 adverse events that are related to study drug by given type of adverse event, Weekly during the first cycle of therapy, then prior to each cycle (one cycle = 3 weeks)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response) of patients with stage IV uveal melanoma treated with sorafenib, carboplatin, and paclitaxel.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

II. Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine, preliminarily, the relationship between clinical outcomes and baseline microvessel density (MVD) in tumor specimens, changes in vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels in plasma and urine, changes in MVD, changes in VEGF receptor-2 phosphorylation in tumor, and/or changes in ERK 1/2 phosphorylation in stimulated lymphocytes and tumor.

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive carboplatin IV and paclitaxel IV once on day 1 and oral sorafenib twice daily on days 2-19. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses.\* After 6 courses, patients continue to receive oral sorafenib alone twice daily in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

\[Note: \*If sorafenib is discontinued prior to course 6, patients may continue to receive carboplatin and paclitaxel for up to 6 courses; if carboplatin and paclitaxel are discontinued prior to course 6, patients may continue to receive sorafenib alone twice daily on days 1-21 of each course in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. \]

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.