A Study to Assess the Efficacy of Omnivirol-Salicylic Acid Combination Therapy for Cutaneous Warts With Emphasis on Persistent Warts
Cutaneous warts comprise an extremely common condition caused by infection with the human papillomavirus (HPV). Although most verrucae will disappear spontaneously, many patients do seek treatment. Current wart treatments do not target the cause of the lesion directly, resulting in variable treatment efficacies and high wart recurrence rates. AV2 is a broad-spectrum antiviral drug, that is capable of deactivating HPV. It is however not able to destruct the already infected cells, which raises the need for an additional ablative treatment i.e. salicylic acid (SA). Implementation of AV2-Salicylic acid (AV2-SA) combination therapy would ensure permanent lesion clearance by on the one hand inactivation of HPV by AV2, and on the other hand elimination of the lesion by SA treatment. The primary aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of AV2-SA treatment versus standard SA treatment, by comparing cure and recurrence rates of cutaneous warts between the two treatment groups (at 12 weeks and six months after randomization). The second aim is to assess the safety and tolerability of AV2-SA therapy. The third aim is to identify subgroups of cutaneous warts that have favorable response to treatment, by comparing cure rates in an HPV genotype-specific manner. This randomized controlled trial will enroll 260 participants with cutaneous warts who will either receive the AV2-SA combination therapy or SA control treatment. Real time monitoring will be possible by daily photographs sent via WhatsApp TM (a messaging application) as well as online follow-up questionnaires administered on several occasions. HPV genotyping will be performed on swab self-samples.
Cutaneous Warts
DRUG: AV2-SA2|DRUG: SA
Efficacy of AV2-SA treatment versus standard SA treatment: cure rate, To assess the efficacy of AV2-SA treatment versus standard SA treatment by comparing cure rates of the index warts between the two treatment groups at 12 weeks after enrollment., 12 weeks after enrollment|Efficacy of AV2-SA treatment versus standard SA treatment: recurrence rate, To assess the efficacy of AV2-SA treatment versus standard SA treatment by comparing recurrence rates of the index warts between the two treatment groups at 6 months after enrollment., 6 months after enrollment
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events in the AV2-SA treatment group versus the standard SA treatment group., The safety of both treatments will be assessed by monthly questionnaires actively asking the participants if they experienced any pain or other treatment-related adverse events. Pain will be measured with a scale of 1 to 4, with score 1 representing no pain at all and score 4 extreme pain., 12 weeks after enrollment|To compare time to clearance of index wart between the two treatment groups, 6 months after enrollment|To compare change in size of index wart between the two treatment groups, 6 months after enrollment|To compare number of verrucae remaining between the two treatment arms, 6 months after enrollment|To determine the genotype-specific distribution of wart-associated HPV types in a Belgian population (according to the age, wart location, postal code, etc.), through study completion, an average of 1 year|To investigate the prevalence of mucosal HPV types in cutaneous warts, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Cutaneous warts comprise an extremely common condition caused by infection with the human papillomavirus (HPV). Although most verrucae will disappear spontaneously, many patients do seek treatment. Current wart treatments do not target the cause of the lesion directly, resulting in variable treatment efficacies and high wart recurrence rates. AV2 is a broad-spectrum antiviral drug, that is capable of deactivating HPV. It is however not able to destruct the already infected cells, which raises the need for an additional ablative treatment i.e. salicylic acid (SA). Implementation of AV2-Salicylic acid (AV2-SA) combination therapy would ensure permanent lesion clearance by on the one hand inactivation of HPV by AV2, and on the other hand elimination of the lesion by SA treatment. The primary aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of AV2-SA treatment versus standard SA treatment, by comparing cure and recurrence rates of cutaneous warts between the two treatment groups (at 12 weeks and six months after randomization). The second aim is to assess the safety and tolerability of AV2-SA therapy. The third aim is to identify subgroups of cutaneous warts that have favorable response to treatment, by comparing cure rates in an HPV genotype-specific manner. This randomized controlled trial will enroll 260 participants with cutaneous warts who will either receive the AV2-SA combination therapy or SA control treatment. Real time monitoring will be possible by daily photographs sent via WhatsApp TM (a messaging application) as well as online follow-up questionnaires administered on several occasions. HPV genotyping will be performed on swab self-samples.