Pembrolizumab and Ipilimumab After Prior Immunotherapy for Melanoma
Phase II study evaluating the benefit of the combination of anti-PD1 (pembrolizumab) and anti-CTLA4 (ipilimumab) antibodies in advanced melanoma. The study will determine the response rate of the combination and evaluate other clinical parameters such as progression-free survival and safety of the combination following anti-PD1/L1 antibody. The study will also provide the opportunity to investigate blood or tumor based factors that may predict response to anti-PD1 antibody in combination with anti-CTLA4.
Melanoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Overall Response Rate (OR) Per irRECIST, Per Response Evaluation Criteria for use in trials testing immunotherapeutics (iRECIST) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 16 weeks
Progression Free Survival Using the Kaplan Meier Method, Time to disease progression or death. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 24 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Any treatment-related adverse event, 30 days after the end of treatment
Primary Objective:

To determine the irRECIST\* response rate of pembrolizumab with ipilimumab following initial progression or stable disease to anti-PD1/L1 antibody (or combination not containing anti-CTLA4) in subjects with advanced melanoma.

Secondary Objective

1. To summarize the progression-free survival (RECIST v1.1 and irRC) of the combination following prior treatment with anti-PD1/L1 antibody.
2. To assess the safety of the combination following prior treatment with anti-PD1/L1 antibody.

Exploratory Objective:

To evaluate changes in the tumor microenvironment and other biospecimens before and after adding ipilimumab to pembrolizumab.