TACE With or Without Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage A-C Liver Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) works compared with TACE plus radiation therapy in treating patients with end stage liver disease, liver tumors, or potential liver transplant candidates. TACE involves reaching up to the blood vessel that feeds the tumor through a catheter placed into the groin vessel. Once the physician has defined the vessel going to the tumor, chemotherapy is infused to the tumor and the vessel is blocked, maintaining the chemotherapy for longer time inside the tumor and stopping the blood flow that feeds the tumor. Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is a type of radiation therapy that delivers radiation to the tumor cells but does not harm normal liver cells. It is not yet known whether TACE is more effective with or without SBRT in treating liver tumors.
Adult Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Stage I Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Stage II Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Stage IIIA Adult Primary Liver Cancer
PROCEDURE: transarterial chemoembolization|RADIATION: stereotactic radiosurgery
Percentage change in gross tumor volume (GTV), Percentage of tumor response as defined as change in longest diameter of tumor compared to original tumor length, Baseline to 3 months|Difference in mean gross tumor volume (GTV), assessed using the RECIST method, Difference in mean GTV from T0M and T3M calculated by a student t-test, Baseline to 3 months|Difference in tumor grade, Difference in the grade of tumor (as defined by the RECIST criteria) at T0 and T3 calculated using Chi-square tests., Baseline to 3 months
Rate of downstaging, Rate of downstaging of stage A to C Hepatocellular Carcinoma using TACE plus SBRT when compared to TACE at 3 and 6 months., Up to 6 months|Grade 3 or 4 adverse events associated with liver tumors, Number of grade 3 or 4 adverse events associated with SBRT for liver tumors, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Up to 1 year|Rate of local progression, based on RECIST criteria, Rate of local disease progression when progression is defined as an estimated increase of \> 20% in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to 6 months|Liver transplant achievement, Number of patients who achieve liver transplantation, Up to 6 months|Survival rate, The number of days from the first day of treatment on study until death of any cause, 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine in patients with stage A to C hepatocellular carcinoma, if stereotactic body radiotherapy after TACE enhanced the response rate of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) when compared to TACE alone at 3 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine in patients with stage A to C hepatocellular carcinoma, if TACE plus SBRT can achieve a downstaging rate of \>= 30% at 3 and 6 months.

II. To determine the rate of grade 3 or 4 adverse events associated with SBRT for liver tumors.

III. To determine the rate of local progression after SBRT. (Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria) IV. Number of patients who achieve liver transplantation. V. Overall survival.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms after the first loco-regional therapy with TACE.

ARM I: Patients undergo TACE according to institutional standard with doxorubicin-eluting beads.

ARM II: Patients undergo TACE as in Arm I and 3 or 5 fractions of SBRT given at least 48 hours apart over 14 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, and 6 months and then periodically thereafter.