Managing Fear of Cancer Progression Metacognition-based Vs Supportive-expressive Based Approaches
The present study aims to conduct a randomized controlled trial to assess the effect of CALM intervention and ConquerFear intervention on fear of cancer progression among Chinese patients diagnosed with advanced cancer.
Advanced or Metastatic Cancer|Fear of Cancer Progression|Metacognition-based Intervention|Supportive-expressive Based Intervention|Psychooncology
BEHAVIORAL: ConquerFear intervention|BEHAVIORAL: CALM intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Basic Cancer Care
Fear of Progression, The 12-item short version of the Fear of Progression Questionnaire (FoP-Q-SF) will be used to assess the change in total score of fear of caner progression. Each item of the FoP-Q-SF is rated on 5-point Likert scales anchored at 1 (Never) to 5 (very often). Higher scores indicate higher levels of fear of cancer progression. Total scores range from 12 to 60. A cutoff of 24-33 was used to suggest subthreshold level of fear of progression and a score of 34 or greater suggest high levels of fear of progression., Baseline, the immediate post-intervention, 3-months post-intervention and 6-months post-intervention
Metacognitions, The 30-items Metacognitions questionnaire (MCQ-30) will be used to assess the change of metacognitive beliefs.Each item is rated on a 4-point Likert scale with a total score ranging from 30 to 120. High scores indicate a more maladaptive metacognitive style., Baseline, the immediate post-intervention, 3-months post-intervention and 6-months post-intervention|Depression, Change in total scores of depression will be assessed using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9). The PHQ-9 score can range from 0 to 27, with higher scores indicative of a higher level of depression. The PHQ-9 is a reliable and valid 9-item measure of depression that has been used widely in advanced cancer patients., Baseline, the immediate post-intervention, 3-months post-intervention and 6-months post-intervention|Death anxiety, Change in total scores of death anxiety will be assessed by the 15-item Death and Dying Distress Scale (DDDS). The DDS score can range from 0 to 90, with higher scores indicative of a higher level of death anxiety., Baseline, the immediate post-intervention, 3-months post-intervention and 6-months post-intervention
A randomized controlled trial will be conducted to assess the effect of CALM intervention and ConquerFear intervention on fear of cancer progression among Chinese patients diagnosed with advanced cancer.

The aims are to test:

1. the direct effect of CALM intervention or ConquerFear intervention on fear of cancer progression, and
2. the indirect effect of ConquerFear intervention on fear of cancer progression through its effect on maladaptive metacognition.

Primary hypothesis:

1. Patients receiving CALM intervention or ConquerFear intervention, compared to those receiving a basic cancer care intervention will show a reduction in fear of cancer progression.
2. Both CALM intervention and ConquerFear intervention will be equally effective in reducing fear of cancer progression.
3. Given ConquerFear intervention aims to modify unhelpful metacognitive beliefs, there will be an indirect effect of ConquerFear intervention on fear of cancer progression through its effect on maladaptive metacognition.