High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) for Patients With Cancer-related Lymphedema in the Lower Limbs
The aim of the study is to explore the feasibility and safety of High Intensity Interval Training on a stationary bike for patients with lymphedema in the lower limbs and the role of compression garments during exercise.

The design of the study is a cross-over randomized clinical trial. Participants will be randomized into two groups. Both will perform two separate exercise sessions.Group A will perform the first exercise with compression garment and the second session without compression garment, with wash-out period of 1 week between sessions. Group B will perform the exercise sessions in the opposite order.
Lymphedema of Leg|Cancer of Cervix|Cancer, Ovarian|Cancer, Endometrial|Cancer of the Prostate|Malignant Melanoma
OTHER: First exercise session + compression|OTHER: First exercise session - compression
Feasibility rate, Number of invited eligible participants enrolled in the study, After 3 months|Completion rate, Number of enrolled participants completing both interventions, After 3 months
Participant satisfaction, At the end of the study participation, data describing participant satisfaction will be collected to answers questions on acceptability. All participants will be given a questionnaire and will be asked to rank various aspects of the intervention including exercising without compression garments "as not at all satisfied", "not very satisfied", "somewhat satisfied" or "very satisfied". Feasibility will be defined as \>75% of participants reporting they are "very" or "somewhat satisfied" with the intervention., Week 2|Change in pain related to lymphedema, Participant-reported pain measured on a numeric range scale 0-10, "0" indicating no pain and "10" as worst imaginable pain. Measurements will be made immediately before and after each exercise session., Hour 0 and 1 post each exercise sessions|Change in tension related to lymphedema, Participant-reported tension measured on a numeric range scale 0-10, "0" indicating no tension and "10" worst imaginable tension. Measurements will be made immediately before and after each exercise session., Hour 0 and 1 post each exercise sessions|Change in heaviness related to lymphedema, Participant-reported heaviness measured on a numeric range scale 0-10, "0" indicating no heaviness and "10" worst imaginable heaviness. Measurements will be made immediately before and after each exercise session., Hour 0 and 1 post each exercise sessions|Change in volume of lower limbs, Tape Measurements(cm) at 8 cm intervals, converted to volume (ml) by formula of truncated cone. Measurements will be made immediately before and after each exercise session, Hour 0 and hour 1 post each exercise sessions|Change in extracellular fluid in the lower limbs, Bioimpedance Spectroscopy. Measurements will be made immediately before and after each exercise session., Hour 0 and hour 1 post each exercise session|Change in weight of the lower limbs, Dual Energy Xray Absorptiometry, a full body scan is performed. Afterwards regions of interest is marked and weight of each lower limb calculated. Measurements will be made immediately before and after each exercise session., Hour 0 and hour 1 post each exercise session
Lymphedema is a condition afflicting cancer patients who undergo surgery with removal of lymph nodes, chemotherapy and radiation. Lymphedema is a consequence of impaired lymphatic drainage in the interstitium, which causes edema and inflammation in the subcutaneous tissue. The symptoms are swelling, puffiness, tightness, heaviness and pain in the affected area.

Lymphedema can be reduced by complete decongestive therapy, which consists of skin care, manual lymphatic drainage, compression bandaging and exercise. At the end of treatment, patients are provided with custommade compression garments to be worn during daytime in order to maintain the reduction in the edema.

Lymphedema has a negative impact on activities of daily living and health-related quality of life. Patients with lymphedema should be encouraged to engage in physical activity despite their condition in order to prevent relapse of cancer and development of other diseases. Likewise physical activity helps to maintain a healthy weight, which is important as obesity has a negative impact on lymphedema. The lymphatic system is also stimulated by physical activity and exercise and can reduce the symptoms from the lymphedema.

Several studies have been published on the safety and benefits of exercise for women with breastcancer related lymphedema. However, only a few studies have investigated the feasibility of exercise to patients with lymphedema in the lower limbs. Also the role of compression garments during exercise have not been throughly explored.