A First-in-Human, Phase 1/2 Study of LAT010 in Patients with Advanced Solid Tumors (LIGHTSPEED-1)
This is an open-label, multicenter, Phase 1/2, first-in-human (FIH), dose-escalation and cohort-expansion study of LAT010 to evaluate the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity, PK, PD, and antitumor activity in patients with advanced solid tumors. The study consists of 2 parts: Phase 1 dose-escalation and Phase 2 cohort expansion.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: LAT010|DRUG: LAT010 + ICI
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) (Phase 1), TEAEs, Up to 18 months|Incidence of changes in clinical laboratory values (Phase 1), Clinical Lab Values, Up to 15 months|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) (Phase 1), DLT, The first treatment cycle (28 days) from Cycle 1 Day 1|Objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 (Phase 2), ORR, Up to 24 months
Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of LAT010, Cmax, Through treatment cycles, up to approximately 1 year|Area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of LAT010, AUC, Through treatment cycles, up to approximately 1 year|Terminal phase half-life (t1/2) of LAT010, t½, Through treatment cycles, up to approximately 1 year|Time to maximum concentration of LAT010, Tmax, Through treatment cycles, up to approximately 1 year|Trough concentration of LAT010, Ctrough, Through treatment cycles, up to approximately 1 year|Volume of distribution of LAT010, Vd, Through treatment cycles, up to approximately 1 year|Clearance of LAT010, CL, Through treatment cycles, up to approximately 1 year|ADA occurrence and titer in serum, ADA, Through safety follow-up period, up to approximately 15 months|Objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 (Phase 1 ), ORR, Up to 24 months|Duration of response (DOR), DOR, Up to 24 months|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR, Up to 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS, Up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), OS, Up to 24 months|Incidence of AEs and SAEs, AEs/SAEs, From informed consent signed through safety follow-up period, up to approximately 15 months
Epigenetic assessment of the proliferation and activation of CD4+ Treg cells, CD8+ T cells, and natural killer (NK) cells., PD, Through the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days) in Phase 1|Optional flow cytometry assessment of the proliferation and activation of CD4+ Treg cells, CD8+ T cells, and NK cells., PD, Through treatment cycles in Phase 2, up to approximately 1 year
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) agonists have shown significant antitumor activities but are associated with severe toxic side effects, due to prioritized activation of high-affinity IL-2 receptor (i.e., IL2Rαβγ). LAT010 is a human IL-2 based immunocytokine designed to exclusively interact with intermediate-affinity IL-2 receptor (i.e., IL2Rβγ) but not the high-affinity IL2Rαβγ receptor. Its exceptional selectivity in activating CD8+ T cells and NK cells may confer the clinical benefits of IL-2 in promoting antitumor immunity without the associated safety concerns.

Phase 1 of the study will examine LAT010 in an accelerated and standard "3+3" dose-escalation design. It consists of 7 planned cohorts. Approximately 20 to 50 patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors will be enrolled in the cohorts. Each treatment cycle consists of 4 weeks, during which patients will receive an IV injection of LAT010 at the assigned dose once weekly. The DLT observation period is the first treatment cycle (28 days).

Phase 2 will be initiated after the MTD or a RP2D has been determined in Phase 1. Approximately up to 30 patients per cohort by tumor type will be enrolled to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of LAT010 in the treatment of selected tumor types at multiple dose levels based on the results of Phase 1. The primary objective of Phase 2 study is to define the preliminary efficacy in the setting of advanced cancers with high unmet medical needs.