MK-3475 as Maintenance Therapy in Extensive Stage SCLC
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer after completion of combination chemotherapy. Pembrolizumab may be effective in controlling small cell lung cancer for a longer period of time in patients with responsive or stable disease after completion of combination chemotherapy.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
PFS Using RECIST 1.1, Progression is defined using RECIST 1.1. PFS will be estimated with the standard Kaplan-Meier method, from which summary statistics of interest (median, 1-year rate, etc.) will be derived. Both point and 95% confidence interval estimates of PFS will be calculated., Time from registration to time of progression, assessed up to 6 months after completion of study treatment.
Modified PFS Defined by RECIST as Progression That is Confirmed by a Second Scan at Least 4 Weeks Apart, Progression is defined using RECIST 1.1. Estimated using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, from which the median and a 90% confidence interval will be calculated., Time from registration to time of progression, assessed up to 6 months after completion of study treatment.|Overall Survival, Estimated using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, from which the median and a 95% confidence interval will be calculated., Time from registration to time of death, assessed up to 12 months after completion of study treatment.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 defined progression-free survival (PFS) in extensive stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients, who have complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease following minimum of 4 cycles of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess modified PFS in all patients enrolled. II. To assess overall survival of patients enrolled on the trial. III. To assess programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in archival tumor tissues and in circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and correlate the expression to RECIST defined PFS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 12 weeks.