Safety and Efficacy of PDT vs RFA vs PDT+RFA for the Treatment of Extrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
A median survival period of 3 to 6 months is the prognosis for patients with advanced, unresectable EHCC. For patients with locally advanced, unresectable EHCC, effective management of tumor growth is the only option to increase stent patency and survival time. In patients with cholangiocarcinoma, photodynamic therapy (PDT) is therapy that has been shown to improve stent patency and overall survival (OS). Endoscopic radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been demonstrated in numerous studies to prolong the life spans of individuals with malignant biliary obstruction . In the literature, comparing the clinical efficacy and adverse outcomes of these two endoscopic procedures is rare.
Extrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma|Bile Duct Cancer
PROCEDURE: RFA|PROCEDURE: PDT|PROCEDURE: RFA combined with PDT
Overall survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from initial RFA or PDT to death or the end of the study., Three years
Adverse events, Number of patients with adverse events, Three years|Progression-free survival(PFS), PFS was measured from therapy until the date of disease progression or death, Three years
The lower common bile duct and the hepatic hilar area are the origin of extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (EHCC). Patients with advanced, unresectable EHCC have a relatively poor prognosis, with a median survival time of 3 to 6 months. The only way to prolong stent patency and survival for patients with unresectable locally advanced EHCC is by active control of tumor development. The only treatment that has consistently demonstrated an improvement in stent patency and overall survival (OS) in cholangiocarcinoma patients is photodynamic therapy (PDT). The popularity of endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography (ERCP)-guided radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has grown recently in an effort to increase stent patency and survival time for patients with malignant biliary obstruction.RFA for biliary cholangiocarcinoma has demonstrated safety and effectiveness. Endoscopic RFA has been shown in various studies to prolong stent patency and the survival of patients with malignant biliary obstruction. The clinical effectiveness and adverse events of these two endoscopic treatments have not been compared in many papers.