Bevacizumab and Sunitinib in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bevacizumab and sunitinib in treating patients with solid tumors. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Sunitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Bevacizumab and sunitinib may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving bevacizumab together with sunitinib may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: sunitinib malate|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bevacizumab in combination with sunitinib malate determined according to dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0), 42 days
Objective response rate assessed by RECIST, Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be summarized using the method of Kaplan and Meier. 95% confidence intervals will be reported when appropriate., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Will be summarized using the method of Kaplan and Meier. 95% confidence intervals will be reported when appropriate., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bevacizumab in combination with sunitinib malate (SU11248) in patients with solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the objective response rate, time to disease progression, and overall survival of these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study.

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 and oral sunitinib malate (SU11248) once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bevacizumab and SU11248 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 10 patients are treated at the MTD.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 30 days.