Retreatment of Patients With Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Who Have Previously Responded to Iodine-131 Anti B1 Antibody
This multicenter study will determine the response rate, the complete response rate, duration of response, time to progression, time-to-treatment failure, safety, and survival following treatment with Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody for the retreatment of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who previously responded with a duration of response of at least 3 months to Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody therapy. Patients will undergo two phases of study. In the first phase, patients will receive a dosimetric dose of unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) followed by Anti-B1 Antibody (35 mg) which has been radiolabeled with 5 mCi of Iodine-131. Whole body gamma camera scans will be obtained after the dosimetric dose and data from three imaging time points will be used to calculate a patient-specific dose to deliver the desired total body dose of radiotherapy. In the second phase, patients will receive the therapeutic dose of unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) followed by 35 mg of Anti-B1 Antibody labeled with the patient-specific dose to deliver the desired whole body dose of radiation. Patients will be treated with thyroid blocking medication at least 24 hours prior to the first infusion and continuing for 14 days following the last infusion.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
BIOLOGICAL: Tositumomab and Iodine I 131 Tositumomab
Number of Participants With Complete Response and Confirmed Complete Response, Complete response (CR) is defined as the complete resolution of all disease-related radiological abnormalities and the disappearance of all signs and symptoms related to the disease. Response is defined as the best response achieved at any evaluation. A confirmed response is defined as a response that was confirmed by two separate response evaluations occurring at least 4 weeks apart., Every 6 months until disease progression, death, or for 2 years following the dosimetric dose, whichever occurred first (average of 80.2 months)|Duration of Response for All Confirmed Responders (CR + CCR + PR), For participants with CR, clinical CR (CCR), or partial response (PR), duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented response to the first documented progression. CCR is defined as the complete resolution of all disease-related symptoms, but residual foci, thought to be residual scar tissue, are present. Generally, an unchanging lesion \<=2 centimeters (cm) in diameter by radiographic evaluation or \<=1 cm in diameter by physical examination can be considered scar tissue. The extent of disease must be unchanged or decreased upon follow-up evaluations and, if unchanged or if further decreases for 6 months or longer are present, the participant will then be reclassified as a CR (complete resolution of all disease-related radiological abnormalities and the disappearance of all signs and symptoms related to the disease). PR is defined as a \>=50% reduction in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions, with no new lesions., Every 6 months until disease progression, death, or for 2 years following the dosimetric dose, whichever occurred first (average of 80.2 months)|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (time to progression or death) is defined as the time from the start of retreatment (i.e., the dosimetric dose) to the first documented progression or death. Disease Progression (PD) is defined as a \>=25% increase from the nadir value of the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions or the appearance of any new lesion. Individual lesions must be grater than 2 cm diameter by radiographic evaluation or grater than 1 cm diameter by physical examination., Every 6 months until disease progression, death, or for 2 years following the dosimetric dose, whichever occurred first (average of 80.2 months)|Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure is defined as the time from the dosimetric dose to the first occurrence of treatment withdrawal, a decision to receive additional therapy, study withdrawal, disease progression, or death., Every 6 months until disease progression, death, or for 2 years following the dosimetric dose, whichever occurred first (average of 80.2 months)|Overall Survival, Time to death (overall survival) is defined as the time from the start of retreatment (i.e., the dosimetric dose) to the date of death from any cause., Every 6 months until disease progression, death, or for 2 years following the dosimetric dose, whichever occurred first (average of 80.2 months)|Number of Participants With Any Serious Adverse Event (SAE) and Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is defined as those events that were fatal or immediately life-threatening, and those events that resulted in hospitalization; prolonged an existing hospitalization; or resulted in disability, congenital anomaly, or cancer. Refer to the general AE/SAE module for a complete list of all AEs and SAEs., Every 6 months until disease progression, death, or for 2 years following the dosimetric dose, whichever occurred first (average of 80.2 months)
This multicenter study will determine the response rate, the complete response rate, duration of response, time to progression, time-to-treatment failure, safety, and survival following treatment with Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody for the retreatment of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who previously responded with a duration of response of at least 3 months to Iodine-131 Anti-B1 Antibody therapy. Patients will undergo two phases of study. In the first phase, patients will receive a dosimetric dose of unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) followed by Anti-B1 Antibody (35 mg) which has been radiolabeled with 5 mCi of Iodine-131. Whole body gamma camera scans will be obtained after the dosimetric dose and data from three imaging time points will be used to calculate a patient-specific dose to deliver the desired total body dose of radiotherapy. In the second phase, patients will receive the therapeutic dose of unlabeled Anti-B1 Antibody (450 mg) followed by 35 mg of Anti-B1 Antibody labeled with the patient-specific dose to deliver the desired whole body dose of radiation. Patients will be treated with thyroid blocking medication at least 24 hours prior to the first infusion and continuing for 14 days following the last infusion.