Ibrutinib in Combination With Rituximab in Patients With Indolent Clinical Forms of MCL
Phase II study with a two-stage design to evaluate efficacy and safety of ibrutinib in combination with rituximab (I+R) in untreated patients with indolent clinical forms of MCL.

An extensive biological study will be conducted in order to further characterize this population of MCL patients and evaluate the response obtained with the mutational profile of the tumor.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: IBRUTINIB|DRUG: Rituximab
Rate of complete remission, Percentage of patients who are alive and in complete response at 12 months from the date of treatment initiation. All patients will be evaluated with PET- CT and bone marrow biopsy at that time., 12 months
Overall Response Rate (OR), Including complete response and partial response according to the International Response Criteria for Non- Hodgkin Lymphoma, 12 months|Progression Free Survival, Percentage of patients without progression of disease, 7 years|Response Duration, Length of time between, 7 years|Minimal residual disease (MRD), Proportion of subjects who are MRD negative (ie, less than the lower limit of detection for the MRD assay)., within 12 months after initiation of study treatment|Overall survival, Percentage of patients alive from first dose of treatment to end of follow-up., 7 years|Adverse Events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAES) and Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reactions (SUSARs), Number of events classified according to the Common Toxicity Criteria of the National Cancer Institute (CTC AE V 4.03)., 7 years|Score of the EORTC quality of life questionnaire QLQ-30, Health related quality of life questionnaire, 12 months|Secore of the FACT-LYM, Health related quality of life questionnaire, 12 months
Patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) have a median survival of 3-5 years despite treatment. Indeed, the best therapeutic approach for different patients with MCL remains to be established, coexisting different options of immunochemotherapy regimes which may include autologous transplantation in first-line treatment or rituximab maintenance.

Moreover, last years MCL starts to be recognized as a heterogeneous disease both from biological and clinical stand points. For instance, MCL cases with a non-nodal clinical presentation, usually have distinctive biological features such as SOX-11 negativity, hypermutated IGHV genes and a low number of genetic lesions associated. The outcome of these cases is much more favourable compared to conventional MCL, reaching median survivals over 7 to 10 years even receiving less intensive treatments. In addition to that, up to 30% of the patients with newly diagnosed MCL can be safely deferred from initial therapy until progression . Therapeutic abstention may be prolonged for more than one year in 50% of cases. These patients usually show longer survivals from the start of treatment compared to patients immediately treated after diagnosis. Therefore, all these observations indicate that there are indolent clinical forms in MCL, so its clinico-biological identification is crucial to tailor treatment appropriately. However, at present there is no consensus on the diagnostic criteria or treatment recommendations in cases of indolent MCL. This results in difficulties for the identification of these forms in the clinical practice as well as with a certain therapeutic in definition, as indolent forms of MCL can be treated either with therapeutic abstention until progression or receive immediate treatment with conventional or more intensive immuno-chemotherapy regimes, which may even include an autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. With the emergence of new biological agents in the therapeutic arsenal of MCL arises the question whether a completely different approach with new drugs and chemotherapy-free could be more appropriate in selected subsets of patients such as indolent MCL forms.