Universal CAR-T Cells Targeting Multiple Myeloma
The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of universal CAR T cells targeting multiple myeloma. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the persistence and function of the universal CAR T cells in the body.
Multiple Myeloma in Remission
BIOLOGICAL: MM-specific universal CAR T cells
Percentage of patients with treatment related adverse effect, percentage of participants with treatment-related adverse events, as assessed by physical examination, vital signs, standard clinical lab tests., 6 months
Anti-tumor activity of the universal 4SCAR-T cells after infusion, CART cells in the peripheral blood of patients will be measured by qPCR on Day 7, 14, 21, 28, 60 and 90 after infusion., 3 months|Anti-tumor activity of fourth generation universal CAR-T cells in patients with relapsed or refractory MM, Objective response, such as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) will be assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a malignancy of the plasma cells, which remains a clinical challenge despite advanced therapeutic interventions including novel molecular therapies and stem cell transplantation (SCT).

CAR-T therapy has proven to be a revolutionary treatment for hematological malignancies, but its manufacture is still limited by the high cost, and a long preparation time that is not conducive to timely treatment of patients. In addition, many MM patients suffer from long-term bone marrow suppression caused by tumor growth or prolonged and intense chemotherapies, resulting in exhaustion, aging and functional defects of autologous T cells, which substantially affect the quality of CAR-T cells and the clinical efficacy. The universal CAR-T cells could overcome many of the above problems.

By using universal type of CAR-T cells, the product can be supplied off-the-shelf without being customized from individual patients. In addition, the immediate availability means that patients under severe bone marrow suppression may get a chance to be treated with CAR-T cells to achieve disease remission. In addition, those patients who suffer from long-term immunosuppression due to tumor microenvironment or myelosuppressive chemotherapy would have the option of treatment with the universal CAR-T cells.

The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of several 4SCAR designs including BCMA, CD138, CD38 and CD19-specific universal CAR-T products targeting MM. Another goal is to learn more about the function of these universal CAR T cells and their persistency in the patients.