Adjuvant Cetuximab and Chemoradiation in Head and Neck Cancer
This multicenter, open-label, uncontrolled phase II trial evaluates safety and efficacy of post-operative chemoradiation in combination with cetuximab in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Cetuximab
Rate of patients experiencing grade 3/4 acute toxicities not considering grade 3/4 skin tox. outside the radiation portals combined with 2-years disease-free survival rate., any toxicities occurring within 90 days post radiation start
Incidence of Loco-regional relapse, assessment after patient has completed follow-up|Disease-free survival, time from start of surgery to the first evidence of loco-regional or distant tumor relapse or death|Progression-free survival, from start of surgery to the first observation of disease progression or death|Overall survival, censored at the time of last documented efficacy|The rate of patients with secondary primary neoplasm, assessment after patient has completed follow-up|The incidence of late toxicity, beyond 90 days after start of radiation therapy
Advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck still has a poor prognosis and loco-regional recurrence frequently occurs. Efforts have been made to improve response rates and survival and different therapeutic regimens including concurrent chemo-radiotherapy or sequential chemo-radiotherapy have been developed.

To further increase the outcome of patients with locally advanced SCCHN effective new treatments with minimal toxicities are needed. Molecular targeted agents, which do not demonstrate overlapping toxicities with commonly used chemotherapy agents, have therefore been investigated. The EGFR is widely expressed at high levels in SSCHN and is associated with poor prognosis.

Cetuximab has already been investigated in combination with radiotherapy or chemotherapy in patients with head and neck cancer. The immunoradiotherapy was well tolerated with most of the side effects related to the high dose irradiation. The most common side effects are mucositis and dysphagia. Additionally, skin reactions appear sometimes more frequently in cetuximab administration. Grade 3 to 4 infusion reactions were observed in 3% of the patients treated with cetuximab. Based on the current promising results with RCT in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer and clinical results with EGFR-antibodies plus RT, the present study was primarily designed to define the acute grade 3/4 toxicity.

We expect to show effective results in reducing the risk of distant metastasis, with administration of an additional six month adjuvant cetuximab treatment, in patient with recurrent SCCHN.