SIGNAL During a COVID-19 Pandemic
The standard treatment for early stage, estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer is lumpectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy followed by 16-25 treatments of adjuvant whole-breast radiation therapy plus or minus hormone therapy. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated changes in the way breast cancer is treated in order to reduce contact between individuals, reduce spread of the novel coronavirus, and lessen the impact on health care resources. As elective surgeries are being cancelled, current pandemic guidelines recommend that patients be started on hormone treatment while waiting for surgeries to be re-instated. Only after this surgery occurs will patients receive radiation treatment, dramatically extending the time between diagnosis and end of treatment. Emergency pandemic guidelines in the UK and other countries recommend 5 fractions of pre-operative radiation therapy where appropriate. Based on previous work in the SIGNAL 1.0 and SIGNAL 2.0 clinical trials, the investigators are proposing treating patients with early stage breast cancers with one single fraction of stereotactic neoadjuvant radiation during the pre-operative waiting period. This will allow patients to complete radiation therapy upfront while reducing the number of patient visits to hospital. This will also allow investigators to evaluate the ability of single-fraction targeted radiation to induce a pathologic complete response.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Radiation therapy
Pathologic complete response (pCR), To evaluate whether a pathologic complete response can be achieved when radiotherapy is delivered in a single 21 Gy fraction, establishing whether tumour response has a linear function with time in the context of delayed surgery. Pathologic complete response will be treated as a dichotomous variable (yes/no). Results will be stratified based on whether patients were also placed on neoadjuvant hormone treatment., 1 year|Feasibility of SBRT during a pandemic, To demonstrate feasibility of treating early stage breast cancer patients with a single 21 Gy fraction during the COVID-19 pandemic. This will be measured by accrual rate and the number of patients that can be treated during this pandemic., 1 year
Radiation toxicity, A secondary objective is to evaluate toxicity resulting from delivering radiation therapy in this manner. Toxicity will be evaluated using the CTCAE grading system., 1.5 years|Cosmesis, A secondary objective is to evaluate breast cosmesis resulting from delivery of radiation therapy in this manner. Cosmesis will be evaluated using the Modified Harvard-Harris Scale., 1.5 years
The standard treatment for early stage, estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer is lumpectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy followed by 16-25 treatments of adjuvant whole-breast radiation therapy plus or minus hormone therapy. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated changes in the way breast cancer is treated in order to reduce contact between individuals, reduce spread of the novel coronavirus, and lessen the impact on health care resources. As elective surgeries are being cancelled, current pandemic guidelines recommend that patients be started on hormone treatment while waiting for surgeries to be re-instated. Only after this surgery occurs will patients receive radiation treatment, dramatically extending the time between diagnosis and end of treatment. Emergency pandemic guidelines in the UK and other countries recommend 5 fractions of pre-operative radiation therapy where appropriate. Based on previous work in the SIGNAL 1.0 and SIGNAL 2.0 clinical trials, the investigators are proposing treating patients with early stage breast cancers with one single fraction of stereotactic neoadjuvant radiation during the pre-operative waiting period. This will allow patients to complete radiation therapy upfront while reducing the number of patient visits to hospital. This will also allow investigators to evaluate the ability of single-fraction targeted radiation to induce a pathologic complete response.