Ultrasound-enhanced Delivery of Chemotherapy to Patients With Liver Metastasis From Breast- and Colorectal Cancer
The aim of this clinical trial is to investigate whether the therapeutic response of chemotherapy can be improved by focused ultrasound and microbubbles. Patients with liver metastases from breast cancer and colorectal cancer will be included. Computer Tomography (CT) will be performed as a baseline scan before treatment start. Two metastases in each patients liver will be preselected and randomized to either "target lesion" to be treated or "control lesion" to serve as internal control. The patients will receive conventional treatment with chemotherapy according to national guidelines. After intravenous chemotherapy infusion the patients will receive the experimental treatment. The target lesion will get focused ultrasound (FUS). Simultaneously repeated bolus-doses of microbubbles will be administered intravenously. The investigators will measure the difference in response between FUS- treated and -untreated lesions on the post-treatment CT scan.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: SonoVue|PROCEDURE: Focused Ultrasound
difference in measured response between treated and untreated lesions, Response is measured in change in size of the treated metastases., From baseline examination CT to response evaluation CT: 10-12 weeks
Occurrence of adverse effects, questionnaire 'Common toxicity criteria', 8 weeks
The aim of this clinical trial is to investigate whether the therapeutic response of chemotherapy can be improved by focused ultrasound and microbubbles. Patients with liver metastases from breast cancer and colorectal cancer will be included. Computer Tomography (CT) will be performed as a baseline scan before treatment start. Two metastases in each patients liver will be preselected and randomized to either "target lesion" to be treated or "control lesion" to serve as internal control. The patients will receive conventional treatment with chemotherapy according to national guidelines. After intravenous chemotherapy infusion the patients will receive the experimental treatment. The target lesion will get focused ultrasound (FUS). Simultaneously repeated bolus-doses of microbubbles will be administered intravenously. The investigators will measure the difference in response between FUS- treated and -untreated lesions on the post-treatment CT scan.