Neurocognition in NSCLC Patients Treated With Osimertinib or Osimertinib + WBI
This is a prospective, randomised, positive-controlled, study to assess the neurocognitive function of upfront Osimertinib compared to whole-brain irradiation (WBI) plus Osimertinib in EGFR-mutant (Ex 19Del and L858R) NSCLC patients with symptomatic brain metastases, as well as the efficacy and safety.
Neurocognitive
RADIATION: Osimertinib and whole-brain irradiation|DRUG: Osimertinib
neurocognitive function (HVLT-R), measured as a significant deterioration (5-point drop compared with baseline) in Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R) total recall at 4 months, at 4 months
intracranial progression-free survival, defined as the time from randomization to the date of intracranial disease progression, assessed up to 36 months|progression-free survival, defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documentary disease progression, assessed up to 36 months|intracranial overall response rate, percentage of participants with objective response in brain metastasis, assessed up to 60 months|overall response rate, percentage of participants with objective response, assessed up to 60 months|intracranial disease control rate, percentage of participants with disease control in brain metastasis, assessed up to 60 months|disease control rate, percentage of participants with disease control, assessed up to 60 months|intracranial Duration of Response, defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documentary PR or CR in brain metastasis, assessed up to 60 months|Duration of Response, defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documentary PR or CR, assessed up to 60 months|Time to initiate WBI, defined as the time from randomization to the date of initiate WBI, assessed up to 36 months
Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL), Questionnaire consisting of 30 items measuring subjects general cancer symptoms and functioning, assessed up to 60 months|disease-related symptoms, A complementary questionnaire measuring lung cancer symptoms, assessed up to 60 months
Account for patients with wild type EGFR, sample attrition , incidence rate of symptomatic brain metastasis(10%) and any other reasons for screen failure rate(50%), it is esimated that 88 patients will be randomized from 5 sites. Patients will be randomized 1:1, the experimental arm is upfront Osimertinib with WBI sequential therapy, while the control arm is Osimertinib plus WBI. Osimertinib at a dose of 80 mg once per day, until unacceptable adverse events or disease progression occurred. WBI could be given to patients in experimental arm at any time base on investigator's decision after treatment initiated. Patients will be stratifed at randomization by GPA score (3.5-4 vs \<3.5) and the mutation type (Ex19Del / L858R). Patients will undergo the neurocognition, efficacy and safety assessments at baseline, and every 8 weeks until treatment is completed or discontinued. About time to brain metastases symptoms deterioration, the assessment was repeated in the first week (on site), second week (through telephone) and fourth week (on site). The rest assessment will be as well as other evaluations repeated every 8 weeks. To evaluate the correlation and predictive or prognostic value between gene dynamic changes and clinical efficacy, the tissue, plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples will be collected at baseline. CSF will be collected in patients with intracranial progression. Plasma will be collected in all the patients at disease progression, while tissue is optional. Also, plasma will be collected at week 8(first evaluation of efficacy).