Ixabepilone in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase II trial is studying how well ixabepilone works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ixabepilone, work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: ixabepilone
Objective Overall Response Rate, The 1999 international response criteria (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10561185) as published by Cheson was used for the definition of target lesions and CT scans were used for response assessment. CR(complete response)/CRu(unconfirmed complete response) requires disappearance of all target lesions; PR (partial response) requires \>=50% decrease in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters; Overall Response (OR)=CR/CRu+PR., up to 3 years|Safety and Toxicity of Ixabepilone, Number of patients experiencing adverse event grade 3 or above. Grade was determined by the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 2.0. Adverse events possibly, probably, or definitely attributed to use of ixabepilone., up to 3 years
Duration of Response, Duration of response was measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR(complete response)/CRu(unconfirmed complete response)/PR(partial response), whichever was first recorded, until the first date that PD(progressive disease) was objectively documented. According to the 1999 international response criteria as published by Cheson, CR/CRu is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as \>=50% decrease in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters; PD is defined as \>=50% increase from nadir in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters of any previously identified abnormal node for PRs or nonresponders, or appearance of any new lesion during or at the end of therapy., up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Defined as the time from the first day of therapy to the date of death. If the patient was lost to follow-up, survival was censored on the last date the patient was known to be alive., up to 3 years|Time to Progression, Defined as the time from the first day of treatment until the date PD(progressive disease) or death is first reported. Patients who died without a reported prior progression was considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Patients who did not progress was censored at the day of their last tumor assessment. According to the 1999 international response criteria as published by Cheson, progression/progressive disease is defined as \>=50% increase from nadir in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters of any previously identified abnormal node for PRs or nonresponders, or appearance of any new lesion during or at the end of therapy., up to 3 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective overall response rate of patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with BMS-247550 (ixabepilone).

II. Determine the safety and toxicity of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the duration of response, overall survival, and time to progression in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study.

Patients receive ixabepilone intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or if the patient becomes a candidate for stem cell transplantation.

Patients are followed every 8 weeks until disease progression.