Carbon Dioxide Fractional Laser in Treating Participants With Stage 0-III Hormone Receptor-Positive Breast Cancer With Vulvovaginal Atrophy
This phase II trial studies how well carbon dioxide fractional (CO2RE) laser works in treating participants with stage 0-III hormone receptor-positive breast cancer with vulvovaginal atrophy associated with dryness, inflammation or thinning of the epithelial lining of the vulva and vagina. CO2RE laser is a device that delivers controlled CO2 energy to the vaginal tissue and may help treat vaginal symptoms such as itching, burning, painful sexual intercourse, thickened or thin skin of the vulva, and stinging.
Anatomic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Adenocarcinoma|Dyspareunia|Estrogen Receptor Positive|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Prognostic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Vaginal Dryness|Vaginal Itching|Vulvovaginal Atrophy
DEVICE: Carbon Dioxide Fractional Laser|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Reduction in Vulvovaginal Symptom Questionnaire (VSQ) (symptoms, emotions, and life-impact), Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation \[SD\], median, interquartile range \[IQR\]) using frequency table and histogram will be used to summarize the reduction in the sum of VSQ total score first three scales of the VSQ (symptoms, emotions, and life-impact) at 3 months after treatment versus (vs.) baseline., Baseline up to 3 months
Reduction in VSQ score (symptoms, emotions, and life-impact), Will evaluate the sum of first three scales of the VSQ (symptoms, emotions, and life impact), VSQ total scale, and sub-scales. Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, IQR) and longitudinal plots (raw value, change, change in percentage) will be used to summarize the sum of VSQ total score first three scales of the VSQ (symptoms, emotions, and life-impact), VSQ total scale and subscales., Baseline up to 12 months|Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) score, Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, IQR) and will be used to summarize FSFI total score and subscales before and after treatment., Baseline up to 12 months|Urogenital Distress Inventory (UDI) 6 score, Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, IQR) and will be used to summarize UDI-6 score before and after treatment., Baseline up to 12 months|Vaginal health index score, Descriptive statistics (frequency table) and histogram will be used to summarize vaginal health index score before and after treatment., Baseline up to 12 months|Vaginal caliber, Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, IQR) and will be used to summarize vaginal caliber before and after treatment., Baseline up to 12 months|Discomfort and pain during carbon dioxide fractional (CO2RE) laser treatment using the visual analog scale, Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, IQR) and will be used to summarize the visual analogue pain scale during treatment., Up to 12 months|Treatment satisfaction as measured by 5-point Likert scale, Descriptive statistics (frequency table) and histogram will be used to summarize treatment satisfaction after CO2RE laser treatment using 5-point Likert scale during follow-up, Up to 12 months|Adherence to aromatase inhibitor as measured by the Simplified Medication Adherence Questionnaire, Descriptive statistics (frequency table) and histogram will be used to summarize the Simplified Medication Adherence Questionnaire during follow-up., Up to 12 months|Incidence of adverse events graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns., Up to 12 months
Change in vaginal cytology using vaginal maturation index, Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, IQR) and longitudinal plots (raw value, change, change in percentage) will be used to summarize the change in the vaginal cytology using vaginal maturation index., Baseline up to 12 months|Assessment of serum estradiol levels, Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, IQR) and longitudinal plots (raw value, change, change in percentage) will be used to summarize serum estradiol level at baseline and after CO2RE laser treatment and the change from baseline., Baseline up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the reduction in Vulvovaginal Symptom Questionnaire (VSQ) score at 3-month follow up after CO2RE laser treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the reduction in VSQ score after CO2RE laser treatment 6-month follow-up and 12-month follow-up.

II. To evaluate Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) score before and after treatment with CO2RE laser.

III. To evaluate Urogenital Distress Inventory (UDI) 6 score before and after treatment with CO2RE laser.

IV. To evaluate vaginal health index score and vaginal caliber before and after treatment with CO2RE laser.

V. To evaluate discomfort and pain during CO2RE laser treatment using the visual analog scale.

VI. To evaluate treatment satisfaction after CO2RE laser treatment using 5-point Likert scale.

VII. To evaluate adherence to aromatase inhibitor at 6 and 12 months after CO2RE laser treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the change in the vaginal cytology using vaginal maturation index at baseline and during follow-up.

II. To assess serum estradiol level at baseline and after CO2RE laser treatment.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo carbon dioxide fractional laser therapy over 10-15 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months.