Ganetespib Window of Opportunity Study in Head and Neck Cancers
This pilot clinical trial studies how well ganetespib works before surgery in treating patients with stage I-IVA squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck that can be removed by surgery. Ganetespib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Studying samples of blood and tissue in the laboratory from patients receiving ganetespib may help doctors learn more about the effects of ganetespib on cells. It may also help doctors understand how well patients respond to treatment.
Stage I Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Ganetespib|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Change in expression of biomarkers in tissue samples, assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC), The biomarker expression of pre-, post-treatment, and their change will be described by summary statistics along with 95% confidence interval (CI) for the estimated mean. A paired sample Wilcoxon signed rank test will be considered to test whether the mean of post-treatment expression is different from the pre-treatment expression. This analysis will be done separately by each of the three dose levels, and by pooling all dose levels together. Kruskal-Wallis test will also be carried out., Baseline to up to 24 months|Change in biomarker expression in blood samples, The biomarker expression of pre-, post-treatment, as well as their change will be described by summary statistics along with 95% CI for the estimated mean. A paired sample Wilcoxon signed rank test will be considered to test whether the mean of post-treatment expression is different from that of the pre-treatment expression. This analysis will be done separately by each of the three dose levels, as well as by pooling all dose levels together. Kruskal-Wallis test will also be carried out., Baseline to up to 24 months
Ganetespib is a small molecule inhibitor of HSP90 that is currently being studied in several ongoing clinical trials. Investigators have demonstrated that ganetespib sensitizes colorectal cell lines to the effects of chemo radiotherapy in vitro. Ganetespib may have an anti-tumor effect in head and neck cancer. The investigators propose this pilot study as a first step to examine the activity of ganetespib in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) who have a planned surgical resection.

Ganetespib has not been investigated in SCCHN. This protocol is a window of opportunity trial that will be looking at whether there is a rationale for pursuing this agent in future development of clinical trials that would then focus on therapeutic interventions with or without radiotherapy. There are therefore no clinical trials currently opened using ganetespib in SCCHN and listed on ClinicalTrials.gov. It is not clear if patients who receive this drug prior to surgery will benefit from this intervention.

In this study, ganetespib will be administered twice weekly (doses approximately 72 hours apart) for 2 weeks, followed by surgery the day after the last dose of the study drug. There will be 3 dose levels, 80, 100 and 150mg/m² as highest dose. These doses were chosen based on the following considerations. In a Phase 1 study (protocol 9090-01) investigating a twice-weekly ganetespib treatment schedule, doses up to 173 mg/m² were well tolerated, with manageable diarrhea and fatigue being the most common adverse events. Extensive correlative studies and pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) modeling of preclinical data suggest that in humans the effective dose range for ganetespib is 70-150 mg/m². Therefore, 80 mg/m² is within the range of ganetespib effectiveness and 150 mg/m² twice weekly is a well-tolerated dose.