Second Curettage in Treating Patients With Persistent Non-metastatic Gestational Trophoblastic Tumors
This phase II trial studies how well a second curettage (removal of the abnormal cancer cells in the uterus using a method of surgically removing the lining of the uterus) works in treating patients with gestational trophoblastic tumors that did not go away after a first curettage (persistent) and has not yet spread to other places in the body (non-metastatic). A second curettage may be effective in treating persistent gestational trophoblastic tumors and may decrease the likelihood that patients will need chemotherapy in the near future.
Complete Hydatidiform Mole|Non-Metastatic Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor|Partial Hydatidiform Mole
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Development of "second persistent" disease, defined as failure to achieve or maintain a normal assay, or a plateau, or a rise in the assay level after second curettage, Up to 6 months|Frequency of surgical cure defined as normal beta-hCG level documented for 6 consecutive months AND no chemotherapy, Up to 6 months|Incidence of adverse effects of second curettage, assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, The frequency and severity of the reported adverse effects of repeat evacuation will be tabulated. Specifically, uterine operative injury, hemorrhage, and infection (pelvis, fallopian tubes and ovaries) will be prospectively collected., Up to 30 days after the surgical procedure|Surgical failure, defined as the development of choriocarcinoma, placental site trophoblastic tumor, or epithelioid trophoblastic tumor histologically diagnosed at second curettage, At time of surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response to second curettage in patients with persistent, non-metastatic gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if response to a second curettage is independent of the tumor burden as measured by the quantitative beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) assay at study entry.

II. To evaluate if response to a second curettage is independent of the depth of myometrial invasion as measured sonographically following the initial curettage but prior to study entry (when persistent disease is first diagnosed).

III. To estimate the frequency of complications related to a second curettage, specifically infection of the fallopian tubes or ovaries, hemorrhage associated with curettage, or operative injury to the uterus.

IV. To estimate the frequency of a change in the uterine histology between the first and second curettage.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo a second curettage rather than standard treatment (immediate chemotherapy) within 14 days of registration.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 14 days, weekly for 4 weeks, and then monthly for 5 months, and then every 3 months for 24 months.