Cinnamon Extract on Menstrual Cycles in PolyCystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
The primary purpose of this follow-up study is to determine if cinnamon can restore menstrual cyclicity in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) subjects with oligomenorrhea. As a secondary purpose, the investigators intend to confirm the salutatory effect of cinnamon on insulin resistance in larger group of study subjects.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a very common condition found in women of childbearing age. PCOS patients often have irregular periods, extra hair growth, or difficulty becoming pregnant. The syndrome can also be associated with more serious conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, or cancer of the uterus. Although no one knows the cause of the syndrome, scientific studies showed that having too much insulin can be one of the reasons. In fact, almost every overweight woman with PCOS has been found to have high insulin levels.

Recently studies using rats and mice have shown that a commonly used spice, cinnamon, may also reduce the body's insulin level. Another study showed that daily use of cinnamon for forty days lowered the blood sugar level in patients with diabetes. Our own study also showed that using cinnamon everyday for 8 weeks decreased insulin resistance in women with PCOS. The purpose of this study is to see if cinnamon can help women with PCOS have more regular periods.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: Cinnamon Extract|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
Number of Menses During the Six Month Study Period., Ovulatory cycles will be confirmed by serum progesterone levels., Up to 6 months
Change in Insulin Resistance, The changes in insulin resistance parameters in overweight patients with PCOS between baseline and after 6 months of daily cinnamon compared to the corresponding change in patients receiving 6 months of placebo. Higher values of insulin resistance represent a worse outcome. A higher value Homeostasis Model of Insulin Resistance indicates more insulin resistance so higher values are worse outcomes (a score of \>2 is considered healthy for adults with scores \>5 being considered severe insulin resistance). For the Quant. Insulin Sensitivity Check Index, a lower value indicates more insulin resistance so lower values are worse outcomes (values can range from .45, which is considered normal in health individuals and .30, which is characteristic of diabetes)., Baseline and 6 months|Change in Glucose Response, Change in Glucose Response - area under the curve (AUC), trapezoidal method - in overweight patients with PCOS between baseline and after 6 months of daily cinnamon compared to the corresponding change in patient receiving 6 months of placebo. Fasting blood samples were drawn followed by a 2 hour glucose tolerance test with blood draws at 30, 60, and 120min post glucose ingestion., Baseline and 6 Months - fasting bloods, followed by glucose tolerance test with draws at 30, 60, and 120 minutes post glucose ingestion
All patients will eat a balanced diet containing 1800 calories per day, but half of the patients in the study will take pre-made cinnamon extract pills three times a day, while the other half will take placebo pills (pills with no cinnamon extract) three times a day for 6 months. During this time, every patient will keep track of her period on a calendar.

Blood tests measuring insulin, substances important for insulin action, cholesterol, and glucose (sugar) will be taken before and after the 6 months of medication. A total of 8 separate visits will be needed to finish the study. At the end of the study, the investigators will then compare the number of periods, blood glucose, insulin, and cholesterol levels between the patients that took cinnamon and the patients that took placebo.