Endoscopic Stenting Versus Surgical Bypass for Low Bile Duct Obstruction by Cancer of the Pancreatic Head
The prognosis of patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer is dismal. Hence, palliation of tumor-associated symptoms, in particular jaundice due to low bile duct obstruction and gastric outlet obstruction, is the primary aim of these patients' care. Endoscopic stenting and surgical bypass are currently the two competing treatment options. There is currently no randomized trial comparing the recently developed metal stents to surgical bypass. Furthermore, there is very limited data on quality of life of these patients receiving either therapy. While endoscopic stenting represents the less invasive treatment, surgery may provide better long-term control requiring one-time treatment. Due to the incomplete evidence the present randomized controlled trial is designed to compare quality of life of patients undergoing endoscopic stenting on demand or surgical bypass for palliation of symptoms caused by cancer of the pancreatic head requiring with low bile duct obstruction.
Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: Surgical bypass|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic stenting
Quality of life, 12 months|Serum bilirubin, 12 months
Procedure-related complications, 12 months
The prognosis of patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer is dismal. Hence, palliation of tumor-associated symptoms, in particular jaundice due to low bile duct obstruction and gastric outlet obstruction, is the primary aim of these patients' care. Endoscopic stenting and surgical bypass are currently the two competing treatment options. There is currently no randomized trial comparing the recently developed metal stents to surgical bypass. Furthermore, there is very limited data on quality of life of these patients receiving either therapy. While endoscopic stenting represents the less invasive treatment, surgery may provide better long-term control requiring one-time treatment. Due to the incomplete evidence the present randomized controlled trial is designed to compare quality of life of patients undergoing endoscopic stenting on demand or surgical bypass for palliation of symptoms caused by cancer of the pancreatic head requiring with low bile duct obstruction.