Study of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 + Veledimex in Combination With Cemiplimab in Subjects With Recurrent or Progressive Glioblastoma
This research study involves an investigational product: Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with veledimex for production of human IL-12. IL-12 is a protein that can improve the body's natural response to disease by enhancing the ability of the immune system to kill tumor cells and may interfere with blood flow to the tumor.

Cemiplimab-rwlc (Libtayo) is an antibody (a kind of human protein) that is being tested to see if it will allow the body's immune system to work against glioblastoma tumors. Libtayo (cemiplimab-rwlc) is currently FDA approved in the United States for metastatic cutaneous cell carcinoma (CSCC), but is not approved in glioblastoma. Cemiplimab-rwlc may help your immune system detect and attack cancer cells. Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex will be given in combination with cemiplimab-rwlc to enhance the IL-12 mediated effect observed to date.

The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a single tumoral injection of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with oral veledimex in combination with cemiplimab-rwlc.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ad-RTS-hIL-12|DRUG: Veledimex|DRUG: Cemiplimab-Rwlc
Safety of Intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and Oral Veledimex in Combination With Cemiplimab-rwlc in Subjects With Recurrent or Progressive Glioblastoma., Evaluation of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 will be based on the incidence, intensity and type of adverse event. Safety evaluations included the observed incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), serious TEAEs, TEAEs of toxicity Grade \>3, TEAEs leading to treatment dose modification, discontinuation, and death. Drug-related TEAEs were also assessed., 2.0 yrs|Efficacy of Intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and Oral Veledimex in Combination With Cemiplimab-rwlc in Subjects With Recurrent or Progressive Glioblastoma., Overall Survival (OS)

OS is defined as the duration of time from the first dose of study drug (i.e., cemiplimab at Day -7) to the date of death from any cause. Censoring will be considered as below:

* Subjects who discontinue study will be censored at date of discontinuation.
* Subjects who are lost to follow-up will be censored at last follow-up contact date.
* If the subject has not died, the subject is censored if still alive up to 2 years from the first dose of study drug received., 2.0 yrs
To Determine the Survival Rates at 6, 12, and 18 Months, Given the early closure of the study and survival follow-up data limited to one year post last patient in, complete assessment of efficacy could not be determined. Number of participants with death prior to each time point (6, 12, and 18 months) is reported here., From Day 0 through 18 months post first dose of study treatment|To Determine the Progression Free Survival (PFS), Given the early closure of the study, formal assessment of PFS using Kaplan Meier Product-Line method was not performed. Mean time to disease progression (or participant's last scan) is reported here., 2.0 yrs|To Determine the Rate of Pseudoprogression (PSP) at 6, 12, 18 and 24 Months, Given the early closure of the study complete assessment of efficacy could not be determined. Reported below is the PSP at anytime while on study., 2 years|To Determine the Investigator's Assessment of Response, Including Tumor Objective Response Rate (ORR) at 6, 12, 18 and 24 Months, Tumor response will be defined by radiographic and clinical criteria. Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) will be first assessed by radiographic changes that indicate a reduction of bi-dimensional tumor size as per Recist 1.1 criteria. In addition, changes in neurologic function and steroid use will be considered to determine stable disease (SD).Given the early closure of the study complete assessment of efficacy could not be determined. The results below report response at anytime while on study., 2 years|To Determine the Tumor Response Rates at 6, 12, 18 and 24 Months, Given the early closure of the study and survival follow-up data limited to one year post last patient in, complete assessment of efficacy could not be determined. The IRANO results below report response at anytime while on study., 2 years|Changes From Baseline in Cellular Responses Elicited by Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and Veledimex in Combination With Cemiplimab-rwlc, Immune cell population markers, such as cluster of differentiation (CD) antigens CD3+CD4+ and CD3+/ CD4+/ CD25hi/ Foxp3+/ CD127lo-, were assessed., Screening through Day 28 (assessed at Screening and Days 0, 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28)|Changes From Baseline in Humoral Immune Responses Elicited by Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and Veledimex in Combination With Cemiplimab-rwlc, Immunological and biological markers, such as levels of interleukin-12 (IL-12) and interferon gamma (IFN-γ) were assessed in serum samples., Screening through Day 28 (assessed at Screening and Days 0, 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28)
Eligible patients will receive one dose of cemiplimab-rwlc, via infusion, one week prior to standard of care craniotomy and tumor resection (subtotal or total). On the day of surgery, patients will receive one dose of veledimex before the resection procedure. Ad-RTS-hIL-12 will be administered by free-hand injection. Patients will continue on oral veledimex for 14 days. Following veledimex, patients will receive cemiplimab-rwlc via infusion every three weeks.

The study is divided into three periods: the screening period, the treatment period and the follow-up period.