Phase III Trial of Anlotinib, Catequentinib in Advanced Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma, Leiomyosarcoma, Synovial Sarcoma (APROMISS)
THIS STUDY IS CURRENTLY RECRUITING PATIENTS WITH ALVEOLAR SOFT PART SARCOMA ONLY AND IS NO LONGER RECRUITING PATIENTS WITH SYNOVIAL SARCOMA OR LEIOMYOSARCOMA.

This study evaluates the safety and efficacy of AL3818 (anlotinib) hydrochloride in the treatment of metastatic or advanced alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS), leiomyosarcoma (LMS), and synovial sarcoma (SS). All participants with ASPS will receive open-label AL3818. In participants with LMS or SS, AL3818 will be compared to IV dacarbazine. Two-thirds of the participants will receive AL3818, one-third of the participants will receive IV dacarbazine.
Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma|Leiomyosarcoma|Synovial Sarcoma|Soft-Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: AL3818|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: AL3818 or placebo
Objective Response Rate (ORR) (ASPS), To determine ORR in subjects with ASPS, defined as percentage of subjects who achieve a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as best responses according to RECIST 1.1 as evaluated by a blinded independent radiological review (BICR)., Up to 48 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) (LMS/SS), To compare PFS in subjects with LMS or SS randomized to AL3818 versus dacarbazine, defined a median number of months from the date of randomization until the first documented sign of disease progression or death due to any causes, whichever occurs earlier as evaluated by a blinded independent radiologic review (BICR)., From time of randomization to the date of disease progression or death from any cause, up to 48 months
Duration of Response (DOR) (ASPS), To determine DOR in subjects with ASPS, defined as median number of months from date of first documented objective response until first documented sign of disease progression or death due to any causes, Up to 48 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) (LMS/SS), To compare ORR in subjects with LMS or SS randomized to AL3818 versus dacarbazine, defined as percentage of subjects who achieve a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as best responses according to RECIST 1.1 as evaluated by a blinded independent radiological review (BICR)., Up to 48 months
THIS STUDY IS CURRENTLY RECRUITING PATIENTS WITH ALVEOLAR SOFT PART SARCOMA ONLY AND IS NO LONGER RECRUITING PATIENTS WITH SYNOVIAL SARCOMA OR LEIOMYOSARCOMA.

APROMISS is a phase 3 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of AL3818 (anlotinib) hydrochloride in the treatment of metastatic or advanced alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS), leiomyosarcoma (LMS), and synovial sarcoma (SS). Population pharmacokinetics and exploratory exposure-response analyses will also be conducted in subjects receiving AL3818.

Indication A: 56 subjects with metastatic or advanced ASPS not amenable to surgical resection will receive open-label AL3818 at a dose of 12 mg once daily in 21-day cycles (14 days on treatment, 7 days off treatment) until disease progression (defined by RECIST version 1.1) ot unacceptable toxicity. The primary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR), secondary endpoint is duration of response (DOR). - CLOSED

Indication B: 68 subjects with metastatic or advanced LMS who have failed at least one prior line of approved therapy will be enrolled and randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either AL3818 (12 mg once daily in 21-day cycles) or IV dacarbazine until disease progression (defined by RECIST version 1.1) or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects randomized to dacarbazine will have the option to crossover and receive AL3818 at the time of documented disease progression. The primary endpoint is progression free survival (PFS), the secondary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR). - CLOSED

Indication C: 95 subjects with with metastatic or advanced SS who have failed at least one prior line of approved therapy, including first-line anthracycline-containing chemotherapy, will be enrolled and randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either AL3818 (12 mg once daily in 21-day cycles) or IV dacarbazine until disease progression (defined by RECIST version 1.1) or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects randomized to dacarbazine will have the option to crossover and receive AL3818 at the time of documented disease progression. The primary endpoint is progression free survival (PFS), the secondary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR). - CLOSED

Indication D - LMS: 106 subjects with histologically proven, unresectable, recurrent, locally advanced or metastatic leiomyosarcoma (of soft tissue, cutaneous origin, and vascular origin who have failed at least one prior line of standard therapy (including anthracycline-based therapy) and are ineligible for or refuse standard second-line therapy or are suitable for third- and further-line treatment will be enrolled. Subjects will be randomized with a 2:1 ratio to receive either blinded AL3818 or placebo with approximately 71 subjects in the AL3818 group and 35 subjects in the placebo group until disease progression (defined by RECIST version 1.1) or unacceptable toxicity. Subjects randomized to placebo will have the option to crossover and receive AL3818 at the time of documented disease progression (and after crossover unblinding). The primary endpoint is progression free survival (PFS), the secondary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR). - CLOSED