Daughters, dUdes, Mothers and othErs Fighting Cancer Together
The purpose of this protocol is to conduct a 2-arm, single-blinded randomized controlled clinical trial (RCT) in which 56 dyads (defined as consisting of an overweight or obese cancer survivor of an obesity-related cancer and an overweight or obese "buddy" of his or her choosing) would be assigned either to a 6-month, diet- and exercise-based weight loss intervention delivered via an interactive website with tailored text messages, or to a 6-month wait-listed control group. The overall goals of the eHealth intervention are to reduce obesity and select circulating biomarkers (tumor necrosis factor alpha \[TNFα\], insulin, and insulin-like growth factor-1 \[IGF-1\]), as well as improve diet quality, physical activity, health-related quality of life (QoL), physical functioning and performance as compared to the control over the 6-month study period.
Cancer|Overweight and Obesity
BEHAVIORAL: eHealth Intervention
Body Weight, Change in measured body weight, baseline|Body Weight, Change in measured body weight, 6 months
Waist Circumference, measured with a non-stretch tape, baseline|Waist Circumference, measured with a non-stretch tape, 6 months|Physical Activity (self-reported), Godin Leisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire (4-item survey) - individuals provide the number of minutes of vigorous, moderate and light physical activity per week. The minimum is 0 - theoretically, the maximum is 10,080 (the number of minutes in a week), then they are asked if this level of activity is "typical." The higher the number of minutes of totaled moderate + vigorous activity, the better., Baseline|Physical Activity (self-reported), Godin Leisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire (4-item survey) - individuals provide the number of minutes of vigorous, moderate and light physical activity per week. The minimum is 0 - theoretically, the maximum is 10,080 (the number of minutes in a week), then they are asked if this level of activity is "typical." The higher the number of minutes of totaled moderate + vigorous activity, the better., 3 months|Physical Activity (self-reported), Godin Leisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire (4-item survey) - individuals provide the number of minutes of vigorous, moderate and light physical activity per week. The minimum is 0 - theoretically, the maximum is 10,080 (the number of minutes in a week), then they are asked if this level of activity is "typical." The higher the number of minutes of totaled moderate + vigorous activity, the better., 6 months|Physical Activity (objective), Accelerometry (7-day assessment), baseline|Physical Activity (objective), Accelerometry (7-day assessment), 6 months|Diet Quality, Two 24-hour dietary recalls, baseline|Diet Quality, Two 24-hour dietary recalls, 6 months|Physical Performance (endurance), 2-minute step test, Baseline|Physical Performance (endurance), 2-minute step test, 6 months|Physical Performance (lower body strength), 30-second chair stand, Baseline|Physical Performance (lower body strength), 30-second chair stand, 6 months|Physical Performance (agility), 8' foot up and go, Baseline|Physical Performance (agility), 8' foot up and go, 6 months|Physical Performance (gait speed), 8' walk, baseline|Physical Performance (gait speed), 8' walk, 6 months|Physical Performance (Balance), Side-by-side, semi-tandem and tandem stances, baseline|Physical Performance (Balance), Side-by-side, semi-tandem and tandem stances, 6 months|Self-efficacy for calorically restricted diet, Clark et al. survey (20 items). Respondents either affirm or deny that they can resist high fat, high calorie foods under a variety of situations. Individuals who have maximum willpower achieve the top score of 20, whereas those with lesser willpower score lower (the minimum score is zero), baseline|Self-efficacy for calorically restricted diet, Clark et al. survey (20 items). Respondents either affirm or deny that they can resist high fat, high calorie foods under a variety of situations. Individuals who have maximum willpower achieve the top score of 20, whereas those with lesser willpower score lower (the minimum score is zero), 3 months|Self-efficacy for calorically restricted diet, Clark et al. survey (20 items). Respondents either affirm or deny that they can resist high fat, high calorie foods under a variety of situations. Individuals who have maximum willpower achieve the top score of 20, whereas those with lesser willpower score lower (the minimum score is zero), 6 months|Self-efficacy for increased physical activity, Sallis et al. survey (6 items in total). Respondents rate themselves on each item from 0 to 100% on their level of confidence. The higher the total score (maximum of 100%) the better (Minimum 0%)., baseline|Self-efficacy for increased physical activity, Sallis et al. survey (6 items in total). Respondents rate themselves on each item from 0 to 100% on their level of confidence. The higher the total score (maximum of 100%) the better (Minimum 0%)., 3 months|Self-efficacy for increased physical activity, Sallis et al. survey (6 items in total). Respondents rate themselves on each item from 0 to 100% on their level of confidence. The higher the total score (maximum of 100%) the better (Minimum 0%)., 6 months|Social support for calorically restricted diet, Sallis et al. instrument (4 items). Respondents rate the level of support they obtain to follow a healthy, low calorie diet on a 5-point scale ranging from ("never"= 0 to "everyday" = 4. Individuals who have maximum support achieve the top score of 16, whereas those with lesser support score lower (the minimum score is zero), baseline|Social support for increased physical activity, Sallis et al. instrument (4 items in total) Respondents rate the level of support they obtain to increase their level of physical activity on a 5-point scale ranging from ("never"= 0 to "everyday" = 4. Individuals who have maximum support achieve the top score of 16, whereas those with lesser support score lower (the minimum score is zero), baseline|Social support for calorically restricted diet, Sallis et al. instrument (4 items). Respondents rate the level of support they obtain to follow a healthy, low calorie diet on a 5-point scale ranging from ("never"= 0 to "everyday" = 4. Individuals who have maximum support achieve the top score of 16, whereas those with lesser support score lower (the minimum score is zero), 3 months|Social support for increased physical activity, Sallis et al. instrument (4 items in total) Respondents rate the level of support they obtain to increase their level of physical activity on a 5-point scale ranging from ("never"= 0 to "everyday" = 4. Individuals who have maximum support achieve the top score of 16, whereas those with lesser support score lower (the minimum score is zero), 3 months|Social support for calorically restricted diet, Sallis et al. instrument (4 items). Respondents rate the level of support they obtain to follow a healthy, low calorie diet on a 5-point scale ranging from ("never"= 0 to "everyday" = 4. Individuals who have maximum support achieve the top score of 16, whereas those with lesser support score lower (the minimum score is zero), 6 months|Social support for increased physical activity, Sallis et al. instrument (4 items in total) Respondents rate the level of support they obtain to increase their level of physical activity on a 5-point scale ranging from ("never"= 0 to "everyday" = 4. Individuals who have maximum support achieve the top score of 16, whereas those with lesser support score lower (the minimum score is zero), 6 months|Barriers for increased physical activity, (15 items in total) Respondents either affirm or deny common barriers to exercise. Individuals who report more barriers achieve the top score of 21, whereas those with fewer barriers score lower (the minimum score is zero) and that is considered better., baseline|Barriers for increased physical activity, (15 items in total) Respondents either affirm or deny common barriers to exercise. Individuals who report more barriers achieve the top score of 21, whereas those with fewer barriers score lower (the minimum score is zero) and that is considered better., 3 months|Barriers for increased physical activity, (15 items in total) Respondents either affirm or deny common barriers to exercise. Individuals who report more barriers achieve the top score of 21, whereas those with fewer barriers score lower (the minimum score is zero) and that is considered better., 6 months|Circulating insulin, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating insulin, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating glucose, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating glucose, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating IL-6, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating IL-6, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating CRP, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating CRP, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating Total Cholesterol, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating Total Cholesterol, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating HDL Cholesterol, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating HDL Cholesterol, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating Tryglycerides, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating Tryglycerides, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating Adiponectin, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating Adiponectin, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Circulating Leptin, assays on dried blood spot eluents, baseline|Circulating Leptin, assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months|Duke OARS Co-Morbidity Index, 43-item assessment of co-morbid conditions (multiple choice) (modified by removing 1 item), baseline|Duke OARS Co-Morbidity Index, 43-item assessment of co-morbid conditions (multiple choice) (modified by removing 1 item), 3 months|Duke OARS Co-Morbidity Index, 43-item assessment of co-morbid conditions (multiple choice) (modified by removing 1 item), 6 months|PROMIS v.1.2 GLOBAL HEALTH, 10-item Likert scale assessment of Quality of Life, Baseline|PROMIS v.1.2 GLOBAL HEALTH, 10-item Likert scale assessment of Quality of Life, 3 months|PROMIS v.1.2 GLOBAL HEALTH, 10-item Likert scale assessment of Quality of Life, 6 months|EQ-5D-5L, 6-item Likert scale assessment of Quality of Life, Baseline|EQ-5D-5L, 6-item Likert scale assessment of Quality of Life, 3 months|EQ-5D-5L, 6-item Likert scale assessment of Quality of Life, 6 months|HEALTH / E-HEALTH LITERACY SCALE (NORMAN 2006), 7-item scale to assess e-health literacy. Two items were added from eHEALS to understand consumer's interest in using eHealth in general., Baseline|HEALTH / E-HEALTH LITERACY SCALE (NORMAN 2006), 7-item scale to assess health and e-health literacy. Two items were added from eHEALS to understand consumer's interest in using eHealth in general., 3 months|HEALTH / E-HEALTH LITERACY SCALE (NORMAN 2006), 7-item scale to assess health and e-health literacy. Two items were added from eHEALS to understand consumer's interest in using eHealth in general., 6 months|Barriers to Eating a Healthy Low Calorie Diet, (10 items) Respondents either affirm or deny common barriers to low calorie diet., Baseline|Barriers to Eating a Healthy Low Calorie Diet, (10 items) Respondents either affirm or deny common barriers to low calorie diet., 3 months|Barriers to Eating a Healthy Low Calorie Diet, (10 items) Respondents either affirm or deny common barriers to low calorie diet., 6 months|PROMIS Emotional Distress: Depression - Short Form 8a, (8 items) Likert scale assessment of depression, Baseline|PROMIS Emotional Distress: Depression - Short Form 8a, (8 items) Likert scale assessment of depression, 3 months|PROMIS Emotional Distress: Depression - Short Form 8a, (8 items) Likert scale assessment of depression, 6 months|Smoking status, 2 items that ask whether respondent has ever smoked \>100 cigarettes and current smoking status., Baseline|Smoking status, 2 items that ask whether respondent has ever smoked \>100 cigarettes and current smoking status., 3 months|Smoking status, 2 items that ask whether respondent has ever smoked \>100 cigarettes and current smoking status., 6 months
Relationship to chosen partner, 1 item question that asks for relationship of chosen partner to cancer survivor, Baseline|Socio-Demographic (George, et al, 1984), 3-items that ask about income and perceptions of economic well-being, Baseline|Socio-Demographic (George, et al, 1984), 3-items that ask about income and perceptions of economic well-being, 3 months|Socio-Demographic (George, et al, 1984), 3-items that ask about income and perceptions of economic well-being, 6 months|Circulating Insulin (TSH), assays on dried blood spot eluents, Baseline|Circulating Insulin (TSH), assays on dried blood spot eluents, 6 months
The specific aims of this protocol are to: 1) determine whether dyads (comprised of an overweight / obese cancer survivor and an overweight / obese buddy of his or her choosing) lose significantly more weight (kg) at 6-months when assigned to the eHealth intervention compared to a wait-listed control; 2) explore between-arm differences in score changes between baseline and 6-month follow-up for other key outcomes including measures of adiposity (e.g., waist circumference \[WC\] and body mass index \[BMI\]), blood pressure, diet quality, physical activity, health-related Quality of Life (QoL), physical functioning and performance; 3) Assess the impact of the intervention on select biomarkers associated with cancer risk and progression, e.g., tumor TNFα, insulin and IGF-1; and, 4) identify predictor variables associated with program efficacy, e.g., social support, self-efficacy, risk for depression, and dyad partner (spouse, relative, friend/neighbor).

Cancer survivors and their selected "buddies" who are interested in participating will be directed to a website that describes this study in detail. If interested, they will be asked to complete an online screener requiring information on race/ethnicity, gender, state of residence and eligibility criteria. Once interested participants are assessed for eligibility, consented and enrolled, they will be asked to complete online questionnaires that assess physical activity, dietary intake, health-related quality of life, risk for depression, self-efficacy, social support and barriers to diet resources. Finally, anthropometric measures, blood pressure, physical performance and circulating biomarkers will be collected in participants' homes by visiting study staff (whom the project manager will deploy after checking for a mutually convenient time for the 2-person dyad.