Ulipristal Use in Chinese Population
Uterine leiomyomas is the commonest benign tumour of the female genital tract. It lead to menorrhagia, anaemia, pain and pressure symptoms. Due to the enlarged uterus, the use of minimal invasive surgery is limited. There is also increase risk of intraoperative blood transfusion. Ulipristal acetate (UPA) is a selective progesterone-receptor modulator (SPRM). Preoperative use of Ulipristal for 12 weeks has been shown to decrease uterine bleeding, fibroid volume, pre-operative anaemia and symptoms severity. However there is still lacking evidence in terms of long term safety and efficacy, especially in Chinese population. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effect and safety on preoperative use of Ulipristal on fibroid.
Fibroid
DRUG: Ulipristal acetate|OTHER: Placebo pills|DRUG: Ferrous sulphate|DRUG: Tranexamic Acid
Change of uterine bleeding, Pictorial bleeding assessment chart will be used for assessment of uterine bleeding. Patients will be assessed before the start of treatment, after completion of 6 weeks course and after completion of 12 weeks course. The change of uterine bleeding after completion of 12 weeks course of treatment will be recorded., Through study completion, an average of 14weeks
Change of haemoglobin level, The change of haemoglobin level after completion of 12 weeks course will be recorded., Through study completion, an average of 14weeks|Change of fibroid volume, The fibroid volume will be measured using ultrasonography before start of treatment, after 6 weeks course of treatment and after completion of 12 weeks course of treatment., Through study completion, an average of 14weeks|Intraoperative blood loss, The amount of blood loss at hysterectomy will be recorded., After completion of 12 weeks course, the intraoperative blood loss at the time of performance of hysterectomy will be assessed.|Conversion to less invasive intervention options, 2 weeks before scheduled operation, patients will be assessed by the operation team and the most suitable route of hysterectomy will be discussed again. The possibility of conversion to less invasive intervention options including from laparotomy to laparoscopy will be recorded., After completion of 12 weeks course of treatment and before the scheduled operation|Side effects, The side effects including nausea, vomiting, headache, dyspepsia will be recorded., Through study completion, an average of 14weeks|Histology of the operative specimen, Presence of malignancy or hyperplasia in the operative specimen will be recorded., After completion of 12 weeks course of treatment
Uterine leiomyomas is the commonest benign tumour of the female genital tract. It is often asymptomatic, but can also lead to anaemia, pain and pressure symptoms. It is the commonest indication for hysterectomy, especially abdominal hysterectomy. Currently, the use of hormonal treatment is associated with side effects including gastrointestinal upset, bloating, weight gain and thromboembolic risks. The main stay for treatment relies on surgery.

Furthermore, the use of minimal invasive surgeries is limited by the size of the fibroids. Preoperative use of Gonadotrophic Releasing Hormone analogues (GnRHa) is effective in shrinkage of the uterine leiomyomas and reduction of uterine bleeding. However, postmenopausal symptoms including hot flushes, vaginal dryness are profound.

Ulipristal acetate (UPA), previously named CDB-2914, is a selective progesterone-receptor modulator (SPRM). It binds to the progesterone receptors with high affinity. It inhibits follicular development and ovulation, while it has no significant effects on estradiol levels and antiglucocorticoid activity. Preoperative use of Ulipristal for symptomatic uterine fibroids has been investigated in randomized controlled study with improvement in terms of uterine bleeding, fibroids volume, pre-operative anaemia and symptoms severity. However there is still lacking evidence in terms of long term safety and efficacy. Also there is lack of evidence in Chinese population.

The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effect and safety on preoperative use of Ulipristal on fibroid.