Ixazomib With Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone in Patients With Previously Untreated Symptomatic Multiple Myeloma or Light Chain Amyloidosis
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and the best dose of cyclophosphamide when given together with ixazomib citrate and dexamethasone in treating patients with previously untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma or light chain amyloidosis. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Ixazomib citrate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving cyclophosphamide together with ixazomib citrate and dexamethasone may be a better treatment for multiple myeloma or light chain amyloidosis.
Amyloidosis|Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Maximum Tolerated (MTD) Dose of Cyclophosphamide With Ixazomib and Dexamethasone (Phase I), Will be defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least 1/3 of patients, as assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., At 28 days|Percentage of Patients With Complete Response or Very Good Partial Response (Phase II, Cohort A), The percentage of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 48 weeks|Rate of Complete Response, Very Good Partial Response, or Partial Response (Phase II, Cohort B), The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 48 weeks|Maximum Tolerated (MTD) Dose of Cyclophosphamide (Phase I), Will be defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least 1/3 of patients, as assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., At 28 days
Number of Patients Experiencing a Grade 3 or Greater Adverse Event at Least Possibly Related to Treatment as Assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration. Adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. A grade 3 event is one that is severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan Meier., Time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Survival Time, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters, Will be estimated using noncompartmental analysis methods. The plasma PK parameters calculated for individual plasma ixazomib concentration-time data will include, but are not limited to: peak concentration, time to first maximum plasma concentration, and area under the curve. PK parameters will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Post-dose, 1 and 4 hours on day 1, pre-dose on days 8, 15, and 22, and day 1 of course 2|Quality of Life, as Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity Questionnaire, Patients will be evaluated by overall score at each time point and changes over time will be calculated. These measures will be correlated with outcome using Fisher's exact test and Kaplan-Meier methods where appropriate., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of cyclophosphamide that can be combined with ixazomib citrate (ixazomib) and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM). (Phase I Cohort A) II. To determine the complete plus very good partial response rate (\>= VGPR) of ixazomib, used in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM. (Phase II Cohort A) III. To determine the hematologic response rate of ixazomib, used in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated light chain amyloidosis. (Phase II Cohort B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM following treatment with ixazomib in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone followed by ixazomib maintenance till progression. (Cohort A) II. To determine the toxicities associated with ixazomib in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM. (Cohort A) III. To determine the organ response rate of ixazomib, used in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated light chain amyloidosis. (Cohort B) IV. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with previously untreated light chain amyloidosis following treatment with ixazomib in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone followed by Ixazomib maintenance till progression. (Cohort B) V. To determine the toxicities associated with ixazomib in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated light chain amyloidosis. (Cohort B)

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the pharmacokinetics of ixazomib when used in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone. (Cohort A) II. To assess the incidence of neurotoxicity using patient completed questionnaires. (Cohort A)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of cyclophosphamide followed by a phase II study.

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 and cyclophosphamide PO and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 5 years.