Pazopanib Versus Sunitinib in the Treatment of Locally Advanced and/or Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
This was a randomized, open-label, parallel group Phase III non inferiority study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pazopanib compared with sunitinib in subjects with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who had not received prior systemic therapy for advanced or metastatic RCC.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Pazopanib|DRUG: Sunitinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the interval between the date of randomization and the earliest date of progressive disease (PD), as defined by the Independent Review Committee (IRC), or death due to any cause. The IRC defined PD per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Version 1. Per RECIST, PD is defined as a \>=20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of \>=1 new lesion., From randomization until the earliest date of disease progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to approximately 39 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from randomization until death due to any cause., From randomization until date of death from any cause, assessed up to approximately 62 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by Independent Review, The number of participants with evidence of Complete Response (CR) (the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions), Partial Response (PR) (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters \[LD\] of target lesions, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD), Stable Disease (small changes that do not meet previously given criteria, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started), or Progressive Disease (a \>=20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started) was evaluated by an independent review per RECIST, Version 1., From randomization until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 39 months|Time to Response, Time to response was defined as the time from the start of treatment until the first documented evidence of CR (the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD), whichever comes first. CR and PR were evaluated by an independent review per RECIST, Version 1., From randomization until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 39 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the first documented evidence of response (CR or PR) until the first documented sign of disease progression (a \>=20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of \>=1 new lesion) or death, if sooner. CR=the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. PR=at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD., From the date of the first documented response (CR or PR) to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to approximately 39 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The distribution of adverse events was done via the analysis of frequencies for Adverse Event (AEs) and Serious Adverse Event (SAEs), through the monitoring of relevant clinical and laboratory safety parameters., From study treatment start date till 28 days safety follow-up, assessed up to approximately 152 months|Change From Baseline in Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) Scale Scores at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, FACIT Fatigue Subscale is a short, 13-item, easy to administer tool that measures an individual's level of fatigue during their usual daily activities over the past week. The level of fatigue is measured on a four point Likert scale (4 = not at all fatigued to 0 = very much fatigued). The total score range is from 0-52. The higher the score, the lower the fatigue level., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the FACT-Kidney Symptom Index-19 (FKSI-19) Scale Disease-related Symptoms-physical (DRS-P) Domain Score at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, Health outcome and quality of life as measured by NCCN/FACT FKSI-19 questionnaire. The FKSI-19 is a disease-specific instrument that measures disease and treatment-related symptoms specifically in renal cancer patients in 4 domains (Disease-Related Symptoms - Physical (FKSI-DRS-P), Disease-Related Symptoms - Emotional (FKSI-DRS-E), Treatment Side-Effects (FKSI-TSE), Function/Well-Being (FKSI-FWB)) experienced in the past 7 days. Participants are asked to respond to a total of 19 questions regarding symptoms, side effects, and well being by using a 5-point scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much; possible total score of 0 to 76). A negative mean indicates a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the FACT-Kidney Symptom Index-19 (FKSI-19) Scale Disease Related Symptoms-emotional (DRS-E) Domain Score at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, Health outcome and quality of life as measured by NCCN/FACT FKSI-19 questionnaire. The FKSI-19 is a disease-specific instrument that measures disease and treatment-related symptoms specifically in renal cancer patients in 4 domains (Disease-Related Symptoms - Physical (FKSI-DRS-P), Disease-Related Symptoms - Emotional (FKSI-DRS-E), Treatment Side-Effects (FKSI-TSE), Function/Well-Being (FKSI-FWB)) experienced in the past 7 days. Participants are asked to respond to a total of 19 questions regarding symptoms, side effects, and well being by using a 5-point scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much; possible total score of 0 to 76). A negative mean indicates a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the FACT-Kidney Symptom Index-19 (FKSI-19) Scale Treatment Side Effects (TSE) Domain Score at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, Health outcome and quality of life as measured by NCCN/FACT FKSI-19 questionnaire. The FKSI-19 is a disease-specific instrument that measures disease and treatment-related symptoms specifically in renal cancer patients in 4 domains (Disease-Related Symptoms - Physical (FKSI-DRS-P), Disease-Related Symptoms - Emotional (FKSI-DRS-E), Treatment Side-Effects (FKSI-TSE), Function/Well-Being (FKSI-FWB)) experienced in the past 7 days. Participants are asked to respond to a total of 19 questions regarding symptoms, side effects, and well being by using a 5-point scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much; possible total score of 0 to 76). A negative mean indicates a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the FACT-Kidney Symptom Index-19 (FKSI-19) Scale Functional Well Being (FWB) Domain Score at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, Health outcome and quality of life as measured by NCCN/FACT FKSI-19 questionnaire. The FKSI-19 is a disease-specific instrument that measures disease and treatment-related symptoms specifically in renal cancer patients in 4 domains (Disease-Related Symptoms - Physical (FKSI-DRS-P), Disease-Related Symptoms - Emotional (FKSI-DRS-E), Treatment Side-Effects (FKSI-TSE), Function/Well-Being (FKSI-FWB)) experienced in the past 7 days. Participants are asked to respond to a total of 19 questions regarding symptoms, side effects, and well being by using a 5-point scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much; possible total score of 0 to 76). A negative mean indicates a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the FACT-Kidney Symptom Index-19 (FKSI-19) Scale Total Score at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, Health outcome and quality of life as measured by NCCN/FACT FKSI-19 questionnaire. The FKSI-19 is a disease-specific instrument that measures disease and treatment-related symptoms specifically in renal cancer patients in 4 domains (Disease-Related Symptoms - Physical (FKSI-DRS-P), Disease-Related Symptoms - Emotional (FKSI-DRS-E), Treatment Side-Effects (FKSI-TSE), Function/Well-Being (FKSI-FWB)) experienced in the past 7 days. Participants are asked to respond to a total of 19 questions regarding symptoms, side effects, and well being by using a 5-point scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much; possible total score of 0 to 76). A negative mean indicates a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the Supplementary Quality of Life Questions (SQLQ) Scale Worst Soreness Scores at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, The SQLQ scale consists of 5 items that assess the worst mouth and throat, hand, and foot soreness, as well as limitations due to mouth/throat and foot soreness. Participants were asked to assess their worst mouth/throat, hand, and foot soreness by answering the question of " In the past 4 weeks, what was your worst mouth/throat, hand, and foot soreness?" by using the following 4-point scale: 0, I never had any soreness; 1, I had a little bit of soreness; 2, I had quite a lot of soreness; 3, I had severe soreness. A positive mean change from Baseline represents a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the Supplementary Quality of Life Questions (SQLQ) Limitations Due to Mouth and Throat Soreness Score at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, The SQLQ consists of 5 items assessing the worst mouth/throat, hand, and foot soreness, and limitations due to mouth/throat and foot soreness. Participants assessed the limitations caused by their mouth/throat soreness by answering the question of "In the past 4 weeks, how much did your worst mouth/throat soreness limit you in the following activities: swallowing/eating/drinking/talking/sleeping" by using the following 4-point scale: 0, not limited; 1, limited a little; 2, limited a lot; 3, unable to do. The overall limitation score (15=best; 0=worst), based on the individual scores for the 5 activities, is derived as follows: the actual scores were rescored by subtracting the actual score from "3" for each of the 5 categories. A high score indicates less limitation. Change from Baseline was calculated as the assessment week value minus the Baseline value. A negative mean change from Baseline represents a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Change From Baseline in the Supplementary Quality of Life Questions (SQLQ) Limitations Due to Foot Soreness Scores at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, The SQLQ consists of 5 items assessing the worst mouth/throat, hand, and foot soreness, and limitations due to mouth/throat and foot soreness. Participants assessed the limitations caused by their foot soreness by answering the question of "In the past 4 weeks, how much did your worst foot soreness limit you in each of the following activities: standing/walking/climbing stairs/sleeping/ability to do usual activities" by using the following 4-point scale: 0, not limited; 1, limited a little; 2, limited a lot; 3, unable to do. The overall limitation score (15=best; 0=worst), based on the individual scores for the 5 activities, is derived as follows: the actual scores were rescored by subtracting the actual score from "3" for each of the 5 categories. A high score indicates less limitation. Change from Baseline was calculated as the assessment week value minus the Baseline value. A negative mean change from Baseline represents a worsening of condition., Baseline (predose), Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Summary of Analysis for the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ) Score at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, The CTSQ assesses 3 domains related to the participant's satisfaction with cancer therapy: Expectations of Therapy (ET), Feelings about Side Effects (FSE), and Satisfaction with Therapy (SWT). Participants shared their thoughts on their cancer therapy (9 questions), their satisfaction with their most recently administered cancer therapy (6 questions), and if they would take the same cancer therapy if given the choice to do so again. All questions were assessed on a 5-point scale; 1, never; 5, always. Scores were averaged and transformed to a 0-100 scale; higher scores represent better treatment satisfaction., Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)|Mean Number of Non-study Medical Visits, Telephone Consultations, Hospital Days, and Emergency Room (ER) Visits Per 30 Days Through Week 24, Non-study medical visits were defined as the sum of primary care physician visits, nurse practitioner/physician's assistant/nurse visits, and medical or surgical specialist visits. Days hospitalized were defined as the sum of days in the general ward and days in intensive care. The number of telephone consultations and ER visits was assessed via individual questions on the electronic Case Report Form. The endpoint was totaled through Week 24, divided by the number of days on treatment for each participant, then multiplied by 30 days to get the number of visits per 30 days., From Day 1 up to Week 24|Mean Number of Laboratory Visits, Radiology Visits, Home Healthcare Visits, and Medical Procedures at Day 28 of Cycles 1-4, The number of non-study laboratory visits (NSLVs), non-study radiology visits (NSRVs), and home healthcare visits (HHVs) were each collected as a single question on the eCRF. The number of non-study medical or surgical procedures (MSPs) was defined as the sum of procedures performed at outpatient or physician clinics, as well as those performed during any inpatient hospitalization., Day 28 of Cycles 1-4 (average of Weeks 4, 10, 16, and 22, respectively)
All Collected Deaths, Pre-treatment deaths were collected from day of participant's informed consent to the day before first dose of study medication.

On-treatment deaths were collected from first dose of study medication to 28 days after last dose of study medication (on-treatment), up to approximately 129 months.

Deaths were collected in the post treatment survival follow up from 29 days after last dose of study medication until the end of the study, up to approximately 152 months., Pre-treatment deaths: Up to 21 days prior to treatment. On-treatment deaths: Up to 129 months. Post-treatment deaths: up to 152 months.
Approximately 876 eligible subjects (approximately 438 per treatment arm) were planned to be enrolled over the course of the study. However, due to higher than expected withdrawal rates and discordance rates between independent review committee (IRC) and investigator assessments of progression, the protocol was amended (Protocol Amendment 4) to increase the number of subjects to approximately 1100 total by including all subjects enrolled in CPZP034A2301 (hereafter referred as Study A2301) and CPZP034A2201 (a sub study of CPZP034A2301, hereafter referred as Study A2201 with NCT01147822).

The subjects were centrally randomized in 1:1 ratio to receive either 800mg pazopanib to be administered once daily orally continuous dosing or 50mg sunitinib to be administered in 6-week cycles: 50mg orally daily for 4 weeks followed by 2 weeks off treatment. Subjects were permitted to receive supportive care throughout the study including transfusion of blood and blood products, treatment with antibiotics, anti-emetics, anti-diarrheal agents, analgesics, erythropoietin, or bisphosphonates, when appropriate. The study treatment continued until subjects experience disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdraw consent, or death.