External-Beam Partial-Breast Irradiation for Early Breast Cancer 40 Gy QD Over 2 Weeks
Standard therapy for patients with early stage breast cancer consists of surgery to remove the cancer followed by radiation therapy. One question regarding radiation therapy for early stage breast cancer is whether the entire breast needs to be radiated or only a more limited area surrounding the tumor. Whole-breast irradiation (WBI) is radiation therapy given to the whole breast. Partial-breast irradiation (PBI) is radiation therapy given only to the area of the breast where the cancer was removed (called the "tumor bed").

The investigators hope the option of PBI will reduce side effects from radiation therapy and shorten the radiation treatment process when compared to WBI, since only part of the breast is being treated. The investigators also hope that this will make such treatment more convenient for breast cancer patients.

The purpose of the study is to evaluate the the safety of external-beam PBI in selected early breast cancer patients utilizing PBI in ten daily fractions over two weeks. The investigators will also evaluate the local control and the cosmetic results.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: External Beam Partial-Breast Irradiation
Safety of External-beam PBI Utilizing 40Gy in Ten Daily Fractions Over Two Weeks, The safety of external-beam PBI in selected stages 0 and I female breast cancer patients utilizing 40 Gy in ten daily fractions over two weeks. The study will be deemed too toxic if \>10% of enrolled patients have at least one of the following outcomes within 24 months of completion of PBI.

1. Grade 3 or 4 skin/subcutaneous or pulmonary toxicity.
2. The development of clinical fat necrosis.
3. The development of rib fracture on the ipsilateral treated side, detected either clinically and/or radiographically.

The data is shown as the number of participants that experienced each of the specific toxicities., 2 years
Local Control Rates, The local control rates (analyzed separately for patients with DCIS and invasive cancer). Local control is defined as lack of recurrence in the treated breast and ipsilateral axillary, supraclavicular and internal mammary lymph nodes. Recurrence is defined as the regrowth of tumor cells left following initial therapy and/or the development of new primary tumors unrelated to the original one. DCIS stands for 'Ductal Carcinoma In Situ'., 2 years|Distant Control Rates, The number of participants that achieved distant control. Distant control is defined as a lack of distant metastasis following the completion of treatment. Distant metastasis refers to the development of disease at distant body sites like the lung, liver, bone, or brain., 2 years|Breast Cosmesis, Breast Cosmesis was assessed using a cosmetic scoring system. The data shown represent the latest assessment for each participant at the time of analysis. Cosmetic changes were assessed using the following the following criteria.

* Excellent: Little or no observable change
* Good: Minimal but identifiable changes
* Fair: Significant results of radiotherapy noted
* Poor: Severe normal tissue sequelae, End of treatment, 4-9 weeks post treatment, every six months for first 5 years, then annually for 5 years
After signing the consent form, the following will be assessed.

-CT scan of the breast that had the cancer removed to help plan the radiation therapy. This is referred to as a CT-simulation. This scan is done routinely as part of the regular treatment.

PBI Study Treatment: You will be given PBI once daily over 10 treatment days (Mon-Fri) over a 2 week period. During this time you will have a weekly interview, physical examination, and your skin will be assessed for any side effects of the radiation.

PBI will begin between 4 weeks to 3 months after breast surgery or 2-6 weeks after chemotherapy (if you have been given chemotherapy).

After the final dose of the study:

You will have the following scheduled follow-up visits: one at the completion of the radiation, once or twice during weeks 3-9 after the completion of radiation, once every 6 months for five years, and then once every year for the following five years after the completion of radiation therapy.