68Ga-RM2 PET/MRI in Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer (PC) remains the most-common non-cutaneous cancer diagnosed in American males, accounting for an estimated 174,560 estimated new cases and 31,620 estimated deaths in 2019. Up to 40% of the patients with prostate cancer develop biochemical recurrence within 10 years after initial treatment. Usually an increase of the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) llevel precedes a clinically detectable recurrence by months to years, and this is currently used as a screening test before and subsequent to treatment. However, disease advancement can be local, regional or systemic, and each has significantly different approaches to disease management. Unfortunately, PSA level does not differentiate between these disease stages.

This phase 2-3 study explores the utility of radiolabel 68Ga-RM2, a 68-gallium (68Ga)-labeled gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPr) antagonist, for positron emission tomography (PET) / magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (collectively, PET/MRI) as a potential tool to help discriminate between disease stages in participants after treatment with surgery or radiation, who present persistently elevated PSA levels (ie, may have prostate cancer), but were negative for cancer with a diagnostic regular medical care computed tomography (CT) scan

68Ga-RM2 (BAY86-7548) is also identified as a synthetic bombesin receptor antagonist. PET/MRI is the collective result of 2 scan processes (PET and MRI ) conducted during the same scan procedure (ie, a combined scan). After a regular medical care computed tomography (CT) scan, participants will be scanned with 68Ga-RM2 PET/MRI scan procedure. PET/MRI is used to assess the location, size, and metabolic activity of a suspected tumor.

The 68Ga-RM2 radiolabel consisted of a ligand (the synthetic bombesin receptor antagonist) and the radioisotope 68Ga. The RM2 ligand targets gastrin-releasing peptide receptors (GRPr), commonly expressed by prostate cancer cells, and the radioisotope distinguishes those cells from the background. The criteria for scan "positivity" will be, when compared to background level of the liver (control), the 68Ga signal is stronger (positive - malignant) or weaker (negative - benign).

This study will assess how well 68Ga-RM2 works in detecting prostate cancer in patients with

68Ga-RM2 PET/MRI may be able to see smaller tumors than the standard of care contrast-enhanced CT or MRI scan.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: 68Ga-RM2|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Number of Tumor Lesions Detected by 68Ga-RM2 MRI vs 68Ga-RM2 PET/MRI, Diagnostic performance of 68Ga-RM2 as a contrast imaging label will be assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) alone, or as a combined scan with positron emission tomography (PET, collectively PET/MRI). The outcome is reported as the number of tumor lesions detected with MRI alone, or with the combination PET/MRI scan, a number without dispersion., 1 day|Sensitivity of MRI Alone vs PET/MRI, Sensitivity is the ability of a test to correctly identify patients who have the prostate cancer, ie, how well 68Ga-RM2 MRI vs 68Ga-RM2 PET/MRI correctly detects patients who truly have prostate cancer. Sensitivity is defined as \[TP/(TP+FN)\], where TP=true-positive, and FN=false-negative. The outcome is a percentage number with 95% confidence interval (95% CI). A higher % value means a greater probability that an imaging target identified as cancerous is confirmed by histology to be cancerous, and a lower % means reduced confidence in that result., 1 day|Specificity of MR Alone vs PET/MRI, Specificity is the ability of a test to correctly identify patients who do not have the prostate cancer, ie, how well 68Ga-RM2 MRI vs 68Ga-RM2 PET/MRI correctly detects patients who do not have prostate cancer (does not falsely return a positive result). Specificity is defined as \[TN/(TN+FP)\], where TN=true-negative, and FP=false-positive. The outcome is a percentage number with 95% confidence interval (95% CI). A higher % value means a greater probability that an imaging target identified as non-cancerous is confirmed by histology to be non-cancerous, and a lower % means reduced confidence in that result., 1 day
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

Evaluate 68Ga-RM2 as the radiolabel for PET/MRI scans used for detection of recurrent prostate cancer after initial therapy in patients with elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and non-contributory computed tomography (CT).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 68Ga-RM2 intravenously (IV) and beginning 45 minutes later undergoing PET/MRI scan. The 68Ga-RM2 PET/MRI may be repeated at the completion of treatment to evaluate response to therapy, if requested by the treating physician.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 24 to 48 hours and then at 1 year.