Prospective Evaluation Of High-Dose Systemic Methotrexate In Patients With Breast Cancer And Leptomeningeal Metastasis
Management of leptomeningeal disease (LMD) in patients with metastatic breast cancer is an area of unmet clinical need. High-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) is known to have activity against breast cancer and in contrast to other systemic chemotherapeutics, it penetrates the blood brain barrier, targets areas of poor cerebrospinal fluid flow, may penetrate bulky leptomeningeal disease, and provide treatment to systemic disease burden. While two retrospective studies have suggested activity of HD-MTX in LMD in patients with breast cancer, no prospective data are available to inform its inclusion in treatment regimens. Thus, while HD-MTX is included in the NCCN Guidelines for LMD and while it is used to varying degrees in cancer centers across the nation, this is more representative of the lack of available therapies for LMD as opposed to strong evidence-based data. This phase II, prospective study will evaluate systemic, intravenous HD-MTX in breast cancer patients with leptomeningeal metastasis with or without brain parenchymal metastasis.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Leptomeningeal Disease
DRUG: High-dose Methotrexate (8 gm/m2; HD-MTX)
Overall Survival (at 12 weeks), The primary endpoint is survival at 12 weeks from first date of treatment. For the primary analysis, this will be dichotomized according to whether the patient achieves an OS greater than 12 weeks (i.e. survival rate). This cutoff has been selected based on reported OS data in historical controls., 12 weeks
One year survival, As defined as the proportion of patients with time to death greater than 12 months from the time of first date of treatment., 1 year|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival as defined as the time from first date of treatment to the time of systemic or neurologic progression of disease whichever occurs first. Neurologic progression will be defined as the minimum of clinical or radiographic progression. Clinical neurologic progression will be defined by neurologic examination demonstrating objective, new neurologic deficit attributable to the underlying LMD. Radiographic progression (neurologic or systemic) will be defined by RECIST criteria., From date of first treatment to the time of systemic or neurologic progression of disease whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Tolerability of Treatment - Number of Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Toxicity as grade 3 and higher will be tabulated by reporting period, where reporting period is defined to be the planned 14 day period between administrations of high-dose methotrexate (HD MTX)., Up to 2 years|Number of Treatment Delays, Toxicities related to dose delays will be recorded by reporting period, where reporting period is defined to be the planned 14 day period between administrations of HD MTX. The number of times treatment is delayed divided by the number of reporting periods administered to all patients on study will be used to characterize the fraction of times treatments must be delayed., Up to 2 years|Number of Dose Reductions, Toxicities related to dose delays will be recorded by reporting period, where reporting period is defined to be the planned 14 day period between administrations of HD MTX. The number of times treatment is delayed divided by the number of reporting periods administered to all patients on study will be used to characterize the fraction of times treatments must be delayed., Up to 2 years
Treatment Cost, As defined by the average cost per treatment course per patient., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Cytologic Sterilization, As defined as the percent of patients with positive baseline cytology who develop persistently negative cytology during the course of study treatment., Up to 2 years
BACKGROUND:

Management of LMD in patients with metastatic breast cancer is an area of unmet clinical need. Increased survival in the era of hormonal and HER2 directed therapies has further heightened the need for more effective therapies against the late complications of metastatic disease. Prognosis is dismal with median survivals ranging from 6-8 weeks in untreated patients and with little improvement having been demonstrated over the past 20 years.

Recently, there has been renewed interest in systemic chemotherapeutic options in these patients. Incorporation of systemic therapies into standard treatment algorithms has been limited as many agents have not been shown to adequately penetrate the blood brain barrier. High-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX), however, is unique in that it does penetrate the blood brain barrier. In fact, evidence suggests that it may target areas of poor cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow, penetrate bulk disease, and provide treatment to systemic disease burden. Methotrexate is a drug known to have activity against breast cancer and has been used in combination with cyclophosphamide and 5-fluorouracil as part of a standard adjuvant treatment regimen.

Currently, HD-MTX is included in the NCCN Guidelines for LMD and is used intermittently at Johns Hopkins and cancer centers across the nation for LMD in breast cancer. These recommendations, however, are more representative of the lack of available therapies for LMD as opposed to strong evidence-based data. Only two retrospective studies have suggested that HD-MTX may be an effective option for treating central nervous system (CNS) metastasis, both with substantial methodological limitations.

STUDY OBJECTIVE This phase II, prospective study will evaluate systemic, intravenous high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) in breast cancer patients with leptomeningeal metastasis (LMD). The primary objective is to determine if treatment with systemic intravenous HD-MTX will result in an overall survival (OS) exceeding 12 weeks among patients with triple negative, HER2-positive, and hormone refractory metastatic breast cancer patients with LMD with and without parenchymal brain involvement.