Pembrolizumab With or Without Radiation in Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma
This research study is studying immunotherapy with or without radiation therapy as a possible treatment for adenoid cystic carcinoma.

The immunotherapy involved in this study is:

* Pembrolizumab (MK-3475 or KEYTRUDA).
Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma
RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Patients Demonstrating Objective Response In Non-Irradiated Lesions (Tumor Size on Scans), Objective response will be assessed in non-irradiated lesions among all eligible and treated patients pursuing RECIST 1.1. Per RECIST guidelines for target lesions, Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD): \>20% increase in sum of the longest diameter (LD) of measured lesions, referencing the smallest sum LD, or new lesions; Stable Disease (SD): neither PR nor PD. Objective response refers to tumor shrinkage at least qualifying as PR., 2 years
Progression Free Survival (Time From Randomization to Disease Progression or Death), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Patients who are alive without disease progression will be censored at the date of last disease assessment. Progression-free survival will be evaluated using both RECIST 1.1 and immune-related response criteria (irRC), and both sets of results will be reported in each arm. Per RECIST criteria, progression is defined as a \>=20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of the measured lesions, referencing the smallest longest diameter sum, or the appearance of at least one new lesion., 2 years|Overall Survival (Time From Randomization to Death), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death or date last known alive. Overall survival will be evaluated using both RECIST 1.1 and immune-related response criteria (irRC), and both sets of results will be reported in each arm. will be evaluated using both RECIST 1.1 and immune-related response criteria (irRC), and both sets of results will be reported in each arm., 2 years|Number of Participants With Complete Response (Absence of Non-irradiated Lesions on Scans), Complete disappearance of all measurable non-irradiated lesions. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis)., 2 years|Number of Participants With Partial Response (Tumor Size on Scans), At least a 30% decrease in the longest diameter valuated using RECIST 1.1., 2 years|Number of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, All patients who receive treatment, regardless of eligibility, will be evaluable for toxicity. Toxicity will be graded according to NCI CTCAE, Version 4.0. The proportions of patients with various toxicities will be reported by treatment arm., 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational agent to learn whether it works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

Pembrolizumab (MK-3475 or KEYTRUDA) is a humanized monoclonal antibody. An antibody is a common type of protein made in the body in response to a foreign substance (particles not typically found in your body such as bacteria or viruses). Antibodies attack foreign substances and protect against infection. Antibodies can also be produced in the laboratory for use in treating patients. Pembrolizumab is designed to restore the natural ability of the immune system to recognize and target cancer cells.

The FDA recently granted approval to pembrolizumab as a treatment for patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Pembrolizumab has not been approved for treatment against adenoid cystic carcinoma.

This study is testing whether pembrolizumab with or without radiation is useful for patients with adenoid cystic carcinoma. Radiation therapy may be used to treat some ACC tumors that have spread to other parts of the body or recurred after surgery. Radiation therapy may affect the immune system to improve the efficacy of pembrolizumab