Copanlisib, Letrozole, and Palbociclib in Treating Patients With Hormone Receptor Positive HER2 Negative Stage I-IV Breast Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies side effects and best dose of copanlisib when given together with letrozole and palbociclib and to see how well they work in treating hormone receptor positive HER2 negative stage I-IV breast cancer. Copanlisib and palbociclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs, such as letrozole, may lessen the amount of estrogen made by the body. Giving copanlisib, letrozole, and palbociclib may work better in treating patients with breast cancer.
Estrogen Receptor Positive|HER2/Neu Negative|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Multifocal Breast Carcinoma|Postmenopausal|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage III Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biopsy of Breast|DRUG: Copanlisib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Palbociclib|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Change in Ki-67 expression defined as the percent of cells staining positive by validated central assay (Phase II), Will be evaluated on the log Ki-67 ratio scale. Primary analysis of this variable will utilize a linear model with treatment, PR status as fixed effects. The comparison of treatment arms will be based on the least squares mean (LSM) estimates and standard errors derived from this model. For descriptive purposes, LSM estimates and associated confidence intervals (CIs) will be back transformed to the geometric mean percent change scale. A second post-baseline evaluation of Ki67 expression will be performed following the completion of 4 months of treatment. Analysis of change from baseline to com, Baseline to 2 weeks|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) evaluated according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 4.0 to determine MTD (Phase Ib), If \>= 2 of 6 participants treated at a dose level experience DLTs, then the MTD will have been exceeded. Up to 3 additional patients may be entered at the lower dose level to obtain additional safety information (if only 3 participants were treated previously at that dose) to demonstrate that =\< 1 of 6 patients experience DLT., Up to 112 days
Clinical objective response rate (ORR) evaluated by RECIST 1.1 using caliper measurements, A responder is defined as any participant who exhibits a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). The clinical response rate is estimated as the total number of CRs and PRs divided by the total number of participants randomized. Clinical ORR will be estimated and 95% exact CIs will be provided., Up to 1 month after surgery|Gene expression and/or biomarker changes, To compare the percent change in Ki67 expression from baseline to 2 weeks in the Ki67-evaluable population (expansion phase only).The Ki67 Evaluable Population will include all patients with a valid baseline Ki67 measurement of at least 5% and a valid 2-week measurement of any magnitude. This population will be used for the analysis of all Ki67-derived endpoints. All ki67 evaluable population will be correlated with pCR and clinical objective response., Up to 1 month after surgery|Incidence of adverse events (AEs) evaluated according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Overall exposure to study drug, the numbers of patients completing each cycle and the dose intensity will be summarized using descriptive statistics. The number of patients with any dose adjustment will be presented for entire treatment period as well as for each cycle. The number of patients with dose reductions, dose delays, or dose omissions will also be summarized, as will the reasons for dose adjustments. AEs and severe AEs will be reported using a CTCAE version 4.0 terminology and severity., Up to 1 month after surgery|pCR rate defined as the percentage of randomized patients with a pCR, pCR is defined as the absence of invasive cancer in the breast and sampled regional lymph nodes. Pathology reports from definitive breast surgery will be collected., Up to 1 month after surgery|The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter - area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) will be determined for copanlisib in arms A, B, and escalation dose levels., PK sampling will be performed in all the participants to characterize the PK profile for copanlisib, its metabolite M-1 (and other metabolites) in combination with letrozole and palbociclib., At pre-infusion, 10 minutes, 1, 2, 3, and 5 hours after start of infusion on days 1 and 8, course 1 (Ib); at pre-infusion and 1 hour after start of infusion on day 1, course 1 and pre-infusion, 5-15 minutes, 1, and 1-1.5 hours on day 8, course 2 (II)|The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter - Elimination half-life (t½) will be determined for copanlisib in arms A, B, and escalation dose levels., PK sampling will be performed in all the participants to characterize the PK profile for copanlisib, its metabolite M-1 (and other metabolites) in combination with letrozole and palbociclib., At pre-infusion, 10 minutes, 1, 2, 3, and 5 hours after start of infusion on days 1 and 8, course 1 (Ib); at pre-infusion and 1 hour after start of infusion on day 1, course 1 and pre-infusion, 5-15 minutes, 1, and 1-1.5 hours on day 8, course 2 (II)|The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter - Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) will be determined for copanlisib in arms A, B, and escalation dose levels., PK sampling will be performed in all the participants to characterize the PK profile for copanlisib, its metabolite M-1 (and other metabolites) in combination with letrozole and palbociclib., At pre-infusion, 10 minutes, 1, 2, 3, and 5 hours after start of infusion on days 1 and 8, course 1 (Ib); at pre-infusion and 1 hour after start of infusion on day 1, course 1 and pre-infusion, 5-15 minutes, 1, and 1-1.5 hours on day 8, course 2 (II)|The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter - Minimum plasma concentration of BAY 80-694 will be determined for copanlisib in arms A, B, and escalation dose levels., PK sampling will be performed in all the participants to characterize the PK profile for copanlisib, its metabolite M-1 (and other metabolites) in combination with letrozole and palbociclib., At pre-infusion, 10 minutes, 1, 2, 3, and 5 hours after start of infusion on days 1 and 8, course 1 (Ib); at pre-infusion and 1 hour after start of infusion on day 1, course 1 and pre-infusion, 5-15 minutes, 1, and 1-1.5 hours on day 8, course 2 (II)|The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter - Time when Cmax occurs (Tmax) will be determined for copanlisib in arms A, B, and escalation dose levels., PK sampling will be performed in all the participants to characterize the PK profile for copanlisib, its metabolite M-1 (and other metabolites) in combination with letrozole and palbociclib., At pre-infusion, 10 minutes, 1, 2, 3, and 5 hours after start of infusion on days 1 and 8, course 1 (Ib); at pre-infusion and 1 hour after start of infusion on day 1, course 1 and pre-infusion, 5-15 minutes, 1, and 1-1.5 hours on day 8, course 2 (II)|The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter - Average plasma concentration at steady state (Cavg) will be determined for copanlisib in arms A, B, and escalation dose levels., PK sampling will be performed in all the participants to characterize the PK profile for copanlisib, its metabolite M-1 (and other metabolites) in combination with letrozole and palbociclib., At pre-infusion, 10 minutes, 1, 2, 3, and 5 hours after start of infusion on days 1 and 8, course 1 (Ib); at pre-infusion and 1 hour after start of infusion on day 1, course 1 and pre-infusion, 5-15 minutes, 1, and 1-1.5 hours on day 8, course 2 (II)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety, tolerability and to estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in a metastatic setting of the following combination: copanlisib + palbociclib + letrozole. (Phase Ib) II. Compare the biological activity of letrozole in combination with palbociclib, letrozole in combination with palbociclib and copanlisib, and letrozole in combination with copanlisib by assessing the percentage change from the baseline value in Ki67 expression after 2 weeks of therapy in non-metastatic breast cancer. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the pathologic complete response (pCR) defined as absence of invasive cancer in the breast and sampled regional lymph nodes.

II. Evaluate the clinical objective response Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria 1.1.

III. Assess safety and tolerability. IV. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of copanlisib when given in combination with letrozole, and palbociclib.

V. Measure the gene expression and/or biomarker changes that may be correlated with or predict biological, clinical, and pathologic response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of copanlisib.

PHASE Ib: Patients with metastatic breast cancer receive copanlisib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, palbociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and letrozole PO continuously on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: After determination of MTD, subsequent non-metastatic breast cancer patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms:

ARM A: Patients receive copanlisib (MTD) IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and letrozole PO continuously on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive copanlisib (MTD) IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, palbociclib PO QD on days 1-21, and letrozole PO continuously on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C: Patients receive palbociclib PO QD for days 1-14 of course 1 and letrozole PO continuously on days 1-14. Patients then undergo biopsy. Patients then receive copanlisib (MTD) IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and letrozole PO continuously on days 1-28. Treatment with copanlisib and letrozole repeats every 28 days for up to 3.5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month.