Evaluating Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy for Oligometastatic Disease of the Bone
This research study is studying a form of radiation therapy called stereotactic body radiation therapy or SBRT as a possible treatment for Cancer that has spread to the spine or other bone
Bone Cancer
DRUG: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)|DEVICE: Stereotactic Linear Accelerator
The 6-month Local Control Rate of SBRT, The 6-month local control rate is the proportion of patients free of local failure at 6 months after stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). Local failure is defined as the presence of biopsy-proven recurrence or radiologic scans that demonstrate progression at the treated sites., 6 months
Number of Participants With 1-year Local Progression-Free Survival, The local progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from registration to time of local failure or death., 1 year|Number of Participants With 2-year Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from registration to time of any progression or death., 2 year|2-year Overall Survival Rate, Overall survival is defined as the time between registration and death., 2 year|Patient Reported Quality Of Life - Acute, Patient reported QOL, symptoms and satisfaction will be assessed using the MDASI general questionnaire at baseline, during treatment and all follow-up visits., 3 months|Patient Reported Quality of Life - Chronic, Patient reported QOL, symptoms and satisfaction will be assessed using the MDASI general questionnaire at baseline, during treatment and all follow-up visits., 1 year
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating metastases of the bone. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

SBRT is an advanced technique that allows for more precise delivery of radiation than with standard radiation therapy. In comparison to standard radiation therapy, it allows us to give higher doses of radiation to a tumor while limiting the radiation dose going to the surrounding normal tissues. This technology has been made possible by advances in imaging and treatment capabilities on the radiation treatment machines. SBRT works just as standard radiation therapy works by damaging cancer cells.

SBRT has been used to deliver radiation to people with cancer in the lung and those with metastases in the spine or liver. Studies of those groups have shown low rates of side effects with good rates of killing the cancer in that area and preventing it from coming back. In the current research study, the investigators are looking to further evaluate how well this type of radiation controls disease in bone and whether the toxicity (side effects) of SBRT differs from that of standard treatment. The investigators hypothesis is that toxicity might be less, as less normal tissue receives radiation with SBRT than with standard treatment. It is important to note that SBRT, just like standard radiation therapy for the participant disease, is being used to attempt to stop the growth of cancer cells in a bone metastasis and relieve or prevent any symptoms (ex. pain) associated with bone metastases. The goal of the SBRT is not to cure the participant cancer. The primary goal of the study is to see how well SBRT controls the disease in the bone, and the investigators also want to analyze its ability to control disease symptoms without added toxicity.