Antiandrogen Therapy, Abiraterone Acetate, and Prednisone With or Without Neutron Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well antiandrogen therapy, abiraterone acetate, and prednisone with or without neutron radiation therapy work in treating patients with prostate cancer. Hormone therapy such as antiandrogen therapy may fight prostate cancer by blocking the production and interfering with the action of hormones. Abiraterone acetate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as prednisone, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Neutron radiation therapy uses high energy neutrons to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. It is not yet known whether antiandrogen therapy, abiraterone acetate, and prednisone with or without neutron radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with prostate cancer.
Castration-Sensitive Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Small Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Antiandrogen Therapy|DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Prednisone|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Percent Change in Peripheral Blood Effector T-cells (CCR7-/CD45RO), Percent change in peripheral blood effector T-cells will be calculated by measuring the difference of the percent peripheral blood effector T-cells for each patient between two time points: pre-treatment and post-treatment (3 months after start of ADT, which is also 1 month post-radiation in the radiation arm). Unpaired two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test, depending on distribution of the percent change, will be used to test the null hypothesis that the percent change in peripheral blood effector T-cells is equal between the two arms., Baseline to 3 months after start of antiandrogen therapy (ADT)
Rate of Undetectable Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) (< 0.2), The number of patients with undetectable PSA at 6-months will be summarized by each arm and all combined., At 6 months after start of abiraterone acetate|Incidence of Adverse Events, Will be assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Safety and tolerability as evaluated by the incidence, severity, duration, causality, seriousness of adverse events. Toxicities will be summarized as the number of patients with grade 3 or higher toxicities per CTCAE v4.0, in addition to total number of toxicities (allowing for multiple toxicities within a patient) among all patients, and per treatment arm., Up to 6 months
OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive ADT per standard of care. Beginning 2 months after start of ADT, patients also receive abiraterone acetate and prednisone per standard of care for at least 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive ADT, abiraterone acetate, and prednisone as in Arm I. Beginning 8-10 weeks after starting ADT and within 1 week of starting abiraterone acetate, patients also undergo 3-5 fractions of neutron radiation therapy for 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 weeks for 6 months.