Pembrolizumab and Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy or Non-Stereotactic Wide-Field Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of pembrolizumab when given together with stereotactic body radiation therapy or non-stereotactic wide-field radiation therapy (conventional radiation therapy) and to see how well they work in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Stereotactic body radiation therapy uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method can kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period and cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving pembrolizumab together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Disease response, according to immune related response criteria (Phase I/II), Treatment success will be defined as radiographic complete response or partial response measured using Pearson chi-squared or Fisher exact tests., Beginning 3 months after initiation of treatment|Incidence of toxicity (Phase I/II), Graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 90 days after completion of treatment|Maximum tolerated dose of pembrolizumab and stereotactic body radiation therapy (Phase I), Graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., 22 days|Maximum tolerated dose of pembrolizumab and non-stereotactic wide-field radiation therapy (Phase I), Graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., 22 days|Objective response (complete response + partial response) of the non-irradiated disease sites, according to Out-Field immune related response criteria (Phase II), Assesed according to Out-Field immune related response criteria. Treatment success will be defined as radiographic complete response or partial response measured using Pearson chi-squared or Fisher exact tests., Up to 5 years
Progression-free survival (Phase II), Analysis conducted using Kaplan-Meier method. At the discretion of the investigators, multivariate Cox regression will be done to adjust for (among other factors): number of metastatic disease sites, number of prior treatments, primary cancer histology, age, pre-treatment Karnofsky performance scale, and Royal Marsden score., From the time of enrollment to first evidence of progressive disease, assessed at 3 months after treatment initiation|Overall survival, Analysis conducted using Kaplan-Meier method, with comparisons regarding overall survival made via the log-rank test. At the discretion of the investigators, multivariate Cox regression will be done to adjust for (among other factors): number of metastatic disease sites, number of prior treatments, primary cancer histology, age, pre-treatment Karnofsky performance scale, and Royal Marsden score., Receipt of the first pembrolizumab dose to death, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of intravenous MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) administered in combination with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) targeting 1-4 liver or thoracic lesion(s) in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). (Phase I) II. To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of intravenous MK-3475 administered in combination with non-stereotactic wide-field radiation therapy (WFRT) targeting 1-4 liver or thoracic lesion(s) in patients with metastatic NSCLC. (Phase I) III. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of MK-3475 and SBRT combination therapy. (Phase I) IV. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of MK-3475 and WFRT combination therapy. (Phase I) V. To determine the rate of out-of-field objective responses (either complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]) of the non-irradiated disease sites. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether the addition of radiation therapy (XRT) to MK-3475 can improve the progression free survival (PFS) rate compared to MK-3475 alone. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of pembrolizumab followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

GROUP I: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion of size and location amenable to SBRT receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive SBRT in 4 fractions daily on days 2-5 or either intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), proton beam radiation therapy (PBRT), or 3 dimensional conformation radiation therapy (3D-CRT) in 15 fractions total concurrent with pembrolizumab administration on days 1-19. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion of size or location not amenable to SBRT, but amenable to WFRT receive pembrolizumab as in Group I and either IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT in 15 fractions total concurrent with pembrolizumab administration.

PHASE II: Patients for whom SBRT is recommended are randomized to Group 1 or 2, patients for whom conventional radiation therapy is recommended are randomized to Group 3 or 4, and patients with lesions amenable to SBRT or WFRT are assigned to Group 5.

GROUP I: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location amenable to SBRT receive pembrolizumab IV on day 1 and SBRT on days 44-47 or IMRT, PBT, or 3D-CRT on days 43-61. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location amenable to SBRT receive pembrolizumab IV as in Group I without XRT. At the first planned efficacy evaluation (5 weeks), patients exhibiting progressive disease (PD) are treated with SBRT concurrent with the remaining cycles of pembrolizumab. In the event that lesion size has progressed to the point where the attending physician no longer considers SBRT safe, then the patient will be salvaged with IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT and analyzed as part of the fourth treatment group.

GROUP III: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location not amenable to SBRT, but amenable to WFRT receive pembrolizumab IV as in Group I and IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT on days 43-61.

GROUP IV: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location not amenable to SBRT, but amenable to WFRT receive pembrolizumab IV as in Group I without XRT. The decision on when to start XRT will be assessed first at week 5 (after the second dose of pembrolizumab). If a patient has PD based on immune response related criteria (irRC) then XRT will be delivered after the third dose of pembrolizumab, while patients with stable disease (SD) or PR will not start XRT and will continue to be followed. These patients will then have follow up computed tomography (CT) scans 5 weeks after course 3 three and then approximately every 3 months for the remainder of the trial; any patient at this point with PD will then have XRT delivered with the sixth dose of pembrolizumab.

GROUP V: Patients with lesions amenable to SBRT or WFRT receive pembrolizumab IV as in Group I. Patients also receive either IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT in 15 fractions to the primary lesions and low dose radiation therapy to other lesions on days 43-61 or SBRT in 4 fractions to primary lesions and low dose radiation therapy to other lesions on days 44-47.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks.