Rowing Following Breast Cancer Chemotherapy
There are more than 3.8 million breast cancer survivors in the United States and cancer survivors have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) due to chemotherapy than adults without cancer. Cardiovascular rehabilitation can be an effective strategy to decrease the incidence of CVD and its risk factors in this population. The proposed study may help to examine the effect of a novel exercise intervention on cardiovascular rehabilitation in breast cancer survivors.
Breast Cancer Survivors
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise training
Change in brachial FMD, Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) is an established non-invasive measure of endothelial function. Brachial artery FMD will be determined via ultrasonography in response to reactive hyperemia following 5-min forearm ischemia., Baseline, Following 12 weeks of supervised exercise training|Change in global longitudinal strain, Global longitudinal strain is a marker of acute subclinical cardiotoxicity and is recommended for monitoring cancer patients at risk of cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction., Baseline, Following 12 weeks of supervised exercise training|% completed vs. planned exercise frequency, We will collect information throughout the exercise intervention regarding % completed vs. planned exercise sessions/week., Throughout the 12 weeks of supervised exercise training|% completed vs. planned exercise duration, We will collect information throughout the exercise intervention regarding % completed vs. planned exercise min/session., Throughout the 12 weeks of supervised exercise training|% completed vs. planned exercise intensity, We will collect information throughout the exercise intervention regarding % completed vs. planned exercise intensity/session., Throughout the 12 weeks of supervised exercise training|Number of participants who experience adverse event as defined by most recent CTCAE, To evaluate safety plans are in place for determination and monitoring of adverse events according to the most recent National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. Classification for seriousness, expectedness, severity and relationship to study intervention will be based on the NIH provided definitions., Throughout the 12 weeks of supervised exercise training
There are more than 3.8 million breast cancer survivors in the United States and cancer survivors have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) due to chemotherapy than adults without cancer. Cardiovascular rehabilitation can be an effective strategy to decrease the incidence of CVD and its risk factors in this population. The proposed study may help to examine the effect of a novel exercise intervention on cardiovascular rehabilitation in breast cancer survivors.