TAK-243 in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndromes With Increased Blasts
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of TAK-243 in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes with increased blasts that has come back (relapsed) or that is not responding to treatment (refractory). TAK-243 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Excess Blasts|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Myelodysplastic Syndrome/Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Refractory Myelodysplastic Syndrome/Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: UAE Inhibitor TAK-243
Recommended phase II dose (RP2D), RP2D will be identified based on maximum tolerated dose and additional safety data. Primary endpoint will be analyzed on the population assessable for safety of the phase 1 trial (escalation part)., At 21 days
Incidence of adverse events, Determined by clinical symptoms/signs, laboratory evaluation and imaging. Graded by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Will be recorded in terms of event type, severity, dates of beginning and end, reversibility and evolution. Data will be gathered in tables summarizing toxicities and side effects for each dose level and cycle., Up to 30 days after the last dose of TAK-243|Incidence of serious adverse events, Determined by clinical symptoms/signs, laboratory evaluation and imaging. Graded by CTCAE version 5.0. Will be recorded in terms of event type, severity, dates of beginning and end, reversibility and evolution. Data will be gathered in tables summarizing toxicities and side effects for each dose level and cycle., Up to 30 days after the last dose of TAK-243|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), DLT will be described in terms of number and incidence rates at each dose level. The number and percentage of patients who will have developed a DLT in each dose level will also be reported., Within the first cycle (Up to 21 days)|Rate of complete response (CR) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), As defined by European LeukemiaNet criteria. Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of complete response with incomplete hematological recovery (CRi), in patients with AML, As defined by European LeukemiaNet criteria. Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of CR with partial hematological recovery (CRh) in patients with AML, As defined by European LeukemiaNet criteria. Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of partial response (PR) in patients with AML, As defined by European LeukemiaNet criteria. Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS) in patients with AML, As defined by European LeukemiaNet criteria. Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Overall response rate (ORR) in patients with AML, Will include CR, CRi plus CRh. Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Time to response in patients with AML, Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., From study treatment initiation (Cycle 1 Day 1) to achievement of CR, CRi or CRh, assessed up to|Overall survival (OS) in patients with AML, OS rates will be reported. OS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median survival rates will be reported with a 95% confidence interval. Median follow-up will be calculated using the reverse Kaplan-Meier method., From study treatment initiation to death (of any cause) or last follow-up, assessed at 6 months and 1 year|Relapse-free survival (RFS) in patients with AML, Will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median survival rates will be reported with a 95% confidence interval. Median follow-up will be calculated using the reverse Kaplan-Meier method., From CR, CRi or CRh to the first occurrence of disease relapse, death (of any cause) or last follow-up, whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months and 1 year|Rate of CR in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of CR equivalent in patients with MDS, Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of CR with limited count recovery (CRL) in patients with MDS, Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of CR with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) in patients with MDS, Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of marrow CR in patients with MDS, Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Rate of PR in patients with MDS, Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|ORR in patients with MDS, Defined by the revised International Working Group 2023 response criteria for higher-risk MDS. Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., Up to 1 year|Time to response in patients with MDS, Categorical endpoints (e.g., response) will be reported in terms of counts by dose level., From study treatment initiation (Cycle 1 Day 1) to achievement of CR, CRL or CRh, assessed up to 1 year|OS in patients with MDS, OS rates will be reported. OS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median survival rates will be reported with a 95% confidence interval. Median follow-up will be calculated using the reverse Kaplan-Meier method., From study treatment initiation to death (of any cause) or last follow-up, assessed at 6 months and 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with MDS, PFS rates will be reported. PFS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median survival rates will be reported with a 95% confidence interval. Median follow-up will be calculated using the reverse Kaplan-Meier method., From study treatment initiation to the first occurrence of progressive disease (PD), relapse from CR (or CR equivalent), death (of any cause), or last follow-up whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months and 1 year|Pharmacokinetic measurements, Expressed as area under the curve (AUC), half-life (t1/2), and maximum concentration (Cmax)., Baseline up to 1 year|Demonstration of UBA1-TAK-243 engagement, Assayed by proprietary monoclonal antibody courtesy of Takeda, to determine target binding and inhibition., Baseline up to 1 year|Reductions of protein mono- and poly ubiquitylation, Measured by FK2 antibody. Used as a functional marker of target inhibition., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To establish the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of UAE inhibitor TAK-243 (TAK-243) administered intravenously in a twice-weekly schedule in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) evaluated on the first cycle (Day 1 to 21) of TAK-243, its safety profile, and dose limiting toxicities (DLT).

II. To investigate preliminary anti-leukemic activity of TAK-243 monotherapy in patients with AML or MDS.

III. To describe the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of TAK-243. IV. To describe the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of TAK-243.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate associations between clinical responses and molecular/cytogenetic abnormalities in the leukemia cells or to the PK profile or PD effects of TAK-243.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive TAK-243 intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of each cycle. Cycles repeats every 21 days for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo urine sample collection, bone marrow aspiration and bone marrow biopsy, multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) and echocardiogram (ECHO) during screening and on study, and blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.