Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Small Bowel Adenocarcinoma That is Metastatic or Locally Advanced and Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating patients with small bowel adenocarcinoma that has spread to other places in the body or that cannot be removed by surgery. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Metastatic Small Intestinal Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Small Intestinal Carcinoma|Unresectable Small Intestinal Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Confirmed Response Rate, The response rate (percentage) is the percent of patients whose best response was Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Percentage of successes will be estimated by 100 times the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients., 1 year (up to 18 cycles)
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first. Progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., From study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., From study entry to death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events Regardless of Attribution, number of participants who experienced at least one grade 3 or higher adverse events regardless of attribution assessed by National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03, Up to 2 years
Biomarker Levels, Correlated with clinical data (i.e. response, overall survival, progression free survival, adverse events). These correlations will be done using the Chi-square or Fisher?s exact test for categorical data and Kaplan-Meier methods (including the log-rank test) for the survival endpoints. Univariate Cox regression models will also be done to assess for marker effects on survival endpoints. Descriptive statistics and graphical methods will be used to summarize the data as well. All these analyses will be done overall and by MMR/microsatellite instability status., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether pembrolizumab administered to small bowel adenocarcinoma (SBA) patients demonstrates antitumor activity as measured by the confirmed response rate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess survival endpoints (overall survival \[OS\], progression free survival \[PFS\]), including stratified analysis by tumor site.

II. To assess whether pembrolizumab is safe in SBA patients by assessing adverse events.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether PD-L1 expression, as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC), or microsatellite instability (MSI) status is associated with the response rate overall.

II. To determine if Bim levels in tumor-reactive CD11ahighPD-1+CD8+ peripheral blood T cells can objectively monitor responses to pembrolizumab and to determine if excessive release of soluble B7-H1 (soluble \[s\]PD-L1) by the tumor leads to Bim upregulation and treatment resistance in SBA.

III. To determine if other tissue-based factors, such as total mutational burden, correlate with response to pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until disease progression, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.