Perifosine With Temsirolimus for Recurrent Pediatric Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of 2 drugs, perifosine in combination with temsirolimus in children with solid tumors. Neither drug is currently part of the standard treatment of solid tumors in children. Both drugs have been tested alone to treat solid tumors in children with little success. There is now new insight that if given together, perifosine and temsirolimus may work together to stop the growth of solid tumors and may also make them shrink. The doctor wants to find out what effects; good and/or bad, perifosine in combination with temsirolimus has on the patient and the cancer. The doctors are testing four different dose schedules of perifosine with temsirolimus and the patient will be asked to partake in one of the dose schedules. The dose schedule will be lower for those enrolled early in the study.
Pediatric Solid Tumors
DRUG: perifosine + temsirolimus
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of perifosine + temsirolimus combination in children with cancer., 2 years
To determine whether pharmacokinetic serum levels of both perifosine and temsirolimus correlate with toxicity., 2 years|To record preliminary data on the efficacy of the perifosine + temsirolimus combination., 2 years|If previously resected tissue is available, determine whether molecular features predict response including, Elevated PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling, Elevated RAS/MAPK signaling, Cell cycle markers, 2 years
The purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of 2 drugs, perifosine in combination with temsirolimus in children with solid tumors. Neither drug is currently part of the standard treatment of solid tumors in children. Both drugs have been tested alone to treat solid tumors in children with little success. There is now new insight that if given together, perifosine and temsirolimus may work together to stop the growth of solid tumors and may also make them shrink. The doctor wants to find out what effects; good and/or bad, perifosine in combination with temsirolimus has on the patient and the cancer. The doctors are testing four different dose schedules of perifosine with temsirolimus and the patient will be asked to partake in one of the dose schedules. The dose schedule will be lower for those enrolled early in the study.