Exercise Intervention Prior to CRS-HIPEC: Feasibility & Impact
Our objective is to initiate an exercise program for patients with advanced GI or Gyn cancer, as prehabilitation prior to surgery. The objective of the prehabilitation program is to reduce complication rates and improve the length and quality of survival for patients with abdominal cancer. The prehabilitation program will be offered to patients who are eligible for and consent to cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC)
Colon Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|GI Cancer|Gynecologic Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Home-based Exercise Program Prior to CRS-HIPEC|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Education
Acceptability, Rate of enrollment into this trial, 1 year|Feasibility of doing exercises, The percent of exercises completed by subjects, 2 months
30-day Complication, • To assess the 30-day rate of complications after prehabilitation and CRS/HIPEC. The rate of complication after CRS/HIPEC is well described in the literature and established in our patient population at Penn State Cancer Institute. Infectious and non-infectious complications and length of stay will be collected, 1 month|Quality of Life after CRS-HIPEC, • To monitor quality of life after prehabilitation and CRS/HIPEC. Quality of life (QOL) after CRS/HIPEC is well described in the literature and was assessed in our patients in a pilot study that is nearly completed. Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) T-Scores for Physical Function will be obtained, scores ranging from 20-80, with higher scores reflecting higher physical function.

To assess the effects of prehabilitation and CRS/HIPEC on muscle mass. Muscle mass at the level of L3 on cross-sectional imaging will be measured for all subjects at baseline, to determine the presence of sarcopenia. Muscle mass will be measured again after CRS/HIPEC. Changes in muscle mass after CRS/HIPEC are unknown, and the effect of a prehabilitation program in this patient population are also unknown. The results will serve as preliminary data for a future, larger study in this population with more specific hypotheses., 1 year
Our objective is to assess the feasibility and impact of implementing an exercise program for patients with advanced GI or Gyn cancer, as prehabilitation prior to surgery. The objective of the prehabilitation program is to reduce complication rates and improve the length and quality of survival for patients with abdominal cancer. The prehabilitation program will be offered to patients who are eligible for and consent to cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC).