Gemcitabine and Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving gemcitabine together with erlotinib may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving gemcitabine together with erlotinib works in treating patients with metastatic or recurrent pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: gemcitabine
Progression Free Survival, Defined as the time from first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not progressed or died, progression-free survival is censored at the time of last follow-up. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 36 months
Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 36 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be followed for survival every three months until documented progression, death or study termination. If a participant is still alive, survival time is censored at the time of last follow-up., Up to 36 months
OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 1, 8, and 15 and oral erlotinib hydrochloride on days 2-5, 9-12, and 16-26. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Archived tumor tissue samples are analyzed for the expression of EGFR, HER3, HER2, downstream signaling molecules, and other molecular markers by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR. The presence of aberrant gene copy numbers (amplification and polysomy) for EGFR, HER3, and HER2 are determined by FISH. Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for polymorphism analysis and correlative molecular analysis of surrogate endpoint biomarkers.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months.