Adjuvant Treatment of Apatinib in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of apatinib for adjuvant treatment of High-risk metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma after IMRT with concurrent chemotherapy,including progression-free survival (PFS),evaluation of drug safety.,and overall survival (OS),distant metastasisfree survival (DMFS),locoregional relapse-free survival (LRRFS),and quality of life score (QoL).
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Apatinib mesylate tablet|RADIATION: Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT)|DRUG: Cisplatin
Progression-free survival, The time from the first day of therapy to locoregional relapse, distant relapse or tumor-related death, 3 years
Overall survival, The time from the first day of therapy to death or last follow-up, 3 years|Locoregional relapse-free survival, The time from the first day of treatment to the time of first locoregional relapse, 3 years|Distant metastasis-free survival, The time from the first day of treatment to the time of first distant metastasis, 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

Ⅰ.To determine if adjuvant apatinib after IMRT with concurrent chemotherapy is better to only obeservation after IMRT with concurrent chemotherapy for progression-free survival in High-risk metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

Ⅰ.To explore the adjuvant medication regimen of local advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma after IMRT with concurrent chemotherapy.

Ⅱ.Provide high-level evidence-based medical evidence for the new individualized treatment strategy of nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients are randomized to one of the two treatment arms.

ARM 1: treat with apatinib(the dose was 250 mg,orally,qd,28 days for an observation period,Six cycles) for adjuvant treatment of local advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma after IMRT with concurrent chemotherapy.

ARM 2:only obeservation after IMRT with concurrent chemotherapy. IMRT: GTVnx 69.69Gy, GTVnd 60-68Gy, PTV1 59.4Gy and PTV2 54Gy in 33 fractions, 5 days/week.

Concurrent chemotherapy:Cisplatin 80mg/m2(D1-3), 3-week chemotherapy for 3 cycles.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-4 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years.