Fruquintinib as a Maintenance Therapy Following First-line Treatment for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This study was a randomized, controled, multicenter, phase II clinical study evaluating the efficacy and safety of fruquintinib as a maintenance therapy following first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer. This study will include the patients with confirmed unresectable metastatic left-sided colon cancer with RAS mutation or right-sided colon cancer who achieved stable disease (SD) or partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) via palliative first-line treatment. It's expected to include 110 patients and they will be randomly stratified at 2:1 into fruquintinib group and observation group based on whether bevacizumab is used and the primary tumor site, using the Interactive Network Response System (IWRS). The random No. corresponds to the respective patient. The enrollment time is expected to be 18 months, followed up for 24 months.
Colo-rectal Cancer
DRUG: Fruquintinib
PFS, progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as time from randomization to disease progression., 24 months after the last subject participating in
OS, Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from randomization to death., 36 months after the last subject participating in|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Adverse events (AE) will be graded and documented according to NCI-CTC AE v4.0 from the beginning of treatment to 1 months after the last date of treatment. Documentary will include severity, lasting period and occurrence time. Main AEs include hypertension, albuminuria, skin reaction of hands and feet, hemorrhage, dysphonia, transaminase rise, abdominal pain / abdominal discomfort, blood bilirubin rise, thyroid dysfunction, infection, diarrhea, fatigue / fatigue, appetite decline, oral mucositis, weight loss, fecal occult blood and platelet count decline, 1 month after the last administration of fruquintinib
This study was a randomized, controled, multicenter, phase II clinical study evaluating the efficacy and safety of fruquintinib as a maintenance therapy following first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer. This study will include the patients with confirmed unresectable metastatic left-sided colon cancer with RAS mutation or right-sided colon cancer who achieved stable disease (SD) or partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) via palliative first-line treatment. It's expected to include 110 patients and they will be randomly stratified at 2:1 into fruquintinib group and observation group based on whether bevacizumab is used and the primary tumor site, using the Interactive Network Response System (IWRS). The random No. corresponds to the respective patient. The enrollment time is expected to be 18 months, followed up for 24 months.