Optimization of Management for Sporadic Bilateral Renal Cell Carcinoma
Sporadic bilateral renal cell carcinoma (BRCC) is a rare situation of RCC. The treatment for BRCC is controversial and there is a lack of authoritative guidelines about the management of BRCC. The goal of this cohort study is to identify prognostic factors, construct predictive nomograms, and optimize management for sporadic BRCC patients. The main questions it aims to answer are:

What are the factors influencing the prognosis of BRCC patients? What's the appropriate treatment for BRCC patients?

Researchers will analysis the prognostic factors and compare the prognosis of BRCC patients receiving different treatments.
Kidney Cancer
PROCEDURE: Surgery treatment or local tumor destruction.
Overall survival (OS), OS was calculated as the time interval from the diagnosis of the second primary RCC to death or the time to the last follow-up., From date of diagnosis of the second primary RCC until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years.
Cancer-specific survival (CSS), CSS was calculated as the time interval from the diagnosis of the second primary RCC to death from the same disease or the last follow-up., From date of diagnosis of the second primary RCC until the date of death from the same disease or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years.
Sporadic bilateral renal cell carcinoma (BRCC) is a rare situation of RCC. The treatment for BRCC is controversial and there is a lack of authoritative guidelines about the management of BRCC. This cohort study aims to identify prognostic factors, construct predictive nomograms, and optimize surgical treatment for sporadic BRCC patients. The main questions it aims to answer are:

What are the factors influencing the prognosis of BRCC patients? What's the appropriate treatment for BRCC patients? In this retrospective population-based cohort study, patients diagnosed with sporadic BRCC between 2000 and 2020 were identified from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database. Researchers will analysis the prognostic factors and compare the prognosis of BRCC patients receiving different treatments.