Chidamide in Combination With Azacitidine, Liposomal Mitoxantrone, and Prednisone (CAMP Regimen) for the Treatment of Previously Untreated Nodal TFH Cell Lymphoma
This study is investigating the effectiveness (specifically the objective response rate - ORR) of a new combination therapy called CAMP (chidamide, azacitidine, liposomal mitoxantrone, and prednisone) for previously untreated angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL). It's a single-arm study comparing CAMP's safety and efficacy to standard treatments. Younger patients (≤70) receive the full CAMP regimen, while older patients receive a modified version (CAMP-light). Patients are assessed via PET-CT after 4 cycles. Responders (CR/PR) receive consolidation therapy and then maintenance chidamide for 2 years. Eligible patients achieving CR after 4 cycles can get a transplant, while those with PR need 2 more cycles first. Patients with stable or progressive disease after 4 cycles are withdrawn. Progression at any time leads to study discontinuation.
Peripheral T Cell Lymphoma|Epigenetic Repression
DRUG: Chidamide|DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: liposomal mitoxantrone|DRUG: prednisone
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the incidence of either a CR or a partial response (PR) per the Lugano Classification by PET-CT as determined by study investigators., 2 years post initiation of treatment|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, 2 years post initiation of treatment
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the initiation of treatment to the date of disease progression or death from any cause., 2 years post initiation of treatment|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined for participants who experience complete response after treatment and is the time from the first objective response to disease progression or death from any cause., 2 years post initiation of treatment|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from initiation of treatment to the date of death from any cause., 2 years post initiation of treatment
levels of lymphocyte subsets in blood, 2 years post initiation of treatment|levels of cytokines in serum, Cytokines assessed by flow cytometry: including IL-10, IL-6, IL-8, IFN-α, IFN-γ, and TNF-α., 2 years post initiation of treatment
Main Objective:

The primary objective of this study is to investigate the objective response rate (ORR) of chidamide in combination with azacitidine, liposomal mitoxantrone, and prednisone (CAMP regimen) for the treatment of treatment-naïve angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL).

Study Design:

This study employs a single-arm design, based on the hypothesis that the safety profile of the chidamide, azacitidine, liposomal mitoxantrone, and prednisone (CAMP regimen) is superior to conventional treatment regimens, and that the efficacy, as measured by ORR, is non-inferior to conventional treatment regimens. Patients meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be treated according to age: patients ≤70 years old will receive the CAMP regimen as first-line therapy, while patients \>70 years old will receive a modified CAMP regimen (CAMP-light) as first-line therapy. Interim efficacy will be assessed via PET-CT scan after the 4th cycle of chemotherapy, with PET-CT results interpreted using the Deauville 5-point scale.

Treatment and Follow-up:

Patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at the interim assessment will continue with 2 cycles of consolidation therapy using the CAMP regimen or CAMP-light regimen. Subsequently, they will enter single-agent chidamide maintenance therapy (≤70 years old: chidamide 30mg orally, twice weekly; \>70 years old: chidamide 20mg orally, twice weekly), which will continue for 24 months.

Patients eligible for transplantation who achieve a CR after 4 cycles of induction therapy may proceed to autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). Patients achieving a PR will receive 2 additional cycles of consolidation therapy before undergoing ASCT. Patients with a PR at the interim assessment will undergo a repeat PET-CT scan before transplantation to reassess efficacy. Stem cell mobilization for transplant-eligible patients will utilize steady-state mobilization with or without plerixafor.

Patients exhibiting stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) at the interim assessment after 4 cycles will be withdrawn from the study.

Patients experiencing PD at any time during the treatment course will be discontinued from the study upon confirmation of progression.