NDMM Patients Candidates for ASCT Comparing Extended VRD Plus vs. Isa-VRD vs. Isa-V-Iberdomide
This is a Phase III open-label, 3-arm, parallel, randomized, controlled trial. The allocation ratio 1:1:1 and outcome assessment are blind to group allocation. Patients will be randomized from 3 arms. Patients will receive VRD extended + ASCT plus ERI or Isatuximab-VRD + ASCT or Isatuximab-VID + ASCT.
Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Isatuximab|DRUG: Iberdomide|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Efficacy in terms of patients who are MRD-negative by NGF, Percentage of patients who are MRD-negative by next generation flow cytometry (NGF) after 18 cycles + ASCT comparing the efficacy of extended VRD + ASCT plus ERI \& (Arm B) vs. IsatuximabVRD + ASCT (Arm A)., 24 months
Frequency of adverse events (AEs), Number of patients who presented AEs in each arm to perform safety analysis. NOTE: Due to the experimental nature of the Arm C combination Isatuximab-Iberdomide-Bortezomib-Dex, a safety analysis will be performed with the first 5 patients included in each arm as per section, a second one when 25 patients in each arm have completed 3 cycles of therapy, and subsequent ones might be required if considered by the Primary-Investigator, Co-Primary-Investigator, Co-coordinators and Co-Investigator., Throughout the study. Approximately 78 months.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Time from the start of treatment until the earliest date of documented disease progression or death due to any cause., Throughout the study. Approximately 78 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of participants with a confirmed partial response (PR) or better (PR, VGPR, CR, sCR)., Throughout the study. Approximately 78 months|Complete Response Rate (CRR), The percentage of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or better (stringent complete response (CR, sCR))., Throughout the study. Approximately 78 months|Time to Response (TTR), Time from the start of treatment and the first documented evidence of response (PR or better) among participants who achieve confirmed PR or better., Throughout the study. Approximately 78 months|Duration of Response (DoR), Time from first documented evidence of PR or better until progressive disease (PD) or death due to PD among participants who achieved PR or better., Throughout the study. Approximately 78 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time from the start of treatment until the date of death due to any cause, Throughout the study. Approximately 78 months
Patients will receive induction treatment, which will consist: arm A (Isatuximab-VRD + ASCT) or arm B (VRD extended + ASCT plus ERI) or arm C (Isatuximab-VID + ASCT). After ASTC, patients will start consolidation which will be 2 cycles of similar treatment to induction.

Continuous treatment will follow after consolidation and patients will receive:

* arm A: Lenalidomide and monthly Isatuximab until progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient withdrawal, loss to follow up or death. During continuous treatment, dexamethasone 40 mg is used as a standardized premedication for Isatuximab.
* arm B: after 6 cycles of induction VRD, ASCT and two consolidation VRDs, treatment continues with 10 additional cycles of VRD. During the extension cycles, VRD changes the bortezomib and dexamethasone regimen. In these10 cycles, both bortezomib and dexamethasone will be administered, at the same doses as the previous ones, but on a weekly schedule, on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each cycle. The lenalidomide regimen remains unchanged.
* arm C: Iberdomide and monthly Isatuximab until progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient withdrawal, loss to follow up or death. During continuous treatment, dexamethasone 40 mg is used as a standardized premedication for Isatuximab.

The primary objective is to compare the efficacy of extended VRD + ASCT plus ERI (Arm B) vs. Isatuximab-VRD + ASCT (Arm A) in terms of proportion of patients who are MRD-negative by next generation flow cytometry (NGF) after 18 cycles + ASCT.

The primary endpoint, the MRD rate, takes as a reference the evaluation after the last extended VRD cycle, this is: 6 cycles for induction, 6 months for transplantation, 2 cycles for consolidation and 10 cycles until completing the 18 cycles of VRD, (in total about 24 months). For this reason,the primary endpoint in Arms A and C are established after a similar treatment time, which includes 4 cycles of induction, ASCT, 2 cycles of consolidation and 12 cycles of continuous treatment with Iberdomide plus Isatuximab (Dexamethasone to be determined).In patients of Arm B included in ERI, due to the great variability of the possible moments of incorporation in this therapeutic program, only rules are established for the moment and the realization or not of the transplant. The evaluation of the results will be carried out separately in the patients included, butalso in conjunction with the rest of the patients in Arm B to know the effect of the global strategy.

After the evaluation of the primary endpoint, continuous/maintenance treatment continues in Arms A, B and C, including patients in ARM B assigned to the ERI program. Obtaining conventional CR in either arm will require a BM analysis for MRD. In the case of stable response or improvement without RC, MRD controls have been pre-established. Due to the lack of data on tolerance and adherence to long-term treatment with Isatuximab and Iberdomide, changes in the therapeutic programs, for this reason, a complete revision of the therapeutic program has been predetermined at the moment in which the last patient included in the clinical trial reaches 36 months of treatment. At this point, taking into account the updated knowledge about continuous or maintenance treatments, the strategies for a second clinical trial or an extension of this clinical trial will be defined.