Brain Stimulation For Cancer Smokers
Smoking cessation and relapse prevention represent and important opportunity to improve cancer survival rates, reduce the risk of cancer treatment complication, and improve the quality of life of patients with and survivors of cancer. Previous studies showed that repetitive TMS (rTMS) reduced cue craving to smoking and treat nicotine dependent smokers. Recently one study completed by our team demonstrated that 10 sessions of rTMS over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) reduced cigarette consumption and cue craving, and also increased quitting rate on target quit date in nicotine dependent smokers. Thus, we propose conducting a controlled, double-blind trial comparing the effect of treatments of active rTMS and sham rTMS on cigarette abstinence days, cigarette consumption and smoking craving during a 7-days of quit attempt period in 20 nicotine-dependent patients with cancer. Specific aims are: Aim 1: Assess a feasibility of the rTMS for smoking cessation in cancer patients. Aim 2: Obtain preliminary estimates of whether one-week active rTMS of left DLPFC tends to be more efficacious than sham rTMS during a 7-days of quit attempt laboratory model period increasing abstinence days, and also decreasing cigarette consumption and cue-elicited craving in cancer patients with smoking.
Cancer of Head and Neck|Breast Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Nicotine Dependence
DEVICE: Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Clinical Research System
The Number of Enrollment, How many cancer patients with smoking can be enrolled in 12 months?, 12 months
Effect of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) on the Number of Abstinence Days., Total number of smoke-free days during a day quit attempt. Self-reported abstinence during the day quit attempt will be assessed via timeline. The maximum number of consecutive days of abstinence will be recorded. Participants who does not report at least one 24-hour period of abstinence will be recorded as "0" days abstinent., 5 days
Effect of rTMS on Cigarette Consumption, the change of self-reported number of cigarettes smoked per day, 5 days|Effect of rTMS on Cue Craving to Smoke Cigarette, Brief questionnaire of smoking urges - brief (QSU - Brief) is used to assess smoking urges. Ten questions are included in the test. Range of scales is 1-7 score for each item. The cue craving scales include 10 items. The range of the total score is 10- 70 score. The maximum number means the highest craving that is the worst outcome. The minimum number is the least craving for cigarettes that is the best outcome., 5 days|Effect of rTMS on Cue Craving to Smoke Cigarette, The change of visual analog scale (VAS). The VAS has 1-7 score. The minimum is 1 which means the best result. The maximum value of 7 is the worst outcome. The VAS was measured during 5 treatment sessions., 5 days|Adverse Events, Side effect will be measured pre and post each rTMS session., 5 days|Study Attrition Rate, How many subjects completed treatment and a 30 days follow-up., 12 months
Specific aims: Smoking cessation and relapse prevention represent and important opportunity to improve cancer survival rates , reduce the risk of cancer treatment complication, and improve the quality of life of patients with and survivors of cancer . Previous studies showed that repetitive TMS (rTMS) reduced cue craving to smoking and treat nicotine dependent smokers. Recently one study completed by our team demonstrated that 10 sessions of rTMS over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) reduced cigarette consumption and cue craving, and also increased quitting rate on target quit date in nicotine dependent smokers. Thus, we propose conducting a controlled, double-blind trial comparing the effect of treatments of active rTMS and sham rTMS on cigarette abstinence days, cigarette consumption and smoking craving during a 7-days of quit attempt period in 20 nicotine-dependent patients with cancer. Specific aims are: Aim 1: Assess a feasibility of the rTMS for smoking cessation in cancer patients. Aim 2: Obtain preliminary estimates of whether one-week active rTMS of left DLPFC tends to be more efficacious than sham rTMS during a 7-days of quit attempt laboratory model period increasing abstinence days, and also decreasing cigarette consumption and cue-elicited craving in cancer patients with smoking.

1.1. Primary objective To assess a feasibility of the rTMS for smoking cessation in cancer patients: The primary feasibility measures are : whether or not we can enroll 20 cancer patients with smoking within 12 months? 1.2 Secondary objectives

(1) Study attrition. How many subjects can complete 7-day quit attempt during rTMS treatment? How many subjects will complete one-month follow-up? (2) To obtain preliminary estimates of whether one-week active rTMS of left DLPFC tends to be more efficacious than sham rTMS during a 7-days of quit attempt laboratory model period increasing abstinence days, and also decreasing cigarette consumption and cue-elicited craving in cancer patients with smoking.

1.3 Exploratory objectives Self-reported number of cigarettes smoked per day, The brief questionnaire of smoking urges (QSU - Brief), visual analog scale for craving and side effect will be measured pre and post each rTMS session. Other assessment, Carbon Monoxide, Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND), and Minnesota Nicotine withdrawing Scale (MNWS) will be completed at baseline and the last TMS. Quitting attempt will verify daily CO \< 5 ppm. FTND, Feasibility metrics will also be tracked, including numbers of complete TMS sessions and dropout rate.