Prospective Screening for Breast Cancer-related Lymphedema
The primary objectives of this study are twofold: 1) to detect and determine the level of symptoms, functional disability, and changes in quality of life that breast cancer patients experience from changes in their arms during and after treatment for breast cancer by collecting patient reported outcome measures, objective measurements, and clinical information in a prospectively maintained database and 2) to improve breast cancer-related lymphedema outcomes by early detection using objective measurements and symptoms assessments and assess these outcomes by maintaining the data in a database in order to contribute to the literature. The secondary aim of this study is to assess extracellular fluid content in the upper extremity, breast, and/or trunk of patients treated for breast cancer before, during, and after treatment in order to better understand the role of bioimpedance spectroscopy in lymphedema screening.
Lymphedema
OTHER: Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema Screening
Upper extremity changes following treatment for breast cancer, During and following treatment for breast cancer patients' experience a variety of changes in their upper extremities. The subject responses to the patient-reported outcome measures (BCLE-SEI questionnaire) obtained throughout their breast cancer treatment process will be analyzed in conjunction with arm volume measurements taken with both perometry and bioimpedance spectroscopy. This will allow for the correlation between quantifiable limb volume changes and subject documented changes in arm use and functionality and quality of life., 1.5 to 5 years
The goal of the study is to create a large, prospectively maintained database with data from multiple objective measurement methods (i.e. perometry and BIS) that has detailed information on patient's symptoms and quality of life measures that can be used to answer research questions.

The study design is prospective in nature, and a questionnaire will be utilized in conjunction with objective measurements before, throughout, and after a patient's treatment for breast cancer. This protocol is designed to mimic the current standard of care screening program with the addition of the quality of life questionnaire and BIS measurements.

Data collection will include medical chart review, perometric arm volume measurements, BIS measurements, and a subjective questionnaire. At their preoperative multidisciplinary breast cancer clinic appointment, patients will undergo baseline arm volume measurements per standard of care. At this time, eligible patients will be offered this study. Those who consent will be given a baseline questionnaire to fill out and have baseline BIS measurements taken. Throughout their treatment and follow-up, patients will periodically have BCRL screening every 2-12 months depending on their risk (i.e. patients who are high risk for BCRL because of extensive lymph node surgery will be measured more often than patients who did not have lymph nodes removed). These screening visits will coincide with naturally occurring oncology follow-up visits; although, patients are also screened when patient or provider requests and questionnaires/BIS measurements will be offered at these time points as well.