Ruxolitinib Phosphate in Treating Patients With Chronic Neutrophilic Leukemia or Atypical Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well ruxolitinib phosphate works in treating patients with chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL) or atypical chronic myeloid leukemia (aCML). Ruxolitinib phosphate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cells to reproduce. This trial also studies the genetic makeup of patients. Certain genes in cancer cells may determine how the cancer grows or spreads and how it may respond to different drugs. Studying how the genes associated with CNL and aCML respond to the study drug may help doctors learn more about CNL and aCML and improve the treatment for these diseases.
Atypical Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Negative|Chronic Neutrophilic Leukemia
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Ruxolitinib Phosphate
Percentage of First 25 Enrolled Patients With a Hematologic Response to Ruxolitinib (Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR)), A subject is defined as being responsive (responder) if he or she has achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at the beginning of cycle 7 compared to start of study (day 1,cycle 1). Subjects who do not reach the start of cycle 7 are counted as non-responders. Proportions with 95% exact confidence intervals will be computed. Protocol-defined Response evaluates changes in white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil count, marrow findings and spleen size to define response (attached protocol, Section 10.6, Clinical Response, Table 6 and Table). IWG-defined Response evaluates bone marrow cellularity and myeloblast percent, absence of osteopmyelofibrosis, peripheral blood elements (white blood cell, Neutrophil, Monocyte and platelet counts, hemoglobin density, percent blasts and Neutrophil precursors), symptom resolution, dysplasia, and spleen size to determine response (attached reference)., Start of cycle 7
Percentage of Participant With Any Hematologic Grade III or IV Adverse Events., The frequency (percentage) of subjects with any hematologic \[thrombocytopenia, anemia or neutropenia\] grade III or IV adverse events according to CTCAE v4.0, Up to 6 weeks after last dose of ruxolitinib phosphate|Percentage of Participants With Any Non-hematologic Grade III or IV Adverse Events., The frequency (percentage) of subjects with any non-hematologic grade III or IV adverse events according to CTCAE v4.0, Up to 6 weeks after last dose of ruxolitinib phosphate|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Clinical Response of Partial Response or Better, Compute the percent of patients with protocol-defined objective response (CR+PR) and IWG-defined objective response (CR+PR) at the start of cycle 7 among all enrolled patients (n = 49). Patients who withdrew prior to the end of cycle 6 are considered non-responders. Protocol-defined Response evaluates changes in white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil count, marrow findings and spleen size to define response (attached protocol, Section 10.6, Clinical Response, Table 6 and Table). IWG-defined Response evaluates bone marrow cellularity and myeloblast percent, absence of osteopmyelofibrosis, peripheral blood elements (white blood cell, Neutrophil, Monocyte and platelet counts, hemoglobin density, percent blasts and Neutrophil precursors), symptom resolution, dysplasia, and spleen size to determine response (attached reference)., Start of cycle 7|Median Time on Study (Months) for Early Drop Offs, Median and range of months on study for subjects who did not complete 6 cycles of Ruxolitinib, End of cycle 6|Median Time on Study (Months) for All Enrolled Subjects, Median and range of months on Ruxolitinib for all enrolled subjects, Outcome is measured from the first dose of study drug. If study drug continues to be effective, patient may be eligible to continue on study drug past 24 cycles (up to 4.5 years)|Percentage of Participants With Early Drop Off (Prior to Completion of Cycle 3), Percent (and 95% confidence interval) of subjects who discontinue Ruxolitinib prior to completion of cycle 3, up to the end of cycle 3 (12 weeks)|Percentage of Participants Who Reach Cycle 7, Report percent (and 95% confidence interval) of subjects who start cycle 7(complete cycle 6), Start of cycle 7|Percentage of Participants With Early Drop Off (After Completion of Cycle 3 and Prior to Completion of Cycle 6), Percent (and 95% confidence interval) of subjects who discontinue after completion of 3 cycles but prior to completion of 6 cycles, Between cycle 3 and cycle 6|Maximum Clinical Responses, Percent (and 95% confidence interval) of subjects' maximum or "best" protocol-defined response \[CR \> PR \> SD \> PD\]. Protocol-defined Response combines changes in white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil count, marrow findings and spleen size to define response (attached protocol, Section 10.6, Clinical Response, Table 6 and Table).

Duration of maximum response was not available from the final data set. PR requires \> 50% reduction in white blood cell and absolute neutrophil counts, \> 50% reduction in granulocytic hyperplasia (CNL) or granulocytic dyspoiesis (aCML), and \> 25% reduction in spleen size., Up to 6 weeks after last dose of ruxolitinib phosphate|Change in Spleen Size, Evaluated by Ultrasound, Change in spleen size (median, range) evaluated by ultrasound at the start of cycle 7 (day 1, cycle 7) and the start of study (day 1, cycle 1). Spleen volume is calculated by the conventional prolate ellipsoid method. Measure spleen width, thickness and maximum length in centimeters. Multiply width by thickness by max length by 0.524 to get the total spleen volume in cm\^3. Spleen size is only one component of protocol-defined response and cannot be used to independently assess response. (see section 10.6, Clinical Response, Table 6 of attached study protocol) Change in spleen size is the difference between measurements: value at Day 1 Cycle 7 minus the value at Day 1 Cycle 1., Measured on Day1 Cycle 1 and Day 1 Cycle 7|Change in Symptom Score as Measured by a Modified Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form [MPN-SAF], Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form Total symptom score (MPN-SAF TSS) ranges from 0 (no symptoms) to 10 (worst imaginable symptoms). The score is a sum of 10 independent measurements, generating a final score ranging from 0 - 100 and collected at baseline and on day 1, cycle 7. Change in total symptom score (TSS Median, range) is reported for those achieving day 1, cycle 7 AND responding to all 10 survey questions at baseline and Day 1, Cycle 7. Change in TSS is calculated as score on Day 1 Cycle 7 minus score at baseline., Measured at baseline and Day 1 Cycle 7|Overall Survival in All Enrolled Patients, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate overall survival for all enrolled patients receiving at least one dose of Ruxolitinib., At stem-cell transplantation or up to 5 years after enrollment in the study|Percentage of Patients Who Achieve Clinical Response of Partial Response or Better by CSF3R Mutation Status, Compute the percent (and 95% confidence interval) of patients with protocol-defined objective response (CR+PR) and IWG-defined objective response (CR+PR) at the start of cycle 7 among all enrolled patients (n = 49). Protocol-defined Response combines changes in white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil count, marrow findings and spleen size to define response (attached protocol, Section 10.6, Clinical Response, Table 6 and Table). IWG-defined Response evaluates bone marrow cellularity and myeloblast percent, absence of osteopmyelofibrosis, peripheral blood elements (white blood cell, Neutrophil, Monocyte and platelet counts, hemoglobin density, percent blasts and Neutrophil precursors), symptom resolution, dysplasia, and spleen size to determine response (attached reference). Patients who withdraw prior to the start of cycle 7 are considered non-responders., Start of cycle 7
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients with chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL) and atypical chronic myeloid leukemia (aCML) who have a hematologic response to ruxolitinib (ruxolitinib phosphate) (partial response \[PR\], complete response \[CR\], complete response, partial \[CRp\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency of grade 3 or 4 hematologic and non-hematologic adverse events experienced by subjects during therapy with ruxolitinib.

II. To determine whether hematologic responses correlate with certain types of mutations in colony stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) and reduction in mutant CSF3R allele burden in the peripheral blood.

III. To determine the maximum clinical responses for each subject and the median duration of maximum clinical responses.

IV. To determine the mean % reduction of spleen size, estimated by volume using the conventional prolate ellipsoid method as measured by ultrasound compare to baseline.

V. To determine the mean % reduction of total symptom score as measured by a modified Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form version 2.0 (MPN-SAF) compared to start of study (day 1, cycle 1).

VI. To determine overall survival in subjects who complete a minimum of 1 dose of study drug.

VII. To determine the proportion of subjects who discontinue after completion of \> 3 cycles but \< 6 cycles.

VIII. To determine the proportion of subjects who discontinue prior to completion of cycle 3.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) every other day, once daily (QD), or twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Each patient will be followed for a maximum of 96 weeks (24 cycles, 1 cycle is 4 weeks long). If the study drug continues to be effective, the patient may be eligible to continue on study drug past 24 cycles.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 2 weeks and at 4-6 weeks.