Resveratrol for Patients With Colon Cancer
Resveratrol is purported to possess cancer preventive activity, especially for colon cancer, though its mechanisms of action are not well defined. Resveratrol is found in the skin of grapes and has anti-oxidative and pro-apoptotic effects on cancer cell lines in vitro. The main dietary sources of resveratrol are grapes, grape products, and red wine, and small amounts may be found in mulberries. A prior report and compelling preliminary data from our laboratory suggest that resveratrol modulates Wnt signaling, a signaling pathway which is activated in over 85% of colon cancers. In this proposal, studies were performed to define the actions of resveratrol on the Wnt signaling pathway in a clinical trial in which patients with colon cancer received treatment with Resveratrol, and correlative laboratory studies examined its effects directly on colon cancer and normal colonic mucosa. These studies provided data on the mechanisms of resveratrol action and provided a foundation for future prevention trials, correlative studies and therapeutic clinical research with this agent.
Colon Cancer|Cancer
DRUG: Resveratrol
Test the hypothesis that resveratrol modulates Wnt signaling in vivo in colon cancer and normal colonic mucosa, 3 years
Patients will be treated with a two-week course of resveratrol. The initiation of the treatment will be approximately 14 days before standard of care surgical resection of tumor. Resveratrol will be ingested as 20 mg pills or in the form of freeze-dried grape extract which is prepared by the California Table Grape Commission used under GMP guidelines for human consumption.

The first two patients receiving resveratrol will be treated at a dose of 20 mg/day, the third and fourth patients at a dose of 80 mg/day, and the fifth and sixth patients with a dose of 160 mg/day. All patients receiving grape extract will receive 125 mg/day that will have to be mixed with one 8 oz glass of water. There will be no dose adjustments. If a patient has any side effects which are attributed to the resveratrol, it will be discontinued.