Study of Pralatrexate in Female Patients With Previously-treated Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy (ability to provide a beneficial treatment of the disease) of pralatrexate for the treatment of female patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have failed prior chemotherapy. Patients will receive vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation.
Breast Cancer|Breast Tumors|Neoplasms, Breast|Cancer of the Breast|Human Mammary Carcinoma
DRUG: Pralatrexate Injection|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin B12|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Folic Acid
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response evaluation was performed using RECIST 1.0 using CT/MRI. Proportion of patients achieving a CR or PR is considered in the overall response., Assessed at the end of each even-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks), or per standard of care but no less than 4 weeks and nor more than every 12 weeks (+/- 1 week) if treatment has ended.
Duration of Response (DOR), One patient has a PR as response and duration of response was provided for that patient., Assessed at the end of each even-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks), or per standard of care but no less than 4 weeks and nor more than every 12 weeks (+/- 1 week) if treatment has ended.|Overall Survival (OS), Number of days from first dose of pralatrexate to death., Assessed at the end of each even-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks), or per standard of care but at least every 4 weeks and no more than every 12 weeks (+/- 1 week) if treatment has ended. OS will be collected for up to 2 years from start of pralatrexate.|Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs) and Laboratory Abnormalities, Recorded at all study visits: every 2 weeks while on treatment and at safety follow-up (35 +/- 5 days post-last dose) or early termination visit (at time of withdrawal).
This is an open label, multi-center, Phase 2 study of pralatrexate with vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have failed prior treatment(s).

The start of study treatment is defined as the initiation of pralatrexate administration.

Pralatrexate will be administered as an intravenous (IV) push over 3-5 minutes on days 1 and 15 (± 1 day at each time point) of a 4-week cycle (ie, every \[q\] 2 weeks). The initial dose of pralatrexate will be 190 mg/m2. Dose reduction to 150 mg/m2 with further reduction to 120 mg/m2 and 100 mg/m2 will be allowed for defined toxicity (see Section 7.3). If 100 mg/m2 is not tolerated, pralatrexate must be discontinued.

Patients will receive vitamin supplementation consisting of vitamin B12, 1 mg intramuscular (IM) q 8-10 weeks and folic acid 1-1.25 mg by mouth (PO) once a day (QD). Patients must have received 1 mg vitamin B12 within 10 weeks prior to the initiation of pralatrexate and have received 7 days of 1-1.25 mg folic acid PO QD prior to the initiation of pralatrexate.

Vitamin supplementation will continue throughout the study and for at least 30 days after the last administration of pralatrexate.