Extension Study of ECU-MG-301 to Evaluate Safety and Efficacy of Eculizumab in Refractory Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of eculizumab in the treatment of refractory generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) as an extension study for the participants who previously completed Study ECU-MG-301(NCT01997229).
Refractory Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
BIOLOGICAL: Eculizumab|DRUG: Placebo
Count Of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) are adverse events with onset on or after the first study drug dose in Study ECU-MG-302. Likewise, treatment-emergent serious adverse events (TESAEs) are serious adverse events that onset on or after the first study drug dose in Study ECU-MG-302. A summary of serious and all other non-serious adverse events, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., Day 1 (after dosing) through End of Study (Week 208)
Change From Baseline In Myasthenia Gravis Activities Of Daily Living Profile (MG-ADL) Total Score At Week 4 And Week 130, The MG-ADL scale is a validated 8-item patient-reported outcome measure. Participants assessed their functional disability secondary to ocular (2 items), bulbar (3 items), respiratory (1 item), and gross motor or limb impairment (2 items). These 8 items were not weighted and were individually graded from 0 (normal) to 3 (most severe), providing a total MG-ADL score ranging from 0 to 24 points. A reduction in score indicates improvement in condition. Baseline was defined as the last available assessment prior to treatment (first study drug infusion) with eculizumab in Study ECU-MG-302. Change from Baseline in MG-ADL total score at Week 4 (blind induction phase) and at Week 130 (open-label eculizumab phase) are presented., Baseline, Week 4 and Week 130
ECU-MG-302 was an extension study designed to provide the participants who completed Study ECU-MG-301 an opportunity to receive eculizumab and collect clinical data to provide long-term safety and efficacy information on eculizumab in participants with refractory gMG.

After receiving blinded study treatment (eculizumab or placebo) in Study ECU-MG-301 for 26 weeks, participants were eligible to enroll in the ECU-MG-302 extension study. Participants were to enter Study ECU-MG-302 within 2 weeks after completing their Week 26 visit in Study ECU-MG-301.

Study ECU-MG-302 consisted of a 4-week Blind Induction Phase to preserve the blinded nature of Study ECU-MG-301, an Open-Label Maintenance Phase (up to 4 years), and a Safety Follow-up visit 8 weeks after the last dose for participants who withdrew from the study or discontinued eculizumab treatment at any time and for any reason after receiving any amount of eculizumab.