Phase II Trial of Thalidomide Combined With Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy in Esophageal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to down-regulate VEGF expression in esophageal cancer patients by thalidomide, so to improve their chemoradiotherapy effect. Patients with esophageal cancer receiving chemoradiotherapy were divided into different sub-group according to dynamic change of their VEGF level,and those showed increased or unchanged VEGF were added thalidomide at random. Efficacy and side effect of thalidomide combined with chemoradiotherapy were evaluated, and at the same time, activity of thalidomide on esophageal cancer and its clinical safely were assessed.
Esophageal Cancer
OTHER: chemoradiotherapy|DRUG: thalidomide|OTHER: without thalidomide
Treatment efficacy, Treatment efficacy were evaluated by the indexes as Locoregional tumor response. Locoregional tumor response will be evaluated 3 months after completion of treatment according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)., 3 months after completion of treatment
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be evaluated 1 year and 3 years after completion of treatment using Kaplan-Meier model., 1 year and 3 years after completion of treatment|Local progression-free survival (LPFS), 1 year and 3 years after completion of treatment using Kaplan-Meier model., 1 year and 3 years after completion of treatment|Safety, All patients are to be estimated Quality Of Life(such as dizzy, somnolence, queasiness and vomit,anaphylaxis incidence) ,acute radiation reactions such as acute radiation esophagitis and tracheitis incidence(evaluated by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) toxicity criteria),complete blood cell count(such as leukocyte, neutrophil,hemoglobulin, platelet level), serum biochemistry(such as creatinine level)., 1 week after completion of treatment
Radiotherapy:Patients will be conducted CT simulation, and three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3DCRT) was performed. 1.8-2.0 Gy/fraction, 5 fractions a week, with a total dose of 60-72Gy will be delivered for all patients by 6-MV-X-ray of linear accelerator.

Chemotherapy: Patients will be concurrently administered with irradiation every 4 weeks with PT regimen (cis-platinum of 25 mg/m2/d, d1-4; PTX(paclitaxel)of 135mg/m2/d, d1) for 4 cycles. For the first 2-cycles of chemotherapy they will be concurrently given with irradiation and the remained 2 cycles, after irradiation.

Administration of thalidomide: Determine serum VEGF level of the esophageal cancer patients 3-4 weeks after the beginning of radiotherapy, those whose VEGF level, compared with that before radiotherapy, increased or unchanged will be divided into two groups: one is given thalidomide concurrent with the following chemoradiotherapy, 100mg/d at bedtime for the initial week, and if no moderate above side effect occurred 200mg/d from the next week till the end of chemoradiotherapy; the other received concurrent chemoradiotherapy only.

VEGF determination: Peripheral venous blood samples will be taken in one week before, 3-4 weeks during, and in one week after radiotherapy respectively. The serum VEGF will be determined by the double antibody sandwich ELISA.