VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS With or Without Ruxolitinib Phosphate in Treating Stage IV or Recurrent Endometrial Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of vesicular stomatitis virus-human interferon beta-sodium iodide symporter (VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS) with or without ruxolitinib phosphate in treating patients with stage IV endometrial cancer or endometrial cancer that has come back. The study virus, VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS, has been changed so that it has restricted ability to spread to tumor cells and not to healthy cells. It also contains a gene for a protein, NIS, which helps the body concentrate iodine making it possible to track where the virus goes. VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS may be able to kill tumor cells without damaging normal cells. Ruxolitinib phosphate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS with ruxolitinib phosphate may work better in treating patients with endometrial cancer compared to VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS alone.
Metastatic Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Mixed Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Carcinosarcoma|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fluorine F 18 Tetrafluoroborate|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Vesicular Stomatitis Virus-expressing Human Interferon Beta and Sodium-Iodide Symporter|DRUG: Ruxolitinib Phosphate|DRUG: Technetium Tc-99m Sodium Pertechnetate|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Participants Who Experienced a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4. DLT is defined as one of the following events deemed related to the study drug; Grade 2+ allergic reaction or cytokine release syndrome, or any grade 3+ with the exception of lymphopenia or other related events (e.g., anemia, white blood cell count decreased), which will not be considered a dose limiting toxicity. Grade ≥3 flu-like symptoms, fever, nausea, vomiting, dehydration, diarrhea, headache, myalgia, fatigue, ALT increased, or AST increased, will also not be considered as a dose limiting toxicity as they are anticipated toxicities of treatment., 28 days
Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded according to the NCI CTCAE version 4. Frequency distributions and other descriptive measures will form the basis of the analysis of these variables. Simple summary statistics will be supplemented with Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and related confidence intervals., Up to 1 year|Number of Clinical Responses, Defined as complete response, partial response, or stable disease assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics across all patients in each group as well as by dose level and primary type of cancer (EC)., Up to 1 year|Viral Replication and Shedding in Blood, Throat Washings, Urine, and Buccal Swabs Assessed Via Quantitative Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction, Descriptive statistics and scatterplots will form the basis of presentation of these variables. Correlations with other outcome measures will be carried out by standard parametric and non-parametric tests (e.g. Pearson's and Spearman's rho)., Up to 1 year|Count of Patients With Positive Virus Spread., Virus spread will be ssessed via single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography and will be correlated with tumor distribution., 10 days|Time Until Treatment Related Grade 3+ Toxicity, Graded according to the NCI CTCAE version 4. Simple summary statistics will be supplemented with Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and related confidence intervals. The effect of dose and ancillary dichotomized covariates such as age will be explored using logrank testing involving one covariate at a time., Up to 1 year|Time Until Hematologic Nadirs (White Blood Cells, Absolute Neutrophil Count, Platelets), Simple summary statistics will be supplemented with Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and related confidence intervals. The effect of dose and ancillary dichotomized covariates such as age will be explored using logrank testing involving one covariate at a time., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the optimal dose schedule, safety and tolerability as measured by the incidence of significant toxicity of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS in immunocompetent patients with metastatic and/or recurrent endometrial cancer (EC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity profile of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in combination with ruxolitinib phosphate \[ruxolitinib\]).

II. To determine the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination, and the biodistribution of virally infected cells at various times points after infection with VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in combination with ruxolitinib) using fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate (TFB)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.

III. To assess virus replication, viremia; viral shedding in urine and respiratory secretions; and virus persistence after intravenous (IV) administration of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS (alone and in combination with ruxolitinib).

IV. To monitor humoral responses to the injected virus. V. To estimate the tumor response rate and overall survival.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS in patients with EC by measurement of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS in blood by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).

II. To characterize the pharmacodynamics (PD) of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS by way of measuring serum interferon-beta and also VSV-RT-PCR of VSV-IFNbeta-NIS listed above.

III. Assess CD8+ T cell (both general and VSV-IFNbeta-NIS specific) and natural killer (NK) cell responses.

IV. Gene expression analysis pre- and post-virotherapy. V. Evaluate transcription of interferon mediated genes (protein kinase R, the death receptor-TRAIL, 2'-5' oligoadenylate/RNAse L proteins, heat shock proteins \[Hsp 60/70/90\], major histocompatibility class antigens and IRF-7).

VI. Assess presence of VSV in tumor and normal tissues subsequent to administration of IV VSV-IFNbeta-NIS.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A (EFFECTIVE AS OF 1/10/2023, GROUP A IS PERMANENTLY CLOSED TO ACCRUAL): Patients receive VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1. After 2 days, patients receive technetium Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV, and about 30 minutes later, receive fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate IV and undergo TFB-PET imaging. If previous imaging data are positive, patients receive technetium Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV, fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate IV and undergo another TFB-PET imaging between 7-10 days and on 15 days if needed after VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS infusion. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) throughout the study. Patients also undergo mouth rinse, buccal swab and urine on study and blood sample collection throughout the study. Biopsy of accessible NIS image-positive tumors may occur after any imaging. Patients also undergo image-guided biopsy of accessible tumor on day 29.

ARM B: Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 9. Patients also receive VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1. After 2 days, patients receive technetium Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV, and about 30 minutes later, receive fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate IV and undergo TFB-PET imaging. If previous imaging data are positive, patients receive technetium Tc-99m sodium pertechnetate IV and fluorine F18 tetrafluoroborate IV and undergo another TFB-PET imaging between 7-10 days and on 15 days if needed after VSV-hIFNbeta-NIS infusion. Patients also undergo CT throughout the study. Biopsy of accessible NIS image-positive tumors may occur after any imaging. Biopsy of accessible NIS image-positive tumors may occur after any imaging. Patients also undergo image-guided biopsy of accessible tumor on day 29. Patients also undergo mouth rinse, buccal swab and urine on study and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 29, every 3 months until disease progression and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.