Towards Optimal Treatment for High Risk Prostate Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to combine several optimized treatments of high risk prostate cancer. The main question to answer is: is it safe to combine these optimized treatments.

* patients will be irradiated on the prostate and (elective) lymph nodes more concentrated but with fewer hospital visits (hypofractionation)
* the tumor will get a higher dose
* androgen deprivation therapy will be reduced as much al possible preventing side effects

Researchers will compare oncological outcome and toxicity.
High Risk Prostate Carcinoma
RADIATION: HYPOPRIME treatment
Biochemical recurrence free survival, rise of PSA 2 ng/ml above nadir, 5 years|Late gastrointestinal and genito-urinary toxicity, and erectile dysfunction, according to CTC-AE v5, at 6 months and 2 years
Metastasis free survival, Metastasis free survival, 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival, 5 years|Pattern of failure, based on PSMA in case of biochemical recurrence, 5 years
Rationale: Recently several randomized trial have shown benefits of changes made to radiotherapy of (high risk) localized prostate cancer patients: A focal boost was shown to improve outcome in men with intermediate/high risk prostate cancer (FLAME trial). Elective lymph node irradiation was shown to improve outcome in high risk prostate cancer patients (POP-RT). (Extreme) hypo fractionation was shown to be safe for low/intermediate risk prostate cancer patients. In addition: the added benefit of ADT (with substantial toxicity) seems reduced with improvements made to treatment and diagnosis in recent years (DART 01/05); own recent work on this topic; to be published)). None off the above were combined into one ideal treatment for high risk prostate cancer.

Objective: Determine the safety (oncological outcome and toxicity) of an comprehensive treatment combining recent advances in the treatment of high risk prostate cancer.

Study design: prospective cohort study with matched contemporary control group Study population: Men with high risk prostate cancer with an indication for elective lymph node irradiation Intervention: hypo fractionated pelvic radiotherapy with boost to primary tumour in the prostate Main study parameters/endpoints: biochemical recurrence free survival and late toxicity Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: The additional burden of the study is considered to be low, as additional tests or site visits in comparison to current clinical follow up are not planned. Regarding safety, different parts of the investigational treatment were already shown to be safe in previous studies. The current study aims to combine these different parts into one treatment. We estimate that the risks associated with combining these treatments are very limited.