Aribulin Combined With Carboplatin and Bevacizumab in the Treatment of Ovarian Cancer
This is a prospective phase II, single-center, single-arm clinical study of platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer. The main objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Aribrine combined with carboplatin and bevacizumab in first-line treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Aribulin;carboplatin;bevacizumab
Objective response rate, The proportion of subjects who achieved PR and CR., During treatment, imaging examinations were performed ±3 days every 2 cycles and D0±1 days per cycle for CA-125. When the efficacy was evaluated as PR or CR, imaging was performed again at 6 weeks ±3 days.
Disease control rate, Percentage of subjects who achieved PR, CR, and SD., During treatment, imaging examinations were performed ±3 days every 2 cycles and D0±1 days per cycle for CA-125. When the efficacy was evaluated as PR or CR, imaging was performed again at 6 weeks ±3 days.|Progression-free survival time, The time between the patient's first treatment date and any recorded tumor progression or death from any cause., During treatment, imaging examinations were performed ±3 days every 2 cycles and D0±1 days per cycle for CA-125. When the efficacy was evaluated as PR or CR, imaging was performed again at 6 weeks ±3 days.|Clinical benefit rate, Percentage of subjects who achieved PR, CR, and SD for at least 24 weeks., During treatment, imaging examinations were performed ±3 days every 2 cycles and D0±1 days per cycle for CA-125. When the efficacy was evaluated as PR or CR, imaging was performed again at 6 weeks ±3 days.
This is a phase II prospective, single-center, single-arm clinical study for platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer. The main objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of alibulin combined with carboplatin and bevacizumab in first-line treatment of platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer.

Trial time plan: The inclusion time of the plan: 22 months. Planned trial duration: 24 months.

1. Experimental drugs: Aribrine mesylate injection, carboplatin, bevacizumab.
2. Administration regimen: Iribrine mesylate injection: 1.4mg/m2i.v. 30 min, d1 d8, every 21 days; Carboplatin: AUC=5\~6 i.v. d1, every 21 days; Bevacizumab: 7.5mg/kg, i.v. 30-90 min,d1, every 21 days. The dose can be adjusted according to the state of the patient.