Chemotherapy Before Surgery and Tissue Sample Collection in Patients With Stage IIA-IIIC Breast Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies chemotherapy before surgery and tissue sample collection in patients with stage IIA-IIIC breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, paclitaxel and trastuzumab may kill more tumor cells. Collecting and storing samples of tissue from patients with breast cancer to study in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about how well patients will respond to treatment.
Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Endocrine therapy
Changes in Senescence and Secondary Biomarkers, Including TMEM, Mena, and 67LR, Descriptive statistics by treatment group will be presented. The two-sampled t-test will be performed. Appropriate transformation may be used to improve normality of the outcome variable., Baseline to 6 months
Changes in Quantitative Biomarker Levels in Patients With Chemotherapy-responsive and -Resistant Tumors, Including Senescence, Cell Death, TMEM, Mena, and 67LR, Paired T-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be performed. Two-sample t-test will be performed to compare biomarker between the two groups. If the data are not normally distributed, a suitable data transformation such as the log or rank transformation will be applied. Logistic regression models will also be fit to the data with treatment sensitive/resistance category as the outcome and baseline as well as pre-post change in biomarker level as the main predictor variable to obtain estimates of odds ratios unadjusted and adjusted for potential confounders including patients characteristics., Baseline to 8 weeks (2 courses)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effects of preoperative neoadjuvant paclitaxel and doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride)/cyclophosphamide (AC) on: senescence; invasion/motility (tumor microenvironment of metastasis \[TMEM\] and 67 kDa laminin receptor \[67LR\]).

II. To create a biospecimen repository for future studies derived from patients with breast cancer receiving standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: Patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive disease are assigned to Stratum A, and patients with HER2-negative disease are randomized to Stratum B or C.

STRATUM A: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes weekly for 12 weeks. Beginning 2-3 weeks later, patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 5-10 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes every 2 weeks for 8 weeks

STRATUM B: Patients receive paclitaxel, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and cyclophosphamide as in Stratum A.

STRATUM C: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 5-10 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes every 2 weeks for 8 weeks. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour weekly for 12 weeks.

Patients undergo surgery 2-6 weeks after the last chemotherapy dose.

In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.