RO4929097 and Letrozole in Treating Post-Menopausal Women With Hormone Receptor-Positive Stage II or Stage III Breast Cancer
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of RO4929097 when given together with letrozole in treating post-menopausal women with stage II or stage III breast cancer. RO4929097 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using letrozole may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. Giving RO4929097 together with letrozole may be an effective treatment for breast cancer.
Estrogen Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|HER2-negative Breast Cancer|Progesterone Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer
DRUG: letrozole|DRUG: gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|PROCEDURE: breast biopsy|OTHER: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
MTD defined as the dose level at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experience a DLT, and the dose below that at which at least 2/6 patients have DLT according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, 21 days
Measurement of NOTCH 1 and 4, activated NOTCH (ICN), Hey 1 and NOTCH ligands (DLL4 and Jagged 1), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., Baseline|Measurement of NOTCH 1 and 4, activated NOTCH (ICN), Hey 1 and NOTCH ligands (DLL4 and Jagged 1), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 21 days|Measurement of NOTCH 1 and 4, activated NOTCH (ICN), Hey 1 and NOTCH ligands (DLL4 and Jagged 1), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 42 days|Measurement of NOTCH 1 and 4, activated NOTCH (ICN), Hey 1 and NOTCH ligands (DLL4 and Jagged 1), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., At time of surgery|Genomic analysis of RNA transcriptome, mirco-RNA transcriptome, and DNA methylation, All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value. For the analysis of the gene expression data, the overall false discovery rate (FDR), which is defined as the expected portion of false positives, will be controlled at 20% to generate a list of genes for further investigation., Baseline|Genomic analysis of RNA transcriptome, mirco-RNA transcriptome, and DNA methylation, All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value. For the analysis of the gene expression data, the overall FDR, which is defined as the expected portion of false positives, will be controlled at 20% to generate a list of genes for further investigation., 21 days|Genomic analysis of RNA transcriptome, mirco-RNA transcriptome, and DNA methylation, All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value. For the analysis of the gene expression data, the overall FDR, which is defined as the expected portion of false positives, will be controlled at 20% to generate a list of genes for further investigation., 42 days|Genomic analysis of RNA transcriptome, mirco-RNA transcriptome, and DNA methylation, All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value. For the analysis of the gene expression data, the overall FDR, which is defined as the expected portion of false positives, will be controlled at 20% to generate a list of genes for further investigation., At time of surgery|Measurement of cell proliferation (Ki-67), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., Baseline|Measurement of cell proliferation (Ki-67), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 21 days|Measurement of cell proliferation (Ki-67), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 42 days|Measurement of cell proliferation (Ki-67), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., At time of surgery|Measurement of appoptosis (TUNEL and activated caspase), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., Baseline|Measurement of appoptosis (TUNEL and activated caspase), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 21 days|Measurement of appoptosis (TUNEL and activated caspase), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 42 days|Measurement of appoptosis (TUNEL and activated caspase), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., At time of surgery|Measurement of angiogenesis (VEGF and CD31), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., Baseline|Measurement of angiogenesis (VEGF and CD31), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 21 days|Measurement of angiogenesis (VEGF and CD31), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., 42 days|Measurement of angiogenesis (VEGF and CD31), All measurements are continuous. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to summarize change of each measurement from the baseline value. A two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare each measurement at a specific time to the baseline value., At time of surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the maximum-tolerated dose and the recommended phase II dose of gamma-secretase inhibitor RO4929097 (RO4929097) in combination with letrozole in post-menopausal women with hormone receptor-positive stage II or III breast cancer.

II. To assess the safety of this regimen in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of this regimen, taking into consideration the induction of CYP3A4, in these patients.

II. To characterize the pharmacodynamic effects of letrozole prior to and during administration of RO4929097 with attention to suppression of estradiol and estrone levels.

III. To describe the pharmacodynamic effects of letrozole with or without RO4929097 on the NOTCH pathway, proliferation, angiogenesis, stromal cell infiltration/pathways, and comprehensive genomic analysis in tumor tissue of these patients.

IV. To describe the response, including clinical complete or partial objective response, pathological complete response, and attainment of pathologic stage 0 or I status in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of gamma-secretase inhibitor RO4929097(RO4929097).

Patients receive oral letrozole once daily on days 1-21. Beginning in course 2, patients also receive oral RO4929097 on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-18. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Beginning 1 week after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo surgery or tumor biopsy. Patients continue to receive oral letrozole once daily during surgery and for an additional 4 weeks.

Blood and tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and correlative studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 1 month and then every 6 months for 5 years.