A Study of Degarelix in Patients With Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study was to see if giving Degarelix every month for 7 months then stop treatment for 7 months (intermittent therapy) would show a reduction of negative effects of androgen deprivation therapy by increasing the quality of life while keeping prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels suppressed.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Degarelix|DRUG: Degarelix|DRUG: Leuprolide
Percentage of Patients With Serum PSA Levels ≤4.0 ng/mL, Percentage of patients with serum PSA levels ≤4.0 ng/mL at 14 month was presented., At 14 month
Absolute Change From Baseline in Serum PSA Levels, Absolute change from Baseline in serum PSA levels during the study period was measured., Phase A Visit 1-8 and Phase B Visit 9-15.|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum PSA Levels, Percent change from Baseline in serum PSA levels during the study period was measured., Phase A Visit 1-8 and Phase B Visit 9-15.|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life as Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) : Physical Well-being, The FACT-P is a multidimensional, self-report quality of life (QoL) instrument specifically designed for use with prostate cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Each question is rated on a scale from 0 to 4, and then combined to produce sub-scale scores for each domain, as well as a global QoL score.

Physical well-being consist of 7 items and scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=Not at all; 1=A little bit; 2=Somewhat; 3=Quite a bit; 4=Very much). Total score for the physical well-being sub scale ranges from 0 to 28. Higher scores represent better QoL., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life as Assessed by the FACT-P : Emotional Well-being, The FACT-P is a multidimensional, self-report quality of life (QoL) instrument specifically designed for use with prostate cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Each question is rated on a scale from 0 to 4, and then combined to produce sub-scale scores for each domain, as well as a global QoL score.

Emotional well-being consist of 6 items and scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=Not at all; 1=A little bit; 2=Somewhat; 3=Quite a bit; 4=Very much). Total score for the emotional well-being sub scale ranges from 0 to 24. Higher scores represent better QoL.Higher scores represent better QoL., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life as Assessed by the FACT-P : Social Well-being, The FACT-P is a multidimensional, self-report quality of life (QoL) instrument specifically designed for use with prostate cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Each question is rated on a scale from 0 to 4, and then combined to produce sub-scale scores for each domain, as well as a global QoL score.

Social well-being consist of 7 items and scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=Not at all; 1=A little bit; 2=Somewhat; 3=Quite a bit; 4=Very much). Total score for the social well-being sub scale ranges from 0 to 28. Higher scores represent better QoL., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life as Assessed by the FACT-P : Functional Well-being, The FACT-P is a multidimensional, self-report quality of life (QoL) instrument specifically designed for use with prostate cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Each question is rated on a scale from 0 to 4, and then combined to produce sub-scale scores for each domain, as well as a global QoL score.

Functional well-being consist of 7 items and scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=Not at all; 1=A little bit; 2=Somewhat; 3=Quite a bit; 4=Very much). Total score for the functional well-being sub scale ranges from 0 to 28. Higher scores represent better QoL., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life as Assessed by the FACT-P : Additional Concerns, The FACT-P is a multidimensional, self-report quality of life (QoL) instrument specifically designed for use with prostate cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Each question is rated on a scale from 0 to 4, and then combined to produce sub-scale scores for each domain, as well as a global QoL score.

Additional concerns consist of 12 items and scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=Not at all; 1=A little bit; 2=Somewhat; 3=Quite a bit; 4=Very much). Total score for the additional concerns ranges from 0 to 48. Higher scores represent better QoL., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life as Assessed by the FACT-P: Total FACT-P Score, The FACT-P is a multidimensional, self-report quality of life (QoL) instrument specifically designed for use with prostate cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Each question is rated on a scale from 0 to 4, and then combined to produce sub-scale scores for each domain, as well as a global QoL score. Total FACT-P scores ranges from 0 to 156. Higher scores represent better QoL., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Sexual Function as Assessed by the Sexual Function Index (SFI): Sexual Drive, The SFI is a multidimensional, self-report instrument specifically designed to evaluate sexual function and satisfaction of men on treatment or with conditions that may affect sexual function. It consists of 11 questions which assess patient function in four domains: Sexual drive, Erection, Ejaculation, and Problem assessment, and a question in regards to overall assessment of sexual function.

Sexual drive domain consist of 2 questions and are scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=minimum, 4=maximum). Total score for the sexual drive domain ranges from 0 to 8. A higher scores represent better sexual function., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Sexual Function as Assessed by the SFI: Erection, The SFI is a multidimensional, self-report instrument specifically designed to evaluate sexual function and satisfaction of men on treatment or with conditions that may affect sexual function. It consists of 11 questions which assess patient function in four domains: Sexual drive, Erection, Ejaculation, and Problem assessment, and a question in regards to overall assessment of sexual function.

Erection domain consist of 3 questions and are scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=minimum, 4=maximum). Total score for the erection domain ranges from 0 to 12. A higher scores represent better sexual function., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Sexual Function as Assessed by the SFI: Ejaculation, The SFI is a multidimensional, self-report instrument specifically designed to evaluate sexual function and satisfaction of men on treatment or with conditions that may affect sexual function. It consists of 11 questions which assess patient function in four domains: Sexual drive, Erection, Ejaculation, and Problem assessment, and a question in regards to overall assessment of sexual function.

Ejaculation domain consist of 2 questions and are scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=minimum, 4=maximum). Total score for the ejaculation domain ranges from 0 to 8. A higher scores represent better sexual function., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Sexual Function as Assessed by the SFI: Problem Assessment, The SFI is a multidimensional, self-report instrument specifically designed to evaluate sexual function and satisfaction of men on treatment or with conditions that may affect sexual function. It consists of 11 questions which assess patient function in four domains: Sexual drive, Erection, Ejaculation, and Problem assessment, and a question in regards to overall assessment of sexual function.

Problem assessment domain consist of 2 questions and are scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=minimum, 4=maximum). Total score for the problem assessment domain ranges from 0 to 8. A higher scores represent better sexual function., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Sexual Function as Assessed by the SFI: Overall Satisfaction With Sex Life, The SFI is a multidimensional, self-report instrument specifically designed to evaluate sexual function and satisfaction of men on treatment or with conditions that may affect sexual function. It consists of 11 questions which assess patient function in four domains: Sexual drive, Erection, Ejaculation, and Problem assessment, and a question in regards to overall assessment of sexual function.

Overall satisfaction domain consist of single question and is scored on a scale of 0-4 (0=minimum, 4=maximum). A higher score represent better sexual function., During 14 months|Change From Baseline in Sexual Function as Assessed by the SFI: Total SFI Score, The SFI is a multidimensional, self-report instrument specifically designed to evaluate sexual function and satisfaction of men on treatment or with conditions that may affect sexual function. It consists of 11 questions which assess patient function in four domains: Sexual drive, Erection, Ejaculation, and Problem assessment, and a question in regards to overall assessment of sexual function. Total SFI score ranges from 0 to 44. A higher scores represent better sexual function., During 14 months|Percentage of Subjects With a Serum PSA Level ≤4.0 ng/mL, Percentage of Subjects With a Serum PSA Level ≤4.0 ng/mL was measured during the study period., At 14 months|Time to Return to Testosterone >0.5 ng/mL Level in the DI Treatment Group, The time to testosterone \>0.5 ng/mL level in the DI group was counted from the start of Phase B at Day 196 (i.e. 28 days after last injection of degarelix), During Phase B|Time to Return to Normal Range (≥1.5 ng/mL) or Baseline Testosterone Level, The time to return to normal range (≥1.5 ng/mL) or Baseline testosterone level in the DI group was counted from the start of Phase B at Day 196 (i.e. 28 days after last injection of degarelix)., During Phase B|Absolute Change From Baseline in Serum Testosterone Levels, Absolute Change From Baseline in Serum Testosterone Levels was measured., Phase A Visit 1-8 and Phase B Visit 9-15.|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum Testosterone Levels, Percent change from Baseline in serum testosterone levels was measured., Phase A Visit 1-8 and Phase B Visit 9-15.
This was an open-label, randomized, parallel-arm, multicenter study to determine if degarelix intermittent therapy was non-inferior to continuous androgen deprivation therapy (combination of treatment groups receiving continuous degarelix and leuprolide therapy, respectively) in maintaining PSA levels at ≤ 4.0 ng/mL at 14 months.

The study consisted of two phases, Phase A and B. During Phase A, patients in the degarelix intermittent and degarelix continuous arms received 7 months of therapy with degarelix one-month depot formulation and patients in the leuprolide continuous arm received leuprolide one-month depot injection (7.5 mg) followed by two 3-month depot (22.5 mg) injections. After 7 months of treatment, patients with a PSA ≤2 ng/mL continued into Phase B.

During Phase B, patients in the degarelix intermittent arm had a 7-month off-treatment period. Patients randomized to the degarelix continuous arm and the leuprolide continuous arm continued to receive degarelix or leuprolide depot as in Phase A for the remainder of the 14 months.