Lapelga vs Gastrofil
This study is examining one-time injection of biosimilar pegfilgrastim compared with multiple injection biosimilar filgrastim post autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Study aims to compare biosimilar pegfilgrastim - LaPelga and biosimilar filgrastim -Gastrofil to see if they are similar in efficacy in terms of neutrophil engraftment, limited adverse effects, and more convenience to our patients, with potential cost savings.
Multiple Myeloma|Lymphoma|Engagement, Patient|Febrile Neutropenia
DRUG: Grastofil®|DRUG: Lapelga
Engraftment, •Compare duration of neutropenia both in terms of absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \<0.5 · 109 /l and of days to reach an ANC \>0.5 · 109t between LaPelga versus gastrofil initiated at day 5 in patients with multiple myeloma or lymphoma post autologous transplant who meet the risk adapted criteria (age greater or equal to 60; prior episode of neutropenia and CD34 count of less than or equal to 3 X 10\^6/kg cells infused), 11 days
AE, * Clinically significant infections (CTCAE v 5, Infections, grade 2 or higher)
* Grade and duration of mucositis (CTCAE v 5, mucositis oral and diarrhea, any grade), 30 days
This will be a prospective open randomized controlled study. The study will be conducted in the inpatient setting at the London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) in London, ON, and Windsor Metropolitan Hospital (WMH) in Windsor, ON. The objective of the study is to assess if biosimilar Peg-filgrastim similar is non-inferior to biosimilar filgrastim (LaPelga versus gastrofil) in terms of neutrophil engraftment in autologous transplant patients with lymphoma and multiple myeloma.

Current clinical practice uses a risk-adapted approach where we use originator filgrastim - Neupogen starting on day 5 for patients who are aged 60 or greater, infusion of stem cells with a CD34 count less than or equal 3 x 10\^6/kg, prior episodes of febrile neutropenia, or at the provider's clinical discretion. For the purposes of the trial, patients will be randomized to LaPelga versus gastrofil arm directly and will initiate assigned treatment at day+5 of autologous transplant.

Both LHSC and WMH have qualified investigators (hematologists or other qualified clinicians. The study will start only after receipt of regulatory and ethics approval. Screening investigations on patients will be done only after the signing of written informed consent.