XL092 (Zanzalintinib) for the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Leiomyosarcoma
This phase II trial tests how well zanzalintinib (XL092) works in treating patients with leiomyosarcoma that has spread from where it first started to other places in the body (metastatic) or that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Leiomyosarcomas are a type sarcoma that can occur in any location in the body, such as the uterus or in the abdomen. Current standard treatment for leiomyosarcoma only shows a progression-free survival of 4-6 months. XL092, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, interferes with cell communication and growth and may prevent tumor growth. Giving XL092 may kill more tumor cells in patients with metastatic or unresectable leiomyosarcoma.
Metastatic Leiomyosarcoma|Unresectable Leiomyosarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Zanzalintinib
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as progressive disease per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1.other documented clinical or radiographic progression per physician judgment, or death due to disease., Up to 6 months
Median PFS, Median PFS will be calculated as the overall PFS time as the time that elapses between initiation of trial therapy and first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever come first., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be calculated as the time that elapses between the day of patient registration and death from any cause., Up to 5 years|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the proportion of treated patients who experience an objective response (confirmed complete response or confirmed partial response per RECIST v 1.1.)., Up to 5 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be calculated as the time that elapses between the day of first documented response to trial therapy (confirmed CR or confirmed PR, whichever is first recorded) and subsequent disease progression. DOR will be estimated as median and interquartile range or mean and a confidence interval depending on the distribution., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Frequency of AES will be reported by type, severity (grade), timing, and attribution according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. AEs will be reported using descriptive statistics., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate 6-month progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with advanced leiomyosarcoma (LMS) who have been treated with zanzalintinib (XL092) monotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate median progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with advanced LMS who have been treated with XL092 monotherapy.

II. Determine overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced LMS who have been treated with XL092 monotherapy.

III. Determine overall response rate (ORR) in patients with advanced LMS who have been treated with XL092 monotherapy.

IV. Assess duration of response (DOR) in patients with advanced LMS who have been treated with XL092 monotherapy.

V. Assess toxicity of XL092 in patients with advanced LMS who have been treated with such as monotherapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive XL092 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening and then as clinically indicated, and blood sample collection on study and computed tomography (CT) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 12 weeks for 2 years followed by every 6 months for up to 5 years from start of study treatment.