Sacituzumab Govitecan, Preceding Radical Cystectomy, in Treating Patients With Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer
SURE-01 is a neoadjuvant phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, singlecohort study in patients with urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. Patients will be consecutively enrolled and treated. The primary objective of the study is to assess whether sacituzumab govitecan results in pathological complete response (in patients with Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer who cannot receive or refuse cisplatin-based chemotherapy). Secondary objectives were to evaluate the radiological response of those patients with measurable disease; to evaluate the surgical and medical safety of neoadjuvant therapy; to assess survival outcomes (event-free survival and overall survival).
Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Sacituzumab govitecan
Pathological complete response, Pathological complete response will be defined as the absence of any residual viable tumor in the radical cystectomy specimen. Two independent pathologists, blinded to the study findings, with \>10 years of experience in genitourinary tumors will independently evaluate the response. The pathological response assessment will be centralized and externally reviewed at San Raffaele Hospital and Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy., After the last cycle of the investigational drug (each cycle is 21 days)
Radiological response, Radiological response on those patients with measurable disease will be evaluated by CT scans with contrast of chest/abdomen/pelvis, with a whole body fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, and with a multiparametric MRI of the bladder. RECIST v1.1 criteria will be used to assess patient the radiological response to treatment., At baseline and within 2 weeks after the last cycle of the investigational drug (each cycle is 21 days)|Perioperative outcomes, Perioperative outcomes will be systematically and prospectively collected at surgery and during hospitalization, as well as at 30- and 90-day after surgery during patient interviews done by medical doctors and according to the EAU guidelines on reporting and grading of complications, as previously reported by our group within the PURE-01 study (Briganti A, et al. Eur Urol 2020;77:576-580)., During hospitalization for the surgery and at 30- and 90-day after surgery|Survival outcomes, Overall survival, At the end of study, an average 2 years
SURE-01 is a neoadjuvant phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, singlecohort study in patients with urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. Patients will be consecutively enrolled and treated. The primary objective of the study is to assess whether sacituzumab govitecan results in pathological complete response (in patients with Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer who cannot receive or refuse cisplatin-based chemotherapy). Secondary objectives were to evaluate the radiological response of those patients with measurable disease; to evaluate the surgical and medical safety of neoadjuvant therapy; to assess survival outcomes (event-free survival and overall survival).

The general framework of the study will be as follows:

A transurethral resection of the bladder tumor (TURBT) for biopsy, histological characterization, and local staging will be executed first, according to the guidelines. With the aim to improve the sensitivity of computed tomography (CT) scan in assessing pelvic lymph-nodes and better assess the local extent of bladder tumor, CT scan, 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET)/CT scan, and multiparametric bladder magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) will be done during screening and before cystectomy to stage and evaluate response.

* Eligible patients will receive neoadjuvant treatment: 7.5 mg/kg sacituzumab govitecan IV, on days 1, 8, of each 21 day cycle.
* A total of 4 cycles is planned before surgery. Surgery will be planned at the time of study inclusion to be done within 4 weeks of the last dose of study drug. After surgery patients will be managed according to local guidelines which mirror the current EAU guidelines.