Multicentre Study of Olaparib Maintenance Monotherapy in Platinum Sensitive Relapsed Non gBRCAm Ovarian Cancer Patients
The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy and safety of single-agent olaparib as a maintenance treatment in patients with relapsed High Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer (including patients with primary peritoneal and/or fallopian tube cancer) or high grade endometrioid cancer who do not have known deleterious or suspected deleterious germline BRCA mutations (non-gBRCAm) and who had responded following platinum based chemotherapy
Non-Germline BRCA Mutated Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Olaparib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from date of first dose until the date of objective radiological disease progression. Assessed according to modified Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or death (by any cause in the absence of progression). Progression was determined by investigator assessment, RECIST 1.1. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique. Confidence intervals (CI) for median PFS was derived based on Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to maximum of 32 months
Time to First Subsequent Therapy or Death (TFST), TFST is defined as the time from date of first dose to date of first subsequent treatment commencement or death due to any cause if this occurs before commencement of first subsequent treatment. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique. CI for median TFST was derived based on Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to a maximum of 43 months|Time to Treatment Discontinuation or Death (TDT), TDT is defined as the time from date of first dose to date of study drug discontinuation or death due to any cause if this occurs before study drug discontinuation. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique. CI for median TDT was derived based on Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to a maximum of 43 months|PFS by Homologous Recombination Deficiency (HRD)/ Breast Cancer Susceptibility Gene Mutation (Mutated) (BRCAm) Status, HRD/BRCAm status was based on the central blood and tumour assessments. Assessed according to modified RECIST 1.1 or death (by any cause in the absence of progression). Progression was determined by investigator assessment, RECIST 1.1. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique. CI for median PFS was derived based on Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to maximum of 32 months|Chemotherapy-free Interval (CT-FI), CT-FI is defined as the time from the date of the last dose of platinum chemotherapy prior to olaparib maintenance therapy until the date of initiation of the next anticancer therapy. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique. CI for median CT-FI was derived based on Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to a maximum of 43 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of olaparib to the date of death from any cause. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique. CI for median OS was derived based on Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to a maximum of 43 months|Percentage of Patients With Any Improvement From Baseline in Trial Outcome Index (TOI) Score at Any Point During the Treatment Period, Improvement was defined as a functional assessment of cancer therapy - ovarian (FACT-O) TOI response of "any improvement" at any time point over the course of treatment. The TOI is an established single targeted index composed of the following scales of the FACT-O: physical and functional well-being and additional concerns. The range of possible scores for the FACT-O TOI is 0-100, with a higher score indicating better health related quality of life (HRQoL). An increase in score from baseline indicates an improvement in HRQoL., Baseline up to a maximum of 32 months|Percentage of Patients With a 10-Point Deterioration From Baseline in TOI Score at Any Point During the Treatment Period, 10-point deterioration was defined as a FACT-O TOI response of "10-point deterioration" at any time point over the course of treatment. The TOI is an established single targeted index composed of the following scales of the FACT-O: physical and functional well-being and additional concerns. The range of possible scores for the FACT-O TOI is 0-100, with a higher score indicating better HRQoL. A decrease in score of at least 10 points from baseline was defined as a clinically meaningful deterioration., Baseline up to a maximum of 32 months
Maintenance monotherapy with the potent polyadenosine 5'diphosphoribose \[Poly (ADP-ribose)\] polymerisation (PARP) inhibitor (PARPi) olaparib will significantly prolong progression-free survival (PFS) in platinum sensitive relapsed non-germline breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) mutated ovarian cancer patients who are in complete or partial response following platinum based chemotherapy.

Olaparib is a potent PARPi (PARP-1, -2 and -3) that is being developed as an oral therapy, both as a monotherapy (including maintenance) and for combination with chemotherapy and other anticancer agents. PARP inhibition is a novel approach to targeting tumours with deficiencies in DNA repair mechanisms. PARP enzymes are essential for repairing DNA single strand breaks (SSBs). Inhibiting PARP enzymes leads to the persistence of SSBs, which are then converted to the more serious DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) during the process of DNA replication. During the process of cell division, DSBs can be efficiently repaired in normal cells by homologous recombination (HR) repair. Tumours with HR deficiencies (HRDs), such as ovarian cancers in patients with BRCA1/2 mutations, cannot accurately repair the DNA damage, which may become lethal to cells as it accumulates. In such tumour types, olaparib may offer a potentially efficacious and less toxic cancer treatment compared with currently available chemotherapy regimens.

While multiple randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have demonstrated that platinum sensitive BRCAm patients have profound response to maintenance treatment with PARP inhibitors, PARP inhibitors target cells with homologous recombination deficiency (HRD), of which BRCA mutation is only one type. Consistent with the mechanism of action of PARP inhibition, response has also been seen in multiple RCTs in patients who are platinum sensitive but whose tumours do not harbor BRCA mutations. Presumably these responders have defects in other components of HRR pathways, though currently available diagnostic technology is not adequate to reliably identify the full spectrum of HRR deficiencies. Instead, these data support the hypothesis that platinum sensitivity itself is a clinical selection factor for HRD.