Testing the Addition of an IDH2 Inhibitor, Enasidenib, to Usual Treatment (Cedazuridine-Decitabine) for Higher-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) With IDH2 Mutation (A MyeloMATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II MyeloMATCH treatment trial compares the usual treatment of cedazuridine-decitabine (ASTX727) to the combination treatment of ASTX727 and enasidenib in treating patients with higher-risk, IDH2-mutated myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). ASTX727 is a combination of two drugs, decitabine and cedazuridine. Cedazuridine is in a class of medications called cytidine deaminase inhibitors. It prevents the breakdown of decitabine, making it more available in the body so that decitabine will have a greater effect. Decitabine is in a class of medications called hypomethylation agents. It works by helping the bone marrow produce normal blood cells and by killing abnormal cells in the bone marrow. Enasidenib is an enzyme inhibitor that may stop the growth of cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving ASTX727 in combination with enasidenib may be effective in treating patients with higher-risk IDH2-mutated MDS.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Decitabine and Cedazuridine|DRUG: Enasidenib
Complete response (CR) rate, Will be assessed using the International Working Group 2023 (IWG2023) criteria. Will compare the CR rate between the two treatment arms to determine if patients treated with enasidenib + ASTX727 have a statistically significantly higher CR rate than patients treated with the ASTX727 monotherapy., Up to 4 cycles of treatment
Event-free survival, Sensitivity analyses will be conducted. Will use the methods of Kaplan-Meier as well as Cox regression models., Time from randomization to either a failure to achieve a CR, CR with limited count recovery (CRL), or CR with partial count recovery (CRh) after four cycles of treatment, relapse, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 18 months|Overall survival, Will use the methods of Kaplan-Meier as well as Cox regression models., Time from randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 18 months|Time to response, Will be assessed only among patients who achieve a response (CR, CRL, or CRh)., Time from randomization to documented response, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of response, Will be assessed only among patients who achieve a response (CR, CRL, or CRh). Will use the methods of Kaplan-Meier as well as Cox regression models., From patient first achieves a response until either progression or death, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be determined using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 criteria. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. will review all adverse event data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The incidence of severe (grade 3+) adverse events or toxicities will be described for each treatment arm, but will also be compared between the arms. Fisher's exact tests will be used to quantitatively compare the incidence of severe as well as specific toxicities of interest and will graphically assess differences in maximum grades observed for toxicities., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|Change in IDH2 variant allele frequency (VAF), Will report the percent change of VAF along with a 95% confidence interval., Baseline to end of cycle 4 and 6|Allogeneic stem cell transplantation rate, Will report along with a 95% confidence interval for each treatment arm., Up to 5 years|Measurable residual disease rate, Will be measured by flow cytometry and next generation sequencing (NGS). Will be compared and used to determine association with clinical outcomes such as CR, EFS, or OS., At the end of cycle 4 and 6|Cytogenetic and molecular features, Cytogenetic and molecular classifications including Molecular International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-M) will be compared and used to determined association with clinical outcomes such as CR, EFS, and OS., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the complete remission (CR) rate of enasidenib + decitabine and cedazuridine (ASTX727) and ASTX727 monotherapy in patients with higher-risk IDH2-mutated MDS using International Working Group 2023 (IWG2023) response criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the median event-free survival (EFS) at designated time point(s) 18 months for each treatment arm.

II. To estimate the median overall survival (OS) at designated time point(s) 18 months for each treatment arm.

III. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities with each regimen in this patient population.

IV. To estimate the median time to response for each treatment arm. V. To estimate the median duration of response for each treatment arm. VI. To estimate the IDH2 variant allele frequency (VAF) reduction for each treatment arm.

VII. To estimate the rate of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for each treatment arm.

VIII. To compare rates of partial response (PR), CR with limited count recovery (CRL), CR with partial count recovery (CRh), and hematologic improvement (HI) using IWG 2023 response criteria between treatment arms.

IX. To compare the measurable residual disease (MRD) kinetics by flow cytometry and next generation sequencing (NGS) at designated time point(s) at the end of cycle 4 \& 6 and to assess any correlation with clinical outcomes (e.g. CR, EFS, OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate CR rate, median EFS, and median OS in patients treated with ASTX727 monotherapy that crossover to the treatment arm with ASTX727 + enasidenib after 6 cycles if CR is not achieved.

II. To estimate CR rate, median EFS, and median OS for patients based on Molecular International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-M) prognostic risk score at diagnosis, stratified for score level.

III. To estimate concordance between centrally-performed molecular studies and cytogenetics to those done locally.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive ASTX727 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not achieve a CR, CRL, or CRh at the end of cycle 6 may cross-over to Arm B. Patients who experience CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) any time after 4 cycles of treatment may be reassessed in order to go to a higher myeloMATCH tier assignment or to Tier Advancement Pathway (TAP). Patients also undergo bone marrow biopsy and aspiration throughout the study. Patients may also undergo optional buccal swab on study, and/or optional additional bone marrow aspiration and blood sample collection on study and at disease progression.

ARM B: Patients receive ASTX727 PO QD on days 1-5 and enasidenib PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who experience CR, PR, or SD any time after 4 cycles of treatment may be reassessed in order to go to a higher myeloMATCH tier assignment or to TAP. Patients also undergo bone marrow biopsy and aspiration throughout the study. Patients may also undergo optional buccal swab on study, and/or optional additional bone marrow aspiration and blood sample collection on study and at disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5 years after registration.