rhPSMA-73 PET-MRI Imaging for the Detection of Prostate Cancer Among Men Who Are Otherwise Candidates for Active Surveillance
This clinical trial evaluates whether positron emission tomography-magnetic resonance imaging (PET-MRI) using the radioactive drug radiohybrid prostate-specific membrane antigen (rhPSMA)-7.3 may help in detecting higher grade or stage disease in men with low and favorable intermediate risk prostate cancer who are candidates for active surveillance. A PET scan is a test that uses a radioactive drug and a computer to create images of how organs and tissues in the body are functioning. The radioactive drug used in this study, rhPSMA-7.3, attaches to the abnormal cells in the body at a different rate than normal cells which allows the scanner to create a detailed picture of how the body is working. An MRI scan uses strong magnets and computers to create detailed images of the soft tissue in your body. A multiparametric (mp)MRI is a type of MRI scan that creates a more detailed picture of the prostate gland. Using rhPSMA-73 with PET-MRI and mpMRI may be more effective in detecting higher grade or stage disease in men with low and favorable intermediate risk prostate cancer.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy of Prostate|GENETIC: Decipher Prostate Cancer Test|OTHER: Flotufolastat F-18 Gallium|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multiparametric Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy
Radio-pathological correlation between positron emession tomography-magnetic resonance imaging (PET-MRI) and prostate biopsy or radical prostatectomy, Will report agreement between pathology and imaging and ability of radiohybrid prostate-specific membrane antigen-7-PET-MRI to identify higher grade and stage disease as a raw percentage., Up to 90 days
Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Occurrence of severe adverse events occurring following imaging will be reported as a percentage. Will use the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03., Within 24 hours of radio-tracer injection
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Measure the rate of rhPSMA-7.3-PET-MRI identified Gleason Grade Group (GG) 3-5 disease on pathology or locally advanced disease. A threshold rate of 15% detection will be considered clinically significant.

SEONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assessment of safety.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) for rhPSMA-PET-MRI to detect prostate cancer in the prostate stratified by Gleason Grade Groups.

II. Correlate PET MRI findings with surgical specimens for those men who undergo surgical treatment (including assessment of pathological stage).

III. Define whether gene expression of PSMA (FOLH1) as defined on the Decipher messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression platform relates to signal intensity on PSMA scan.

IV. Determine whether Decipher genomic classifier scores, luminal / basal scores or androgen receptor activity scores relate to signal intensity on PSMA scans.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive rhPSMA-7.3 intravenously (IV) then undergo PET-MRI and mpMRI of the prostate on study. Patients also undergo Decipher test at screening and MRI-PET prostate biopsy or radical prostatectomy within 90 days per standard of care.