TTI-622 in Combination With Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of TTI-621 (closed to enrollment) or TTI-622 in combination with pembrolizumab in treating patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that does not respond to treatment (refractory). TTI-621 and TTI-622 are called fusion proteins. A fusion protein includes two specialized proteins that are joined together. In TTI-621 and TTI-622, one of the proteins binds with other proteins found on the surface of certain cells that are part of the immune system. The other protein targets and blocks a protein called CD47. CD47 is present on cancer cells and is used by those cells to hide from the body's immune system. By blocking CD47, TTI-621 and TTI-622 may help the immune system find and destroy cancer cells. Pembrolizumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against human cell surface receptor PD-1 (programmed death-1 or programmed cell death-1) that works by helping the body\&#39;s immune system attack the cancer and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving TTI-621 (closed to enrollment) or TTI-622 in combination with pembrolizumab may kill more cancer cells in patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Recurrent ALK Positive Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Associated With Chronic Inflammation|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent EBV-Positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Recurrent Intravascular Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Leg Type|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory ALK Positive Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Associated With Chronic Inflammation|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory EBV-Positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC, BCL2, and BCL6 Rearrangements|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory Intravascular Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Cutaneous Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Leg Type|Refractory Primary Mediastinal Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Gray Zone Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Ontorpacept|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Maplirpacept|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Recommended phase 2 dose of maplirpacept (TTI-622) when given in combination with pembrolizumab (Safety run-in), Defined as the highest dose for which at most 1 out of 6 subjects experience significant toxicity during the 6-week safety assessment period. Toxicity will be measured per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5. Significant toxicity is defined as an adverse event occurring during the first cycle of treatment that is possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment., Up to 6 weeks|Overall response (Phase 2), A success is defined as an objective status of partial metabolic response (PMR) or complete metabolic response (CMR) by positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) based criteria at any time. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Note: For patients where PET/CT scan was not available due to insurance coverage and who received a CT scan only, they will still be considered evaluable for the primary endpoint and will be included in the denominator for estimating overall response rate. In these patients, the CT-based responses will be reported descriptively., Up to 2 years
Duration of response (DOR) (Phase 2), Defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CMR or PMR to first documentation of disease progression. DOR will be descriptively summarized., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs) (Phase 2), All eligible patients that have initiated treatment will be considered evaluable for assessing AE rate(s). The maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the AE(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS) (Phase 2), OS is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause., up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase 2), PFS is defined as the time from registration to the first documentation of disease progression \[progressive metabolic disease (PMD) or progressive disease (PD)\] or death due to any cause in the absence of documented progression., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicities of maplirpacept (TTI-622) combined with pembrolizumab and to identify the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of TTI-622, combined with pembrolizumab. (Safety run-in) II. To estimate preliminary efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with TTI-622 as measured by overall response rate (ORR). (Phase 2).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with TTI-622 as measured by duration of response (DOR), progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

I. Correlation of biomarkers measured in serial peripheral blood samples and tumor tissues with clinical responses, which may include but are not limited to: SIRPalpha expression, monocyte/macrophage markers in tumor micro-environment, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), PD-1/PDL-1 expression.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms. Patients enrolling after 8/16/2024 are assigned to Arm B.

ARM A (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL AS OF 8/16/2024): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and ontorpacept (TTI-621) IV over 60-120 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) scans or CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis prior to cycle 3 and every 4 cycles thereafter. If no disease progression after cycle 12, patients then receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and TTI-621 IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 23 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo PET/CT and/or CT and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may undergo biopsy on study.

ARM B: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and TTI-622 IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo PET/CT scans or CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis prior to cycle 3 and every 4 cycles thereafter. If no disease progression after cycle 12, patients then receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and TTI-622 IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 23 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo PET/CT and/or CT and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may undergo biopsy on study.

After completion of the study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for up to 2 years from registration.