Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Veliparib in Treating Patients With Stage IV Head and Neck Cancer
This partially randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of veliparib when given together with combination chemotherapy and to see how well they work in treating patients with stage IV head and neck cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether combination chemotherapy is more effective when given with or without veliparib in treating head and neck cancer.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Hydroxyurea|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Placebo Administration|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Veliparib
Dose Limiting Toxicity (Phase I), Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLTs) will be assessed during the first cycle of induction chemotherapy.

The following events are considered DLTs: Grade 4 neutropenia (ANC \< 500) lasting more than 14 days, Febrile neutropenia, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, dose delay of greater than 3 weeks due to failure to recover counts, treatment-related grade 3 or grade 4 non-hematological toxicity (excluding alopecia, fatigue, hypersensitivity reaction, nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and grade 3 hypertension), a dose delay of greater than 3 weeks for non-hematological toxicity despite replacement of electrolytes, maximum treatment for diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and hypertension, any drug-related death.

The number of patients reporting a DLT are reported below. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be determined as the highest dose where 1 or fewer out of 6 patients reports a DLT., Up to 3 weeks|Relative Change in Tumor Size as Measured by RECIST (Phase II), Treatment arms will be compared using the nonparametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test., From baseline to 6 weeks
Toxicity (Phase I and Phase II), Adverse Events were collected each cycle during treatment and follow-up according to the CTCAE v4.0 guidelines. The worst graded adverse event was determined for each patient. Below is a table of the number of patients that reported a Grade 3 or Grade 4 or Grade 5 as their worst reported event., upt to 5 years|PFS (Phase II), Summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier, and compared between groups using the log-rank test. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models will be used to further explore group differences adjusting for other prognostic factors, as well as to estimate hazard ratios., Up to 5 years|Disease-free Survival (Phase II), Summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier, and compared between groups using the log-rank test. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models will be used to further explore group differences adjusting for other prognostic factors, as well as to estimate hazard ratios., Up to 5 years|Time to Local or Distant Progression (Phase II), Summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier, and compared between groups using the log-rank test. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models will be used to further explore group differences adjusting for other prognostic factors, as well as to estimate hazard ratios., Up to 5 years|DSS (Phase II), Summarized using cumulative incidence, and will be compared between groups using Gray's test. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models will be used to further explore group differences adjusting for other prognostic factors, as well as to estimate hazard ratios., Up to 5 years|OS (Phase II), Summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier, and compared between groups using the log-rank test. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models will be used to further explore group differences adjusting for other prognostic factors, as well as to estimate hazard ratios., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), recommended phase II dose, dose limiting toxicity (DLT), and safety of ABT-888 (veliparib) with carboplatin and paclitaxel induction chemotherapy in locoregionally advanced head and neck (LAHNC) patients. (Phase I) II. Compare magnitude of tumor shrinkage (response) following 2 cycles of induction chemotherapy with and without ABT-888 in LAHNC. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare progression-free (PFS), disease-specific (DSS), and overall survival (OS) in subjects treated with or without ABT-888. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7, paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then continue on to concomitant chemoradiotherapy.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive veliparib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin as in Phase I. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 10 days from completion of course 2, patients begin concomitant chemoradiotherapy.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-7. Patients also receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in Phase I. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 10 days from completion of course 2, patients begin concomitant chemoradiotherapy.

CONCOMITANT CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 regimens of concomitant chemoradiotherapy based on the guidelines of the institution where they are being treated.

OPTION I (CONCOMITANT CHEMORADIATION WITH CISPLATIN): Patients receive cisplatin IV on days 1 and 22 and undergo radiation therapy 5 days per week for 6 weeks. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 5 courses.

OPTION II (CONCOMITANT CHEMORADIATION WITH TFHX): Patients receive hydroxyurea PO every 12 hours on days 1-5 for up to 11 doses, fluorouracil IV over 120 hours on days 1-5, paclitaxel IV on day 1, and undergo radiation therapy BID on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 5 courses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, and 60 months. Patients who progress will be followed up every 6 months through year 5.