Traditional Chinese Medicine Combined With Thermal and Cold Ablation for Early-stage Lung Cancer
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related mortality. At present, surgical treatment is the main choice for early-stage lung cancer. Even after surgery, the 5-year recurrence rate is still as high as 18.4%-24%. Traditional Chinese medicine combined with thermal and cold ablation could be an alternative treatment. Small sample clinical cases verified that this therapy could be an efficacy and safe treatment in a short period. The primary aim of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy of traditional Chinese medicine combined with thermal and cold ablation for patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage I
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: traditional Chinese medicine and ablation in the primary tumor sites|PROCEDURE: ablation
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Response were evaluated in this study using the revised international criteria (1.1) proposed by the RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours) committee. BEST RESPONSE from the start of study treatment until the end of treatment were reported. Objective response rate is the sum of CR + PR divided by the total number of patients in each group., 2 years after ablation
DFS, The time interval from the first medication to the observation of recurrence or metastasis, or death from any cause (calculated based on the previous event). Patients who have not relapsed, metastasized or died at the time of the data cutoff, and those who were lost to follow-up in the study will be counted on the date of their last tumor evaluation., 2 years after ablation
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related mortality. At present, surgical treatment is the main choice for early-stage lung cancer. Even after surgery, the 5-year recurrence rate is still as high as 18.4%-24%. Traditional Chinese medicine combined with thermal and cold ablation could be an alternative treatment. Small sample clinical cases verified that this therapy could be an efficacy and safe treatment in a short period. The primary aim of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy of traditional Chinese medicine combined with thermal and cold ablation for patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer.