Omacetaxine Mepesuccinate, Cytarabine, and Decitabine in Treating Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well omacetaxine mepesuccinate, cytarabine, and decitabine work in treating older patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Omacetaxine mepesuccinate, cytarabine, and decitabine may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Multilineage Dysplasia Following Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: omacetaxine mepesuccinate|DRUG: decitabine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Proportion of the Evaluable Population of Interest Who Experience a Complete Response in the Poor and Good Prognosis Groups, Defined as recovery of morphologically normal bone marrow (\< 5% blasts) and blood counts (absolute neutrophil count \>= 1x10\^9/L, platelet counts \>= 100x10\^9/LO) and rare circulating leukemic blasts or evidence of extramedullary disease. Analyzed using exact binomial probabilities in a two-stage design. The number of responses will be tabulated., Up to 4 years|Frequency of Adverse Events, Graded According to NCI CTCAE v4.0, Maximum grade per participant of any AE., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drugs
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the complete response rate following OAG (omacetaxine mepesuccinate, cytarabine) in newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia patients unfit for intensive induction therapy.

II. To assess the toxicity of OAG using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.0).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the disease-free and overall survival of OAG and decitabine in newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia patients unfit for intensive induction therapy.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive cytarabine subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) and omacetaxine mepesuccinate SC BID on days 1-14. Treatment for induction therapy repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses or until patients achieve complete response (CR) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients alternate courses between decitabine and OAG. Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) on days 1-5. Patients alternate with OAG courses, comprising cytarabine SC BID on days 1-7 and omacetaxine mepesuccinate SC BID on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.