Improvement of Fluid Balance in Patients Undergoing Surgery of the Colon and Rectum
58 patients undergoing surgery of the large bowel are divided into two groups. The control group will receive standard care. The intervention group will receive standard care plus optimization of the blood circulation based on in- or decrease of the output of the heart. Between group differences are measured primarily by markers of intestinal damage in plasma and urine. Also CO2 pressure in the stomach lumen is measured (reflecting blood supply to the gut).

The investigators hypothesize that the intervention group will have less intestinal damage, improved blood supply to the bowel and improved recovery of the operation compared to the control group.
Colorectal Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Goal-directed fluid optimization|OTHER: Regimen based on expertise anaesthesist
Peak Value of I-FABP, Intestinal-Fatty Acid Binding Protein (a marker of intestinal damage) is measured in plasma.

The primary outcome measure is the difference in peak values of I-FABP between the control group and the intervention group., 1 hour postoperatively
Average Intraoperative CO2 Gap, The CO2 gap (difference arterial pCO2 and pCO2 of the stomach lumen) reflects global intestinal perfusion status and is measured every 15 minutes intraoperatively and every 60 minutes during the first 8 hours postoperatively.

Intraoperative measurements were averaged per individual patient, producing the average intraoperative CO2 gap., Average intraoperative CO2 gap
58 patients undergoing surgery of the large bowel are divided into two groups. The control group will receive standard care. The intervention group will receive standard care plus optimization of the blood circulation based on in- or decrease of the output of the heart. Between group differences are measured primarily by markers of intestinal damage in plasma and urine. Also CO2 pressure in the stomach lumen is measured (reflecting blood supply to the gut).

The investigators hypothesize that the intervention group will have less intestinal damage, improved blood supply to the bowel and improved recovery of the operation compared to the control group.