Observational Trial of Real-World Treatment Utilization and Effectiveness of PI3K-inhibitors in CLL/SLL and FL
This study will assess whether there are differences in effectiveness and safety outcomes among PI3K-treated patients in a real world registry, compared to patients treated in clinical trials.
Lymphoma, Small Lymphocytic|Lymphoma|Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: duvelisib|DRUG: PI3K inhibitor
Event-Free Survival (EFS), Observe the effectiveness of the PI3K-inhibitor administered, 2 years
Measurement of Quality of Life - EQ-5D, EQ-5D is a widely used health status instrument, which developed by the EuroQol Group in the 1980s. It provides a concise and generic measure to compare and value health status across disease areas. The 5-level EQ-5D-5L was introduced in 2009 to improve the sensitivity of the instrument and reduce the ceiling effect. The EQ-5D-5L consists of the descriptive system measuring 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression and the EQ visual analogue scale (VAS). The patient is asked to indicate his/her health state by choosing one of the 5 levels for each dimension: no problem, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems and extreme problems. Each dimension has a 1-digit number that expresses the level selected for that dimension. The digit for the 5 dimensions will be combined into a 5-digit number that describes a patient's health profile. Results of the EQ VAS will be presented to measure overall self-rated health status., 2 years|Measurement of Quality of Life - FACT-lym, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lymphoma (FACT-lym) is a PRO measure used to assess HRQoL in patients undergoing cancer therapy. The instrument includes 27 questions on the impacts of cancer therapy over the past 7 days in four domains plus 15 questions related to lymphoma patients: physical, social/family, emotional, and functional over the past 7 days. Each question is answered using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much), where higher numbers indicate better health state. Scores of each domain will be calculated by adding scores for questions included in each domain, and a total score for the FACT-Lym will be obtained by adding each of the subscale scores, with higher score indicating better health state., 2 years|Characterize patient characteristics initiating treatment with PI3K-inhibitors, Patient demographics, medical and disease history, prior therapies, and dosing regimen, 2 years|Measure Time to Next Treatment (TTNT), The length of time from the date the patient initiates PI3K-inhibitor treatment to the date of initiating the next line of therapy., 2 years
Phase IV, multicenter, prospective observational study in a real world (RW) setting, designed to observe the utilization and effectiveness of PI3K-inhibitor treatment, and HRQoL of patients with CLL/SLL/FL outside the context of a clinical trial.