Addition of Ipilimumab (MDX-010) To Isolated Limb Infusion (ILI) With Standard Melphalan and Dactinomycin In The Treatment of Advanced Unresectable Melanoma of The Extremity
The purpose of this study is to see the effect of adding a systemic study drug, Ipilimumab, to two standard chemotherapy drugs, Melphalan and Dactinomycin. The study drug Ipilimumab is an antibody to a normal protein found in the body, CTLA-4. This protein normally allows the immune system (the body's natural defense system that helps fight infections) uses to quiet an immune response. The study drug works by blocking this protein and allowing the immune system to become more active. This study will investigate the effects, of combining ILI (using two standard drugs to treat melanoma, Melphalan and Dactinomycin), with the study drug, Ipilimumab on advanced Melanoma cancer.
Melanoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab, Melphalan and Dactinomycin
Progression Free Survival at One Year., Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 1 year
Toxicity of Additional Ipilimumab Will be Evaluated for All Treated Patients Using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 3.0, 2 years|To Determine Response Rates of Combination Therapy. Tumor Assessment Will be Measured by the Immune Related Response Criteria (irRC)., Progression free survival, from time of ILI, will be determined by measuring the index lesions, non-index lesions, and new lesions as described below. Patients with deep lesions will have repeat CT Scan evaluation to quantitate the lesions.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 2 years|To Define the Immunologic Events and Signatures at the Tumor Site and in the Periphery That Corresponds to Response to Ipilimumab., Summaries of antibody response, comparison of pretreatment with post-ipilimumab and end of treatment will be assessed for percent of CD4, CD8, and CD68 positive cells, 2 years
The purpose of this study is to see the effect of adding a systemic study drug, Ipilimumab, to two standard chemotherapy drugs, Melphalan and Dactinomycin. The study drug Ipilimumab is an antibody to a normal protein found in the body, CTLA-4. This protein normally allows the immune system (the body's natural defense system that helps fight infections) uses to quiet an immune response. The study drug works by blocking this protein and allowing the immune system to become more active. This study will investigate the effects, of combining ILI (using two standard drugs to treat melanoma, Melphalan and Dactinomycin), with the study drug, Ipilimumab on advanced Melanoma cancer.