Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy With or Without Fulvestrant for the Treatment of HR Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer With an ERS1 Activating Mutation, the INTERACT Study
This phase II trial studies how well letrozole, anastrozole, or fulvestrant work when given together with ribociclib, palbociclib, and/or abemaciclib in treating patients with hormone receptor (HR) positive breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic) and has an ERS1 activating mutation. Letrozole, anastrozole, ribociclib, palbociclib, and abemaciclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using fulvestrant may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. It is not yet known if giving letrozole, anastrozole, or fulvestrant with ribociclib, palbociclib, and/or abemaciclib will work better in treating patients with breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Ribociclib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Survival curves for PFS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and survival difference across groups will be examined by log rank test. Will estimate the treatment comparison with 95% confidence intervals and p-value using Cox proportional hazards regression and we will assess the proportional hazard assumption using graphs of rescaled Schoenfeld residuals and related tests., Up to 30 days
Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA) ESR1 Mutant Allele Fraction (MAF) and Kinetics, Graphical analysis, such as scatter plots with Lowess smoothers, will be used to assess the correlative structure of outcomes and compare MAF between fulvestrant and aromatase inhibitor-treated groups. The Pearson correlation, or its non-parametric analogue, the Spearman correlation, will be used to estimate the linear correlation among variables., Up to 30 days|Prevalence of Emergence of Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1) Mutations, Will be assessed by the secondary resistance of endocrine therapy., Up to 30 days|Changes in Cancer Antigens (CA) 15-3 Tumor Marker, Will correlate ctDNA with CA 15-3 tumor marker changes., Up to 30 days|Overall Survival (OS), Survival curves for OS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and survival difference across groups will be examined by log rank test. Will estimate the treatment comparison with 95% confidence intervals and p-value using Cox proportional hazards regression and we will assess the proportional hazard assumption using graphs of rescaled Schoenfeld residuals and related tests., Up to 30 days|Time to Next Treatment, Will be assessed on next line of therapy after progression., Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess progression free survival (PFS) with transition to fulvestrant compared with continuing aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy in patients with emergence of estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) mutations in plasma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) ESR1 mutant allele fraction (MAF) and kinetics with fulvestrant compared with AI.

II. To assess the prevalence of ESR1 mutations in patients with secondary resistance to endocrine therapy.

III. To correlate ctDNA with cancer antigens (CA) 15-3 tumor marker changes. IV. To assess overall survival (OS) with transition to fulvestrant compared with continuing AI therapy in patients with emergence of ESR1 mutations.

V. To assess PFS and time to next treatment (TTNT) on next line of therapy after progression on fulvestrant versus (vs.) AI in combination with CDKI.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize other co-existing actionable genomic alterations of interest in relation to ESR1 and clinical outcomes.

II. To determine frequency of other actionable genomic alterations and frequency of enrollment on genotype-matched therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive ribociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD), palbociclib PO QD on days 1-21, and/or abemaciclib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Patients also receive fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) for 2 injections over 1-2 minutes each on days 1 and 15 of cycle 1 and day 2 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive ribociclib orally PO QD, palbociclib PO QD on days 1-21, and/or abemaciclib PO BID on days 1-28. Patients also receive letrozole PO QD or anastrozole PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.