Real-time Computer Aided Detection of Barrett's Neoplasia
In the real-time pilot study, the performance of a recently developed Computer Aided Detection (CADe) system will be investigated in 30 patients during real-time live endoscopic examination. Three expert endoscopists in the field of Barrett's esophagus and endoscopic resection techniques will perform the inclusions following a standardized data acquisition protocol. In total, 15 patients with a visible neoplastic lesion in their Barrett's esophagus and 15 patients without any visible abnormalities in their Barrett's esophagus will be included in this study. Outcomes: to investigate feasibility of the use of the CADe system in the endoscopy suite, to investigate the performance of the CADe system when used by endoscopists.
Barrett Esophagus|Barrett Adenocarcinoma
OTHER: Computer Aided Detection system for Barrett's neoplasia
Combined performance of endoscopist + CADe system in terms of per-patient sensitivity and specificity, To investigate the combined performance between endoscopist and CADe system on a per-patient level., 5 months
Stand-alone performance of CADe system in terms of per-patient sensitivity and specificity, To investigate the performance of the CADe system on new data on a per-patient level., 5 months
Patients in this study will undergo a scheduled surveillance endoscopy (according to current guidelines; n = 15) or are referred to a tertiary referral center for endoscopic resection of a possible neoplastic area in their known Barrett's esophagus (n = 15).

Patients will be consciously sedated (standard care) before start of the procedure. During the endoscopic procedure, the endoscopist follows the standard protocol after extensive cleaning of the Barrett's segment: first, a standardized pullback video will be recorded, followed by a careful inspection of the Barrett segment every 2 centimeters. Per 2cm, a video of 10 seconds and 3 overview images are being recorded.

During the imaging protocol, the CADe system presents its prediction on a second screen, next to the main endoscopy monitor. After the imaging protocol, standard clinical care is being resumed.