Study to Determine the Feasibility of Sentinel Node Biopsy in Patients With Anal Cancer
The purpose of this study is assess the technical and operational feasibility of a specialised biopsy technique, sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB), in patients with anal cancer.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Anus
PROCEDURE: Sentinel lymph node biopsy
The proportion of nodes detected will be expressed per inguinal nodal basin and per number of patients, Day 0 (Day of SLNB)
Micro-metastatic disease within sentinel nodes, Days 7 to 10|Surgical complications, To include wound healing assessment and assessment of pain, Up to 15 weeks after SLNB|Delays in receiving radiotherapy treatment, Any delay greater than 37 days from presentation to treatment, 15 weeks after SLNB
SLNB is based on the premise that lymphatic dissemination from a tumour occurs in a stepwise fashion, with initial involvement of a primary node, called the sentinel node, before dissemination to the remainder of the lymphatic chain. If the sentinel node is histologically negative, then the remainder of the nodes in the same anatomic region will be at a lower (assumed to be minimal) risk of containing metastases. SLNB is part of standard care for patients with malignant melanoma and with breast cancer but has yet to be prospectively evaluated in patients with anal cancer.

Currently, the standard way to treat patients with anal cancer is to deliver a combination of chemotherapy and radiation to the tumour at the anus together with 'preventative' (prophylactic) radiotherapy to the lymph glands of the groin and pelvis. There is a growing perception for the need to reduce the morbidity of radiotherapy i.e. current regimens over-treat the patient and one approach is to reduce radiotherapy volume and/or dose where there is an absence or very low risk of nodal metastases.

This feasibility study is a vital first step in informing the design of a larger study examining the role of SLNB in clinical decision-making and outcomes for patients with anal cancer. In this trial eligible patients will attend for lymphoscintigraphy, to locate the lymph node, before sentinel lymph node removal by surgery. Detection rate of the sentinel node(s) will be the key outcome for the study.