Window of Opportunity Pilot Study of Pembrolizumab in Obesity-driven Endometrial Cancer
Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor treatment may benefit patients with endometrial cancer (EC) based on the following observations: 1) an overwhelming presence of PD-1 in ECs; 2) the well-known effect of obesity which activates pro-inflammatory white blood cells and promotes the development of ECs; and 3) the high prevalence of a specific gene pattern (ie, microsatellite instability hypermutated \[MSI high\]) among ECs that may be particularly sensitive to this class of drugs. To identify potential biomarkers of response to PD-1 inhibitors in EC, we will conduct a window of opportunity study of pembrolizumab in 20 patients with clinical stage 1, grade 3 EC, encompassing endometrioid, serous and clear cell histologies. Eligible patients will undergo a research biopsy for collection of fresh tissue at the time of enrollment, in addition to the routinely performed endometrial biopsy that led to the diagnosis of their cancer. Patients will receive a single dose of pembrolizumab (200 mg IV) prior to undergoing their scheduled hysterectomy with surgical staging three weeks later. As per standard of care, adjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin will be recommended after hysterectomy/surgical staging for women with endometrioid tumors and stage III disease or women with serous/clear cell tumors at all stages of disease. However, in this study pembrolizumab will be added to adjuvant paclitaxel and carboplatin for EC. Pre-treatment endometrial biopsy specimens (fresh frozen tissue and formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE)) and a post-treatment hysterectomy specimen (fresh frozen tissue and FFPE) will be collected for translational studies. Blood, fecal and vaginal samples will be collected pre-treatment, at the time of surgery and following 3 cycles of adjuvant pembrolizumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin treatment.
Endometrial Cancer|Uterine Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Hysterectomy
Change in the number of Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes, Change in number of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in response to single dose of pembrolizumab will be determined by performing histopathologic analysis of H\&E-stained tumor sections collected at baseline and at the time of surgery., 3 weeks
Number of patients who experience Adverse Events after one dose of Pembrolizumab, The NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events is a descriptive terminology which can be utilized for Adverse Event (AE) reporting. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each AE term. Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., 3 weeks|Change in number of Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes by endometrial cancer sub-types, Count and compare associations of (1) pre-treatment Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocyte (TIL) numbers (2) clonality of TILs and (3) change in number and phenotype of TILs with pembrolizumab treatment between Microsatellite Instability (MSI) and DNA Polymerase ε Endometrial Cancers (EC) versus MSI low/stable ECs versus Copy Number High ECs., 3 weeks|Correlation of Programmed Cell Death-1 (PD-1) Expression with TILs, Compare possible associations of PD-1, Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) and Programmed Death Ligand 2 (PD-L2) messenger Ribonucleic Acid (mRNA) expression with (1) pre-treatment TIL numbers (2) clonality of TILs and (3) change in number and phenotype of TILs., 3 weeks|Correlation of Immune and Obesity/Inflammation EC Signatures with TILs, Compare possible associations of immune and obesity/inflammation EC signatures with (1) Body Mass Index (BMI) (2) pre-treatment TIL numbers (3) clonality of TILs and (4) change in number and phenotype of TILs., 3 weeks|Correlation of Microbiota Profiles with TILs, Compare possible associations of gut, vaginal and uterine microbiota profiles with (1) BMI (2) pre-treatment TIL numbers (3) clonality of TILs and (4) change in number and phenotype of TILs., 3 weeks|Overall Response Rate of Pembrolizumab with Paclitaxel and Carboplatin, Calculate the overall response rate of pembrolizumab in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin following hysterectomy and surgical staging in (1) stage I/II, serous/clear cell EC and (2) stage III, Grade 3 (serous, clear cell or endometrioid histologies) EC.

Response is measured as:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis \<10mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 3 weeks
The primary objective of the trial is to measure the change in number and phenotype of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, including delineation of effector and regulatory T cells, before and after one cycle of pembrolizumab treatment. Other correlative secondary objectives include investigation of associations among pre-treatment TIL numbers, clonality of TILs and change in number and phenotype of TILs with samples collected after pembrolizumab treatment between MSI and DNA polymerase (POLE) ultramutated ECs versus MSI low/stable ECs versus copy number high (CNH) ECs, among others. To assess the complex interplay between obesity, molecular subtype, the microbiome and immune regulation, gut, vaginal and uterine microbiota profiles will be characterized and potential associations with body mass index (BMI), pre-treatment TIL numbers, clonality of TILs and change in the number and phenotype of TILs will be investigated. Secondary clinical objectives include (1) of the pathologic response rate after one cycle of pembrolizumab following hysterectomy and surgical staging in stage I/II, serous/clear cell EC and stage III, G3 (serous, clear cell or endometrioid histologies) EC and (2) characterization of the toxicity profile of pembrolizumab pre-hysterectomy and in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin as adjuvant therapy for EC.