Effect of Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields, 150 kHz) Concomitant With Best Standard of Care for the Treatment of Hospitalized COVID-19 Patients and Continued Treatment Following Discharge
The study is a prospective, pilot study aimed to test the safety of Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) concomitant with best standard of care, for the treatment of hospitalized COVID-19 patients and continued treatment after hospitalization. The device is an experimental, portable, battery operated device for chronic administration of alternating electric fields (termed TTFields) to the region of the organ to be treated, by means of surface, insulated electrode arrays.
COVID-19
DEVICE: NovoTTF-100L
Frequency and severity of adverse events, 2 months
All-cause mortality, The proportion of participants who died by study Day 29., Day 1 through Day 29|Incidence of intensive care unit admission, Day 1 through Day 29|Incidence of non-invasive ventilation or high-flow oxygen use, Day 1 through Day 29|Incidence of invasive ventilation, Day 1 through Day 29|Incidence of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, Day 1 through Day 29|Patient inflammatory status, Inflammatory status measured as the difference in C reactive protein (CRP), D-dimer and ferritin blood levels from baseline on days 3, 8 and 11 until discharge., Day 3, 8, and 11|Duration of hospitalization, Day 1 through Day 29|Time to recovery, Day of recovery is defined as the first day on which the subject satisfies one of the following three categories from the ordinal scale: 1) Hospitalized, not requiring supplemental oxygen - no longer requires ongoing medical care; 2) Not hospitalized, limitation on activities and/or requiring home oxygen; 3) Not hospitalized, no limitations on activities., Day 1 through Day 29|Clinical status at day 8, 15, 22, 29, Clinical status according to ordinal scale. The scale is as follows: 8) Death; 7) Hospitalized, on invasive mechanical ventilation or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO); 6) Hospitalized, on non-invasive ventilation or high flow oxygen devices; 5) Hospitalized, requiring supplemental oxygen; 4) Hospitalized, not requiring supplemental oxygen - requiring ongoing medical care (COVID-19 related or otherwise); 3) Hospitalized, not requiring supplemental oxygen - no longer requires ongoing medical care; 2) Not hospitalized, limitation on activities and/or requiring home oxygen; 1) Not hospitalized, no limitations on activities., Day 8, 15, 22, and 29
PAST PRE-CLINICAL AND CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) are a non-invasive, regional antimitotic treatment modality with minimal toxicity which have been approved for the treatment of recurrent and newly diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States and have obtained a CE mark in Europe for the same indications. TTFields concomitant with chemotherapy were also approved for malignant pleural mesothelioma under FDA's humanitarian device exemption.

Cell culture study demonstrated that TTFields can significantly reduce corona virus infection and replication in human lung cells.

DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY:

All patients included in this study are patients who are hospitalized due to COVID-19 disease. In addition, all patients must meet all eligibility criteria.

Eligible patients will be enrolled to the study and will receive COVID-19 best standard of care treatment concomitant with TTFields using the NovoTTF-100L System. The patients will be treated continuously with the device until discharge from the hospital and until there are no limitations on activities.

SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND:

Electric fields exert forces on electric charges similar to the way a magnet exerts forces on metallic particles within a magnetic field. These forces cause movement and rotation of electrically charged biological building blocks, much like the alignment of metallic particles seen along the lines of force radiating outwards from a magnet.

Electric fields can also cause muscles to twitch and if strong enough may heat tissues. TTFields are alternating electric fields of low intensity. This means that they change their direction repetitively many times a second. Since they change direction very rapidly (150 thousand times a second), they do not cause muscles to twitch, nor do they have any effects on other electrically activated tissues in the body (brain, nerves and heart). Since the intensities of TTFields in the body are very low, they do not cause heating.

The breakthrough finding made by Novocure was that alternating fields of very low intensity, now termed TTFields (Tumor Treating Fields), attenuate SARS-CoV-2 virus infection and replication. TTFields can be directed to a certain part of the body, leaving sensitive areas out of their reach.

In conclusion, TTFields hold the promise of serving as a brand new treatment for COVID-19 disease with very few side effects.