Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors (MK-3475-012/KEYNOTE-012)
This study is being done to investigate the safety, tolerability and anti-tumor activity of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in participants with advanced triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) (Cohort A), advanced head and neck cancer (Cohorts B and B2), advanced urothelial cancer (Cohort C), or advanced gastric cancer (Cohort D). Additionally, for Cohort D, data is presented for Asian Pacific (AP) participants. Only participants with programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expressing tumors were enrolled in Cohorts A, B, C and D. Participants in Cohort B2 were enrolled irrespective of PD-L1 status.

The primary study hypothesis is that pembrolizumab is safe and well-tolerated.
Cancer|Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events (AEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of study treatment, was also an AE. The number of participants who experienced at least one AE was presented for the first course pembrolizumab treatment per protocol., Serious AEs: Up to 90 days after last dose of treatment (Up to 28 months); nonserious AEs: Up to 30 days after last dose of treatment (Up to 26 months) - through final analysis (FA) cutoff date 26 Apr 2016 (Cohorts: A, B, B2, D) & 01 Sep 2015 (Cohort C)|Number of Participants Discontinuing From Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could be any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of study treatment, was also an AE. Some cases of clinical progression that led to discontinuation of study treatment were captured as AEs that led to discontinuation of study treatment. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE was presented for the first course pembrolizumab treatment per protocol., Up to last dose of study treatment (Up to approximately 25 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016 (Cohorts: A, B, B2, D) & 01 Sep 2015 (Cohort C)|Overall Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) Response Rate Based on Blinded Independent Central Radiology (BICR) Review (Cohorts A, B, C, and D), Overall Response Rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants who experienced a Complete Response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on BICR evaluation. The percentage of participants who experienced a CR or PR for Cohorts A, B, C and D participants was presented for the first course of pembrolizumab treatment per protocol. Cohorts A, B, C and D enrolled participants with programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) positive tumors., Every 8 weeks until disease progression (Cohorts A, B, D: Up to ~ 35 months; Cohort C: Up to ~ 28 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016 (Cohorts: A, B, D) & 01 Sep 2015 (Cohort C)|Overall RECIST 1.1 Response Rate Based on BICR Review for Participants in Cohort B2, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on BICR evaluation. The percentage of participants who experienced a CR or PR in Cohort B2 was presented for the first course of pembrolizumab treatment per protocol., Every 8 weeks until disease progression (Up to ~ 35 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016
Overall RECIST 1.1 Response Rate Based on BICR Review, Cohorts B and B2 Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Positive Participants, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on BICR evaluation. The percentage of participants who had tumors which were HPV positive and who experienced a CR or PR in the combined Cohorts B2 and B2 was presented for the first course of pembrolizumab treatment per protocol., Every 8 weeks until disease progression (Up to ~ 35 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016|Overall RECIST 1.1 Response Rate Based on BICR Review, Cohort D Asia-Pacific (AP) Participants, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on BICR evaluation. The percentage of participants who were from the Asia Pacific region and experienced a CR or PR in Cohort D was presented for the first course of pembrolizumab treatment per protocol., Every 8 weeks until disease progression (Up to ~ 35 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016|Overall RECIST 1.1 Response Rate Based on BICR Review, for Participants Previously Treated With Cetuximab and Platinum in Cohorts B and B2, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on BICR evaluation. The percentage of participants who were previously treated with cetuximab and platinum and experienced a CR or PR in the Cohorts B and B2 was presented for the first course of pembrolizumab treatment per protocol., Every 8 weeks until disease progression (Up to ~ 35 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016|Overall RECIST 1.1 Response Rate Based on Investigator Assessment for Cohorts A, B, C and D, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed by Investigator evaluation. The percentage of participants who experienced a CR or PR in Cohorts A, B, C and D based on investigator assessment was presented for the first course of pembrolizumab treatment per protocol. ORR per RECIST 1.1 based on investigator assessment was presented for Cohort B2 in a separate outcome measure., Every 8 weeks until disease progression (Cohorts A, B, D: Up to ~ 35 months; Cohort C: Up to ~ 28 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016 (Cohorts: A, B, D) & 01 Sep 2015 (Cohort C)|Overall RECIST 1.1 Response Rate Based on Investigator Assessment for Cohort B2, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed by Investigator evaluation. The percentage of participants who experienced a CR or PR in Cohort B2 based on investigator assessment was presented for the first course of pembrolizumab treatment per protocol. ORR per RECIST 1.1 based on investigator assessment was presented for the other cohorts in a separate outcome measure., Every 8 weeks until disease progression (Up to ~ 35 months) - through FA cutoff date 26 Apr 2016
Number of Participants With Log Fold Change From Baseline in Cytokines (Interleukin 10 [IL-10]) >1, IL-10 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine. The number of participants with a log fold change from Baseline in IL-10 \>1 was to be presented. Protocol Amendment 03 (26 May 2015) removed the secondary objective of investigating the relationship between programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibition and up-regulation of cytokines biomarkers predicting response (e.g. IL-10) from the protocol. No data were collected for this outcome measure., Baseline and Week 8
Eligible participants who completed the first course of up to 35 administrations of pembrolizumab (approximately up to 2 years) for reasons other than disease progression or intolerability, may be eligible for a second course of pembrolizumab for up to approximately 1 additional year at the investigator's discretion. Per protocol, response during this second course will not count towards the efficacy outcome measures and adverse events during this second course will not count towards the safety outcome measures.

Protocol Amendment 01 (08 Aug 2013) included a new study arm (Cohort D) for approximately 32 participants with advanced gastric cancer. Of these 32 participants, 16 will be from sites in the Asia Pacific (AP) region and the other 16 will be from sites outside the AP region.

Protocol Amendment 02 (07 Apr 2014) added a new study arm (Cohort B2) for approximately 110 participants with advanced head and neck cancer who will receive a lower dose of pembrolizumab every three weeks (Q3W). Both programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1)- positive and PD-L1-negative participants will be enrolled into this cohort.

Protocol Amendment 03 (26 May 2015) removed the secondary objective of investigating the relationship between programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibition and up-regulation of cytokines biomarkers predicting response (e.g. Interleukin-10 \[IL-10\]) from the protocol.

Participants who stopped study treatment without progression (e.g. completed 2 years) may have been eligible for up to 1 year of retreatment upon subsequently experiencing disease progression.

With Amendment 05 (11 Dec 2017), once study participants have achieved the study objective or the study has ended, participants will be discontinued from this study and enrolled in an extension study (KEYNOTE-587; NCT03486873) to continue protocol-defined assessments and treatment.