Oregovomab Plus Chemo in Newly Diagnosed Patients With Advanced Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Following Optimal Debulking Surgery
Study to compare the safety and efficacy of oregovomab versus placebo, administered in combination with specific cycles of a standard six-cycle chemotherapy regimen (paclitaxel and carboplatin), for the treatment of subjects with newly diagnosed advanced ovarian cancer who have undergone optimal debulking.
Carcinoma, Ovarian Epithelial|Ovarian Neoplasms|Ovarian Cancer|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Neoplasms|Fallopian Tube Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Peritoneal Cancer|Peritoneal Carcinoma|Peritoneal Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Oregovomab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo|DRUG: Carboplatin
Investigator Assessed Progression Free Survival, Date of randomization to radiographically-confirmed disease progression according to RECIST v1.1 as determined by the investigator or death, Date of randomization until date of first documented disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, at up to approximately 6 years.
Overall Survival, Date of randomization to the date of death, Date of randomization up until date of death from any cause, up to approximately 11 years|Safety and Tolerability, Incidence of adverse events (AEs) leading to discontinuation of treatment, frequency/severity of vital signs measurements, physical examination findings, and changes in clinical laboratory parameters, Date of randomization up until date of discontinuation of treatment, date of significant physical examination changes, date of significant clinical changes, up to approximately 6 years|Change in Quality of Life, 1. Change from baseline in the global health status/QOL scale score of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O TOI)
2. Three additional questions from the NFOSI-18 in each treatment group, Changes from baseline assessment, until date of discontinuation, or up to approximately 6 years
Efficacy by times to subsequent therapies and time to next progression, 1. Tumor response measurement by iRECIST
2. Time to First Subsequent Therapy (TFST), defined as tie form the date of randomization to first subsequent anti-cancer therapy or death
3. Time to Second Subsequent Therapy, defined as time from the date of randomization to second anti-cancer therapy start date or death
4. Progression Free Survival 2, defined from the date of randomization to the first documented progression on next-line therapy or death., Date of randomization, until date of subsequent therapy or death, or up to approximately 6 years|Potential Biomarkers, 1. Human Anti-Mouse Antibody (HAMA)
2. HAMA interference-free CA-125
3. Neutrophil + Monocyte to Lymphocyte Ratio (NMLR)
4. Phenotyping or immune subsets, including myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC)
5. Functional assessment of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells with a focus on measuring the number and frequency of INF-y-producing CD8+ T-cells using flow cytometry, Date of randomization, until date of discontinuation, or up to approximately 6 years
Phase 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center study to compare the safety and efficacy of four administrations of oregovomab 2 mg IV versus placebo, administered in combination with specific cycles of a standard six-cycle chemotherapy regimen (paclitaxel and carboplatin), for the treatment of subjects with newly diagnosed ovarian cancer who have undergone optimal debulking surgery and are either pending initiation of chemotherapy (Cohort 1 - Primary Surgery) or resumption of another three cycles of chemotherapy, having already completed three cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (Cohort 2 - NACT + Interval Surgery).

For Cohort 1 - Primary Surgery, approximately 372 subjects randomized in a 1:1 ratio (i.e., chemotherapy with oregovomab or chemotherapy with placebo). For Cohort 2 - NACT + Interval Surgery, approximately 230 subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio (i.e., chemotherapy with oregovomab or chemotherapy and placebo).