A Repeated Instruction by Telephone on the Day Before Colonoscopy to Patients Undergoing Colonoscopy
Cell phone retell the instruction of bowel preparation on the day before colonoscopy would help patient to prepare for colonoscopy and improve the quality of the bowel preparation.
Ottawa Score|Adenoma
OTHER: telephone education
Adequate bowel preparation quality at the time of colonoscopy defined by Ottawa score<6, Ottawa score：A)cleanliness of each part of the colon: 0=excellent 1=good 2=fair 3=poor 4=inadequate B)fluid in whole colon: small=0 moderate=1 large=2

The bowel preparation was considered inadequate if (1) inadequate visualization on colonoscopy defined by Ottawa score≥6; (2) the colonoscopy was cancelled because of poor bowel preparation or personal reasons; (3) incomplete colonoscopy., up to 3 months
Cecum intubation time, Total time of colonoscope intubation from anus to cecum, up to 3 months|Withdrawal time, Total time of colonoscope intubation from cecum to anus, up to 3 months|Polyp detection rate, The proportion of participants with at least one polyp in each group, up to 3 months|Compliance rate to instruction, The proportion of participants compliance to instruction of bowel preparation, up to 3 months|Willingness undergo a repeated bowel preparation, The number of patients have a willingness to undergo a repeated bowel preparation if needed, up to 3 months
Colonoscopy is the gold standard in the diagnosis of colorectal disease. The success of colonoscopy depends on high-quality bowel preparation by patients. Inadequate bowel cleansing reduces the speed, the cecal intubation rate, and the number of polyps detected. It also increases costs, mostly due to repeated procedures. The quality of bowel cleansing has remained suboptimal even though numerous different products and regimens have been tested and compared in no fewer than six meta-analyses. Therefore, a completely different approach to improve precolonoscopy bowel cleansing is welcome.

There are many factors effect the bowel preparation such as age, cirrhosis diabetes, drug compliance, cerebral infarction, dementia, history of major surgery. 20% of patients with poor bowel preparation were due to bad compliance. Studies found that addressing patient perceptions with an inexpensive and simple booklet based on the Health Belief Model improved preparation quality. We assume that doctor retelling the instruction of bowel preparation by cell phone on the day before colonoscopy would help patient to prepare for colonoscopy and improve the quality of the bowel preparation.