Ph II Study to Evaluate Olaparib With Abiraterone in Treating Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer.
This is a 2-part study in patients with metastatic CRPC. Part A is an open-label safety run-in study to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK) of olaparib when given in addition to abiraterone 1000 mg once daily. Part B is a randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled comparison of the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the dose of olaparib selected from Part A when given in addition to abiraterone, versus placebo given in addition to abiraterone. Abiraterone is indicated in combination with prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of patients with metastatic CRPC. Prednisone or prednisolone 5 mg twice daily (bid) will be administered with the abiraterone in this study.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Abiraterone|DRUG: Prednisone or prednisolone
Part A: Percentage of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events (AEs), The safety and tolerability of olaparib in combination with abiraterone was assessed during Part A of the study. The percentage of patients experiencing AEs, including information on seriousness, severity, study treatment relationship and those leading to discontinuation for all doses of olaparib and for abiraterone are presented.

Severity of AEs was assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse events (CTCAE) v4.0. AEs were assigned to a Grade from 1 through 5 as follows:

Grade 1: Mild; Grade 2: Moderate; Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening requiring hospitalisation; Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; Grade 5: Death related to AE.

'c-r' = causally related 'discont' = discontinuation., Cohort 1 and 2: From baseline in Part A (Day 1 for each cohort) up to 30 days following last dose of study treatment.|Part A: Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLTs were assessed by a Safety Review Committee (SRC) after a minimum of 3 patients had received at least 14 days of treatment in Part A.

A DLT was defined as any toxicity which was not a recognised AE of abiraterone or prednisolone, and was not attributable to the disease or disease-related processes under investigation, which occurred during a minimum period of 14 days treatment and which included: 1. haematological toxicity CTCAE v4.0 Grade 4 or higher present for more than 4 days (except anaemia); 2. non-haematological toxicity CTCAE v4.0 Grade 3 or higher including infection, corrected QT interval prolongation; 3. any other toxicity that was greater than that at baseline, was clinically significant and/or unacceptable, did not respond to supportive care, resulted in a disruption of dosing schedule of 7 days or more, or was judged to be a DLT by the SRC.

A DLT excluded alopecia and isolated laboratory changes of any grade without clinical sequelae or clinical significance., From Day 1 for Cohort 1 and from Day 4 for Cohort 2 up to 14 days treatment with olaparib + abiraterone for 3 patients.|Part B: Median Radiological Progression-Free Survival (rPFS) Time, The efficacy of olaparib when given in combination with abiraterone was assessed by rPFS, defined as the time from randomisation to disease progression using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1 (for soft tissue disease) and Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG-2) (for bone disease) criteria, or death.

Progression using RECIST 1.1 criteria was defined as at least 20% increase from baseline in the sum of diameters of target lesions, progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of at least 1 new lesion.

Progression using PCWG-2 criteria was determined if 2 or more new metastatic bone lesions were observed (with a total of at least 4 new lesions since baseline assessment if observed at the 12 week scan, or persistence of or increase in number of lesions if observed after the 12 week scan as determined by a confirmatory scan at least 6 weeks later or at next scheduled visit)., From baseline, every 12 weeks up to Week 72, then every 24 weeks up to 24 months.|Part B: Percentage of Patients With Progression Events or Death (rPFS), The efficacy of olaparib when given in combination with abiraterone was assessed by rPFS, defined as the time from randomisation to disease progression using RECIST version 1.1 (for soft tissue disease) and PCWG-2 (for bone disease) criteria, or death.

Progression using RECIST 1.1 criteria was defined as at least 20% increase from baseline in the sum of diameters of target lesions, progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of at least 1 new lesion.

Progression using PCWG-2 criteria was determined if 2 or more new metastatic bone lesions were observed (with a total of at least 4 new lesions since baseline assessment if observed at the 12 week scan, or persistence of or increase in number of lesions if observed after the 12 week scan as determined by a confirmatory scan at least 6 weeks later or at next scheduled visit).

The percentage of patients with progression events is presented overall and according to RECIST 1.1 and/or PCWG-2 criteria, or death., From baseline, every 12 weeks up to Week 72, then every 24 weeks up to 24 months.
Part A Pharmacokinetics (PK): Olaparib Maximum Plasma Concentration at Steady State (Cmax,ss), Following multiple dosing to steady state of olaparib 300 mg bid, the Cohort 2 olaparib Cmax,ss is presented for olaparib monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part A PK: Abiraterone Cmax,ss, Following multiple dosing to steady state of abiraterone 1000 mg once daily, the Cohort 2 abiraterone Cmax,ss is presented for abiraterone monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part A PK Analysis: Olaparib Time to Reach Maximum Plasma Concentration at Steady State (Tmax,ss), Following multiple dosing to steady state of olaparib 300 mg bid, the Cohort 2 olaparib tmax,ss is presented for olaparib monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part A PK: Abiraterone Tmax,ss, Following multiple dosing to steady state of abiraterone 1000 mg once daily, the Cohort 2 abiraterone tmax,ss is presented for abiraterone monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part A PK Analysis: Olaparib Minimum Plasma Concentration at Steady State (Cmin,ss), Following multiple dosing to steady state of olaparib 300 mg bid, the Cohort 2 olaparib Cmin,ss is presented for olaparib monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part A PK: Abiraterone Cmin,ss, Following multiple dosing to steady state of abiraterone 1000 mg once daily, the Cohort 2 abiraterone Cmin,ss is presented for abiraterone monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part A PK Analysis: Olaparib Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve at Steady State (AUCss), Following multiple dosing to steady state of olaparib 300 mg bid, the Cohort 2 olaparib AUCss is presented for olaparib monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part A PK: Abiraterone AUCss, Following multiple dosing to steady state of abiraterone 1000 mg once daily, the Cohort 2 abiraterone AUCss is presented for abiraterone monotherapy and for olaparib given in combination with abiraterone.

Only patients with data available for analysis at each time point are presented., PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 1 was between Days 3 and 7 for olaparib, and Days 4 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone. PK sampling for Cohort 2 Group 2 was between Days 5 and 7 for abiraterone, and Days 6 and 8 for olaparib and abiraterone.|Part B: Percentage of Patients Experiencing AEs, The safety and tolerability of olaparib when given in combination with abiraterone was assessed during Part B of the study. The percentage of patients experiencing AEs, including information on seriousness, severity, study treatment relationship and those leading to discontinuation for all doses of olaparib and for abiraterone are presented.

Severity of AEs was assessed using the NCI Common Terminology CTCAE v4.0. AEs were assigned to a Grade from 1 through 5 as follows:

Grade 1: Mild; Grade 2: Moderate; Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening requiring hospitalisation; Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; Grade 5: Death related to AE.

'c-r' = causally related. 'discont' = discontinuation. 'ola/pla' = olaparib/placebo., From first dose of study treatment following randomisation in Part B up to 30 days following last dose of study treatment (up to approximately 3 years).|Part B: Median Best Percentage Change From Baseline in Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Levels, The best percentage change from baseline in PSA levels was determined to assess the anti-tumour activity of olaparib when given in addition to abiraterone, compared with placebo given in addition to abiraterone.

The best percentage change was defined as the biggest reduction in PSA level compared with baseline or smallest increase in the absence of a decrease., From baseline, then every 4 weeks up to Week 52, and then every 12 weeks.|Part B: Percentage of Patients With PSA Responses, The percentages of patients with single visit responses and with confirmed responses are presented to assess the anti-tumour activity of olaparib when given in addition to abiraterone, compared with placebo given in addition to abiraterone.

A single visit response was defined as any post-dose visit PSA level reduced by 50% or more compared with baseline.

A confirmed response was defined as a reduction in PSA level of 50% or more on 2 consecutive occasions at least 4 weeks apart compared with baseline.

Patients may have had more than 1 single visit response or confirmed response but were counted once., From baseline, then every 4 weeks up to Week 24, and then every 12 weeks.|Part B: Median Best Percentage Change From Baseline in Circulating Tumour Cell (CTC) Level, The median best percentage change from baseline in CTC levels was determined to assess the anti-tumour activity of olaparib when given in combination with abiraterone, compared with placebo given in addition to abiraterone.

The best percentage change was defined as the biggest CTC level reduction compared with baseline or smallest increase in the absence of a decrease., From baseline, then every 4 weeks up to Week 24, and then every 12 weeks.|Part B: Percentage of Patients With at Least One Objective Response (Objective Response Rate [ORR]), The overall radiological ORR was calculated to assess the anti-tumour activity of olaparib in combination with abiraterone, compared with placebo in combination with abiraterone.

The best overall ORR was defined as the percentage of patients with at least 1 visit response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) in soft tissue disease assessed by RECIST 1.1 and also bone scan status of non-progressive disease or non-evaluable for their bone scans assessed by PCWG-2.

CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Reduction of pathological lymph nodes to \<10 millimetres.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions from baseline.

The percentage of patients with a response is presented., From baseline, then every 4 weeks up to Week 52, and then every 12 weeks.|Median Time to First Subsequent Therapy (TFST) and Median Time to Second Subsequent Therapy (TSST), The TFST and TSST were determined to assess the anti-tumour activity of olaparib when given in combination with abiraterone, compared with placebo given in addition to abiraterone.

TFST was defined as the time from randomisation to the earlier of first subsequent anti-cancer therapy start date following study treatment discontinuation, or death.

TSST was defined as the time from randomisation to the earlier of the second subsequent anti-cancer therapy start date following study treatment discontinuation, or death., From randomisation until analysis cut-off date (up to approximately 3 years).|Part B: Median Overall Survival (OS), OS was determined to assess the efficacy of olaparib when given in addition to abiraterone, compared with placebo given in addition to abiraterone.

OS was performed at the time of the analysis of rPFS, and the median OS, calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique, is presented., From baseline, every 12 weeks up to Week 72, then every 24 weeks up to 24 months.|Part B: Median Time to Second Progression or Death (PFS2), The efficacy of olaparib when given in combination with abiraterone was assessed by PFS2, defined by local standard clinical practice and included objective radiological progression by RECIST 1.1 (soft tissue), symptomatic progression, rise in PSA level or death in the absence of overall progression., From randomisation until analysis cut-off date (up to approximately 3 years).
This is a 2-part study in patients with metastatic CRPC. Part A is an open-label safety run-in study to assess the safety, tolerability and PK of olaparib when given in addition to abiraterone 1000 mg once daily. Part B is a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled comparison of the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the dose of olaparib selected from Part A when given in addition to abiraterone, versus placebo in addition to abiraterone.

Abiraterone is indicated in combination with prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of patients with metastatic CRPC. Prednisone or prednisolone 5 mg bid will be administered with the abiraterone in this study, but throughout this protocol the treatment will be referred to simply as abiraterone.

For Part A of the study, 15 to 18 evaluable patients (Cohorts 1 and 2) are planned to be enrolled from approximately 4 sites in approximately 1 or 2 countries, and a further 12 patients may be recruited into a 3rd cohort if necessary.

For Part B of the study, approximately 140 patients who have received prior chemotherapy containing docetaxel will be randomised from approximately 40 sites in North America and Europe. Patients who have been dosed in Part A of the study may not participate in Part B.