A Phase 2 Trial of Ivonescimab for Patients With Advanced, Metastatic Salivary Gland Cancers
The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Ivonescimab in participants with advanced, metastatic salivary gland cancers.

The name of the study drug involved in this study is:

-Ivonescimab (a type of antibody)
Salivary Gland Cancer|Advanced Salivary Gland Carcinoma|Metastatic Salivary Gland Cancer|Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma
DRUG: Ivonescimab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST v1.1 criteria., Up to 2 years
Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS) based on Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from registration to the earlier of first progression, or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation., Up to 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) based on Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause or censored at date last known alive., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response (DOR), The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, or death due to any cause. Participants without events reported are censored at the last disease evaluation)., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response [Cohort 1], The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, or death due to any cause. Participants without events reported are censored at the last disease evaluation)., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response [Cohort 2], The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, or death due to any cause. Participants without events reported are censored at the last disease evaluation)., Up to 2 years|To evaluate safety and toxicity (CTCAE v5.0), Adverse events will be collected from the time of the first dose of study treatment, through the study and within 90 days of the last study intervention. Adverse events will be classified and graded according to the CTCAE v.5.0. Frequencies and/or rates of adverse events will be summarized among patients who begin protocol therapy., Up to 2 years
This is phase 2, open-label, non-randomized study is to investigate Ivonescimab in participants with incurable, recurrent or metastatic salivary gland carcinomas (SGC). Ivonescimab is expected to treat salivary gland cancer by blocking or slowing cancer cell growth

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Ivonescimab as a treatment for advanced, metastatic salivary gland cancer but it has been used as treatment for lung cancer.

The study procedures include screening for eligibility, in-clinic visits, X-rays, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, or Positron Emission (PET) scans Computerized, blood tests, urine tests, and tumor biopsies.

Participants will be in this study for approximately 3 years including follow-up after active study treatment.

It is expected that about 35 people will take part in this research study.

Summit Therapeutics, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing funding for the research and the study drug.