Digital Training Module for Sustainable Education of Pediatric Oncology Nurses
Pediatric oncology nurses are healthcare professionals who constantly communicate with children and their families for 24 hours, and take professional roles and responsibilities in areas such as care planning, a continuation of treatment, and symptom management.However, there is no standard undergraduate education program accepted worldwide in the field of pediatric oncology nursing. For example, undergraduate nursing education in Türkiye is carried out in line with the Nursing National Core Education Program (NNCEP), and information about pediatric oncology nursing is included in the curriculum of specific courses in undergraduate programs. In addition, nurses graduate without specializing in any field in our country. Therefore, the education of pediatric oncology nurses and the continuity of education is an essential problem in developing and low-middle-income countries like our country. This prospective study in randomized controlled pre-test-post-test design aimed to develop an online website consisting of information and support modules for the care of children with cancer for sustainable pediatric oncology nursing education in Türkiye.
Pediatric Cancer
OTHER: Digital training module
Pediatric Oncology Nurses' Educational Needs Scale, The scale consists of five sub-dimensions: disease, chemotherapy, and its side effects, other treatments and their side effects, palliative care, and supportive care. From the scale, a minimum of 42 points and a maximum of 210 points can be obtained. The increase in the total score of the scale and the mean score of the sub-dimensions indicate that the education needs of the nurses regarding that sub-dimension have increased., It will be applied to nurses in the experimental and control groups before (1 week before) and after (immediately after and 6 months later) the intervention.|Knowledge Levels of Pediatric Oncology Nurses on Childhood Cancers and Care, To evaluate the knowledge levels of pediatric oncology nurses on childhood cancers and care, test questions will be created by the digital education modules., It will be applied to nurses in the experimental and control groups before (1 week before) and after (immediately after and 6 months later) the intervention.|Ateşman Readability Index, To determine the readability level of the digital training booklet, the Ateşman Readability Index will be used., The data collection process will begin one day after the digital booklet is created.
In developed countries, there are various programs for pediatric oncology nurses to improve the quality of nursing care. Unfortunately, the inadequacy of these education programs in developing countries may prevent childhood cancer patients from receiving advanced care but may cause health inequalities. For this reason, it is very important to strengthen pediatric oncology nurses in terms of education and to develop platforms that will provide education continuity in low and middle-income countries. Today, one of the methods used to ensure the continuity and easy accessibility of education is digital education programs. Web-based education programs can increase nurses' knowledge and competence in related care issues. In studies, nurses state that planned educations were beneficial and increased their knowledge level. An accessible and sustainable web-based standard education program will enable nurses to become more competent in pediatric oncology and increase the quality of care. In Türkiye, which is a middle-income country, there is no standard curriculum for pediatric oncology nurses. Although pediatric oncology nursing is partially included in the oncology nursing certification program by the Oncology Nursing Association, we could say that it is insufficient to meet nurses' sustainability and educational needs. Therefore, there is a need for a digital website consisting of information and support modules to care for children with cancers for sustainable pediatric oncology nursing education in Türkiye.