Adjuvant Durvalumab Plus Regorafenib vs Untreated Control in Stage IV Colorectal Cancer Patients With no Evidence of Disease (NED): VIVA Trial
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of Durvalumab plus Regorafenib versus observation for patients with stage IV colorectal cancer achieving the no evidence of disease state.

The NED state can be achieved in any line of treatment and it is defined as:

1. R0 resection for surgery,
2. the complete ablation defect covering the lesion on CT scan for radiofrequency,
3. the erogation of ≥ 60 Gy for stereotactic radiotherapy,
4. complete response to antineoplastic treatments on CT scan. In all these cases CEA and CA 19.9 must be within normal limits at the time of randomization.

Participants in this study will receive:

Experimental arm:

Regorafenib 90 mg d1-21 every 28 days plus Durvalumab 1500 mg every 28 days for 1 year

Control arm:

Observation (crossover to Experimental arm is allowed in case of relapse)

Tumor assessment will be performed every 12 weeks.
Colorectal Cancer Stage IV|No Evidence of Disease State
DRUG: Durvalumab Injection for intravenous use 500 mg vial solution for infusion|DRUG: Regorafenib 30 mg capsules
Disease Free Survival, Disease free survival, defined as the time from the date of randomization to the earliest documented disease relapse (local or distant), death due to any cause or two consecutive increases of CEA above upper limit (time gap no longer than 30 days)., approximately 48 months
18 months - Disease Free Survival, Disease free survival, defined as the time from the date of randomization to the earliest documented disease relapse (local or distant), death due to any cause or two consecutive increases of CEA above upper limit (time gap no longer than 30 days)., approximately 48 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival, defined as the time from the date of randomization to death due to any cause, approximately 48 months|Incidence of adverse events, An adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship.

Toxicity/adverse events are classified according to NCI CTCAE version 5.0., approximately 48 months
The safety run-in phase is planned for the first 4 patients randomized to the experimental arm using a starting dose of 60 mg/die of Regorafenib (and fixed 1500 mg of Durvalumab), to be escalated after 2 months to 90 mg/die if \< 2 patients report serious adverse events.