Nimotuzumab Combined With Radiotherapy in High-risk Patients With HNSCC Not Suitable for Cisplatin After Surgery
This study is a prospective, open label, multicenter, randomized controlled clinical trial. The main purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of nimotuzumab combined with concurrent radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone in high-risk patients with HNSCC not suitable for cisplatin after surgery. The subjects were randomly divided into study group (nimotuzumab combined with concurrent radiotherapy) and control group (radiotherapy alone) by 1∶1 stratified random method.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Nimotuzumab
Disease free survival (DFS), 2 year
Overall survival (OS), 2 year|Local area recurrence free survival (LRRFS), 2 year|Distant metastasis free survival (DMFS), 2 year|Quality of life assessed by EORTC QLQ-H&N35, Quality of life assessed by EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 \[EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 is a specific quality of life assessment scale based on EORTC QLQ-C 30, with 35 items. All of the scales and single-item measures range from 0 to 100. A high score represents a higher response level.\], 2 year|Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, Including the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events\[Safety and Tolerability\]. Adverse events should be reported and graded according to CTCAE version 5.0., 2 year
The change of tumor related markers, The correlation of the value of EGFR, SCC-Ag, CEA and therapeutic effect \[The changes of serum tumor markers (such as SCC-Ag and CEA were observed before and after treatment. The baseline EGFR levels on the prognosis of patients should also be explored\], 2 year
This study is a prospective, open label, multicenter, randomized controlled clinical trial. The main purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of nimotuzumab combined with concurrent radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone in high-risk patients with HNSCC not suitable for cisplatin after surgery. The subjects were randomly divided into study group and control group by 1∶1 stratified random method. The study group received nimotuzumab (200mg, weekly, for 6 weeks) combined with concurrent radiotherapy, while the control group received radiotherapy alone. The main endpoint is 2 year disease free survival (DFS) rate.