Prognostic Factor Analysis in Metastatic Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is considerably more prevalent in East Asia. Despite of relatively high prevalence of esophageal SCC, prognosis is very poor with limited options of effective chemotherapy regimens. We attempted to identify favorable subgroups of patient who are likely to benefit from 5- fluorouracil/cisplatin(FP) or capecitabine/cisplatin (XP) chemotherapy as first-line treatment.Between January 2000 to December 2010, 239 patients were diagnosed of recurrent, metastatic esophageal SCC and received either FP or XP as first-line chemotherapy. Clinicopathologic variables and treatment outcome were retrospectively collected. we analysis treatment outcome of palliative chemotherapy in metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and make prognostic scoring system. The present study represents the largest series to analyze the treatment outcome of FP/XP chemotherapy in metastatic SCC. Risk-adapted stratification of treatment for subgroup of metastatic SCC patients should be actively pursued.
Metastatic Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Overall Survival, 12 month
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is considerably more prevalent in East Asia. Despite of relatively high prevalence of esophageal SCC, prognosis is very poor with limited options of effective chemotherapy regimens. We attempted to identify favorable subgroups of patient who are likely to benefit from 5- fluorouracil/cisplatin(FP) or capecitabine/cisplatin (XP) chemotherapy as first-line treatment.Between January 2000 to December 2010, 239 patients were diagnosed of recurrent, metastatic esophageal SCC and received either FP or XP as first-line chemotherapy. Clinicopathologic variables and treatment outcome were retrospectively collected. we analysis treatment outcome of palliative chemotherapy in metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and make prognostic scoring system. The present study represents the largest series to analyze the treatment outcome of FP/XP chemotherapy in metastatic SCC. Risk-adapted stratification of treatment for subgroup of metastatic SCC patients should be actively pursued.