e-CHEC-uP: Scaling up an Efficacious Cancer Screening Intervention for Women With Limited English
This research is being done to learn more about whether or not Korean American women will improve the screening practices for breast and cervical cancer if subjects receive education and follow-up from community health workers. The education materials may be given via online or in-person. Primary Hypothesis: e-CHEC-uP will be as efficacious as the original CHEC-uP in promoting mammogram and Pap test screening among Korean immigrant women (KIW) at 6 months.

Objectives: (1) To develop a web-based platform of the health literacy education component of the original CHEC-uP intervention; (2) To evaluate the acceptability and usability of the web version of the health literacy education in a user testing sample of 10 KIW; and (3) To conduct a pilot study to test the preliminary efficacy of the web version of CHEC-uP (e-CHEC-uP) in 40 KIW.
Breast Cancer|Cervical Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: e-CHEC-uP|BEHAVIORAL: CHEC-uP
Age-appropriate mammogram screening test, Patient medical records will be reviewed to confirm the receipt of mammogram and whether the age at which it was received is "appropriate". According to the American Cancer Society (ACS), Mammograms received from ages 40 to 54 years (annual screening) and from ages 55 years onward (biennial screening) will be deemed appropriate. It is optional to continue annual screening after age 54 years based on a woman's choice.

The investigators will compare the proportion of women in each group (e-CHEC-uP intervention vs. CHEC-uP) who completed mammogram at 6 months., 6 months|Age-appropriate Pap screening test, Patient medical records will be reviewed to confirm the receipt of Pap test and whether the age at which it was received is "appropriate". According to the American Cancer Society (ACS), Pap tests received from ages 21 to 65 years once every 3 years will be deemed appropriate.

The investigators will compare the proportion of women in each group (e-CHEC-uP intervention vs. CHEC-uP) who completed Pap test at 6 months., 6 months
Health Literacy as assessed by a 49-item instrument, Scoring of the health literacy instrument is in such a way that each correct response will be coded as 1 whereas incorrect response will be coded as 0. Total scores can range from 0 to 49 with higher scores indicating higher health literacy., 6 months|Breast Cancer knowledge as assessed by a 25-item instrument, Scoring of the breast cancer knowledge instrument is in such a way that each correct response will be coded as 1 whereas incorrect response will be coded as 0. Total scores for breast cancer knowledge will range from 0 to 25. Higher scores indicate higher breast cancer knowledge., 6 months|Cervical Cancer knowledge as assessed by 10-item instrument, Scoring of the cervical cancer knowledge instrument is in such a way that each correct response will be coded as 1 whereas incorrect response will be coded as 0. Total scores for cervical cancer knowledge will range from 0 to 10. Higher scores indicate higher cervical cancer knowledge., 6 months|Cancer screening-related self-efficacy as assessed by 8-item scale, Scoring of the cancer screening-related self-efficacy is to assess one's belief about ability to get cancer screening. The 8-item scale (developed by the study team) scoring ranges from "not at all confident" coded as 1 to "very confident" coded as 4 for each item. Total scores will range from 8 to 32 with higher scores indicating higher self-efficacy., 6 months
e-CHEC-uP stands for e-Community based breast and cervical cancer control education program.