Tegavivint for the Treatment of Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors, Including Lymphomas and Desmoid Tumors
This phase I/II trial evaluates the highest safe dose, side effects, and possible benefits of tegavivint in treating patients with solid tumors that has come back (recurrent) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Tegavivint interferes with the binding of beta-catenin to TBL1, which may help stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the signals passed from one molecule to another inside a cell that tell a cell to grow.
Colorectal Carcinoma|Endometrial Carcinoma|Melanoma|Neuroblastoma|Ovarian Carcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Desmoid Fibromatosis|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma|Recurrent Hepatoblastoma|Recurrent Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Refractory Desmoid Fibromatosis|Refractory Ewing Sarcoma|Refractory Hepatoblastoma|Refractory Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Osteosarcoma|Solid Pseudopapillary Neoplasm of the Pancreas|Wilms Tumor
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Dual X-ray Absorptiometry|DRUG: Tegavivint|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Frequency of dose limiting toxicities of tegavivint, The number of patients experiencing a cycle 1 dose limiting toxicity at least possibly attributable to tegavivint by study part and dose level., Up to 28 days|Frequency of adverse events attributable to tegavivint, The number of patients experiencing adverse events that are at least possibly attributable to tegavivint by study part and dose level., Up to 60 months|Area under the drug concentration curve of tegavivint, The median (minimum \[min\], maximum \[max\]) of the area under the drug concentration curve for tegavivint by study part and dose level., Up to 2 days
Antitumor effects of tegavivint in patients with solid tumors, Number of solid tumor patients with at least partial response to tegavivint at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) stratified by study part and disease cohort., Up to 336 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of tegavivint administered as an intravenous (IV) infusion over 4 hours, once weekly for 3 weeks, followed by a 1 week rest, in a 28-day cycle to pediatric patients with recurrent/refractory solid tumors, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma and desmoid tumors. (Phase 1 Dose Escalation) II. To preliminarily define antitumor activity of tegavivint in pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory Ewing sarcoma, liver tumors (hepatocellular carcinoma \[HCC\] and hepatoblastoma), osteosarcoma, Wilms tumor, desmoid tumors, and tumors with Wnt pathway aberrations. (Phase 2) III. To define and describe the toxicities of tegavivint administered on this schedule. (Phase I) IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of tegavivint in pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory cancer. (Phase I)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of tegavivint for pediatric patients with recurrent/refractory solid tumors, including lymphoma and desmoid tumors within the confines of a Phase 1 study.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test whether baseline activity of the WNT/beta catenin pathway correlates with clinical response using archived tumor tissue.

II. To characterize pharmacodynamic changes in tumor tissue to examine target engagement by tegavivint.

III. To characterize pharmacodynamic activity of tegavivint on serum protein biomarkers.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive tegavivint IV over 4 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 cycles or 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo an x-ray at baseline, after cycle 1, and then every 3 cycles while on treatment and a dual x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan at baseline, every 6 cycles while on treatment, at months 12 and 24, and then annually up to 60 months following end of therapy. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months, every 6 months for 24 months, and then annually for 60 months.