Cd133+ Cell Infusion in Patients With Colorectal Liver Metastases.
Treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma is surgical resection. Only 10-15% of the patients will be candidates for curative resection. After response to chemotherapy this figure rises 10-13% more. To perform the surgery it is necessary to have a sufficient remnant liver volume (RLV), which allows maintaining optimal liver function after resection. If the estimated RLV is insufficient preoperatively, portal venous embolization site (PVE) is performed for compensatory hypertrophy, thus increasing the number of resections 19%. Still, in 20% of these patients surgery can not be performed because RLV is not achieved or because the disease progresses while waiting for growth. Therefore, it is necessary to improve liver regeneration without promoting tumor growth. Studies on liver regeneration, have determined that cells (CD133 +) are involved in the liver hypertrophy that occurs after hepatectomy. CD133 + have been used to induce liver hypertrophy with encouraging results. This population of CD133 +, can be selected from peripheral blood after stimulation with Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), being able to obtain a large number of them. The investigators propose to treat patients who do not meet criteria for surgery because of insufficient volume \<40%, with CD133 + and portal embolization in order to carry out a surgical resection in a second place.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: CD133+ infusion|OTHER: portal vein embolization
Liver volume, Liver volume estimated by computed tomography, once residual liver volume reach >40%, an average of 5 weeks.
Liver volume, Liver volume estimated by computed tomography, Post-surgery follow-up visits the first 30 days|Liver volume, Liver volume estimated by computed tomography, Post-surgery follow-up visits the first 90 days|Liver volume, Liver volume estimated by computed tomography, Post-surgery follow-up visits the first 180 days|Liver volume, Liver volume estimated by computed tomography, Post-surgery follow-up visits the first 12 months|Liver volume, Liver volume estimated by computed tomography, Post-surgery follow-up visits the first 18 months|Liver volume, Liver volume estimated by computed tomography, Post-surgery follow-up visits the first 24 months
Treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma is surgical resection. Only 10-15% of the patients will be candidates for curative resection. After response to chemotherapy this figure rises 10-13% more. To perform the surgery it is necessary to have a sufficient remnant liver volume (RLV), which allows maintaining optimal liver function after resection. If the estimated RLV is insufficient preoperatively, portal venous embolization site (PVE) is performed for compensatory hypertrophy, thus increasing the number of resections 19%. Still, in 20% of these patients surgery can not be performed because RLV is not achieved or because the disease progresses while waiting for growth. Therefore, it is necessary to improve liver regeneration without promoting tumor growth. Studies on liver regeneration, have determined that cells (CD133 +) are involved in the liver hypertrophy that occurs after hepatectomy. CD133 + have been used to induce liver hypertrophy with encouraging results. This population of CD133 +, can be selected from peripheral blood after stimulation with Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), being able to obtain a large number of them. The investigators propose to treat patients who do not meet criteria for surgery because of insufficient volume \<40%, with CD133 + and portal embolization in order to carry out a surgical resection in a second place.