Mechanisms of Immunosurveillance for Lung Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to investigate the differences in "natural killer (NK) blood cells, a type of white blood cell that fights infection in the body, among different types of patients that have lung surgery. The four different groups of patients are:

* smokers with lung cancer
* smokers without lung cancer
* non-smokers with lung cancer
* non-smokers without lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
OTHER: blood draw
Number of NK cells, The first outcome measure is the determination of the number of NK cells as a percentage of all CD45+cells., Within 5 minutes of blood arrival to lab, processing begins and blood is frozen. Flow cytometry will be completed 1 to 3 months after blood is frozen. Data presentation in 1 to 2 years.
Expression of CD11b, Expression of CD11b determined by flow cytometry as compared to control (nonsmoker/no cancer cohort. Flow cytometry will be used to analyze NK-specific markers in the blood samples to determine NK cell abundance and phenotypic expression. The NS/NC cohort will serve as the control for measuring CD11b expression., Within 5 minutes of blood arrival to the lab, processing begins and blood is frozen. Flow cytometry will be completed 1 to 3 months after blood is frozen. Data presentation in 1 to 2 years.
Research has shown that different strains of mice possess varying susceptibility to lung cancer. C3H and C57BL6 mice are highly resistant to lung cancer, whereas A/J and 129 mice are very susceptible to lung cancer. Data from our lab shows that the mice have different numbers of natural killer (NK) cells as well as different characteristics of those cells. C3H and C57BL6 mice have higher numbers of NK cells as well as higher expression of CD11b, whereas A/J and 129 mice have lower numbers and lower expression.

These findings justify parallel investigation of NK cells in human populations resistant and susceptible to lung cancer. Through blood samples, circulating NK cells can be counted and phenotypically analyzed. Smoking can be used as a factor to establish lung cancer risk. Additionally, non-smokers suffering from lung cancer provide an opportunity to investigate whether lung cancer patients have lower abundance of NK cells and lesser expression of CD11b, independent of the effects of smoking.

Objective:

The main goal of this study is to investigate the quantitative and phenotypic differences in circulating NK cells among human populations. Participants will be classified as heavy smokers (HS), non-smokers (NS), those suffering from lung cancer (LC), and those free from lung cancer (NC).

Hypothesis #1: NS/LC participants will have fewer NK cells and lower expression of CD11b compared to HS/NC and NS/NC participants.

Hypothesis #2: NS/LC participants will have more numerous NK cells and higher expression of CD11b compared to HS/LC participants.