Pioglitazone in Thyroid Cancers
Through this trial the investigators hope to learn if a drug, Actos (pioglitazone), is useful in treating a certain kind of metastatic thyroid cancer. Actos is approved by the FDA to treat diabetes. It has not been approved by the FDA to treat cancer, so its use in this study is considered experimental.
Thyroid Cancers That Contain the PAX8-PPARgamma Fusion Gene
DRUG: Pioglitazone
Tumor Response (Change), Response is measured by change in Tumor size (cm), Baseline and 24 weeks
Change in Serum Thyroglobulin, Determine if pioglitazone decreases serum thyroglobulin in patients with follicular-patterned thyroid carcinomas that contain the PAX8-PPARgamma fusion gene., Baseline and 24 weeks|Toxicity, Toxicities experienced by patients with PAX8-PPARgamma fusion gene-positive follicular-patterned thyroid carcinomas treated with pioglitazone are indicated by presence of Serious Adverse Events (that show relatedness)., 24 weeks
Biomarkers, Define predictive markers of response or insensitivity to pioglitazone. Unstained tumor tissue slides from archival paraffin blocks, fresh biopsy specimens from measurable metastases, and blood samples (serum and peripheral blood cells) will be collected on enrolled patients who consented for the optional correlative studies. These will be used to identify factors that predict efficacy of pioglitazone. Analyses may include measures of expression of specific RNAs and proteins, and DNA sequence analysis., 24 weeks|Sensitization to Radioiodine Therapy, Determine if pioglitazone induces a clinically significant level of radioiodine uptake in the residual thyroid carcinoma, and if so, whether there is a therapeutic response to radioiodine. This will be addressed in a separate follow-up protocol available to subjects completing this study., 24 weeks|Lipid Accumulation in Tumor, Determine (by MRI) if pioglitazone induces lipid accumulation in follicular-patterned thyroid carcinomas that contain the PAX8-PPARgamma fusion gene., 24 weeks
Through this trial the investigators hope to learn if a drug, Actos (pioglitazone), is useful in treating a certain kind of metastatic thyroid cancer. Actos is approved by the FDA to treat diabetes. It has not been approved by the FDA to treat cancer, so its use in this study is considered experimental.