Itacitinib Pre-modulation in DLBCL Receiving CAR T Cell Therapy
The purpose of the study is to assess the safety and efficacy of once daily itacitinib oral administration in participants with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who will receive CAR-T cell therapy with axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi-cel).
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Itacitinib|BIOLOGICAL: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival is defined as the time from start of treatment to the time of disease progression or death. Among patients treated with axi-cel who have a ferritin \>400 ng/ml and CRP\>2 mg/dl at the time of apheresis, the 6 month PFS was 25%. The primary endpoint of this study will be met if pre-modulation with itacitinib followed by axi-cel leads to a 6 month PFS of 45% or higher., at 6 months
Incidence of Severe Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS), Number of participants who experience severe (grade 3 or higher by ASTCT criteria) CRS in the first 30 days after CAR-T infusion., Up to 3 months|Incidence of Severe Immune efflector cell Associated Neurotoxicity Syndrome (ICANS), Number of participants who experience severe (grade 3 or higher by ASTCT criteria) ICANS in the first 30 days after CAR-T infusion per CTCAE 5.0., Up to 3 months|Overall Response Rate, Overall Response Rate is defined as the rate of the best overall response as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by Lugano Response Criteria. Lugano Criteria are based on PET or bidimensional tumor measurements on computerized tomography (CT)., at 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) will be measured from the initial date of treatment to the recorded date of death., up to 27months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival is defined as the time from start of treatment to the time of disease progression or death. Among patients treated with axi-cel who have a ferritin \>400 ng/ml and CRP\>2 mg/dl at the time of apheresis, the 6 month PFS was 25%. The primary endpoint of this study will be met if pre-modulation with itacitinib followed by axi-cel leads to a 6 month PFS of 45% or higher., up to 27 months
This is a phase 2, single-arm, open-label study to assess the safety and efficacy of once daily itacitinib oral administration in patients with diffuse large B-Cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who will receive CAR-T-cell therapy with axicabtagene ciloleucel (Axi-cel) and have been found to have high levels of systemic inflammation. Approximately n=27 adult males and females, 18 years or older, who will receive treatment for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) at the Moffitt Cancer Center with a ferritin level greater than 400 ng/ml and C-reactive protein (CRP) level greater than 2 mg/dl (20 mg/l) at screening will be enrolled. Study regimen will consist of itacitinib 200 mg PO QD beginning at time of apheresis approximately 4-6 weeks prior to CAR-T-cell therapy and will continue until Day 30 (30 Days Post-CAR-T-cell therapy). The exact number of days between apheresis and CAR T cell infusion may vary based on CAR T cell manufacturing turnaround. A single infusion of axi-cel therapy will be administered on Day 0. Investigators hypothesize that pre-modulation with itacitinib started approximately 4 weeks prior to CAR-T-cell therapy with axi-cel will improve patient outcomes in those patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who express high levels of systemic inflammation.