Phase 1 Study of ACR-2316 in Specific Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a first in-human, Open-label Phase 1 study to assess the safety of ACR-2316 for the treatment of subjects with specific, histologically confirmed, locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic solid tumors.
Specific Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: ACR-2316
Dose Escalation, To determine the MTD of ACR-2316 based on the number of DLTs. Isotonic regression will be conducted to determine MTD, DLTs will be evaluated from first dose of ACR-2316 to day 21 for each subject in each dose level.|Dose Expansion, To determine the RP2D of ACR-2316., The RP2D will be evaluated by the incidence of DLT events per dose level through study completion, an average of 1 year.
Dose Escalation, To assess the safety and tolerability of ACR-2316. Safety will be assessed by the incidence of AEs characterized overall and by type, incidence, severity graded according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, seriousness, and relationship to study treatment., This will be evaluated through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: maximum plasma drug concentration (Cmax)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: minimum plasma drug concentration (Cmin)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: time to maximum plasma drug concentration (tmax)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: time of last quantifiable plasma drug concentration (tlast)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: plasma drug concentration at 24 hours post-dose (C24)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: apparent volume of distribution (Vz/F)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: terminal elimination half-life (t½)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Escalation, To assess Pharmacokinetics: apparent oral clearance (CL/F)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess the safety and tolerability of ACR-2316.Safety will be assessed by the incidence of AEs characterized overall and by type, incidence, severity graded according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, seriousness, and relationship to study treatment, number of dose decreases, number of dose delays, Serious Adverse Events., This will be evaluated through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: maximum plasma drug concentration (Cmax)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: minimum plasma drug concentration (Cmin)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: time to maximum plasma drug concentration (tmax)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: time of last quantifiable plasma drug concentration (tlast)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: plasma drug concentration at 24 hours post-dose (C24)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: apparent volume of distribution (Vz/F)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: terminal elimination half-life (t½)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.|Dose Expansion, To assess Pharmacokinetics: apparent oral clearance (CL/F)., Pharmacokinetic (PK) testing in Cycle 1, 2 & 3 (each cycle is 21 days). Predose and multiple time points after dose up to Cycle 3.
The Phase 1 monotherapy clinical trial for ACR-2316 is designed to assess the safety and tolerability of ACR-2316. Additional objectives include the determination of the maximal tolerated dose and recommended Phase 2 monotherapy dose, characterization of the pharmacokinetic profile, and preliminary evaluation of anti-tumor activity.