Obinutuzumab and Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Stage II-IV Grade 1-3a Follicular Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well obinutuzumab and lenalidomide work in treating patients with previously untreated stage II-IV grade 1-3a follicular lymphoma. Immunotherapy with obinutuzumab, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving obinutuzumab and lenalidomide may work better in treating patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma.
Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Bulky Disease|Fatigue|Fever|Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Night Sweats|Splenomegaly|Weight Loss
DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab
Progression Free Survival, Will be calculated and corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) will be derived., approximately 71 months
Complete Response, The number and percentage of subjects will be tabulated., 24 months|Overall Response Rate (CR + Partial Response [PR]), The number and percentage of subjects will be tabulated., 24 months|Duration of Response, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% CI., From the time by which measurement criteria for CR or PR, whichever is recorded first, is met until death or the first date by which progressive disease is documented, assessed up to 3 years|Event Free Survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% CI., From the date of course 1, day 1 to the date of first documented progression, transformation to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, initiation of new anti-lymphoma treatment, or death, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves, median, and 95% CI., From the date of course 1, day 1 to the date of death regardless of cause, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of obinutuzumab combined with lenalidomide in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma (FL) (determined by progression-free survival \[PFS\] at 2 years).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of obinutuzumab in combination with lenalidomide in patients with untreated follicular lymphoma.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of obinutuzumab in combination with lenalidomide in subjects with follicular lymphoma as assessed by complete remission (CR) at 30 months, overall response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR), event free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate prognostic and predictive biomarkers relative to treatment outcomes.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) over 4-6 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 of course 1 and day 1 of courses 2-6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, and 30. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 30 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with CR or complete remission unconfirmed (CRu) may receive up to an additional 12 courses of lenalidomide.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 18 months and then every year for up to 2 years.