A Study of RO7123520 to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy in Participants With Moderately To Severely Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Who Are Inadequately Responding to Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF)-Alpha Therapy
This is a Phase IIa/b double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel group, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of RO7123520 as adjunctive therapy in participants with RA who are inadequately responding to standard-of-care (methotrexate and anti-TNF-alpha therapy). Part 1 of the study will evaluate safety. Part 2 will evaluate efficacy and safety. Part 3 will evaluate dose-ranging efficacy. Participants will have the option of continuing to the extension period of the study.
Rheumatoid Arthritis
DRUG: Anti-TNF-alpha|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: RO7123520
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Baseline to last participant last visit (approximately 2 years)|Proportion of Participants Achieving an American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 50 Response at Week 12, The ACR50 is a composite measure defined as both improvement of 50% in the number of tender and number of swollen joints, and a 50% improvement in three of the following five criteria: patient global assessment, physician global assessment, functional ability measure \[most often Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ)\], visual analog pain scale, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein (CRP). The ACR is reported as percent improvement at discrete time points., Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Drug Antibodies, Baseline|Change From Baseline in Bone Mineral Density Lumbar Spine L1-L4 as Assessed by Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) Scans, Baseline, Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)
Change From Baseline in Clinical Disease Activity Index (CDAI) Score at Week 12, The CDAI for Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) assesses the severity of the disease using clinical data. It consists of the Patient Global disease Activity (PGA) estimate and the Evaluator Global disease Activity (EGA) estimate, each of which represent assessments of disease activity on a scale of 1-10, with 10 being maximum activity., Baseline, Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Change From Baseline in Disease Activity Score 28 (DAS28) at Week 12, The DAS28 is a combined index for measuring disease activity in RA; the "28" refers to the number of joints included in the assessment. The index includes swollen and tender joint counts, acute phase response, and general arthritis disease activity status. An overall disease activity score of 5.1 or greater implies active disease, less than 3.2 implies low disease activity, and less that 2.6 implies disease remission., Baseline, Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Percentage of Participants Achieving DAS28 Remission at Week 12, The DAS28 is a combined index for measuring disease activity in RA; the "28" refers to the number of joints included in the assessment. The index includes swollen and tender joint counts, acute phase response, and general arthritis disease activity status. An overall disease activity score of 5.1 or greater implies active disease, less than 3.2 implies low disease activity, and less that 2.6 implies disease remission., Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Percentage of Participants Achieving CDAI Remission at Week 12, The CDAI for Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) assesses the severity of the disease using clinical data. It consists of the Patient Global disease Activity (PGA) estimate and the Evaluator Global disease Activity (EGA) estimate, each of which represent assessments of disease activity on a scale of 1-10, with 10 being maximum activity. CDAI remission is defined as a score of less than or equal to 2.8., Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Percentage of Participants Achieving ACR20 Response at Week 12, The ACR20 is a composite measure defined as both improvement of 20% in the number of tender and number of swollen joints, and a 20% improvement in three of the following five criteria: patient global assessment, physician global assessment, functional ability measure \[most often Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ)\], visual analog pain scale, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein (CRP). The ACR is reported as percent improvement at discrete time points., Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Percentage of Participants Achieving ACR70 Response at Week 12, The ACR70 is a composite measure defined as both improvement of 70% in the number of tender and number of swollen joints, and a 70% improvement in three of the following five criteria: patient global assessment, physician global assessment, functional ability measure \[most often Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ)\], visual analog pain scale, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein (CRP). The ACR is reported as percent improvement at discrete time points., Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Change From Baseline in Simple Disease Activity Index (SDAI) Score at Week 12, The SDAI consists of 5 parameters used to assess RA disease activity: 28-joint count assessments of tenderness and swelling, participant and investigator global assessments, and CRP levels. A composite score is produced, with remission defined as an SDAI of \<3.3, low disease activity as ≤11, moderate disease activity as ≤26 and high disease activity as \>26., Baseline, Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Change From Baseline in the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index (HAQ-DI) at Week 12, The HAQ-DI is a 20-item, validated questionnaire used to assess difficulty in performing activities of daily living. The questionnaire assesses eight domains of physical functioning: Dressing and Grooming (2 items), Hygiene (3 items), Arising (2 items), Reach (2 items), Eating (3 items), Grip (3 items), Walking (2 items), Common Daily Activities (3 items). The questions assess usual abilities ranging from 0 "without any difficulty" to 3 "unable to do." A lower HAQ-DI score indicates better quality of life. Subscale scores are combined and the mean value is reported for each arm per timepoint., Baseline, Week 12 of PoC and Week 12 of Extension Period Analysis (overall study week 24)|Serum RO7123520 Concentration, Pre-dose (0 hour), 1 hour post infusion (duration of infusion: approximately 1 hour) on Days 1, 14, 28, 56; Pre-dose (0 hour) on Days 84, 112|Synovial Fluid RO7123520 Concentration, Pre-dose (0 hour) on Days 1, 84
This is a Phase IIa/b double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel group, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of RO7123520 as adjunctive therapy in participants with RA who are inadequately responding to standard-of-care (methotrexate and anti-TNF-alpha therapy). Part 1 of the study will evaluate safety. Part 2 will evaluate efficacy and safety. Part 3 will evaluate dose-ranging efficacy. Participants will have the option of continuing to the extension period of the study.