BRCA and NACT in TNBC Patients
The goal of this observational study is to evaluate data from patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) in order to better define the impact of germline BRCA1/2 (gBRCA1/2) mutation status on outcomes in this patient population.

The aims of the study are:

* To evaluate the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) in patients with locally advanced TNBC who performed NACT, in relation to the mutational status of gBRCA.
* To evaluate Evaluate Event Free survival (EFS) and Overall Survival (OS) in this patients population.
Triple-Negative Breast Cancer
GENETIC: BRCA1/2 genetic testing
pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, pCR rate of TNBC patients receiving NACT according to germline BRCA mutational status., 1 month
Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS of TNBC patients receiving NACT according to germline BRCA mutational status., 1 month|Overall Survival (OS), OS of TNBC patients receiving NACT according to germline BRCA mutational status., 1 month
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by earlier recurrence and shorter survival compared with other types of breast cancer. Moreover, approximately 15 to 25% of all TNBC patients harbor germline BRCA (gBRCA) 1/2 mutations, which confer a more aggressive phenotype. However, TNBC seems to be particularly sensitive to chemotherapy, the so-called 'triple negative paradox'. Therefore, Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is currently considered the preferred approach for early-stage TNBC. BRCA status has also been studied as a predictive biomarker of response to platinum compounds. Although several randomized trials investigated the addition of carboplatin to standard NACT in early-stage TNBC, the role of BRCA status remains unclear. In this retrospective analysis, data from 136 consecutive patients with Stage I-III TNBC who received standard NACT, with or without the addition of carboplatin, will be evaluated in order to define clinical features and outcomes in BRCA 1/2 mutation carriers and non-carrier controls.