XL092 for the Treatment of Locally Advanced or Metastatic Radioiodine Refractory Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
This phase II trial tests how well XL092 works for the treatment of patients with differentiated thyroid cancer that has not responded to previous treatment with radioiodine (radioiodine refractory) and that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). XL092 is in a class of medications called tyrosine kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of an abnormal protein that signals cancer cells to multiply, which may help keep cancer cells from growing.
Locally Advanced Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Poorly Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Thyroid Gland Oncocytic Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Metastatic Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Metastatic Poorly Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Metastatic Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Metastatic Thyroid Gland Oncocytic Carcinoma|Metastatic Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Refractory Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Poorly Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Oncocytic Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Stage III Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Survey Administration|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging|DRUG: Zanzalintinib
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 criteria. Median PFS at 12-months will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 12-month PFS estimate will be reported along with the confidence interval. Cox proportional hazards models will be applied to assess the impact of covariates such as age, sex, baseline disease severity, and genetic markers on PFS, when appropriate., From the time of the first dose of XL092 to the first documentation of disease progression, initiation of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, completion of 12 months of participation, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 12 months
Radiographic response rate, Defined as the proportion of patients who achieve a complete response or partial response as per RECIST v1.1. The point estimate of the objective response rate will be reported with its 2-sided 95% Clopper-Pearson exact confidence interval., Up to 12 month follow-up|Overall PFS, Will use the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate the overall PFS distribution. Subgroup comparisons will be made using log-rank tests, and a Cox proportional hazards model will be employed to assess covariate effects., From the first dose of XL092 to the date of the first progression event or death from any cause, assessed up to 12 month follow-up|Overall survival (OS), OS will also be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. Differences in survival distributions across patient subgroups will be evaluated using log-rank tests, and Cox models will be used to explore the effects of demographic and clinical variables on OS., From the start of treatment with XL092 to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 12 month follow-up|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed by clinical review of all relevant parameters, including adverse events (AEs), concomitant medication queries, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, weight and vital signs measurements, electrocardiogram measurements, and clinical laboratory testing values. The severity of AEs will be graded as mild, moderate, severe, or life-threatening according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. All reported toxicities, regardless of attribution, by toxicity type and maximum grade will be summarized, and sorted by number of patients experiencing the toxicity. The maximum grade consolidates the reports of a given toxicity for a patient over time by taking the maximum across time. Categorical data analyses and summary statistics will be used to report AEs., Up to 30 days after the end of treatment|Changes in quality of life, Baseline to 12 month follow-up
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess efficacy of the treatment zanzalintinib (XL092) in radioiodine refractory/radioactive iodine refractory (RAIR) differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) patients by evaluating the proportion of patients alive and without progression at 12 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess efficacy of XL092 treatment in RAIR DTC patients by imaging. II. Assess efficacy of the treatment XL092 in RAIR DTC patients by evaluating progression free survival.

III. Assess efficacy for RAIR DTC patients treated with XL092 evaluating the overall survival time.

IV. Assess the safety and tolerability of XL092 monotherapy in patients with RAIR DTC.

V. Characterize the quality of life in RAIR DTC patients treated with XL092 monotherapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess immune cell landscape in XL092 treated patients. II. Assess by next generation sequencing (NGS) and biomarker analysis, mechanisms that lead to response or failure to XL092.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive XL092 orally (PO) daily (QD) on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and x-ray imaging, and blood and urine sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days then every 3 months for 12 months.