Neoadjuvant Pembrolizumab(Pbr)/Nab-Paclitaxel Followed by Pbr/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide in TNBC
Despite its aggressiveness and high incidence, to date, no targeted therapies exist for the treatment of triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). Emerging evidence suggests a crucial role of tumor immunology on outcome for this entity. Checkpoint inhibitors like pembrolizumab, which target immune cells within the tumor, might therefore have an important impact on therapy response and outcome in these high risk patients. We propose a phase II study exploring pathological complete response and the safety of the combination of pembrolizumab and nab-paclitaxel as well as the combination of pembrolizumab with epirubicin and cyclophosphamide in the neoadjuvant setting for women with early TNBC. After completion of this study an extension will be determined.
Malignant Neoplasm of Breast
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Pathological Complete Response (pCR) rate, Pathological complete response (pCR) rate, defined as the complete absence of all tumor cells (ypT0/ypN0), absence of invasive tumor (ypT0/is ypN0) and regression grades after study treatment. Pathological complete response is the primary endpoint of this trial and correlates especially well with disease-free survival and overall survival in patients with TNBC. Pathological complete response also serves as a surrogate marker for prognosis in TNBC, Pathological complete response will be assessed at final surgery for patients who received at least two cycles of Pembrolizumab. The rate will be assessed from 30 days until 120 days after last application of medication.
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, The safety endpoints for the study will include rate of AE/SAEs and fatal SAEs, causality and outcome of AE/SAEs, rate of treatment discontinuations and reasons, changes in vital signs, laboratory values etc. Grading of AE/SAEs will be based on NCI CTCAE v4.0., The adverse events will be assessed from first infusion until 120 days after last application of medication.|Clinical Response, To evaluate the efficacy of the treatment as measured by clinical response (objective response rate by 30 %) 6 weeks after the start of each sequential chemotherapy (nab-paclitaxel and E/C) and at the time of the surgery, Every 6 weeks from date of first medication administration until the date of first documented progression, surgery or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 120 days after last dose.|EORTC QLQ-BR23, To evaluate changes in health related quality of life (QoL) assessments from baseline in all subjects using the EORTC Breast Cancer-Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-BR23), Every two weeks from first administration of trial medication through study completion, up to 120 days after administration of last medication.|EORTC QLQ-C30, To evaluate changes in health related quality of life (QoL) assessments from baseline in all subjects using Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), Every two weeks from first administration of trial medication through study completion, up to 120 days after administration of last medication.
Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), Tumor microenvironment prior to and during study treatment. TILs (stroma and intratumoral) in percent as assessed in Denkert et al. 2015, JCO., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Immunohistochemistry, PD1 (Programmed cell death protein 1), PD-L1 (Programmed death-ligand 1), SPARC (Secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine), Caveolin-1, TIM-3 (T-cell immunoglobulin mucin-3), Lag-3 (Lymphocyte-activation gene 3) will be assessed via immunohistochemistry in percentage of stained cells to total cell count and assesment of immunoreactive score (IRS) for each marker., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Tumor Immunogenicity, Tumor immunogenicity characteristic measured via FACS of the following markers (CD45, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD14, CD19, CD25, CD56, CD127, CD197, HLA-DR, CD45RA, Ki67) in percent of positive cells to total cell count., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Mutational load, Mutational load assessed by Next Generation Sequencing of Germline- and Tumor-DNA in mutations per megabases, Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Neoepitope Detection, Amount of tumor neoepitopes assessed by Next Generation Sequencing comparing Germline- and Tumor-DNA. Neoepitopes are defined as mutations that lead to aminoacid changes and are found in tumor DNA only., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Cell-free RNA (cfRNA), Expression levels of specific tumor- and immune-related analytes in cfRNA will be measured by qPCR and possibly other methods and analyzed for correlations with subject outcomes., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Immune Status, Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells will be collected from whole peripheral blood and sorted into subsets of T cells and myeloid cells by flow cytometry and then subjected to transcriptomic profilling by deep sequencing., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Circulation Metabolites, Circulating metabolites of host and bacterial metabolites will be assessed in plasma using a multiplex 43-panel ELISA assay., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Microbial burden, Viral, bacterial, fungal, helminth and parasite microbial burden will be assessed by Shotgun Deep Sequencing of cell-free RNA and DNA fragments in plasma., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|Microbiome, Stool microbiome will be assessed by Shotgun Deep Sequencing and analyzed for correlations with clinical outcome., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery.|pCR rate after initiation boost, To compare pCR rate in patients receiving a combination of pembrolizumab with nab-paclitaxel and epirubicin/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy and patients receiving 1 cycle of pembrolizumab monotherapy during an initiation boost followed by a combination of pembrolizumab with nab-paclitaxel and epirubicin/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy, Pathological complete response will be assessed at final surgery for patients who received at least two cycles of Pembrolizumab. The rate will be assessed from 30 days until 120 days after last application of medication.
This is a multicenter, phase II, one-arm, open-label neoadjuvant study of pembrolizumab in combination with nab-paclitaxel followed by pembrolizumab in combination with epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (E/C) in patients with TNBC. Pathological complete response rate at the time of surgery is the primary objective of this study.

In approximately six large breast cancer centers in Germany 50 patients are planned to be enrolled. All patients will undergo state of the art staging and tumor assessments prior to study entry to assess eligibility for the present trial. Eligible and consented patients will receive 12 cycles of weekly nab-paclitaxel i.v. 125 mg/m² BSA q1w in combination with 4 cycles of pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w; followed by 4 cycles of epirubicin i.v. 90 mg/m² BSA and cyclophosphamide i.v. 600 mg/m² BSA, q3w in combination with 4 cycles pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w. After the 25th patient has started trial treatment, all further included patients will receive 1 cycle of pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w monotherapy followed by 12 cycles of weekly nab-paclitaxel intravenous (i.v.) 125 mg/m² body surface area (BSA) in combination with 4 cycles of pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w; followed by 4 cycles of epirubicin i.v. 90 mg/m² BSA and cyclophosphamide i.v. 600 mg/m² BSA, q3w in combination with 4 cycles of pembrolizumab i.v. 200 mg q3w. Clinical and bioptic tumor assessment will be performed after each treatment phase. Additional imaging, preferably with sonography, will be performed 6 weeks after initiation of taxane and anthracycline therapy to allow for early progress and response monitoring.

Study treatment will be applied until state of the art surgery, onset of unacceptable toxicities, progression or withdrawal of consent. A safety follow-up is planned 120 days after administration of the last dose of trial treatment.