Radium-223 in Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Cancer
Background:

Some men who have been treated for localized prostate cancer with surgery or radiation still show signs of the disease in their blood. This is called biochemically recurrent prostate cancer. Radium-223 is a small molecule. It uses radiation to kill cancer cells and improves survival in advanced prostate cancer. Researchers want to see if it can treat prostate cancer and induced immune changes earlier in the disease when the cancer is only detectable by prostate specific antigen (PSA) in the blood.

Objective:

To learn how Radium-223 affects men with rising PSA but no evidence of cancer on conventional CT or bone scan, but positive findings on PET or molecular imaging in the bones. The primary focus is impact on the immune system with secondary focus on impact on PSA and imaging.

Eligibility:

Men ages 18 and older with prostate cancer who have had surgery and/or radiation, but their PSA is rising even though no disease is visible on routine imaging scans (CT or bone scans). Patients are required to have PET or molecular imaging findings in bones, but not organs (lymph nodes are allowed).

Design:

Participants will be screened with a medical history and physical exam. Their ability to do normal tasks will be reviewed. They will give tissue samples or a report from their doctor about their cancer. They will have blood and urine tests. They will have an electrocardiogram to measure heart function. They will have a scan of their chest and abdomen using radiation or magnetic resonance imaging. They will have a bone scan with injection of Tc99. They will have a positron emission tomography scan with intravenous (IV) injection of 18F-NaF.

Participants will get Radium-223 by IV. For this, a small plastic tube is put into an arm vein. Radium-223 will be given on Day 1 of each cycle (1 cycle = 4 weeks) for up to 6 cycles. Participants will repeat the screening tests during the study. They will also complete Quality of Life Surveys and give stool samples.

After treatment, participants will have long-term follow-up every 6 weeks for the rest of their lives.
Biochemical Recurrent Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Radium-223|DRUG: 18F Sodium Fluoride
changes in immune cell populations, to determine the statistically significant changes in immune cell populations compared to baseline in participants with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer, 6 months
Changes in PSA kinetics, rate of change in PSA per month, 6 months|Changes in PSA kinetics and the changes in immune cell populations relative to patients with similar disease undergoing a surveillance period on a similar protocol (NCT02649439), rate of change in PSA per month compared against those on the surveillance arm of 16-C-0035, 6 months|Safety and tolerability of radium-223, type, number and frequency of adverse events, every 4 weeks
Background:

Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and surveillance are treatment options for prostate cancer patients with biochemical progression after localized therapy with either definitive radiation or surgery (biochemically recurrent prostate cancer). A primary goal in these patients is to prevent morbidity from their cancer that results from disease progression and metastatic disease on conventional imaging.

Radium-223 has demonstrated the ability to improve survival in men with symptomatic metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) with a manageable toxicity profile, particularly in patients who have not yet received docetaxel.

Radiation, even at low doses can impact immune recognition and immune cell killing of cancer cells. Recent findings by the LTIB suggest that radium-223 potentiated T-cell killing of prostate cancer cells.

Radium-223 may present an alternative option for patients with BRPC that is not associated with substantial toxicity (as seen with ADT) and may have a lasting effect due to its potential effect on the immune system and/or the bone microenvironment.

Emerging PET imaging studies will likely find evidence of micrometastatic disease, often in the bones, in biochemically recurrent prostate cancer patients, although these patients will have no standard of care that can be supported by prospective data.

Radium-223 has demonstrated the ability to improve survival in men with symptomatic prostate cancer, but it remains unknown what the impact is in patients with micrometastatic or PET positive prostate cancer in their bones

Preclinical data has suggested that radium-223 can impact the immune system.

In addition, changes in PSA kinetics, changes on PET scan findings, and safety and tolerability of radium-223 in this population will also be evaluated.

Objective:

To determine statistically significant changes in immune cell populations compared to baseline in participants with biochemically recurrent or 18F NaF PET scan positive prostate cancer treated with radium-223

Eligibility:

Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

Imaging showing positive findings on NaF PET, negative CT Scan and Tc-99m Bone Scan

Detectable PSA

ECOG 0-1

Design:

Single arm study

Participants will receive 6 injections of radium-223 with monthly assessments of PSA and periodic immune response. NaF PET scans will be completed at screening then at 4 and 7 months after the start of radium-223.

After completion of treatment participant will be followed every 6 (+/- 2 weeks).