A Study to Compare the Administration of Pembrolizumab After Surgery Versus Administration Both Before and After Surgery for High-Risk Melanoma
This phase II trial studies how pembrolizumab works before and after surgery in treating patients with stage III-IV high-risk melanoma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving pembrolizumab before and after surgery may work better compared to after surgery alone in treating melanoma.
Acral Lentiginous Melanoma|Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Mucosal Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Two-Year Event-Free Survival Rate, Event-free survival (EFS) is measured from date of randomization to date of first: documentation of progression that render participant unable to receive planned protocol surgery, off protocol therapy for any reason without subsequent protocol surgery, failure to begin adjuvant therapy within 84 days after surgery, relapse after surgery or death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive and event-free are censored at date of last contact. All events that occurred before the start of adjuvant therapy were assigned an event date of 84 days., 2 years
Number of Participants With Grade 3 Through 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Only adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug are reported., Duration of treatment and follow-up until relapse, death, or 3.5 years post randomization.|Two-Year Overall Survival Rate, Overall survival (OS) is measured from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. Participants known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., 2 years|Response Rate, On the neoadjuvant arm, the response rate was assessed after neoadjuvant therapy and before surgical resection. The response rate includes both complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). CR is defined as complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, no new lesions, and no disease related symptoms. PR is defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of all appropriate diameters of all target measurable lesions, no unequivocal progression or non-measurable disease, and no new lesions. The best response rate is calculated from the sequence of objective statuses. CR is defined as two or more objective statuses of CR a minimum of four weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration. PR is defined as two or more objective statuses of PR or better a minimum of four weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration, but not qualifying as CR., 2 years|Number of Participants Receiving Surgery, To determine the number of participants on each arm who received the surgery planned at randomization., 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare event-free survival (EFS) in participants with high-risk resectable melanoma randomized to neoadjuvant pembrolizumab (MK-3475) with participants randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab (MK-3475).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the frequency and severity of toxicities on each of the arms. II. To compare between arms overall survival (OS), disease control at 24 weeks, locoregional control in the surgical site(s), and total number of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) doses received.

III. On the neoadjuvant arm, to estimate the pathologic response rate, the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed complete response \[CR\] and partial response \[PR\]), and the immune-related (i)RECIST response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed CR and PR), before surgical resection; to compare definitions of pathologic partial response; and to evaluate the association between pathologic response and EFS and OS.

IV. To describe the proportion of participants on each arm who received the surgery planned at randomization.

ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank tumor tissue and whole blood in anticipation of future correlative studies in this participant population.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Within 17 days (preferably within 14 days) days after surgical resection, patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood throughout the study, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computers tomography (CT) on study.

ARM II: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 every 3 weeks for 3 cycles, then undergo surgical resection within 3 weeks. Within 84 days, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks for 15 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood throughout the study and MRI or CT on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 12 weeks, then every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, then every 12 months for up to 10 years.