Benefits and Tolerance of Exercise in Patients With Generalized and Stabilized Myasthenia Gravis
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that a 3 months physical exercise programme improves the Quality of Life of patients with generalized Myasthenia Gravis (MG) stabilized since at least 6 months under prednisone and/or azathioprine.
Myasthenia Gravis
BEHAVIORAL: Physical exercise programme using a rowing machine
Change in the quality of life between M3 and M6 by MGQOL score, M3 and M6
Muscular strength, Muscular strength (before exercise period, after exercise period and 3 months after), M3, M6 and M9|Frequency of MG exacerbations, 6 MONTHS|Frequency and severity of cardiovascular side-effects, 6 MONTHS|Cumulative dose of steroids within the 3 months of the exercise programme, 6 MONTHS|Doses of anticholinesterasic and steroids at 3, 6 and 9 months, M3, M6 and M9|Psychological status (STAI, BECK, MINI et SEI scales) at 3, 6 and 9 months, M3, M6 and M9|Plasma levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines at 9 months, M9|Muscular fatigability, fatigability (before exercise period, after exercise period and 3 months after), M3, M6 and M9|Muscular endurance, muscular endurance (before exercise period, after exercise period and 3 months after), M3, M6 and M9|Severity of MG exacerbations, 6 MONTHS|Frequency and severity of respiratory side-effects, 6 MONTHS
Three centers randomized simple blind clinical trial whose objective is to assess the efficacy on QoL improvement, and the tolerance of physical exercise over a period of 3 months in patients with generalized MG who have been stabilized since at least 6 months.

During the 3 months pre-inclusion phase, the characteristics of MG will be collected. Physical activity and performance will be assessed monthly.

MGQOL15 will be assessed at inclusion.

Patients will be randomized in either intervention arm or control arm.

The intervention arm will consist of three sessions exercise per week during three months. The daily exercise will be performed on a rowing machine that will be adapted to the patient's own physical ability.

Physical activity will be measured with the help of an actimeter.

Once a month, MG evolution and tolerance to exercise will be assessed and MG treatment dose will be collected.

Exercise will be interrupted in case of MG exacerbation.

Quality of life and psychological status will be assessed at 3, 6 and 9 months.

Plasma levels of pro and anti-inflammatory cytokines will be measured at 3, 6 and 9 months in order to assess the effects of exercise on immune response.

Patients enrolled in the control arm will benefit from the same follow-up but will not have exercise.