Image-guided Cryoablation of Head, Neck and Spine Tumors
This research study is evaluating a procedure called cryoablation (the removal of diseased tissue using extreme freezing temperatures) as a possible treatment for head, neck and spine tumors.
Head and Neck Neoplasms|Malignant Neoplasm of Vertebral Column
DEVICE: Cryoablation|DEVICE: Biopsy
Number of Participants Undergoing Image-guided Cryoablation of a Head, Neck, or Spine Tumor With Adverse Events, Assess the number of adverse events from time of procedure to one month post-procedure., One month
Progression Rates, Assess patient's local progression rates with the criteria proposed by the Interventional Radiology Technology Assessment Committee and the International Working Group on Image-Guided Tumor Ablation, 6 months|Pain Assessment, Assess patient's pain localized to the target of cryoablation with a 10-point Visual Analog Scale (VAS), specifically, pain was rated on a scale from 0 to 10 with 0 representing no pain and 10 representing the worst pain., 6 months
The participant will be assigned to either group 1 for MRI-guided cryoablation or group 2 for PET/CT guided cryoablation. Each participant's placement will be made by a team of radiologists, medical oncologists, surgical oncologists, and radiation oncologists.

After the eligibility screening

Group 1:

The investigators will assess the participant's tumor by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). This is a safe and standard exam that will show the physician where the participant's tumor is located. MRI scans typically take 60 minutes. The investigator will ask the participant to complete a "Quality of Life" questionnaire.

Following the participant's baseline scan, the physician will schedule the participant's procedure in the Advanced Multimodality Image-Guided Operating (AMIGO) suite. The participant will be placed under general anesthesia for the procedure. A cryoablation needle will be inserted through the skin and into the tumor using MRI guidance. The tip of the cryoablation needle forms an iceball which will be used to ablate the tumor cells.

The physician will be able to see the tumor during the procedure through the MRI scan. The procedure will take about 3 hours, and the participant will be spending approximately 2 hours in the post-treatment anesthesia care unit. The participant will spend the subsequent night in the hospital, and will be discharged the next day.

The investigators will ask that the participant to return 1 month, 3 months and 6 months post procedure. The participant will be asked to complete the Quality of Life questionnaire at the 1, 3 and 6 month follow up visits.

Group 2:

The investigators will assess the participant's tumor by a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan and Computerized Tomography (CT). These are safe and standard exams that will show the physician where the participant's tumor is located. PET/CT scans typically take 60 minutes. The investigator will ask the participant to complete a "Quality of Life" questionnaire.

Following the participant's baseline scan, the physician will schedule the participant's procedure in the AMIGO suite. The participant will be placed under general anesthesia for the procedure. A cryoablation needle will be inserted through the skin and into the tumor using PET/CT guidance. The tip of the cryoablation needle forms an iceball which will be used to ablate the tumor cells.

The physician will be able to see the tumor during the procedure through the PET/CT scan. The procedure will take about 3 hours, and the participant will spend approximately 2 hours in the post-treatment anesthesia care unit. The participant will spend the subsequent night in the hospital, and will be discharged the next day.

The investigators ask that the participant return 1 month, 3 months and 6 months post procedure. The participant will be asked to complete the Quality of Life questionnaire at the 1, 3 and 6 month follow up visits.