The Efficacy of Multisession Mindful Breathing in Symptom Reduction Among Patients With Advanced Cancers
The goal of this clinical trial is to determine the efficacy of multisession mindful breathing in reducing symptoms among patients with advanced cancer. Adult patients with advanced cancer will be assessed using Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) scoring system. Patients who scored ≥4 in at least two or more components in ESAS will be recruited and randomly assigned to either 4 daily-session of 30-minute mindful breathing and standard care or standard care alone.
Advanced Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mindful breathing|OTHER: Standard care (control)
Total score of ESAS, Assessment of efficacy of multisession 30 minutes mindful breathing on the total score of ESAS, 30 muinutes
Individual score of the ten symptoms in ESAS, Assessment of efficacy of the multisession 30 minutes mindful breathing on the individual score of the 10 symptoms in ESAS., 30 minutes
Patients with advanced cancer admitted to the medical and surgical wards of UMMC were consecutively approached to screen for eligibility. The 30-minute mindful breathing of the intervention group was guided by similar investigators for four consecutive days. These investigators were medical doctors who had been trained by the primary investigators - a palliative care physician and a certified mindfulness trainer. Each session used different scripts and was conducted in the languages that were preferred by the patients (such as Malay, English, or Mandarin). Briefly, patients were primed with knowledge of the gist of each script before being instructed to relax their bodies, close their eyes, pay attention to their breathing, and follow the guidance given. If they noticed any distractions, they were told to redirect their attention back to their breathing. Patients in the control group only received standard care and were assessed at the same time of the day by similar investigators for four consecutive days. Patients were allowed to continue their usual activities during each session.