Biomarkers for Prognosis of Glioblastoma (GBM)
The purpose of this study is:

1. To learn if (MMP-2, MMP-9 and NGAL) which are substances found in blood and urine associated with tumors, can be used as tumor markers in the management and treatment of glioblastoma.
2. To study the relationship between MMP-2, MMP-9 and NGAL with quality of life and disease symptoms.
Glioblastoma
1) To provide preliminary evidence that MMP-2 and MMP-9/NGAL ratio in tissue corresponds with their presence in the urine and blood in patients undergoing surgery for epilepsy (Aim 1a) and in patients with grade IV glioma (Aim 1b), For each outcome (MMP-2, MMP-9 and MMP-9/NGAL), Pearson's correlation coefficient will be used to examine the association between 1) tissue and urine and 2) tissue and blood. Spearman's correlation will be used in the event that the data are not normally distributed and a suitable transformation is not evident. Due to the anticipated interaction of group with presence of these biomarkers, these analyses will be conducted separately for epilepsy control patients and GBM patients., Up to 3 years
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) -2 and -9 belong to a multigene family of degradative enzymes implicated in the neoangiogenesis required for tumor growth. In the central nervous system (CNS), MMP-2, MMP-9 and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) are overexpressed in orthotopic models and also in human brain tumor specimens. Furthermore, serum and urinary levels of these markers have been shown to correlate with the presence and status of brain tumors in all types of primary brain tumors. A major challenge in the treatment of primary brain tumors is the dependence on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to differentiate disease progression from treatment-related change. This is particularly challenging in glioblastomas (GBM) where multimodality therapy with radiation and chemotherapy is commonly used and can lead to pseudoprogression and treatment-related tissue necrosis, both of which can masquerade as true tumor progression. Often we are faced with the decision to treat based on imaging findings alone or to recommend that patients have another invasive surgery. We hypothesize that MMP-2, MMP-9 and NGAL will: 1) be detected on tumor tissue by immunohistochemistry and not on non-tumor (epilepsy) brain tissue, 2) parallel the course of disease in the urine and/or serum of patients and 3) remain unchanged in the event of pseudoprogression and treatment related imaging changes. Quality of life, patient symptoms, and cognitive function are vitally important in patients with GBM. Quality of life and selected symptoms will also be assessed and correlated with serum and urine biomarkers. We hope to confirm the utility of MMP-2, MMP-9 and NGAL in the management of GBM.