Carbon Dye Tattooing of Biopsied Axillary Node in Breast Cancer
The primary aim of this prospective, multicentre study is to determine whether the involved node can be marked using black carbon dye and successfully identified at the time of surgery. The secondary aims are to determine the concordance between the tattooed node and sentinel node, migration of black dye into other nodes, and false-negative rate of tattooed node (in patients undergoing ALND after NACT).
Sentinel Lymph Node|Breast Cancer|Tattoo; Pigmentation|Axilla; Breast
PROCEDURE: Tattooing of biopsied node
Identification rate of tattooed node, Proportion of patients in whom tattooed node/s were identified., 12 months
Concordance of tattooed node and sentinel node, Concordance rate: defined as the percent of patients in whomthe tattooed node is the sentinel node., 12 months|Migration of black dye into other nodes, The number of black nodes at the time of sentinel node biopsy or axillary lymph node dissection., 12 months
Pretreatment evaluation of axillary lymph nodes and marking of biopsied nodes in patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer is becoming routine practice. Tagging of biopsied axillary lymph nodes with metal markers, similar to what is done for suspicious breast lesions, is being adopted in clinical practice. The need to mark a positive axillary lymph node becomes especially relevant in cases where neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is anticipated so that these nodes may be identified at the time of surgery. Measures that improve both the accuracy of nodal evaluation after NACT and the ability to assess treatment response are desirable in order to tailor therapies for breast cancer treatment. The investigators sought to test tattooing of biopsied axillary lymph nodes with a sterile black carbon suspension (Spot dye). The concept is based on the experience in the gastrointestinal tract wherein tattooing is widely used for marking lesions or tumours biopsied during endoscopy. India ink tattoos of colonic lesions remain identifiable over a long period of time. Spot is routinely used in the UK for tattooing gastrointestinal tract lesions and is used to mark the axillary lymph nodes in breast cancer by some centres in the US and Europe. The intraoperative success of identifying tattooed axillary lymph nodes and their concordance to sentinel nodes will be determined.