Clinical Study of Noni Extract in Men With Very Low Risk or Low Risk Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of Noni extract in men diagnosed with very low risk or low risk prostate cancer
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Noni extract
Compare Genomic Prostate Score (GPS) in Prostatic Tumors, Exploring gene expression changes on Oncotype DX Genomic Prostate Score (GPS). The Oncotype DX assay is a clinically validated 17-gene genomic assay that provides a genomic prostate score (GPS; scale 0-100) measuring the heterogeneous nature of prostate tumors. A higher score means a higher risk of disease. Unfortunately, Genomic Health was unable to run the assay on 12-month prostate biopsy samples in which active cancer was not identified therefore we only have baseline data., Change from screening and at 12 months or early termination|Number of Positive Cores Associated With Participants Disease Progression of Prostate Cancer, Measure tumor size at screening and compare after 12 months of study participation. Disease progression will be identified by either an increase in Gleason score, increase in positive cores, and/or an increase in tumor volume., Change from screening and at 12 months or early termination
Effects of Noni Extract on Serum Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Levels, Comparing the serum Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) test levels for the duration of the trial in men diagnosed with very low risk or low risk prostate cancer. Measure the duration of time it takes for a subjects Prostate specific antigen level to double., Baseline and 9 months|Frequency of Adverse Events, Tolerability of Noni extract in men diagnosed with very low risk or low risk prostate cancer as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Enrollment, 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and 7 days post treatment|Explore the Molecular Pathways Contributing to the Activities Associated With Noni Extract in the Prostate Cancer (e.g. Cell Proliferation, and Apoptosis in Prostate Tissue Biopsy Samples) Via Immunohistochemistry (IHC) Staining., Utilizing prostate tissue biopsy samples and serum blood plasma from participants prior to receiving noni extract and after the subject completes 12 months of receiving noni extract. Apoptosis was quantified based on caspase-3 immunostaining. Proliferation was quantified based on Ki-67 immunostaining., Enrollment and 12 months or at early termination|Explore the Molecular Pathways Contributing to the Activities Associated With Noni Extract in the Prostate Cancer (e.g., Angiogenesis) in Prostate Tissue Biopsy Samples) Via Immunohistochemistry (IHC) Staining., Utilizing prostate tissue biopsy samples and serum blood plasma from participants prior to receiving noni extract and after the subject completes 12 months of receiving noni extract. MVD, a surrogate for angiogenesis, was quantified based on CD-31 immunostaining., Enrollment and 12 months or at early termination
Efficacy and safety of Noni extract will be assessed in an estimated sample size of 30 subjects. Efficacy will be measured by the induction of favorable gene expression changes on Oncotype Dx Prostate Cancer Test after 12 months of intervention with Noni extract (6,000 mg/day). Other efficacy endpoints include the incidence of tumor progression after 12 months of intervention with Noni extract and serum PSA doubling time. Safety measurements will include the incidence and severity of adverse events, effects on angiogenesis (CD34), cell proliferation (Ki-67), and apoptosis (TUNEL) in prostate tissue biopsy samples from Month 12