Preoperative Physical Activity Improvement With the Use of Activity Trackers Before Radical Cystectomy (PreAct)
A bicentric, open-label randomised controlled trial (RCT) is planned to investigate whether the use of fitness wristbands in a defined preoperative period prior to radical cystectomy leads to a preoperative increase in participants' physical activity (number of steps per day) up to the day of radical cystectomy.
Bladder Cancer|Bladder Neoplasm|Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma
DEVICE: Daily Activity Goal and Feedback
Number of steps per day, Average daily step count measured by the fitness tracker during the period of prehabilitation 7 to 10 days before surgery., Participants' daily step count is recorded on the day of surgery when the fitness tracker is put down.
Total number of steps, Total number of steps measured by the fitness tracker during the period of prehabilitation 7 to 10 days before surgery., Participants' total number of steps is recorded on the day of surgery when the fitness tracker is put down.|Postoperative physical activity, The postoperative physical activity of the participants measured by the average number of steps per day and in total on postoperative days 1 to 3. Neither arm will receive a daily activity goal. However, the fitness trackers of the No Daily Activity Goal or Feedback arm are still covered., Morning of postoperative day 4 at 7 PM|Postoperative Complications, Postoperative complications measured by the Comprehensive Classification Index (CCI), on a scale from 0 (no complications) to 100 (death), (Slankamenac, Graf et al. 2013) and the Clavien-Dindo Classification (CDC), which consists of 7 grades (I, II, IIIa, IIIb, IVa, IVb and V), the first one indicating any deviation from the normal postoperative course, the highest grade indicating death (Clavien, Barkun et al. 2009):

CDC ≥ 3a corresponding to a CCI ≥ 26.2 defined as "severe complications" including CDC = 5 and CCI = 100 defined as "patient's death" and the total number of complications, On postoperative day 30 and 90|Operating time, In minutes, incision - surgical incision closure, On the day of surgery|Blod loss, In millilitres, On the day of surgery|Required transfusion of blood products, Number of red blood cell concentrates, platelet concentrates, frozen fresh plasma, On the day of surgery|Feasibility of the planned urinary diversion, Yes or no, On the day of surgery|Conversion rate, If the planned urinary diversion is not feasible, On the day of surgery|Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs), SF-36: Health-related quality of life (Scale 0 - 100: The higher the score, the lower the disability. A score of 100 corresponds to no disability), On the day of randomization at the premedication appointment and on the day of discharge which is on average 2 weeks after the surgery and postoperative day 30 and 90|Length of hospital stay (LOS), LOS measured by the number of days spent in the hospital after surgery until discharge, On the day of discharge which is on average 2 weeks after the surgery|Readmission rate, Readmissions due to a complication of the radical cystectomy, On postoperative day 90 if occured|Reoperation rate, Reoperation due to a complication of the radical cystectomy, On postoperative day 90 if occured|Length of stay in the intensive care unit (ICU), Days spent in the ICU after surgery, On postoperative day 90 if occured
The goal of the PreAct study is to test whether the use of fitness wristbands in a defined preoperative period prior to radical cystectomy with a daily activity goal and feedback on the achievement of this goal improves the participants' physical activity up to the day of radical cystectomy.

In addition to the fitness tracker, we provide each patient with a smartphone. For each fitness tracker a separate account in a fitness application is set up for (e.g. name: tracker1.0 with the corresponding e-mail address and password). Neither the patients in the Daily activity Goal and Feedback arm nor the No Daily Activity Goal or Feedback arm receive the access data to the accounts. However, the patients in the intervention group receive the access PIN for the smartphone. On this smartphone a messaging service and the fitness application are installed. The patient thus receives, for example the wristband tracker1.0, which is registered with the corresponding access data in the fitness application of the smartphone given to them. For the entire preoperative period, the Bluetooth function on the smartphone must always stay activated so that the fitness application and the fitness tracker are continuously connected to each other. A detailed description of the timing and implementation of the intervention are described in "Study design" and "Arm and Interventions".