Laparoscopic Versus Open Gastrectomy for Gastric Cancer
This is the first randomized controlled trial comparing laparoscopic and open gastrectomy for resectable gastric cancer in a Western population. The hypothesis is that laparoscopic gastrectomy will result in a lower post-operative burden by means of shorter post-operative hospital stay. Secondarily that laparoscopic gastrectomy is hypothesized to be associated with lower post-operative morbidity and readmissions, higher cost-effectiveness, and better post-operative quality of life, with similar mortality and oncologic outcomes, compared to open gastrectomy. The study starts on 1 December 2014. Inclusion and follow-up will take three and five years respectively. Short-term results will be analyzed and published after discharge of the last randomized patient.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Open Gastrectomy|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Gastrectomy
Post-operative hospital stay, The primary outcome of this study is the post-operative hospital stay (days), since this is considered a strong end point as it reflects the impact of the different surgical procedures., During admission, an expected average of 2 weeks
Mortality, Measured as 30-day mortality rate, 30 days post-operative|Post-operative morbidity, Complications will be classified according to the Clavien-Dindo system and include anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stricture, respiratory complications, cardiac complications, intra-abdominal bleeding , intra-abdominal abscess, sepsis, ileus, wound infection, fistula, urinary tract infection and dumping syndrome, Up to 5 years post-operative|Cost-effectiveness, Cost-effectiveness will be calculated by comparing the direct medical cost related to both strategies up until five years after the operation, Up to 5 years post-operative|Quality of Life, The validated quality of life questionnaires EORTC QLQ-30, EORTC QLQ-STO22 and EQ-5D-5L, will be filled in pre-operative \<5 days and post-operative at 6 weeks, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months after surgery., Up to 5 years post-operative|Readmissions, The number of post-operative readmissions, Up to 5 years post-operative|Oncologic outcomes (R0-resection rate and lymph node yield), R0-resection rate of the distal and proximal margin, defined according to the College of American Pathologists. Lymph node yield: the amount of harvested lymph nodes per patient., Pathology report 1-2 weeks after surgery
Perioperative blood loss, Measured in milliliters (ml), Post-operative day 1|Operative time, The time from incision to closure of all wounds in minutes (min), Post-operative day 1|Conversion rate, The percentage (%) of laparoscopic gastrectomies that had to be converted intra-operatively to an open procedure due to any reason., Post-operative day 1|Survival, Measured as 5-year disease free survival and 5-year overall survival, Up to 5 years post-operative|VAS-score, Post-operative day 1 and 2|Surgeons ergonomics, Measured with the Subjective Mental Effort Questionnaire (SMEQ), Post-operative day 1|Time to return to normal nutritional regime, Up to 5 years post-operative|Time to return to daily activity, Up to 5 years post-operative
This is the first randomized controlled trial comparing laparoscopic and open gastrectomy for resectable gastric cancer in a Western population. The hypothesis is that laparoscopic gastrectomy will result in a lower post-operative burden by means of shorter post-operative hospital stay. Secondarily that laparoscopic gastrectomy is hypothesized to be associated with lower post-operative morbidity and readmissions, higher cost-effectiveness, and better post-operative quality of life, with similar mortality and oncologic outcomes, compared to open gastrectomy. The study starts on 1 December 2014. Inclusion and follow-up will take three and five years respectively. Short-term results will be analyzed and published after discharge of the last randomized patient.