A Phase II Study of Pembrolizumab as Post-Remission Treatment of Patients ≥ 60 With AML
This study evaluates the effect of pembrolizumab on the duration of remission in acute myeloid leukemia. Pembrolizumab is given after complete remission is obtained in those with AML at least 60 years old who are not candidates for allogeneic stem cell transplant. The primary purpose of this study is determine if the time to relapse can be extended. Additionally, the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab will be closely monitored.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: pembrolizumab
Time to Relapse (TTR), Time to recurrence of AML, including only deaths related to recurrence. Relapse of AML is defined as patients reaching remission (bone marrow contains \<5% blast cells, blood cell counts return to within normal limits, no signs disease) followed by a return of leukemia cells in the marrow and a decrease in normal blood cells., Up to 24 months|Worst Grade of Adverse Events Experienced (Unrelated to Relatedness to Study Therapy), Worst Grade of AE experienced, regardless of relatedness to study therapy, per CTCAE v5.0., Up to 24 months|Worst Grade of Adverse Events Experienced (at Least Probably Related to Treatment), Worst Grade of AE experienced, at least probably related to treatment, per CTCAE v5.0., Up to 24 months
Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from date of start of treatment that patients are still alive., Up to 48 months
Quantification of Activated T Cells, Determination of activated T cells level (percentages) in peripheral blood. Increased levels of activated T cells may indicate decreasing disease progression., Up to 24 months|Quantification of Activated NK Cells, Determination of activated NK cells level (percentages) in peripheral blood. Increased levels of activated T cells may indicate decreasing disease progression., Up to 24 months|Quantification of Regulatory T Cells (Treg), Determination of regulatory T cell (Treg) levels (percentages) in peripheral blood. Treg cells are involved in cancer progression by inhibiting anti-cancer immunity. Increased levels of Treg cells may indicate progressing disease., Up to 24 months|Cytokine Expression, Determination of cytokine expression levels (percentages) in peripheral blood. Cytokine expression is associated with cancer progression, immuno-suppression, and decreased anti-cancer response., Up to 24 months|Granzyme B/Perforin Expression, Determination of Granzyme B/perforin expression levels (percentages) in peripheral blood.

Granzyme B/perforin expression is associated with the suppression of cancer progression., Up to 24 months
Patients \>60 years old with AML often have a dismal prognosis. Even though many of these patients are able to obtain a Complete Response to treatment, relapse occurs in the vast majority of patients. Transplants may reduce relapse rates in this population, but is only feasible in a minority of patients. AML's immunosuppressive microenvironment in general and PD-1/PD-L1 upregulation in particular appears to increase the risk of relapse. Importantly, PD-1 and its ligands are particularly increased after therapy compared to initial diagnosis. As such, PD-1 inhibition with pembrolizumab offers to limit leukemic cell immune escape, thereby allowing the patient's immune system to eradicate the submicroscopic residual disease and reducing relapse rates.

Treatment for this study is 200 mg Q3W as an appropriate dose for the switch to fixed dosing is based on simulations performed using the population PK model of Pembrolizumab showing that the fixed dose of 200 mg every 3 weeks will provide exposures that 1) are optimally consistent with those obtained with the 2 mg/kg dose every 3 weeks, 2) will maintain individual patient exposures in the exposure range established in melanoma as associated with maximal efficacy response and 3) will maintain individual patients exposure in the exposure range established in melanoma that are well tolerated and safe.