Clinician Communication About Sexual Health
The objective of this study is to adapt a previously tested brief intervention aimed at enhancing clinicians communication about sexual health (iSHARE) to a mobile web-based platform showcasing a two-part podcast and to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effects of the intervention in breast cancer clinicians.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: iShare
Feasibility of the Intervention Trial - Enrollment, Enrollment will be measured through measures of participant enrollment defined as the percent of eligible candidates approached who enroll in the pilot trial., Baseline|Feasibility of the Intervention Trial - Retention, Study retention will defined as percentage of enrolled participants who complete all study surveys., Baseline up to 1 month|Feasibility of the Intervention Trial - Intervention Completion, Intervention completion will defined as percentage of enrolled participants who complete participation in the podcast intervention., 1 month|Acceptability, Acceptability will be measured through the percentage of the sample endorsing 6 primary acceptability items favorably at two time points (1 week and 1 month; satisfaction, informativeness, relevance, ease of listening, likelihood to recommend, likelihood to impact practice)., 1 week up to 1 month|Change in Clinician Knowledge About Sexual Health and Related Communication, Clinician knowledge about sexual health and communication will be measured using a 10-item scale asking about common sexual problems experienced by breast cancer patients and the most effective ways to communicate with patients about these issues. Knowledge scores range from 0 to 10, with higher scores indicating more knowledge.

Knowledge will be reported as the mean of items answered correctly. Positive mean change scores indicate an increase in knowledge over time., Baseline up to 1 month|Change in Clinician Self-Efficacy About Sexual Health Communication, Clinician self-efficacy about sexual health communication will be measured using a 3-item scale asking about confidence in discussing sexual concerns with patients. Mean scores range from 0-10, with higher scores indicating higher self-efficacy. Positive mean change scores indicate an increase in self-efficacy over time., Baseline up to 1 month|Change in Clinician Outcome Expectancies for Sexual Health Communication, Clinician outcome expectancies for sexual health communication will be measured using a 7-item scale asking about expected positive results in discussing sexual concerns with patients. Mean scores range from 0-10, with higher scores indicating better expected outcomes. Positive mean change scores indicate an increase in outcome expectancies over time., Baseline up to 1 month|Change in Clinician Comfort With Communicating About Sexual Health, Clinician comfort with sexual health communication will be measured using a 7-item scale asking about comfort level in discussing sexual concerns with patients. Mean scores range from 0-10, with higher scores indicating a higher level of comfort. Positive mean change scores indicate an increase in comfort level over time., Baseline up to 1 month|Change in Clinician Communication About Sexual Health, Clinician communication about sexual health will be measured using a 3-item scale asking about recent communication practices around sexual health (initiating conversations, offering information, giving referrals). Mean scores range from 1-5, with higher scores indicating higher amounts of communication. Positive mean change scores indicate an increase in communication behaviors over time., Baseline up to 1 month
Specific aims are: 1) To assess the feasibility and acceptability of iSHARE in a mobile learning (mLearning) format and 2) To assess the preliminary effects of iSHARE in a mLearning format.