A Pilot Study of Romidepsin in Relapsed or Refractory Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma is a rare disease entity with aggressive clinical course and poor prognosis. Currently, there is no treatment option for relapsed or refractory extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma. Romidepsin is a histone deacetylase inhibitor which was approved for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. A recent phase II study of romidepsin for relapsed/refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma reported an overall response rate of 38% (95% confidence interval 24%-53%). The median duration of overall response was 8.9 months. Considering the median number of previous treatments in these patients was three (range 1-11), romidepsin has single agent activity against relapsed/refractory T-cell lymphoma. Thus, if the single agent activity of romidepsin is demonstrated, it could be a therapeutic agent for combination with salvage treatment.
Histologically Proven Extranodal NKTcell Lymphoma
DRUG: Romidepsin
Rate of overall disease control including CR, PR, and SD, Overall rate of disease control including CR, PR and SD Overall survival: Time between the date of treatment start and the date of death due to any cause, Time between the date of treatment start and the date of death
Number of participants with adverse events, Number of participants with adverse events, from the date of informed consent signature to 30 days after last drug administration|Time to progression, Performing Cervical, Chest, Abdomen and Pelvis CT scan for the assessment, from the date of first drug administration until the date of first documented progression|overall survival, Overall Survival will be measured from the date of first drug administration to the date of death from any cause., from the date of first drug administration until the date of death
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma is a rare disease entity with aggressive clinical course and poor prognosis. Currently, there is no treatment option for relapsed or refractory extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma. Romidepsin is a histone deacetylase inhibitor which was approved for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. A recent phase II study of romidepsin for relapsed/refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma reported an overall response rate of 38% (95% confidence interval 24%-53%). The median duration of overall response was 8.9 months. Considering the median number of previous treatments in these patients was three (range 1-11), romidepsin has single agent activity against relapsed/refractory T-cell lymphoma. Thus, if the single agent activity of romidepsin is demonstrated, it could be a therapeutic agent for combination with salvage treatment.