Multicenter, Prospective Observational Study for Early Diagnosis, and Development of Follow-up Protocol and Hearing Rehabilitation Program for Ototoxic Hearing Loss After Chemotherapy for Pediatric Solid Cancer
More than half of all pediatric cancer in Korea are solid cancer. For the treatment of solid cancer, multidisciplinary methods such as surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy are applied, and with the development of the treatment method, the treatment performance has improved dramatically, and the 5-year survival rate of more than 80% is currently recorded. Due to the improvement in survival rate, interest in side effects caused by cancer treatment itself is gradually increasing, and efforts to reduce them are increasing. Accordingly, it aims to contribute to improving the quality of life of pediatric solid cancer survivors. by developing a Korean-type early diagnosis and follow-up protocol of ototoxic hearing loss, which commonly occurs in pediatric solid cancer who have undergone chemotherapy.
Solid Tumor, Childhood
OTHER: Chemotherapy involving cisplatin or carboplatin
Proportion of patients with ototoxic hearing loss, Proportion of patients with ototoxic hearing loss in total patients, 1 year after the initiation of chemotherapy
More than half of all pediatric cancer in Korea are solid cancer. For the treatment of solid cancer, multidisciplinary methods such as surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy are applied, and with the development of the treatment method, the treatment performance has improved dramatically, and the 5-year survival rate of more than 80% is currently recorded. Due to the improvement in survival rate, interest in side effects caused by cancer treatment itself is gradually increasing, and efforts to reduce them are increasing. Accordingly, it aims to contribute to improving the quality of life of pediatric solid cancer survivors. by developing a Korean-type early diagnosis and follow-up protocol of ototoxic hearing loss, which commonly occurs in pediatric solid cancer who have undergone chemotherapy.