Positron Emission Tomography Scan and CT Scan in Planning Radiation Therapy for Patients With Stage II or Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Imaging procedures, such as positron emission tomography (PET) scan and CT scan, may help doctors plan radiation therapy for patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well a combined PET scan and CT scan works compared to a CT scan alone in planning radiation therapy for patients with stage II or stage III non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: computed tomography|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography
The impact of positron emission tomography (PET)/CT fusion planning on GTV (cm³) vs. planning with CT scan alone, Two treatment plans are centrally reviewed to determine the difference in gross tumor volume between the plans|The impact of positron emission tomography (PET)/CT fusion planning on number of contoured lymph nodes vs. planning with CT scan alone, Two treatment plans are centrally reviewed to determine the difference in number of contoured lymph nodes between the plans|The impact of positron emission tomography (PET)/CT fusion planning on location of involved lymph nodes vs planning with CT scan alone, Two treatment plans are centrally reviewed to determine the difference in location of involved lymph nodes between the plans|The impact of positron emission tomography (PET)/CT fusion planning on lung V20 vs planning with CT scan alone, Two treatment plans are centrally reviewed to determine the difference in lung V20 between the plans|The impact of positron emission tomography (PET)/CT fusion planning vs planning with CT scan alone on mean esophagus dose, Two treatment plans are centrally reviewed to determine the difference in mean esophagus dose between the plans
Rate of elective nodal failures as assessed by failure in previously uninvolved regional lymph nodes at 2 years, From registration to 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the impact of positron emission tomography (PET)/CT fusion scan and CT scan alone, by comparing gross tumor volume (GTV) contours and three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy treatment plans using 2 separate data sets (PET/CT fusion scan and CT scan only), in patients with stage II or III non-small cell lung cancer who are planning to undergo radiotherapy.
* Determine the impact of PET on GTV (cm\^3), number of involved nodes, location of involved nodes, and dosimetric measures of normal tissue toxicity (mean lung dose, V20, and mean esophageal dose).

Secondary

* Determine the rate of elective nodal failures (nodal failures in regions that are not intentionally irradiated to definitive doses \[i.e., ipsilateral hilum, mediastinum, or ipsilateral supraclavicular fossa\]).

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no).

Patients undergo a combined positron emission tomography (PET)/CT scan. Patients also undergo a CT scan alone. A single three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT) plan is generated from the combined PET/CT scan results. A single 3DCRT plan using the planning target volume is derived from the CT scan only.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 48 patients will be accrued for this study.