CBM588 Capsules in Combination With Nivolumab and Ipilimumab for the Treatment of Advanced Stage Kidney Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, best dose, and effectiveness of CBM588 in combination with nivolumab and ipilimumab in treating patients with kidney cancer that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced). CBM588 is a live biotherapeutic that may help improve the effects of immunotherapy. Nivolumab and ipilimumab are monoclonal antibodies that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread by enhancing the ability of the body's immune cells to attack tumor cells. CBM588 in combination with nivolumab and ipilimumab may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating patients with advanced stage kidney cancer.
Advanced Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma|Advanced Sarcomatoid Renal Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Sarcomatoid Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|BIOLOGICAL: CBM588 Capsules|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Toxicities at least possibly related to study agent will be graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0., Up to 28 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), MTD estimate will be the highest dose with the occurrence of DLT in no more than 1 out of 6 of the patients., Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be graded using CTCAE. Summaries will be provided overall and by dose group. The number and percentage of subjects reporting treatment-emergent AEs (TEAE) will be summarized overall and by the worse CTCAE grade, with a breakdown by dose. The number and percentage of subjects reporting TEAEs considered related to each study drug will be summarized., Up to 3 years
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progressive disease or death, whichever occurs first. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The difference in PFS across dose levels will be explored using the log-rank test. Median PFS time for each dose level will be reported, and the Cox proportional hazard model will be used to estimate the hazard ratio and its confidence interval without adjustment for clinically relevant covariates., From enrollment to progression or death, assessed up to 3 years|Overall response rate (ORR), Evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression or recurrence. ORR will be calculated as the number of patients with complete or partial response divided by the total number of treated/evaluable subjects. ORR will be summarized by dose levels, number, and percentage, along with corresponding exact 95% confidence interval. The association between dose level and overall response as per RECIST v1.1 criteria will be examined using Fisher's exact test., Up to 3 years|Change in stool microbial diversity, The Shannon index will be computed from whole metagenome sequence data from stool samples to compare microbial diversity between baseline and 12 weeks and between the two study arms. The index takes into account the number of species (richness) and their relative abundance (evenness). A higher Shannon index indicates greater microbial diversity. The minimum value the Shannon diversity index can take is 0 (one species) and there is no upper limit to the index., Baseline to week 12 of therapy|Change in abundancies of gut microbiome species, The taxonomic composition of the microbiome will be determined from whole metagenome sequencing of stool samples and the relative abundancies of species will be compared between baseline and 12 weeks and between the two study arms. The relative abundancies will vary from 0 to 1., Baseline to week 12 of therapy|Metabolic pathways, The abundancies of gut microbiome metabolic pathways will be estimated using whole metagenome sequence data from stool samples. Metabolic pathways with significantly different counts between baseline and week 12 and between the two study arms will be compared., Baseline to week 12 of therapy|Changes in serum short chain fatty acids, The proportion of serum short chain fatty acids will be estimated using translational methods. The levels (ng/ml) of butyrate and other short chain fatty acids in blood will be assessed graphically over serial timepoints of blood collection to determine trends over time and between study arms., Baseline up to 3 years of therapy|Circulating regulatory T cells (Tregs) and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), The proportion of Tregs and MDSCs in the blood will be estimated using flow cytometry methods. The percentage of viable immune cells (from 0%-100%) will be assessed graphically over serial timepoints of blood collection to determine trends over time and between study arms., Baseline up to 3 years of therapy|Serum Cytokines, The levels (pg/ml) of serum cytokines in blood will be estimated using flow cytometry methods and will include IFN gamma, TNF alpha, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, GM-CSF, and other cytokines/chemokines. The relative levels of cytokines will be assessed graphically over serial timepoints of blood collection to determine trends over time and between study arms., Baseline up to 3 years of therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of nivolumab/ipilimumab with escalating doses of Clostridium butyricum MIYAIRI 588 capsules (CBM588) in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of CBM588 on the clinical efficacy of nivolumab/ipilimumab.

II. To determine the effect of CBM588 (in combination with nivolumab/ipilimumab) in modulation of the gut microbiome in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

III. To assess the effect of CBM588 on the change of metabolic pathways with the nivolumab/ipilimumab combination in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

IV. To determine the effect of CBM588 on systemic immunomodulation.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of CBM588 followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive CBM588 capsules orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 4 cycles. Patients then receive CBM588 PO BID on days 1-28 and nivolumab IV on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo computed tomography (CT), bone scan and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may optionally undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up once a year.