Penile Length Maintenance Post-Prostatectomy
The objective of the current study is to evaluate the efficacy of a novel, class I (ie. lowest risk, clinical studies not required) medical penile traction device in preventing loss of penile length in men undergoing robotic-assisted prostatectomy.
Prostate Cancer|Penile Diseases
DEVICE: RestoreX|OTHER: No treatment
Change in Penile Length, Stretched penile length measured in centimeters from pubic symphysis to glanular corona, Baseline, 6 months
Erectogenic Therapy Use, The percentage of subjects to use a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor for erectogenic therapy use, 6 months|Intracavernosal Injections, The percentage of subjects to use intracavernosal injections, 6 months|Change in Erectile Function Domain of International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), Erectile function domain will be measured by using the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire. IIEF is a validated, 15-item questionnaire that assesses 5 domains of sexual function: erectile function (range 1-30), orgasmic function (range 0-10), sexual desire (range 2-10), intercourse satisfaction (range 0-15), and overall sexual satisfaction (range 2-10). Each question was answered on a 6-point or 5-point scale from 0/1 to 5 (best) with a total possible score (sum of 5 domains) range of 5 to 75 with higher scores representing better function., baseline, 6 months|Change in Intercourse Satisfaction Domain of International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), Intercourse satisfaction will be measured by using the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire. IIEF is a validated, 15-item questionnaire that assesses 5 domains of sexual function: erectile function (range 1-30), orgasmic function (range 0-10), sexual desire (range 2-10), intercourse satisfaction (range 0-15), and overall sexual satisfaction (range 2-10). Each question was answered on a 6-point or 5-point scale from 0/1 to 5 (best) with a total possible score (sum of 5 domains) range of 5 to 75 with higher scores representing better function., Baseline, 6 months|Change in Overall Satisfaction Domain of International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), Overall satisfaction domain will be measured by using the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire. IIEF is a validated, 15-item questionnaire that assesses 5 domains of sexual function: erectile function (range 1-30), orgasmic function (range 0-10), sexual desire (range 2-10), intercourse satisfaction (range 0-15), and overall sexual satisfaction (range 2-10). Each question was answered on a 6-point or 5-point scale from 0/1 to 5 (best) with a total possible score (sum of 5 domains) range of 5 to 75 with higher scores representing better function., Baseline, 6 months
The treatment of prostate cancer results in several known sexual dysfunctions, including erectile dysfunction, orgasmic dysfunction, ejaculatory dysfunction, penile curvature (Peyronie's disease), and reduced penile length. Among the dysfunctions, loss of penile length is often one that results in significant distress and bother to patients. Beyond the esthetic concerns, reduced penile length may lead to inability to participate in sexual intercourse, difficulty with future interventions to restore erectile function, and lead to worsened urinary hygiene.

Penile traction therapy (PTT) is currently the best available treatment to maintain or restore lost penile length due to conditions that reduce length. To date, no studies have evaluated the benefits of using PTT in this clinical setting. The objective of the current study is to evaluate the efficacy of a novel penile traction device (RestoreX®), created and funded through Mayo Ventures, in maintaining or restoring reduced penile length.

To accomplish the study, a population of men from Mayo Clinic who have undergone a prostatectomy will be enrolled and randomized to utilize the device for varying amounts of time. Outcomes will be assessed at 6 and 9 months post-prostatectomy and results are to be used with the intent to publish in a scientific journal.