A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of Inactivated Varicella-Zoster Virus (VZV) Vaccine in Adults With Hematologic Malignancies (HM) Receiving Treatment With Anti-Cluster of Differentiation (CD) 20 Monoclonal Antibodies (V212-013)
An open-label, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of inactivated VZV vaccine (V212) in participants with hematologic malignancies (HM) who are currently receiving anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies. The primary hypothesis is that vaccination with V212 vaccine will elicit significant VZV-specific immune responses at \~28 days after vaccination 4. The statistical criterion for significance requires that the lower bound of the 2-sided 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean fold rise in immune response in V212 recipients is \>1.0.
Herpes Zoster
BIOLOGICAL: V212
Geometric Mean Fold Rise (GMFR) of the VZV-specific Immune Responses Measured by VZV Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) Enzyme-linked Immunospot (ELISPOT), The VZV ELISPOT assay detects IFN-γ-secreting, VZV-specific cells from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The unit of measure of the assay is ELISPOT cell count / 10\^6 PBMCs, and is expressed as geometric mean count (GMC). The GMFR is GMC at \~28 days after Vaccination 4 / GMC on Day 1., Prevaccination (Day 1) and ~28 days after Vaccination 4 (~Day 118)|Percentage of Participants With an Adverse Event, An adverse experience (AE) is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the product is also an adverse experience. The percentage of participants with any AE was summarized., Up to ~28 days after Vaccination 4 (~Day 118)|Percentage of Participants With an Injection-site Adverse Event, An adverse experience (AE) is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the product is also an adverse experience. The percentage of participants with any injection-site AE was summarized., Up to 5 days after any vaccination|Percentage of Participants With a Systemic Adverse Event, An adverse experience (AE) is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the product is also an adverse experience. The percentage of participants with any systemic AE was summarized., Up to ~28 days after Vaccination 4 (~Day 118)|Percentage of Participants With a Serious Adverse Event, A serious AE (SAE) is an AE that results in death, is life threatening, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, results in or prolongs an inpatient hospitalization, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, is an overdose, is a cancer, or is another important medical event. The percentage of participants with any SAE was summarized., Up to ~28 days after Vaccination 4 (~Day 118)|Percentage of Participants With a Vaccine-related Serious Adverse Event, A serious AE (SAE) is an AE that results in death, is life threatening, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, results in or prolongs an inpatient hospitalization, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, is an overdose, is a cancer, or is another important medical event. The percentage of participants with any SAE that was deemed by the investigator to be possibly, probably, or definitely related to study vaccine was summarized., Up to ~28 days after Vaccination 4 (~Day 118)|Percentage of Participants With Study Vaccination Withdrawn Due to an Adverse Event, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the product is also an adverse experience. The percentage of participants with study vaccine withdrawn due to an AE was summarized., Up to Vaccination 4 (~Day 90)
An open-label, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of inactivated VZV vaccine (V212) in participants with hematologic malignancies (HM) who are currently receiving anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies. The primary hypothesis is that vaccination with V212 vaccine will elicit significant VZV-specific immune responses at \~28 days after vaccination 4. The statistical criterion for significance requires that the lower bound of the 2-sided 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean fold rise in immune response in V212 recipients is \>1.0.