Cytarabine (Ara-C) in Children With Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (APL)
Several groups, especially the PETHEMA group (in their LPA96 and 99 trials), obtained low relapse rates in newly diagnosed Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (APL) patients by combining ll-transretinoic acid (ATRA) and anthracyclines without Ara-C, suggesting that avoiding Ara-C in the chemotherapy of APL reduced treatment toxicity without increasing relapses. While the relapse rate for the children with white blood cell(WBC) counts greater than 10×109/L at presentation were higher than those WBC counts less than 10×109/L (31% and 3.5%,respectively) in the LPA96 and 99 trials. A recent adult randomized trial show that avoiding Ara-C leads to an increased risk of relapse in the APL patients with WBC counts less than 10×109/L. The role of the Ara-C remains controversial. And there are very limited data reported on children with APL so far.
Leukemia
DRUG: DNR:|DRUG: Ara-c
the Overall Survival of APL Patients Treated With Retinoic Acid Receptor Alpha (ATRA) and Arsenic Trioxide (ATO) Based Trial, We assessed the OS of APL patients when ATRA and ATO were used. The overall survival (OS) durations was calculated from the date of diagnosis to last follow-up or death., two years|the Event-free Survival (EFS） of APL Patients Treated With Retinoic Acid Receptor Alpha (ATRA) and Arsenic Trioxide (ATO) Based Trial, We assessed the EFS of APL patients treated with retinoic acid receptor alpha (ATRA) and Arsenic Trioxide (ATO) based trial. Event-free survival (EFS) was defined as time from diagnosis to last follow-up or an event (relapse or death)., 2 years
Number of Participants With Side Effects, Also, we compared the side effect and outcome between the two groups.To assessed whether Ara-C could be omitted when ATO and ATRA were used., three years
Some studies suggest patients with high-risk disease should be treated with intensified doses of anthracycline, or intermediate/ high-dose Ara-C or As2O3 as an early consolidation, so as to decrease the risk of relapse.However, a higher cumulative dose of anthracycline may lead to cardiac toxicity, especially for children. In addition, containing Ara-C will led to more therapy-related toxicity. The benefit to add Ara-C to the schedules is questionable and remains a matter of investigation in children.