CXCR4 PET/MRI Targeted Imaging for Grading Diagnosis, Molecular Typing, and Prognostic Evaluation of Brain Glioma
This project intends to evaluate the role of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) targeted PET/MRI integrated imaging in the grading and molecular typing of brain gliomas, using primary glioma patients as the research subjects and post-operative histopathological analysis as the reference, and to establish an evaluation model for the prognosis of primary glioma patients.
Glioma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CXCR4
Standardised uptake values, Standardised uptake values of suspected glioma disease in CXCR4 PET/MRI imaging, completed within one week after the PET/MRI examination|expression of CD34, Immunohistochemical evaluation of the expression of CD34 in postoperative tumor tissue, completed within one week after surgery|expression of CXCR4, Immunohistochemical evaluation of the expression of CXCR4 in postoperative tumor tissue, completed within one week after surgery
SUV and histological grading of glioma, Correlation between SUV and histological grading of glioma, through study completion, an average of 1 year|CXCR4 expression and histological grading of glioma, Correlation between CXCR4 expression and histological grading of glioma, through study completion, an average of 1 year|SUV and IDH mutation status, Correlation between SUV and IDH mutation status, through study completion, an average of 1 year|SUV and 1p/19q deletion status, Correlation between SUV and 1p/19q deletion status, through study completion, an average of 1 year
1. PET/MRI Scan: Image acquisition was completed 15 days before surgery. CXCR4 contrast agent was injected at 6.5 MBq/kg based on body mass, with no drug extravasation, and imaging was performed after 60 minutes of quiet rest. All subjects were scanned in a supine position on a single bed of the Signa™ 3.0T scanner (GE Healthcare Systems), using a 3.0T gem HNU head coil with a scanning field of view focused on the head. PET acquisition lasted for 20 minutes and was reconstructed using OSEM. Simultaneous MRI acquisition included MR-based attenuation correction (MRAC) - zero echo time pulse sequence (ZTE), as well as structural and functional MRI sequences (T1WI, T2WI, FLAIR, DWI, MRS, DSC, T1-CE). Image fusion was performed on a GE post-processing workstation.
2. Image Analysis and Observation Indicators: PET/MRI images were independently reviewed and processed by two experienced neuroradiologists. Using IKT-SNAP software, target lesion VOIs were outlined based on FLAIR and T1-CE sequences. VOI delineation on the FLAIR sequence included solid tumor components, necrotic areas, and surrounding abnormal FLAIR signal regions. VOI delineation on the T1-CE sequence included enhanced solid components, non-enhanced solid components, and necrotic areas. MRI parameters (diffusion-weighted imaging parameters: ADC; perfusion imaging parameters: CBF, CBV, MTT, TTP; spectroscopic parameters: NAA, Cho, Cr, Lac, NAA/Cr, Cho/Cr) and PET parameters (SUVmax, SUVmean, SUVpeak, CXCR4 metabolic volume, TBR) were measured throughout the tumor and corresponding regions.
3. Pathological Analysis: Slices containing no less than 25% tumor tissue were used, with each slice having a thickness of 4um. HE, CD34, and CXCR4 immunohistochemical staining were performed separately. Two senior pathologists reviewed the slides using a double-blind method. IDH mutation status and 1p/19q deletion status were determined by the pathology department.