Novel Stent Placement Technique for Intestinal Stenosis Assisted by an Ultrafine Endoscope
Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide and results in 8-25% acute malignant bowel obstruction. Since Dohmoto et al. first applied and reported the self-expanding metal stents (SEMS) in the treatment of colorectal stenosis, they have been widely used not only as an alternative treatment as a bridge to surgery (BTS), but also as a mean of palliative option for stenosing lumen in clinical practice. Numerous publications have reported that the stent placement technique showed 75% to 100% technical success rates and 84% to 100% clinical success rates. However, it is sometimes difficult to place due to the distorted anatomy or acute angulations in patients and other conditions with poor endoscopic visualization with the normal colonoscope. The aims of this study were to present our results with two novel SEMS implantation techniques.
Colorectal Carcinoma
DEVICE: Ultrafine Endoscope
The technical success rate, the ratio between the patients with correctly placed SEMS and those scheduled for SEMS implantation., 1 hour
The clinical success rate, the ratio between the patients with regressive signs and symptoms of obstruction (within 24 h) and those succeeded for SEMS implantation., 24 hours|The adverse events rate, the ratio between the patients with adverse events (like perforation, bleeding, and reobstruction) and those succeeded for SEMS implantation., 2 year
Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide and results in 8-25% acute malignant bowel obstruction. Since Dohmoto et al. first applied and reported the self-expanding metal stents (SEMS) in the treatment of colorectal stenosis, they have been widely used not only as an alternative treatment as a bridge to surgery (BTS), but also as a mean of palliative option for stenosing lumen in clinical practice. Numerous publications have reported that the stent placement technique showed 75% to 100% technical success rates and 84% to 100% clinical success rates. However, it is sometimes difficult to place due to the distorted anatomy or acute angulations in patients and other conditions with poor endoscopic visualization with the normal colonoscope. The aims of this study were to present our results with two novel SEMS implantation techniques.