A Phase 1 Study of Anitocabtagene Autoleucel for the Treatment of Subjects With Non-oncology Plasma Cell-related Diseases
A Phase 1 dose-escalation study designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and preliminary efficacy of anito-cel in subjects with generalized myasthenia gravis (GMG). Anitocabtagene autoleucel (anito-cel) is a BCMA-directed CAR-T cell therapy.
Muscular Diseases|Neuromuscular Manifestations|Autoimmune|Autoimmune Diseases|Autoimmune Diseases of the Nervous System|Myasthenia Gravis|Muscle Weakness
BIOLOGICAL: anito-cel|DRUG: Standard Lymphodepletion regimen
Assess safety profile, including any DLT and MTD (if applicable), Type, incidence, and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), including DLT(s) and laboratory abnormalities, 24 months|Selection of RP2D, Evaluate the MTD and establish the RP2D, 24 months
Quantify Clinical Effect of Anito-cel in the Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living (MG ADL) score, The proportion of subjects achieving a ≥2-point change in the MG ADL score from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment. The MG-ADL is an 8-item patient-reported outcome measure assessing GMG symptoms and functional activities related to activities of daily living and producing a total score ranging from 0 to 24, where higher scores indicate greater severity of disease symptoms., 24 months|Quantify Clinical Effect of Anito-cel in the Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) score, The proportion of subjects achieving a ≥3-point change in the QMG from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment. The QMG score is a 13-item direct physician assessment scoring system that quantifies disease severity, based on impairments of body functions and structures. The total QMG score ranges from 0 to 39, where higher scores indicate greater disease severity., 24 months|Quantify Clinical Effect of Anito-cel in the Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC) scale., The proportion of subjects achieving a ≥3-point change in the MGC score from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment. The MGC is a 10-item assessment that measures signs and symptoms of GMG based on physical examination findings and patient history. The total score ranges from 0 to 50, where higher scores indicate more severe impairment., 24 months|Mean change in QMG score, The mean change in the QMG score from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment. The QMG score is a 13-item direct physician assessment scoring system that quantifies disease severity, based on impairments of body functions and structures. The total QMG score ranges from 0 to 39, where higher scores indicate greater disease severity., 24 months|Mean change in MG-ADL score, The mean change in the MG-ADLscore from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment. The MG-ADL is an 8-item patient-reported outcome measure assessing GMG symptoms and functional activities related to activities of daily living and producing a total score ranging from 0 to 24, where higher scores indicate greater severity of disease symptoms., 24 months|Mean change in MCG score, The mean change in the MGC score from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment. The MGC is a 10-item assessment that measures signs and symptoms of GMG based on physical examination findings and patient history. The total score ranges from 0 to 50, where higher scores indicate more severe impairment., 24 months|Mean change in MG-QoL15R score, The mean change in the MG QoL15R score from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment. The MG-QoL15 is a 15-item questionnaire that allows clinicians to estimate a patient's quality of life relevant to GMG. The cumulative scores range from 0 to 60, with higher scores representing decreased quality of life., 24 months|Change in titer of myasthenia specific autoantibodies, The proportion of subjects achieving ≥50% reduction in myasthenia-specific autoantibody titers from Baseline at any timepoint after treatment, 24 months|PK Parameter for anito-cel: Cmax, Cmax is defined as the maximum observed concentration of anitocel measured/quantified using vector copy number (VCN) on peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Day 1 up to 24 months|PK Parameter for anito-cel: Tmax, Tmax is defined as the time (observed time point) of Cmax of anitocel measured/quantified using vector copy number (VCN) on peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Day 1 up to 24 months|PK Parameter for anito-cel: Area under the curve (AUC), AUC is a measure of the anitocel concentration in the blood measured/quantified using VCN on peripheral blood mononuclear cells over time., Day 1 up to 24 months
This is a Phase 1 open-label, multi-center safety and dose-escalation study of anito-cel\* in adult subjects with GMG (MGFA Grade 2 to 4a), in whom immunosuppressive therapy is clinically indicated in the judgement of the treating neurologist. The primary objective of this study is to assess the safety profile, including any DLT and identification of a MTD (if applicable), to support selection of the RP2D of anito-cel when administered to subjects with GMG.

The study will have the following sequential phases: screening, enrollment (leukapheresis), pretreatment with lymphodepletion (LD) chemotherapy, treatment with anito-cel and follow-up. Optional bridging therapy is allowed at investigator discretion while anito-cel is being manufactured.

Following a single infusion of anito-cel both safety and efficacy data will be assessed. The DLTs will be assessed in the first 28 days following anito-cel administration, and safety data will be collected throughout the study.

\*Anitocabtagene autoleucel (anito-cel) drug product consists of autologous T cells that have been genetically modified ex vivo to express a D-domain Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR), followed by a cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) hinge and transmembrane region that is fused to the intracellular signaling domains for 4-1BB and CD3ξ, that specifically recognizes B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA). The active substance of anitocabtagene autoleucel is CAR+ CD3+ T cells that have undergone ex vivo T-cell activation, gene transfer by replication-deficient lentiviral vector, and expansion.