Study of Pembrolizumab, Carboplatin, Paclitaxel, and Radiation for the Treatment of Early-Stage Anal Cancer
A single arm phase II study of pembrolizumab, carboplatin, paclitaxel, and radiation for the treatment of early-stage anal cancer. There are 2 treatments phases and then surveillance. The first treatment phase is the chemoradiation phase (Cycle 1-6, weekly cycles) which is followed by the maintenance phase (Cycle 7-14, 6 week cycles).
Anal Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Clinical complete response rate (cCR) following weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel in combination with pembrolizumab and radiation for the treatment of early-stage anal cancer., Meets both of the following criteria:

1. There is no documented residual cancer on anoscopy. If residual cancer is suspected, a biopsy must be obtained.
2. No documented residual cancer or new metastatic disease on PET/CT, or if a PET/CT cannot be obtained, CT or MR imaging with contrast can be used. Physiologic PET avidity in the anal canal without evidence of cancer on anoscopy is still consistent with a clinical complete response., 6 months
Percentage of subjects with treatment emergent grade 3-4 toxicities, as defined by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5., Safety and tolerability will be measured as a percentage of subjects with treatment emergent grade 3-4 toxicities, as defined by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5., 3 years|Assess the overall response rate of weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel in combination with pembrolizumab and radiation for the treatment of anal cancer., Overall response rate as defined by RECIST 1.1, 3 years|Assess tumor downstaging, Changes in T or N staging per the AJCC V9.0 staging with be assessed comparing pre and post treatment imaging studies., 3 years|Disease-free survival of patients undergoing this treatment strategy., Disease free survival is defined as the time from completion of treatment until recurrence of disease as defined by RECIST 1.1 or death as a result of any cause, 3 years
A single arm phase II study of pembrolizumab, carboplatin, paclitaxel, and radiation for the treatment of early-stage anal cancer. There are 2 treatments phases and then surveillance. The first treatment phase is the chemoradiation phase (Cycle 1-6, weekly cycles) which is followed by the maintenance phase (Cycle 7-14, 6 week cycles).