Cervical Cancer Screening in HIV Positive and Negative Women in Cambodia
The prevalence of cervical neoplasia in Cambodia is not known. There are no screening programs in place. The investigators plan on introducing a screening program based on WHO criteria and utilizing visualization with acetic acid. Patients who are positive will be offered same-day cryotherapy if indicated or will be referred for biopsy, LEEP and hysterectomy as indicated. The planned patient pool for this study is 1000 women, half of whom will be HIV positive (and thus have a presumed higher incidence of cervical neoplasia).
Cervical Neoplasia|Cervical Cancer
PROCEDURE: cryotherapy, further biopsy, LEEP, surgery as indicated
Prevalence of cervical neoplasia in HIV positive women, 500 HIV positive women will be screened for cervical neoplasia using direct visualization with acetic acid, up to 12 months|Prevalence of cervical neoplasia in HIV negative women, 500 HIV negative women will be screened for cervical neoplasia using direct visualization with acetic acid, up to 12 months
Treatment of HIV positive women who screen as positive, Patients who screen positive will be offered same-day cryotherapy, further diagnostic work-up, and further therapeutic options such as LEEP and hysterectomy as clinically indicated., up to 12 months|Treatment of HIV negative women who screen as positive, Patients who screen positive will be offered same-day cryotherapy, further diagnostic work-up, and further therapeutic options such as LEEP and hysterectomy as clinically indicated., up to 12 months
The prevalence of cervical neoplasia in Cambodia is not known. There are no screening programs in place. The investigators plan on introducing a screening program based on WHO criteria and utilizing visualization with acetic acid. Patients who are positive will be offered same-day cryotherapy if indicated or will be referred for biopsy, LEEP and hysterectomy as indicated. The planned patient pool for this study is 1000 women, half of whom will be HIV positive (and thus have a presumed higher incidence of cervical neoplasia).