SU5416 and Irinotecan in Treating Patients With Advanced Colorectal Cancer
Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining SU5416 and irinotecan in treating patients who have advanced colorectal cancer. SU5416 may stop the growth of colorectal cancer by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Stage III Colon Cancer|Stage III Rectal Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: semaxanib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Time to disease progression (TTP), Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Associated 95% confidence intervals will be computed., 6 months
Overall tumor response rate (CR + PR), Associated 95% confidence intervals., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of entry on study to the date of death of the patients; assessed up to 3 years|Toxicity graded using the NCI CTC version 2.0, Up to 3 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity of SU5416 in combination with irinotecan in patients with advanced colorectal cancer.

II. Determine time to disease progression, objective response rate, and survival time in these patients receiving this regimen at the MTD.

III. Evaluate the safety and tolerance of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of SU5416.

Patients receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1-4 and SU5416 IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 4 of weeks 1-6. Treatment continues every 6 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SU5416 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, additional patients are accrued to receive treatment with SU5416 and irinotecan at the recommended phase II dose.

Patients are followed every 3 months.