Interferon-alpha As Maintenance Therapy for Favorable-risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This research focuses on a prospective, randomized, controlled trial of "Interferon-alpha as maintenance therapy for favorable-risk acute myeloid leukemia." By fully utilizing prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial and studying the negative conversion of MRD and the survival of favorable-risk AML patients, it aims to explore the efficacy and safety of Interferon-alpha in the maintenance treatment of favorable-risk AML and identify effective measures to prevent relapse, thereby improving the survival of favorable-risk AML patients. The primary endpoint is the negative conversion of MRD at 6 months. The secondary endpoints include the 2-year cumulative incidence of relapse, 2-year event-free survival (EFS), 2-year overall survival (OS), and safety.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Interferon
6-month negative conversion of MRD, MFC-MRD or RT-PCR genes (AML1-ETO, NPM1, and CBFb-MYH11) transition from positive to negative., Participants will be followed for a minimum of 2 years until the last enrolled participants was followed up for at least 2 years.
CIR, The number of patients with relapse calculated from the randomization time to the last follow-up time., Participants will be followed for a minimum of 2 years until the last enrolled participants was followed up for at least 2 years.|EFS, Events include treatment failure (MRD positivity or molecular progression), relapse, or death from any cause., Participants will be followed for a minimum of 2 years until the last enrolled participants was followed up for at least 2 years.|OS, calculated from randomization time to the time of death or the last follow-up time., Participants will be followed for a minimum of 2 years until the last enrolled participants was followed up for at least 2 years.|Treatment-related Safety Indicators, Mainly include hematologic toxicity and liver toxicity., Participants will be followed for a minimum of 2 years until the last enrolled participants was followed up for at least 2 years.
This research focuses on a prospective, randomized, controlled trial of "Interferon-alpha as maintenance therapy for favorable-risk acute myeloid leukemia." By fully utilizing prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial and studying the negative conversion of MRD and the survival of favorable-risk AML patients, it aims to explore the efficacy and safety of Interferon-alpha in the maintenance treatment of favorable-risk AML and identify effective measures to prevent relapse, thereby improving the survival of favorable-risk AML patients. The primary endpoint is the negative conversion of MRD at 6 months. The secondary endpoints include the 2-year cumulative incidence of relapse, 2-year event-free survival (EFS), 2-year overall survival (OS), and safety.