Sorafenib and Interferon Alfa in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Kidney Cancer
Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for their growth or by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Interferon alfa may interfere with the growth of tumor cells and slow the growth of kidney cancer. Sorafenib may help interferon alfa kill more tumor cells by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving sorafenib together with interferon alfa may kill more tumor cells. This phase II trial is studying how well giving sorafenib with interferon alfa works in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic kidney cancer.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Papillary Renal Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interferon alfa|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall response rate (CR+PR) using RECIST criteria, CR+PR rate will be calculated with exact 90% confidence intervals., Up to 5 years|Grade 3+ toxicities assessed using NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Toxicities will be tabulated by type and grade. Toxicity rates will be calculated with exact 90% confidence intervals., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., Up to 5 years|Duration of response, Kaplan-Meier curves will be used., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented , assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the feasibility and tolerability of sorafenib and interferon alfa in patients with locally advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

II. Determine the response rate (complete response and partial response) in patients treated with this regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the progression-free survival and response duration of patients treated with this regimen.

II. Correlate changes in laboratory parameters with response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily and interferon alfa subcutaneously three times a week for 8 weeks. Courses repeat every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients with stable or responding disease are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 1 year or until disease progression.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 10 months.