Acalabrutinib Maintenance for the Treatment of Patients With Large B-cell Lymphoma
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects and efficacy of maintenance acalabrutinib following cellular therapy in treating patients with large B-cell lymphoma at very high risk of the cancer coming back. Acalabrutinib is a small molecular inhibitor that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|High-grade B-cell Lymphoma|Transformed Lymphoma|Secondary Central Nervous System Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib
Permanent discontinuation of acalabrutinib, Tolerability will be determined by the number of patients who permanently discontinue acalabrutinib within 12 months from cellular therapy due to intolerance. The proportion of patients with acalabrutinib discontinuation will be reported along with 95% and 90% confidence intervals., Up to 12 months from cellular therapy
Progression-free survival (PFS), The 1-year PFS will be evaluated based on progression of disease per Lugano criteria or death, and will be reported based on Kaplan-Meier estimates along with 95% confidence interval., At 12 months from cellular therapy|PFS, Will be reported based on 95% confidence intervals at annual time points., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Time from cellular therapy to death due to any cause, assessed at 1 and 5 years based on Kaplan-Meier estimates along with 95% confidence interval, Up to 5 years|Rate of conversion from partial response following chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy to complete response after the addition of acalabrutinib maintenance, Will be reported based on 95% confidence intervals., Up to day 365|Incidence of dose reductions, interruptions, or discontinuations of acalabrutinib based on the protocol criteria, Will be reported based on 95% confidence intervals., Up to day 365|Incidence of graft versus host disease (GvHD) >= stage 2, Based on the Mount Sinai Acute GVHD International Consortium criteria for acute GvHD and the National Institutes of Health consensus criteria for chronic GvHD. Will be reported based on 95% confidence intervals., Up to day 365|Incidence of hematologic adverse events, Based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. Will be reported based on 95% confidence intervals., Up to day 365|Incidence of non-hematologic adverse events, Based on CTCAE v5.0. Will be reported based on 95% confidence intervals., Up to day 365
CAR T-cell persistence, CAR T-cell persistence measured by mass cytometry upon enrollment, 90 days after initiation of acalabrutinib, and at time of relapse., Up to 5 years|Immunophenotyping of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Types and numbers of proteins present on the leukemia cell surface via mass cytometry upon enrollment, 90 days after initiation of acalabrutinib, and at time of relapse, Up to 5 years|Intracellular cytokine and phospho-protein profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Types of proteins involved in cell signaling in leukemia cells via mass cytometry upon enrollment, 90 days after initiation of acalabrutinib, and at time of relapse., Up to 5 years|Acalabrutinib metabolite, Acalabrutinib metabolite detected in the cerebral spinal fluid at 1-3 weeks after initiation of acalabrutinib in participants with history of secondary central nervous system lymphoma., At 1-3 weeks after initiation of acalabrutinib
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of maintenance acalabrutinib following cellular therapy in participants with large B-cell lymphoma at very high risk for relapse.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the effectiveness of maintenance acalabrutinib following cellular therapy in participants with large B-cell lymphoma at high risk for relapse.

II. To estimate the durability of remission after completion of acalabrutinib maintenance.

III. To estimate survival following completion of acalabrutinib maintenance. IV. To estimate the rate of conversion from partial response (PR) following chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy to complete response (CR) after the addition of acalabrutinib maintenance.

V. To estimate rates of dose reductions, dose pauses, and permanent discontinuations of acalabrutinib that occur post-cellular therapy.

VI. To estimate the rate of stage \>= 2 graft-versus-host disease in participants receiving acalabrutinib post-allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT).

VII. To estimate the rates of grade 2, 3, and 4 hematologic toxicity in participants receiving acalabrutinib post-cellular therapy.

VIII. To estimate the rates of grade 2, 3, and 4 non-hematologic toxicity in participants receiving acalabrutinib post-cellular therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate CAR T-cell persistence in the setting of acalabrutinib. II. To evaluate changes in immunophenotype of peripheral blood mononuclear cells before and after initiation of acalabrutinib, and changes at time of relapse.

III. To evaluate changes in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA), intracellular cytokine and phospho-protein profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells before and after initiation of acalabrutinib, and changes at time of relapse.

IV. To determine if there are signs of central nervous system (CNS) penetration of acalabrutinib.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups.

GROUP I (ALLOHCT GROUP): Beginning day 90, patients receive acalabrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and then( orally, twice daily (PO BID) once no longer on prophylactic antifungal (CYP34A inhibitors) until day 365 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II (AUTOLOGOUS STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION \[ASCT\] GROUP): Beginning day 60, patients receive acalabrutinib PO QD and then PO BID from day 74 if there are no dose reductions until day 365 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP III (CAR-T CELL THERAPY GROUP): Beginning anytime between days 28-104, patients receive acalabrutinib PO BID until day 365 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.