Immunogene-modified T (IgT) Cells Against Glioblastoma Multiforme
This study aims to treat patients who have been diagnosed with brain cancer glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) including diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) and diffuse midline glioma (DMG). The treatment combines two different approaches to fight cancer: immune modulators and antigen-specific T cells. Immune checkpoint antibodies have been tested on various tumors with good outcomes. GBM is known to express increased levels of certain antigens that can be targeted by T cells including chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells and tumor antigen specific cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs). In this study, the gene-modified T cells specific for GBM antigens will be combined with immune modulatory gene-modified dendritic cells (DCs) as individualized treatment regimens to treat patients.
Glioblastoma Multiforme of Brain|Brain Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Antigen-specific IgT cells
Safety of infusion of autologous IgT cells with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine as lymphodepleting chemotherapy in patients with recurrent glioblastoma using the NCI CTCAE V4.0 criteria., incidents of treatment related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE V4.0., 1 years
Treatment response rate of recurrent glioblastoma, Defined as the proportion of patients who achieved complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD)., 6 months|Overall survival Rate, Percentage of participants with objective response as determined by the investigator based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), 2 years|Progression-free survival rate, Progression-free Survival (PFS) as determined by the investigator based on RECIST v1.1, 2 years|Persistence and proliferation of IgT cells in patients, IgT cell percentage in the peripheral blood by qPCR, 2 years
Background:

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most dangerous and aggressive form of brain cancer. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells have been shown to mediate long-term durable remissions in recurrent or refractory hematopoietic malignancies, and thus the CAR-T therapy approach is also considered a promising treatment against GBM. Some surface antigens such as GD2 and CD56 have been targeted as potential GBM antigens. In addition, certain antigens are highly specific in GBM, such as epidermal growth factor receptor variant EGFRviii and metastasis related antigen CD44v6.

Tumor microenvironment is known to suppressive anti-cancer immune responses. Many immune checkpoint inhibitors have demonstrated marked anti-tumor activities. For example, CD276 is a member of the B7 family of immune checkpoint proteins, and CD276-specific CAR-T cell therapy have been considered a potential brain tumor microenvironment treatment. Besides immune checkpoint inhibitor antibodies, antigen-specific T cells modified with immune modulatory genes (IgT) such as genes encoding immune checkpoint inhibitors may be applied. Combination of tumor targeting and immune modulatory activities, the IgT cells could target both the tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment.