Efficacy and Safety of HAIC in Combination With TQB2868 and Ramucirumab for Second-line Treatment of Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
In recent years, with the emergence of various new targeted and immunotherapy drugs, drug therapy for advanced Hepatocellular carcinoma has also seen continuous breakthroughs. The effective rate, progression free survival, and overall survival of advanced Hepatocellular carcinoma have all significantly improved. At present, internationally recognized first-line treatments available include atezolizumab+bevacizumab (T+A), lenvatinib, sorafenib, Durvalumab+tremelimumab, etc. However, the effective rate of first-line treatment has not exceeded 50%, and most patients face difficulties such as drug resistance or treatment failure. Second line treatment for Hepatocellular carcinoma still faces many difficulties and challenges. The aim of this study is to explore the effectiveness and safety of HAIC combined with TQB2868 and Ramucirumab in second-line treatment of advanced HCC patients.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma，Bispecific Antibodies, HAIC, Ramucirumab
DRUG: HAIC（Oxaliplatin+ Raltitrexed）、TQB2868、Ramucirumab
Objective response rate, The proportion of patients whose tumors have shrunk to a certain amount and maintained for a certain period of time, including complete response and partial response, 24 months
Overall Survival (OS), Time from enrollment to death, Up to approximately 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) based on RECIST v1.1 assessment, 6 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Up to approximately 1 years|Incidence of Adverse Events and Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Safety and tolerability, Up to approximately 2 years
In recent years, with the emergence of various new targeted and immunotherapy drugs, drug therapy for advanced Hepatocellular carcinoma has also seen continuous breakthroughs. The effective rate, progression free survival, and overall survival of advanced Hepatocellular carcinoma have all significantly improved. At present, internationally recognized first-line treatments available include atezolizumab+bevacizumab (T+A), lenvatinib, sorafenib, Durvalumab+tremelimumab, etc. However, the effective rate of first-line treatment has not exceeded 50%, and most patients face difficulties such as drug resistance or treatment failure. Second line treatment for Hepatocellular carcinoma still faces many difficulties and challenges. The aim of this study is to explore the effectiveness and safety of HAIC combined with TQB2868 and Ramucirumab in second-line treatment of advanced HCC patients.