Efficacy and Safety of HL-085 Combined With Vemurafenib in BRAF V600E Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: a Phase II Clinical Study
This is a single-arm, open, multicenter phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of HL-085 capsules combined with Vemurafenib in the treatment of BRAF V600E mutated patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC. Meanwhile, to explore the relationship between pop-PK characteristics, efficacy and safety in the treatment of HL-085 combined with Vemurafenib
Non-small-cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: HL-085+Vemurafenib
ORR, Defined as the proportion of subjects with an optimal response of CR or PR over the course of the study from enrollment to disease progression (PD), dominated by IRC assessment. CR and PR must be reassessed for confirmation ≥4 weeks after first meeting mitigation criteria;, through study completion, an average of 1 year
DOR, Defined as the time from the first CR or PR evaluation of tumor efficacy to the first occurrence of PD or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), through study completion, an average of 1 year
This study was intended to be divided into two study cocohorts. Cohort one was BRAF V600E mutated NSCLC patients who had not received systemic treatment (first-line). Cohort 2 included patients with BRAF V600E mutated NSCLC who had received systemic therapy (second-line and above); There were 30 patients in cohort 1 and 39 in cohort 2, a total of 69 evaluable cases. A sample size of 73 patients with advanced NSCLC with BRAF V600E mutation (32 /41, respectively) was calculated at a 5% shedding rate. All patients in the first/second line and above were eligible for inclusion. The treatment regimen was HL-085 9mg BID+ Vemurafenib 720mg BID oral administration for 21 days per cycle. The primary efficacy endpoint in this study was the ORR assessed by the Independent Review Committee (IRC) according to the RECIST 1.1 Efficacy Evaluation Criteria for solid tumors. Subjects were evaluated for tumor imaging every 6 weeks (±7 days), and for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at the first imaging assessment, reconfirmation was performed at ≥4 weeks. Safety will be assessed by vital signs, physical examination, ECOG score, clinical laboratory tests (blood routine, blood biochemistry, coagulation function, urine routine, myocardial enzymes), 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), echocardiogram (ECHO) examination, and incidence and severity of AE.