Sorafenib Tosylate and Temsirolimus in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of temsirolimus when given together with sorafenib tosylate and to see how well they work in treating patients with glioblastoma that has come back. Sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temsirolimus, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Sorafenib tosylate and temsirolimus may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving sorafenib tosylate with temsirolimus may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Conventional Surgery|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate|DRUG: Temsirolimus
Progression-free Survival, The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients alive and progression-free 6 months after study treatment initiation.

If more than 41 evaluable patients are accrued in group 1 or group 3, the additional patients will not be used to evaluate the decision rule for that group or otherwise used in any decision-making processes. However, they will be included in the final point and confidence interval estimates for that group.

The 'success' probability, i.e., 6-month progression-free survival percentage, for each of group 1 and group 3 will be estimated as the number of evaluable patients still alive at 6 months divided by the total number of evaluable patients followed for at least 6 months. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the 'success' probability will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner.

Progression is defined as a 25% increase in product of perpendicular diameters of contrast enhancement or mass or appearance of new lesions., At 6 months
Overall Survival, The overall survival distribution will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From start of study registration to death due to any cause or until last follow-up, up to 5 years|Objective Response, as Determined by a Neurological Exam, MRI, and/or CT Measurement, The proportion of patients in each response category will be summarized and 90% confidence intervals calculated assuming that the incidence of response is binomially distributed., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier survival curves will be used to estimate progression-time distributions., Time from study registration to date of disease progression or last follow-up, assessed up to 5 years
Primary Objective -

Phase I (closed to accrual as of 01/11/2008):

To establish a maximum tolerable dose of temsirolimus in combination with sorafenib in patients with recurrent glioblastoma not receiving enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants (EIACs).

Phase II (closed to accrual as of 12/07/2012):

To assess the efficacy of temsirolimus and sorafenib in the treatment of recurrent glioblastoma in non-EIAC patients as measured by progression-free survival status at six months (PFS6).

Secondary Objectives -

Phase I (closed to accrual as of 01/11/2008):

I. To define the safety profile of temsirolimus and sorafenib in non-EIAC patients.

II. To assess the evidence of antitumor activity.

Phase II (closed to accrual as of 12/07/2012):

I. To assess the safety and toxicities of temsirolimus and sorafenib in the above-noted patient populations.

Outline: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Phase I (Arm A): Patients receive sorafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and temsirolimus intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of temsirolimus until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Phase II: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

Group 1 (Arm B): Patients receive sorafenib and temsirolimus as in phase I at the MTD. (patients not undergoing surgery)

Group 2 (Arm C): Patients receive sorafenib PO BID on days 1-8 (15 doses) and temsirolimus IV at the MTD on day 1. Patients undergo surgery on day 8. (patients undergoing surgery) After recovering from surgery, patients receive sorafenib and temsirolimus as in phase I at the MTD.

Group 3 (Arm D): Patient receive sorafenib and temsirolimus as in phase I at the MTD. (patients who have received prior anti-vascular endothelial growth factor \[VEGF\] therapy and are not undergoing surgery)

Biopsy or resected tissue and blood are collected prior to treatment (usually at diagnosis) and analyzed for biomarkers. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.