A Phase II Clinical Trial Evaluating the Combination of Olaparib and Temozolomide for the Treatment of Advanced Uterine Leiomyosarcoma
This phase II trial studies olaparib and temozolomide in treating patients with uterine leiomyosarcoma (LMS) that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced), that has spread from where it first started to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). PARPs are proteins that help repair DNA mutations. PARP inhibitors, such as olaparib, can keep PARP from working, so tumor cells can't repair themselves, and they may stop growing. Chemotherapy drugs, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving olaparib and temozolomide may work better than giving either drug alone in treating patients with LMS.
Stage III Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Core Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Temozolomide
Confirmed Objective Response Rate (ORR) (Complete Response + Partial Response), Will be measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 criteria assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions, any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm (\<1 cm); Partial Response (PR), at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. A response rate of 10% is considered inactive and unworthy of further study. A response rate of 35% would be promising for further study among patients with advanced uterine leiomyosarcoma (LMS) treated with at least one prior systemic regimen. A response rate of 35% for the temozolomide (TMZ) + poly(adenosine diphosphate\[ADP\]-ribose) polymerase inhibitor (PARPi) combination would also be suggestive of superior efficacy over TMZ monotherapy in sarcoma. Will be reported with a 95% confidence interval., Within first 6 months of study treatment
Number of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events, Recorded at each clinical visit and will be categorized according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Number of patients experiencing a grade 3 or greater adverse event will be reported., Up to 2 years after study treatment|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to evaluate time to event endpoints. Median PFS will be reported with a 95% confidence interval., Time from first treatment with the study drug to the earliest of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Proportion of Uterine LMS Tumors Exhibit Homologous Recombination (HR) Deficiency, Will be measured by genomic alterations in HR components at baseline and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair protein RAD51 homolog (RAD51) foci formation. The two integrated assays are genomics for alterations in HR genes and RAD51 foci formation. Both of these assays report binary results. The rate of response will be compared between binary variables using the Fisher's exact test. The log-rank test will be used to compare PFS between binary variables. Additional results from whole exome sequencing and ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq) analysis on study samples will be reported in a descriptive fashion., Up to 2 years|Schlafen Family Member Number 11(SLFN11) Protein Expression, Will be assessed by immunohistochemistry (ICH). Macro ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression may also be performed. Expression are reported as a continuous variable. Logistic regression will be used to estimate the odds of response for every unit increase in protein expression. Cox-regression will be used to evaluate the association between PFS and protein expression. Graphical displays such as box plots and Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to visualize the data. Evaluate for any association between presence of HR deficiency and increased clinical benefit from study treatment., Up to 2 years|Proportion of MGMT Protein Expression in Uterine LMS Tumors, Will be assessed by ICH. mRNA expression may also be performed. Expression are reported as a continuous variable. Logistic regression will be used to estimate the odds of response for every unit increase in protein expression. Cox-regression will be used to evaluate the association between PFS and protein expression. Graphical displays such as box plots and Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to visualize the data. Evaluate for any association between MGMT expression and increased clinical benefit from the study treatment., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether combination treatment with temozolomide (TMZ) + olaparib shows preliminary evidence of clinical activity among patients with advanced uterine leiomyosarcoma (LMS) as measured by the confirmed objective response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity profile associated with the combination treatment. II. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) associated with the combination treatment.

III. To evaluate what proportion of uterine LMS tumors exhibit homologous recombination (HR) deficiency as measured by (1) genomic alterations in HR components at baseline and (2) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair protein RAD51 homolog (RAD51) foci formation at baseline and while on study treatment.

IV. To evaluate the feasibility of these assays in human tissue, and to preliminarily evaluate for any association between presence of HR deficiency as measured by each assay and increased clinical benefit from the study treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate what proportion of uterine LMS tumors exhibit HR deficiency as measured by Schlafen family member number 11(SLFN11) protein expression at baseline.

II. To evaluate the feasibility of this assay in human tissue, and to preliminarily evaluate for any association between presence of HR deficiency as measured by this assay and increased clinical benefit from the study treatment.

III. To evaluate MGMT protein expression in uterine LMS tumors, and to preliminarily evaluate for any association between MGMT expression and increased clinical benefit from the study treatment.

IV. To perform an optional third tissue biopsy in patients who initially benefit from study treatment but later show early evidence of disease progression to evaluate for changes in the status of the RAD51 foci, MGMT, and SLFN11 assays at that time.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice per day (BID) and temozolomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-7 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial and undergo tumor biopsy at screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months until death or withdrawal of consent.