Gemcitabine, Bendamustine, and Nivolumab in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of gemcitabine, bendamustine, and nivolumab when given together and to see how well they work in treating patients with classic Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and bendamustine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving gemcitabine, bendamustine, and nivolumab may work better in treating patients with classic Hodgkin lymphoma.
Recurrent Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Gemcitabine|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Maximum tolerable dose (Phase I), Maximum tolerable dose will be defined as the highest dose level where at most 1 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT)., Up to completion of course 2 at 42 days after study start|Complete response (CR) rate (Phase II), Complete response rate will be determined by dividing the number of CRs (per Lugano criteria) by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 2 years from discontinuation of study therapy
Overall response rate (Phase II), Overall response rate will be evaluated using Lugano criteria of response. Overall response rate will be defined as the total number of patients achieving a partial response or CR as best response through cycle 6 divided by total number of patients treated., Up to 2 years from discontinuation of study therapy|Duration of response (Phase II), Duration of response will be evaluated using Lugano criteria of response and will be determined from date of best response to progression or death., Up to 2 years from discontinuation of study therapy|Progression free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Progression free survival will be evaluated using Lugano criteria and will be determined from date of first dose of study drug to progression or death., Up to 2 years from discontinuation of study therapy|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), Overall survival will be evaluated using Lugano criteria and will be determined from date of first dose of study drug to death from any cause., Up to 2 years from discontinuation of study therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of combined gemcitabine, bendamustine, and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma.

II. To determine the efficacy of bendamustine, gemcitabine, and nivolumab in patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the duration of response, progression-free survival, and overall survival for patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma who receive gemcitabine, bendamustine, and nivolumab, including those who receive nivolumab maintenance.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, bendamustine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 2, and nivolumab over 60 minutes IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may then receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment with single agent nivolumab repeats every 28 days for up to 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.