Adapting a Mammography Decision Aid to Support Women Living in a Community Contaminated by PFAS
This community-engaged research project will test an adapted online breast cancer screening decision aid to address the needs of women living in an area where environmental contamination has increased concern about breast cancer risk. It will provide novel data on individual experiences with breast cancer risk assessment and decisional determinants of screening choices in a community disproportionately impacted by industrial pollution.
Breast Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: MyMammogram decision aid
Acceptability, Acceptability e-scale,72 a 6-item measure for electronically-delivered interventions, Within 1 day, post-intervention
Knowledge, 10 Knowledge items summed to measure understanding of clinical screening, alternatives, main benefits/risks, Immediately pre-intervention, within 1 day post-intervention|Decisional Conflict, The "SURE" measure, a 4-item validated checklist to assess decisional conflict, including benefits and risks of test, Immediately pre-intervention, within 1 day post-intervention|Screening self-efficacy, 10-item validated scale measuring self efficacy in obtaining mammography with summed score, range 5-50, Immediately pre-intervention, within 1 day post-intervention|Screening Intentions, 15-point validated scale measuring intentions and 1 decision question (yes/no/unsure), Immediately pre-intervention, within 1 day post-intervention
Environmental contamination is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of cancer disparities, and communities impacted by industrial pollution experience greater risk of cancer and higher cancer worry which complicates health decision making. Recently the National Academies of Science Engineering and Medicine (NASEM) released guidance suggesting that per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are suggestively associated with breast cancer risk and that individuals with moderate to high blood concentrations of these chemicals should screen for breast cancer according to age and other risk factors as recommended by the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF). Mammography screening guidelines for women in their 40s increasingly call for the use of risk assessment tools to guide screening initiation and imaging intervals (e.g. every year vs. every two years), but current tools do not address environmental risk factors that can contribute to breast cancer risk. This poses a particular challenge in communities where there is a real or perceived increased risk of breast cancer stemming from an environmental contamination concern. There are currently no decision tools tailored to help women living in such communities with their decisions about breast cancer screening. Therefore, the goal of the proposed work is to test an adapted online decision aid to incorporate environmental risk messaging to increase informed breast cancer screening decisions for women 40-49 years of age living in the greater Merrimack, New Hampshire area, where known and ongoing PFAS contamination exists. In partnership with Merrimack Citizens for Clean Water, we will distribute a community survey among screening-eligible women to test the new risk messaging within the decision aid (n=100) and establish acceptability in an open-label, single arm trial. The proposed research will contribute novel data on community-driven priorities for information about environmental contaminants that may affect breast cancer risk assessment and screening decisions.