Decitabine and Cytarabine in Treating Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia, High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome, or Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
This clinical trial studies decitabine and cytarabine in treating older patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome that is likely to come back or spread to other places in the body, or myeloproliferative neoplasm. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as decitabine and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving decitabine and cytarabine may work better than standard therapies in treating cancers of the bone marrow and blood cells, such as acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or myeloproliferative neoplasm.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia-2|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Decitabine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Overall Survival of Patients Over Age 60 With Newly Diagnosed AML/High Risk MDS, Compared to historical data of a completed Southwestern Oncology Group (SWOG) trial of azacitidine and gemtuzumab ozogamicin., At 6 months
Response Rate, Rate of Complete Response or Complete Response with Incomplete Count Recovery, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine whether a combination of decitabine given for 10 days (days 1-10), rather than the usual 5 days, plus "standard dose cytarabine (ara-C) (100 mg/m\^2 daily days 1-7) might improve 6-month survival probability from the historical 65% to 80% in patients age \>= 60 with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

II. Test whether this combination might maintain complete response (CR) rate at our historic 45% in these patients.

III. Study factors that lead physicians to escalate or maintain ara-C doses in those patients who have had an "intermediate response" short of CR to the first 2 cycles of the combination.

IV. While maintaining awareness of confounding covariates, examine the effect of such dose escalation on CR rate.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) daily on days 1-10 and cytarabine IV once daily (QD) on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 28-35 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After course 3, patients achieving remission will receive 1-2 more courses of therapy at the same dose. Patients in remission with significant side effects will receive decitabine and cytarabine at decreased doses. Patients not achieving remission will not receive any more treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 months and then periodically.