Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine Consistency and Non-inferiority Trial in Young Adult Women
The study will be extended for subjects who received all three doses of vaccine in Finland, Denmark and Estonia to determine long-term safety and immunogenicity of the HPV-16/18 vaccine. Human Papilloma virus (HPV) are viruses that cause a common infection of the skin and genitals in men and women. Several types of HPV infection are transmitted by sexual activity and, in women, can infect the cervix (part of the uterus or womb). This infection often goes away by itself, but if it does not go away (this is called persistent infection), it can lead in women over a long period of time to cancer of the cervix. If a woman is not infected by HPV, it is very unlikely that she will get cervical cancer. This study will evaluate the consistency of consecutive vaccine lots and the non-inferiority of modified manufacturing processes of GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals HPV-16/18 vaccine and the vaccine safety, over 12 months, in young adolescents and women of 10-25 years of age at study start.
Papillomavirus Type 16/18 Infection|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
BIOLOGICAL: Cervarix™
Titers of Anti-human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed as Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay Units Per Milliliter (EL.U/mL).

\*Data for Month 18 outcome variables were incorporated into the Month 24 analyses., At months 18*, 24, 36 and 48
Titers of Anti-human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies in Cervical Samples, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed as EL.U/mL., At months 24, 36, and 48|Titers of Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Antibodies in Blood Samples, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed as EL.U/mL., At Months 24, 36 and 48|Number of Subjects Reporting Pregnancies, New Onset Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Other Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), NOCDs assessed include e.g. autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes. MSCs assessed include adverse events prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or serious adverse events (SAEs) that are not related to common diseases., Throughout the study period (up to Month 48)|Number of Subjects Reporting SAEs, SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that result in death, are life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject., Throughout the study period (up to Month 48)
Approximately 750 study subjects received different lots of the HPV vaccine administered intramuscularly according to a 0-1-6 month schedule.

The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007.