Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Two Different Dosing Schedules of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Compared to Ipilimumab in Participants With Advanced Melanoma (MK-3475-006/KEYNOTE-006)
This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of 2 different dosing schedules of pembrolizumab (MK-3475), every 2 weeks (Q2W) and every 3 weeks (Q3W), and compare the 2 schedules to treatment with ipilimumab in ipilimumab-naïve participants with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The primary hypotheses are that pembrolizumab is superior to ipilimumab with respect to progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab
Progression-free Survival (PFS) According to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Independent Radiology Plus Oncology Review (IRO), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression, based on blinded Independent Radiology plus Oncology review (IRO) using RECIST 1.1, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was defined as a 20% or greater increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm or the appearance of new lesions. The primary analysis of PFS was performed at the time of the first protocol pre-specified statistical analysis, with data cut-off of 03-Sep-2014., Up to approximately 12 months (through first pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 03-Sep-2014)|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival (OS) at 12 Months, OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The percentage of participants with OS (OS rate) at 12 months was reported for each arm. The reported percentage was estimated using a product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data; data were censored at the date of cut-off. The primary analysis of OS was performed at the time of the second protocol pre-specified statistical analysis, with data cut-off of 03-Mar-2015., Month 12
Objective Response Rate (ORR) According to RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by IRO, ORR was defined as the percentage of the participants with a best tumor response of complete response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions with any pathological lymph nodes having a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm) or partial response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), based on IRO using RECIST 1.1. The primary analysis of ORR was performed at the time of the first protocol pre-specified statistical analysis, with data cut-off of 03-Sep-2014., Up to approximately 12 months (through first pre-specified statistical analysis cut-off date of 03-Sep-2014)
Participants assigned to a primary course of pembrolizumab can receive up to 24 months of treatment. Participants with Stable Disease (SD) or better will then proceed to Post Treatment Follow-up. All efficacy and safety analyses will be based on the primary pembrolizumab course.

Participants who experience disease progression during the Post Treatment Follow-up will be eligible for a Second Course of pembrolizumab treatment for up to 1 additional year. With Amendment 05, all Second Course participants will be treated with a fixed dose of pembrolizumab 200 mg Q3W. With Amendment 06, after the study has achieved its key objectives or the study has ended, participants will be discontinued from this study and enrolled in an extension study to continue protocol-defined assessments and treatment.