FUS Etoposide for DMG
The blood brain barrier (BBB) prevents some drugs from successfully reaching the target tumor. Focused Ultrasound (FUS) using microbubbles and neuro-navigator controlled sonication is a non-invasive method of temporarily opening up the blood brain barrier to allow a greater concentration of the drug to reach into the brain tumor. This may improve response and may also reduce system side effects in the patient.

The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of safely opening the blood brain barrier in children with progressive diffuse midline gliomas (DMG) treated with oral etoposide using focused ultrasound with microbubbles and neuro-navigator-controlled sonication.

For the purpose of the study, the investigators will be opening up the blood brain barrier temporarily in one or two locations around the tumor using the non-invasive focused ultrasound technology, and administrating oral etoposide in children with progressive diffuse midline glioma.
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma|Diffuse Midline Glioma, H3 K27M-Mutant
DRUG: Etoposide; Oral, 50 Mg|DEVICE: Focused ultrasound with neuro-navigator-controlled sonication
Number of total adverse events, This is to evaluate the safety of using focused ultrasound to open the blood brain barrier at one or two sites for administration of etoposide in children with progressive diffuse midline glioma. Safety will be assessed by adverse events as per the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 (including abnormalities from physical and neurologic examinations, laboratory values, and radiographic results)., Up to 90 days after the end of the last focused ultrasound treatment|Number of patients with successful opening of the blood brain barrier, This is to evaluate the feasibility of using FUS to open the blood brain barrier at one or two sites for administration of etoposide in children with progressive diffuse midline glioma. The study defines feasibility as successful opening of the blood brain barrier., Treatment will consist of up to 4 cycles, each lasting 28 days. During the first 2 weeks of each cycle, subjects will receive FUS therapy for a maximum of 3 times per week, concurrent with etoposide.
3-month Progression Free Survival (PFS3), Progression Free Survival is defined as the duration of the time from the start of focused ultrasound treatment to time of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Patient's vitality status will be monitored with a monthly follow-up phone call for 3 months post-treatment., Up to 3 months after last focused ultrasound treatment|3-month Overall Survival (OS3), Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from the start of focused ultrasound treatment to death from any cause. Overall survival will be measured by follow-up with a study participant every 3-6 months until death for any reason. Patient's vitality status will be monitored with a monthly follow-up phone call for 3 months post-treatment., Up to 3 months after last focused ultrasound treatment|Blood brain barrier/Tumor imaging changes, MRI and other radiological evidence to show successful BBB opening and closing, Up to 90 days after the end of the last focused ultrasound treatment|Number of severe or serious adverse events, All severe adverse events (SAEs), and adverse events (AEs), grade 3 and higher (except for thrombocytopenia which will include grade 2) will be collected and reported on each patient over the course of their treatment, according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. All SAEs and any AEs grade 3 and higher (except for thrombocytopenia which will include grade 2) will be tallied., Up to 90 days after the last focused ultrasound treatment
Diffuse midline gliomas constitute 10% of all pediatric central nervous system (CNS) tumors. Subjects with Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Gliomas (DIPG) have a poor prognosis with a median survival that is usually reported to be 9 months, and nearly 90% of children die within 18 months from diagnosis. The mainstay of treatment is radiation to the primary tumor site. Surgical resection does not influence the outcome and is often not feasible in this part of the central nervous system.

Many promising drugs for central nervous system disorders have failed to attain clinical success due to an intact blood brain barrier, limiting their access from the systemic circulation into the brain. Systemic administration of high doses may increase delivery to the brain, but this approach risks significant side effects and systemic toxicities. Direct delivery of the drugs to the brain by injection into the parenchyma bypasses the blood brain barrier; however, drug distribution from the site of injection tends to be limited.

The technique of using focused ultrasound with microbubbles and neuro-navigator-controlled sonication can temporarily open up the blood brain barrier and allow for a greater concentration of drug to reach the tumor, thus potentially improving response in patients.

With the current study, the investigators are planning to evaluate the safety and feasibility of using focused ultrasound and open-space neuronavigator-controlled sonication to open one to two tumor sites. For the purpose of the study, investigators will be administrating oral etoposide in children with progressive diffuse midline glioma. This drug has a known toxicity profile, dose, and well-documented efficacy against many metastatic cancers. Successful opening and closing of the blood brain barrier will be confirmed with periodic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).