Heat-Activated Target Therapy of Local-Regional Relapse in Breast Cancer Patients
The 105-15-201 study is designed to assess the effectiveness and tolerability of the combination of heat-activated target therapy (radiotherapy + hyperthermia + lyso-thermosensitive liposomal doxorubicin) of loco-regional relapse in breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: ThermoDox (Thermally Sensitive Liposomal Doxorubicin)|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DEVICE: Superficial Hyperthermia
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Up to 12 months|Loco-regional breast tumor control in patient who underwent ThermoDox + hyperthermia + radiotherapy as measured by target lesion clinical response rate combining RECIST criteria with digital photography to gauge response., Up to 18 months
Duration of local control [CR (complete response), PR (partial response) and SD (stable disease) following treatment with ThermoDox + Hyperthermia + Radiotherapy up to 12 months among patients with LRR breast cancer., Up to 18 months|Patient Reported Quality of Life using the FACT-B following treatment with ThermoDox + Hyperthermia + Radiotherapy among patients with LRR breast cancer., Up to 18 months|Patient Reported Quality of Life using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) following treatment with ThermoDox + Hyperthermia + Radiotherapy among patients with LRR breast cancer., Up to 18 months
Locoregional recurrence of breast cancer (LRR) after mastectomy is a clinically challenging problem. Between 5% and 35% of women with operable breast cancer will experience an isolated LRR following their primary treatment, usually within 5 years of initial mastectomy. LRR or LR typically causes pain, lymphedema, and/or loss of freedom of movement. Therapeutic options usually involve resection, radiation or, at some specialized centers, combined radiation and hyperthermia. However, local control remains suboptimal in previously irradiated chest wall patients with the combination of radiation and hyperthermia providing local control rates of about 65%.

Lyso-thermosensitive liposomal doxorubicin (LTLD) is a temperature sensitive liposome which is systemically administered and is engineered to selectively release its doxorubicin contents when exposed to temperatures ≥ 39.5°C.

Local mild hyperthermia (40 to 44°C) is cytotoxic and is known to have an immunomodulatory effect along with a radiation and chemosensitizing effect in the heated tissue. Furthermore, mild hyperthermia enhances leakiness of tumor tissue, increases local perfusion and upregulates transvascular transport of doxorubicin.

Radiation therapy will be administered in this combination therapy.

This study evaluates the application of a tri-modal approach with LTLD to improve outcome: radiation, hyperthermia, and targeted release of a novel formulation of doxorubicin.