A Study of AK112 for Advanced Solid Tumors
This study is to characterize the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), immunogenicity, pharmacodynamics (PD) and anti-tumor activity of AK112, a PD-1/VEGF bispecific antibody, as a single agent in adult subjects with advanced solid tumor malignancies. This trial is a two parts, phase I/II study. All patients are advanced solid tumor, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-1. Part one is dose escalation phase,part two is dose expansion phase. The primary end point is safety. Secondary end points are objective response rate,progression-free survival and overall survival per RECIST1.1.
Solid Tumor, Adult
DRUG: AK112
Number of participants with adverse events (AEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product.

temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment, From time ICF is signed until 90 days after last dose of AK112|Number of participants with DLTs, DLTs will be assessed during the first 4 weeks of treatment for dose-escalation phase and are defined as toxicities that meet pre-defined severity criteria, and assessed as having a suspected relationship to study drug, and unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that occurs within the first cycle (4 weeks) of treatment., During the first four weeks of treatment
Objective response rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects with confirmed CR or confirmed PR, based on RECIST Version 1.1, Up to 2 years|Disease control rate (DCR), The DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects with CR, PR, or SD (subjects achieving SD will be included in the DCR if they maintain SD at 16 and 24 weeks respectively) based on RECIST Version 1.1., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment with AK112 until the first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment with AK112 until death due to any cause., Up to 2 years
This study is to characterize the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), immunogenicity, pharmacodynamics (PD) and anti-tumor activity of AK112, a PD-1/VEGF bispecific antibody, as a single agent in adult subjects with advanced solid tumor malignancies. This trial is a two parts, phase I/II study. All patients are advanced solid tumor, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-1. Part one is dose escalation phase,part two is dose expansion phase. The primary end point is safety. Secondary end points are objective response rate,progression-free survival and overall survival per RECIST1.1.