Effect of Exergaming Exercises and Mediterranean Diet on Thyroid Cancer Patients Following Total Thyroidectomy
Effect of exergaming exercises and mediteranean diet on thyroid cancer patients following total thyroidectomy adult patients from both gender will be randomly assigned equally to exergaming exercises, Mediterranean diet groups using computer-generated block randomization.

Group A: Control group No intervention was provided for 12 weeks except thyroid hormone replacement therapy Group B: Exergaming exercise The volunteers carried out 36 exergaming sessions, with progressive increase in the duration of the games according to their tolerance,and reached a maximum duration of 50 minutes per session, included the realization of the games and the rest between activities. The exergaming protocol was performed three times a week, for a total of 12 weeks Group C: Mediterranean diet All participants participated in the Mediterranean diet intervention for 12 weak and received dietary training from professional nutritionists at the baseline visit and samples of a Mediterranean diet for three times during the trial.PREDIMED questionnaire is used To assess adherence to the Mediterranean diet Group D: Exergaming exercises and Mediterranean diet Exergaming exercises are used in addition to Mediterranean diet
Thyroid Cancer
DEVICE: X-BOX kinetic360|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: mediterranean diet|DRUG: thyroid hormone replacement therapy
CD3-, CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3) is a protein complex and T cell co-receptor that is involved in activating both the cytotoxic T cell (CD8+ naive T cells) and T helper cells (CD4+ naive T cells). It is composed of four distinct chains.

blood sample taken from the patients, 3 months|CD16+, CD16 is involved in antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity and is expressed on large granular lymphocytes (LGLs) of both NK- and T-cell types.blood sample taken from the patients, 3 months|CD56+, CD56, is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily engaged in both so-called homophilic and heterophilic interactions.blood sample taken from the patients, 3 months
TSH(thyroid stimulating hormone), TSH stands for thyroid stimulating hormone. A TSH test is a blood test that measures this hormone., 3 months|T3 (triiodothyronine), This test measures the level of triiodothyronine (T3) in your blood. T3 is one of two major hormones made by your thyroid, 3 months|T4 (Thyroxine), Thyroxine, also known as T4, is a type of thyroid hormone. This test measures the level of T4 in your blood. Too much or too little T4 can indicate thyroid disease., 3 months|Quality of life questionnaire, The World Health Organization (WHO) defined Quality of Life (QoL) as "an individual's perception of their position in life, in the context of the culture and value systems in which they live, and in relation to their goals, expectations, standards and concerns" . QoL is comprised of multiple aspects, including psychological health, physical well-being, social relationships, and environmental conditions \[., 3 months|Fatigue questionnaire, questionnaire is applied to the patients, 3 months
Outcome measures

1. Flow cytometry analyzer for NKC (CD3- CD16+ CD56+).
2. Immunoassay analyzer for thyroid profile (TSH,T3,T4)
3. Quality of life questionnaire
4. Fatigue questionnaire
5. PREDIMED questionnaire to asses diet adherence. Outcome measures will be measured at baseline and after 3 months of the treatement intervention

A) assessment

1. Quality of life questionnaire questionnaire
2. .Fatigue questionnaire
3. Adherence to diet A validated 14-item questionnaire for the assessment of adherence to the Mediterranean Diet (PREDIMED) will be recorded for all the enrolled subjects

   * Biochemical Analysis. \[B\] Intervention

     1. Exergaming The practice of exergaming was performed using the Xbox 360 Kinect console (Microsoft, Albuquerque, NM)
     2. Mediterranean diet All participants participated in the Mediterranean diet intervention for 12 weak and received dietary training from professional nutritionists at the baseline visit and samples of a Mediterranean diet for three times during the trial.

     4 groups will be randomly assigned Group A: Control group No intervention was provided for 12 weeks except thyroid hormone replacement therapy Group B: Exergaming exercise The volunteers carried out 36 exergaming sessions, with progressive increase in the duration of the games according to their tolerance,and reached a maximum duration of 50 minutes per session, included the realization of the games and the rest between activities. The exergaming protocol was performed three times a week, for a total of 12 weeks Group C: Mediterranean diet All participants participated in the Mediterranean diet intervention for 12 weak and received dietary training from professional nutritionists at the baseline visit and samples of a Mediterranean diet for three times during the trial.PREDIMED questionnaire is used To assess adherence to the Mediterranean diet Group D: Exergaming exercises and Mediterranean diet Exergaming exercises are used in addition to Mediterranean diet