Geriatric Assessment & Genetic Profiling to Personalize Therapy in Older Adults With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial of the impact of clinicogenetic risk-stratified management on outcomes of acute myeloid leukemia in older patients is to determine the rate of complete remission and mortality at 90 days in the entire cohort of older patients (≥60 years) with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia, who receive clinicogenetic risk-stratified therapy allocation.

Subjects will receive standard of care intensive or low-intensity induction based on cytogenetic and geriatric assessment-based risk stratification.

Subjects will be evaluated for disease status, survival, quality of life and neurocognitive status for 90 days and then followed for a total of 2 years for survival data.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Therapy-Related Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Idarubicin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: glasdegib
Rate of complete remission and mortality in the entire cohort of older patients, All analyses will be performed based on intent-to-treat principle. The method of inversion will be used to generate an interval estimate for the proportion of 90-day mortality., At 90 days
Rate of complete remission and mortality in subsets of older patients who receive intensive and low-intensity chemotherapy, All analyses will be performed based on intent-to-treat principle. The method of inversion will be used to generate an interval estimate for the proportion of 90-day mortality., At 90 days|Baseline functional status measure by geriatric assessment, Will assess the impact of baseline functional status on the rate of complete remission and mortality., At 90 days|Baseline functional status, Will evaluate the influence of baseline functional status on the quality of life and neurocognitive status. The association between categories of functional status and quality of life will be explored using analysis of variance (ANOVA); if assumptions of ANOVA fail, Kruskal Wallis will be used. The association between functional status (fit or vulnerable) and neurocognitive status (\< 25 or 26 or higher) will be explored using a chi-square test. A generalized linear mixed model will be utilized to evaluate changes in quality of life over time. The proportion (and associated 95% confidence interval) of patients with definitely or probably modifiable impairments will be presented., Up to 90 days|Symptom burden, Will determine the symptom burden at diagnosis and 10, 30 and 90 days following initiation of chemotherapy., Up to 90 days following initiation of chemotherapy|Mortality, Mortality at 90 days will be calculated as the time from date of diagnosis to date of death due to any cause by 90 days from diagnosis., From the time of diagnosis to death, assessed up to 90 days|Quality of life as measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) version 3.0, Composite scores, as determined by EORTC QLQ-C30 version 3.0, will be utilized to determine quality of life status. A generalized linear mixed model will be utilized to evaluate changes in quality of life over time., Up to 4 years|Neurocognitive status as measured by the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Composite scores, as determined by MOCA test, will be utilized to determine neurocognitive status., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of complete remission and mortality at 90 days in the entire cohort of older patients (\>= 60 years) with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who receive clinicogenetic risk-stratified therapy allocation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of complete remission and mortality at 90 days in subsets of older patients who receive intensive and low-intensity chemotherapy.

II. To determine proportion of patients with impairments detected by geriatric assessment.

III. To calculate the percentage of older patients who receive allogeneic stem cell transplant during the study period IV. To assess overall survival at 1-year for the entire cohort of older patients

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 or 2 groups based on cytogenetic and geriatric assessment-based risk stratification.

GROUP I:

INTENSIVE INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) on days 1-7 and idarubicin over 10-15 minutes on days 1-3 (7+3), or liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 3 and 5. Gemtuzumab or midostaurin are added to 7+3 as per the standard of care. Treatment continues for 1 course in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

INTENSIVE CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients who go into remission, receive cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours twice daily (BID) on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 2-4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients treated with liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3. Treatment repeats every 5-8 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II:

LOW-INTENSITY INDUCTION: Patients receive oral venetoclax and azacitidine IV on days 1-7 or decitabine IV on days 1-5. Alternate standard of care low-intensity therapies are allowed at the discretion of treating physician. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 1-4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

LOW-INTENSITY CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve complete remission, receive oral venetoclax and azacitidine IV on days 1-7 or decitabine IV on days 1-5 or other standard of care low-intensity chemotherapy. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 or more courses in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or receipt of allogeneic stem cell transplant.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.