The Risk of Bleeding After Removal of Large Colorectal Polyps in Patients Taking Aspirin
The risk of bleeding after polypectomy of large colorectal polyps in patients taking aspirin is uncertain. This is a randomized, multi-center, placebo-controlled, double-blind study to compare the risk of significant bleeding after endoscopic polypectomy of large (\>=10mm) colorectal polyps in patients continuing or discontinuing on daily acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) use. Eligible patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to a group taking 75mg daily ASA or placebo 7 days before and 14 days following polypectomy. The primary endpoint of the study is bleeding within 30 days from colorectal polypectomy. The secondary endpoints are composite cardiovascular events occurring between the date of randomization and 30 days after polypectomy.
Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage
DRUG: Aspirin (ASA)|DRUG: Placebo
Clinically significant bleeding after colorectal polypectomy, Clinically significant bleeding after polypectomy - any extravasation of blood from the polypectomy site \[immediate (30s after polypectomy), early (to 24ha after polypectomy) or delayed (24ha to 30 days after polypectomy)\], with clinical and/or endoscopic and/or laboratory (Hb decline by more than 3 g%)symptoms and would require endoscopic intervention and/or surgical and/or blood transfusions;, within 30 days after polypectomy
Proportion of composite cardiovascular events, ending unplanned hospitalization in both groups aspirin and placebo, Composite cardiovascular events - acute coronary syndrome, transient ischemic attack (TIA)or stroke, in time from randomisation to 30 days after polipectomy|Proportion of clinically significant delayed bleeding in both groups, within 30 days after polipectomy
Patients chronically taking aspirin (in prophylaxis doses 75-325 mg), with a diagnosis of colorectal polyps ≥ 10 mm in diameter will be enrolled on a routine polypectomy under hospitalization. Meeting the inclusion criteria, after informed consent and a cardiologist consent the patient will receive aspirin/placebo, and The Patient Diary to fill (Visit 1). The patient will be admitted to the Study Center in 6-7 days taking on the aspirin/placebo and prepared for the study (Visit 2). Patient will be under the care of a physician after polypectomy by a minimum of 6 hours. 14 days after polypectomy will be the first control visit, during which the physician will take back patient diary and pack treatment (Visit 3). 30 days after polypectomy will be the second control visit by phone (Visit 4). Patients will be monitored by looking at the end points.