Lenalidomide Plus Rituximab for Recurrent/Refractory CNS and Intraocular Lymphoma
This is a Phase I study, which means that the goal is to see if the study treatment is safe. The purpose of this study is to test the safety of Lenalidomide at different dose levels, and to test the safety of Lenalidomide alone or in combination with Rituximab (also known as Rituxan®).
Recurrent/Refractory CNS|Intraocular Lymphoma
DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Rituximab
To establish the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of Lenalidomide in patients with recurrent CNS NHL and intraocular NHL, Participants will be followed for the duration of treatment, an expected average of 4 months.
To define the extent of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) penetration of lenalidomide., Participants will have CSF withdrawn every 4 weeks while on treatment. Average study participation is approximately 4 months.|To assess the clinical efficacy Lenalidomide monotherapy as measured by cytologic, neurologic, radiographic, and ocular (for patients with intraocular lymphoma) response criteria., Participants will have weekly evaluations at clinic visits for the duration of treatment. Average study participation is approximately 4 months.|To define the immunological effects of lenalidomide using flow-cytometry CSF as well as genomic markers of recurrent/refractory CNS lymphoma., Participants will have CSF withdrawn every 4 weeks while on treatment. Average study participation is approximately 4 months.|To assess the clinical efficacy of combined intraventricular plus systemic rituximab administration in combination with lenalidomide as measured by cytologic, neurologic, and radiographic response criteria., Objective only applies to patients with recurrent CNS lymphoma not responding to lenalidomide as monotherapy, Participants will have weekly evaluations at clinic visits for the duration of treatment. Average study participation is approximately 4 months.|To determine a potential impact of intravenous rituximab administration on the rate of rituximab clearance from the CSF after intraventricular rituximab administration., Participants will have CSF withdrawn every 4 weeks while on treatment. Average study participation is approximately 4 months.
Rationale for the Proposed Study

There is evidence that immunomodulatory drugs such as lenalidomide stimulate immune effectors such as natural killer (NK) cells, and thus promote rituximab efficacy via ADCC. Because of the evidence for synergy between rituximab and lenalidomide in NHL, patients who do not respond to lenalidomide monotherapy will receive combined intravenous plus intraventricular rituximab in addition to lenalidomide. To maximize delivery to the central nervous system (CNS), the investigators propose to administer rituximab via both intravenous and intraventricular routes. The rationale for intraventricular administration of rituximab is the demonstration that approximately 0.1% of systemically administered rituximab penetrates the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) but that intraventricular administration of rituximab is both feasible and achieves high concentrations that are associated with anti-lymphoma activity. This study will thus build upon the two Phase 1 trials of intraventricular rituximab that have been conducted at University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) to define the safety of the intraventricular route of administration; this study will, however, be the first to evaluate the combination of intraventricular plus intravenous treatment.

The rationale for intravenous administration of rituximab in recurrent CNS lymphoma is that the blood-brain-barrier is likely partially disrupted, particularly when there is lymphoma-associated contrast enhancement detectable on the MRI, and the fact that there is evidence for activity when rituximab is administered intravenously, both as monotherapy (Batchelor et al., 2011) and potentially in combination with chemotherapy.