Comparison of Pixantrone + Rituximab With Gemcitabine + Rituximab in Patients With Aggressive B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma or Follicular Grade 3 Lymphoma Who Have Relapsed After Therapy and Are Not Eligible for Stem Cell Transplant
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of Pixantrone + Rituximab compared to Gemcitabine + Rituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), or follicular grade 3 lymphoma.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma|de Novo DLBCL|DLBCL Transformed From Indolent Lymphoma|Follicular Grade 3 Lymphoma
DRUG: Pixantrone + Rituximab|DRUG: Gemcitabine + Rituximab
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time of randomization to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause (whichever occurs first), From the date of randomization to the date of progressive disease or death due to any cause (whichever is first reported) (Up to 100 weeks)
Overall Survival, Overall survival is from randomization to death due to any cause, From date of randomization to the date of the patient's death due to any cause (Up to 100 weeks)|Complete Response Rate, CRR is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve a Complete Response (CR) without additional therapy. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions., From date of randomization to the date of the patient's death due to any cause (Up to 100 weeks)|Overall Response Rate, ORR is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve a CR or PR without additional therapy., From date of randomization to the date of the patient's death due to any cause (Up to 100 weeks)|Number of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE) Related to Study Drug, The number of Participants with Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE) related to study drug (pixantrone or gemcitabine), From date of randomization to the date of the patient's death due to any cause (Up to 100 weeks)
Individual Concentration-time Profiles of Patients Will be Compared to Existing Data Using Simulations (Visual Predictive Checks), To characterize the PK profile of pixantrone when co-administered with rituximab. Plasma samples for PK analysis will be collected relative to the D-1 dose of pixantrone in one of the 6 treatment cycles for each participating patient. The goal is to enroll approx. 20 patients, active at 20 sites- Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Center, Uni. Hospital Kralovske Vinohrady, Uni. Hospital Hradec Kralove Hematooncology, Hospital Nuernberg, St. Marien Hospital Hamm, Puerta del Mar Hospital, Tokuda Hospital Sofia, National Center of Hematology \& Transfusiology, UMHAT "SV. IVAN RILSKI", Moritz Kaposi General Hospital, Uni. of Debrecen, Polish Red Cross Marine Hospital, Kharkiv Regional Clinical Oncology Center, National Inst. of Cancer Ukraine, Cherkasy Regional Oncology Center, Inst. of Blood Pathology \& Transfusion Medicine, Uni. Hospital Martin, National Onclogy Inst., Uni. Hospital with Outpatient Clinic F.D. Roosevelt Banska Bystrica, Uni. Hospital J.A. Reiman Presov, within 1 hour of initiation of infusion to 24-48 hours after start of pixantrone infusion|To Generate Individual Secondary PK Parameters (eg, Exposure, Half-life Etc.) Using Descriptive Statistics, To characterize the PK profile of pixantrone when co-administered with rituximab. Plasma samples for PK analysis will be collected relative to the D-1 dose of pixantrone in one of the 6 treatment cycles for each participating patient. The goal is to enroll approx. 20 patients, active at 20 sites- Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Center, Uni. Hospital Kralovske Vinohrady, Uni. Hospital Hradec Kralove Hematooncology, Hospital Nuernberg, St. Marien Hospital Hamm, Puerta del Mar Hospital, Tokuda Hospital Sofia, National Center of Hematology \& Transfusiology, UMHAT "SV. IVAN RILSKI", Moritz Kaposi General Hospital, Uni. of Debrecen, Polish Red Cross Marine Hospital, Kharkiv Regional Clinical Oncology Center, National Inst. of Cancer Ukraine, Cherkasy Regional Oncology Center, Inst. of Blood Pathology \& Transfusion Medicine, Uni. Hospital Martin, National Onclogy Inst., Uni. Hospital with Outpatient Clinic F.D. Roosevelt Banska Bystrica, Uni. Hospital J.A. Reiman Presov, within 1 hour of initiation of infusion to 24-48 hours after start of pixantrone infusion
Eligible patients will be randomized to treatment with pixantrone plus rituximab or gemcitabine plus rituximab in up to six 28-day cycles. At the time patients experience progressive disease during study treatment, early follow- up, or intermediate follow-up, they enter the survival follow up period. Patients who complete study treatment or discontinue study treatment for any other reason will participate in the follow-up periods.

Early Follow-Up: After treatment completion or discontinuation, patient will enter a 24-week follow-up period.

Intermediate Follow-Up: After completing the 24-week early follow-up period, patient will enter an additional 72-week follow-up period.

Survival Follow-Up: All patients will be monitored for survival.