Chemotherapy AND Bcl-xL Inhibitor (AT-101) For Organ Preservation In Adults With Advanced Laryngeal Cancer
To evaluate a new treatment approach for adults with advanced laryngeal cancer: induction chemotherapy with platinum and docetaxel plus AT-101. AT-101 is an investigational drug for the treatment of advanced cancer. It is hoped that the combination of this chemotherapy regimen will allow cancer patients to keep their voice box and to improve/maintain voice-related quality of life. The ultimate goal of this study is to prevent the surgery to remove subjects voice box.
Laryngeal Cancer
DRUG: AT-101|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Number of Patients Alive and Free From Indication for Laryngectomy Three Months Post Treatment, The primary clinical objective of this trial is to compare the larynx preservation rates in a treatment paradigm that uses induction chemotherapy plus AT-101 to select patients for either concurrent chemoradiation or surgery. Organ preservation rate, defined as alive and free from indication for laryngectomy three months post treatment, was chosen as the primary endpoint because it provides evidence to fully characterize clinically the effect of the treatment strategy, Up to 3 months after end of treatment|Progression-free Survival, Time from randomization to the time of first indication of local failure or metastases. Estimated non-parametrically using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years after randomization|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR (Complete Response \[CR\] plus Partial Response \[PR\]) to induction chemotherapy with platinum and docetaxel plus AT-101 following one and/or two cycles in patients with advanced laryngeal cancer., Up to approximately 60 days|Percentage of Patients Experiencing Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events., Toxicities will be evaluated using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3., Up to 3 years after end of treatment
Head and Neck Related Quality of Life (QOL), University of Michigan Head and Neck Quality of Life Instrument (HN-QOL) will be administered prior to treatment (i.e. pre-induction chemotherapy) and at 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months (+/- 4 months) after completion of chemo-RT or surgery-RT (or surgery-chemoRT, as indicated). Scale is 0-100 with high scores indicating a better outcome., Up to 28 months post treatment|Voice Related QOL, The University of Michigan Voice Related Quality of Life Measure (V-RQOL) will be administered prior to treatment (i.e. pre-induction chemotherapy) and at 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months (+/- 4 months) after completion of chemo-RT or surgery-RT (or surgery-chemoRT, as indicated). Scale is 0-50 (10 items scale 1-5) with high scores indicating a worse outcome., Up to 28 months post treatment|Functional Assessment QOL, University of Michigan Head and Neck Quality of Life Instrument (HN-QOL) will be administered prior to treatment (i.e. pre-induction chemotherapy) and at 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months (+/- 4 months) after completion of chemo-RT or surgery-RT (or surgery-chemoRT, as indicated). Scale is 0-100 with high scores indicating a better outcome. EATING Domain is reported here as a functional assessment., Up to 28 months post treatment
Published data demonstrate equal efficacy and improved quality of life when platinum and a taxane were compared with platinum and 5-Fluorouracil \[31\]. Additionally, weekly cisplatin regimens (30-40 mg/m2) with radiotherapy appear to be equally efficacious and better tolerated than standard high-dose cisplatin (100 mg/ m2) regimens with radiation therapy for locally advanced SCCHN \[32\] The investigators will thus attempt to reduce toxicity from induction chemotherapy with the use of docetaxel/cisplatin (or carboplatin) (TP) in place of our previously used standard regimen of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (PF) and administer weekly cisplatin (or carboplatin) with radiation for those patients who are responders to induction therapy. Finally, Phase I/II testing of the small molecule inhibitor, AT-101, has recently been completed, and suggests activity in solid tumors when combined with cytotoxic agents. Since the investigators have achieved such high survival rates with our treatment selection approach in laryngeal cancer, our ultimate goal is to reduce the rate of salvage laryngectomy which should improve quality of life. The investigators hypothesize that specific inhibition of Bcl-2/Bcl-xL function can increase response rates to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and decrease the need for salvage laryngectomy. Hence, the investigators propose this study: the treatment of patients with advanced SCC of the larynx with one cycle of platinum plus docetaxel with AT-101, followed by chemoradiotherapy for those responding to this induction regimen and reserving total laryngectomy for those who are non-responders.