Assessment of Cognitive Function After Surgery in Two Types of Anesthesia in Patients Operated for Breast Cancer
The emergence of cognitive disorders after surgery under general anesthesia (GA) is the second leading cause of patient complaints (after dental debris caused by intubation techniques). These cognitive disorders can range from simple reversible confusion (26%) with postoperative cognitive dysfunction without actual recovery (10%).

The hypnosedation is an ancient technique of anesthesia expanding its effects on cognitive function remain to this day unknown, but appear promising.
Patients With Breast Cancer and Breast Surgery Requiring
OTHER: hypnosedation|OTHER: general anesthésia
Presence of Cognitive Impairment, Cognitive impairment is assessed using the MMSE questionnaire (MINI-MENTAL STATE EXAMINATION). the MMSE total score ranges from 0 (alteration of cognition) to 30 (no alteration), on the 7th day following surgery
Presence of Cognitive Impairment, Cognitive impairment is assessed using the MMSE questionnaire (MINI-MENTAL STATE EXAMINATION) The MMSE total score ranges from 0 (alteration of cognition) to 30 (no alteration), 1 month after surgery
For twenty years, hypnosedation is offered to patients who underwent surgery as an alternative to other anesthetic techniques (general anesthesia and locoregional), in some European and Anglo-Saxon hospitals for specific surgical indications (surgery area). It is commonly used in some hospitals.

The hypnosedation is little used in oncology

The hypnosedation is a hypnosis technique suitable for anesthesia, namely the one associated with intravenous conscious sedation and local anesthesia hypnosis. This derived from medical hypnosis Ericksoniene technique is divided into three stages:

1. induction
2. Deepening trance
3. Déhypnotisation.

This technique is currently being validated and used at national and international level, in fact it is based on 500 references and appears in the national nomenclature of the Common Classification of Medical Procedures in the code ANRP 001, states: hypnosis referred to analgesic.