Node-Sparing Short-Course Radiotherapy Plus Chemotherapy, Bevacizumab and PD-1 Inhibitor in Metastatic pMMR/MSS Colorectal Cancer (MODIFI-CRC)
The current standard first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer is chemotherapy combined with targeted therapy, yet the prognosis remains poor. Although combining immunotherapy, anti-angiogenic agents, and chemotherapy has shown some efficacy in MSS/pMMR metastatic patients, progression-free survival (PFS) remains suboptimal. Radiotherapy-particularly high-dose radiotherapy-can enhance tumor antigen release and potentially improve the response of MSS/pMMR colorectal cancer to PD-1 inhibitors. Tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) are key sites for PD-1-mediated anti-tumor activity, but radiation-induced damage and fibrosis may impair their immune function. Prior studies have reported a remarkable pathologic complete response (pCR) rate of 77.8% using node-sparing radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer. This study aims to evaluate whether node-sparing modified short-course radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy, bevacizumab, and PD-1 blockade can improve progression-free survival (PFS), treatment tolerance, and overall prognosis in patients with pMMR/MSS colorectal cancer.
Immune Checkpoint Therapy|Radiotherapy|Metastatic Colorectal Cancer (CRC)
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Node-Sparing Radiotherapy plus first-line therapy|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: First-line treatment
Progression-free survival (PFS), To evaluate whether node-sparing modified short-course radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy, bevacizumab, and a PD-1 inhibitor can improve progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with metastatic pMMR/MSS colorectal cancer., From initiation of treatment until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed over a period of up to 24 months
Objective response rate, From the start of treatment until disease progression, assessed over a period of up to 24 months|Duration of response, From the first documented occurrence of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to the first documented disease progression (per RECIST v1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed over a period of up to 24 months|Disease control rate, From treatment start to the end of study at 2 years|Overall survival (OS) rate, From treatment start to the end of study at 2 years|Treatment related adverse effect, From treatment start to 30 days after the end of treatment
The current standard first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer is chemotherapy combined with targeted therapy, yet the prognosis remains poor. Although combining immunotherapy, anti-angiogenic agents, and chemotherapy has shown some efficacy in MSS/pMMR metastatic patients, progression-free survival (PFS) remains suboptimal. Radiotherapy-particularly high-dose radiotherapy-can enhance tumor antigen release and potentially improve the response of MSS/pMMR colorectal cancer to PD-1 inhibitors. Tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) are key sites for PD-1-mediated anti-tumor activity, but radiation-induced damage and fibrosis may impair their immune function. Prior studies have reported a remarkable pathologic complete response (pCR) rate of 77.8% using node-sparing radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer. This study aims to evaluate whether node-sparing modified short-course radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy, bevacizumab, and PD-1 blockade can improve progression-free survival (PFS), treatment tolerance, and overall prognosis in patients with pMMR/MSS colorectal cancer.