Complications and Recurrences After Mohs Micrographic Surgery and Slow Mohs
Mohs micro-graphic surgery (Mohs) is a tissue-sparing, surgical treatment for different types of skin cancer (e.g. basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, lentigo maligna (melanoma). It is a procedure performed with frozen sections. Slow Mohs, a variant of micro-graphic surgery, is performed by formalin fixation and paraffin-embedded sections. Both in Mohs and Slow Mohs tumor margins are assessed to achieve complete removal. This study aims to investigate the clinical presentation and outcomes (i.e. complications and recurrence rates) in patients treated with Mohs or Slow Mohs in the dermatology department of the Maastricht University Medical Center+ in Maastricht, the Netherlands.
Skin Cancer|Complication|Complication of Surgical Procedure|Complication,Postoperative|Recurrence|Recurrent Disease|Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Basal Cell Carcinoma|Lentigo Maligna|Lentigo Maligna Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Mohs surgery|PROCEDURE: Slow Mohs surgery
Incidence of complications, The incidence of complications after Mohs and Slow Mohs, expressed as absolute numbers and percentages., Within 1 month after completion of the surgical intervention.|Incidence of recurrence, The incidence of complications after Mohs and Slow Mohs, expressed as absolute numbers and percentages. Recurrence is defined as disease relapse after completion of treatment., Up to 5 year after completion of the surgical intervention.
Hazard ratio of predisposing factors for complications, Predisposing factors (patient- and tumor characteristics) for complications after Mohs and Slow Mohs, expressed in Hazard Ratio's and 95% confidence intervals. It is not possible to define the predisposing factors in advance, because this is currently unknown. We hypothesize the presence of diabetes, tobacco use and medication use to be predisposing factors for complications., Within 1 month after completion of the surgical intervention.|Hazard ratio of predisposing factors for recurrence, Predisposing factors (patient- and tumor characteristics) for recurrences after Mohs and Slow Mohs, expressed in Hazard Ratio's and 95% confidence intervals. It is not possible to define the predisposing factors in advance, because this is currently unknown. We hypothesize incomplete treatment, worse prognostic tumor factors (Stage III of IV, presence of perineural invasion or lymphovascular invasion) to be predisposing factors for recurrence., Up to 5 year after completion of the surgical intervention.
Mohs micro-graphic surgery (Mohs) is a tissue-sparing, surgical treatment for different types of skin cancer (e.g. basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, lentigo maligna (melanoma). It is a procedure performed with frozen sections. Slow Mohs, a variant of micro-graphic surgery, is performed by formalin fixation and paraffin-embedded sections. Both in Mohs and Slow Mohs tumor margins are assessed to achieve complete removal. This study aims to investigate the clinical presentation and outcomes (i.e. complications and recurrence rates) in patients treated with Mohs or Slow Mohs in the dermatology department of the Maastricht University Medical Center+ in Maastricht, the Netherlands.