A Phase 2 Study of Mirvetuximab Soravtansine (IMGN853) and Pembrolizumab in Endometrial Cancer (EC)
This research study is studying a drug combination as a possible treatment for endometrial cancer.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* mirvetuximab soravtansine (IMGN853)
* pembrolizumab
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: IMGN853
Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate was determined by the frequency of patients who had objective tumor response, determined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI, where objective response represents either a confirmed complete response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or a confirmed partial response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters); objective response = CR + PR. The ORR is therefore reported as the percentage of participants who achieved a CR or PR per RECIST v1.1., 6 months|Progression-Free Survival at 6 Months (PFS6), Progression-free survival at 6 months was determined by the frequency of patients who survived progression-free for at least 6 months after initiating study treatment by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), where disease progression represents at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, appearance of one or more new lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., 6 months
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was determined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), where disease progression represents at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, appearance of one or more new lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The distribution of progression-free times will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier analysis., Interval from start of treatment to documented disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive. The distribution of overall survival times will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier analysis., Participants are followed for survival status from registration through up to 3 years after removal from study intervention|Duration of Response, Duration of response (DoR) is defined as time from best overall response to the time of disease progression., Interval from best overall response to documented disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first.
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved mirvetuximab soravtansine for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved pembrolizumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

In this research study, the investigators are studying the combination of mirvetuximab soravtansine and pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab is an immunotherapy that activates a patient's own immune system to recognize and kill tumor cells. Pembrolizumab by itself may not be enough to kill cancer cells in all people with cancer. In this study, all patients will receive mirvetuximab soravtansine and pembrolizumab. Mirvetuximab soravtansine is an antibody-drug conjugate. That is a type of agent that attaches a chemotherapy drug to a molecule that binds a protein on the outside of cancer cells. The protein targeted by mirvetuximab soravtansine is called folate receptor-alpha (FRα). FRα is expressed on the surface of certain cancers, including endometrial cancer cells. Mirvetuximab soravtansine is expected to kill cancer cells by delivering chemotherapy to cells that have high levels of FRα. To participate in this study, a sample of your tumor was previously tested, and was found to have high levels of FRα. Mirvetuximab soravtansine also may also active immune cells and improve the response to immunotherapies like pembrolizumab.

In this study, the investigators expect to learn whether the combination of pembrolizumab and mirvetuximab soravtansine can shrink endometrial cancers or prevent their growth for at least 6 months. The investigators will also learn more about the side effects patients experience who receive this treatment. The investigators also plan to learn more about which patients are likely to benefit from this treatment