Evaluation of Sentinel Node Policy in Early Stage Endometrial Carcinomas At Intermediate and High Risk of Recurrence.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the sentinel node policy in early stage endometrial carcinomas at intermediate and high risk of recurrence (by comparing the sentinel node policy to current initial staging protocols).
Endometrial Carcinoma
DRUG: Pre-operative SN mapping with radionucleide|DRUG: Intra-operative SN mapping with patent V blue dye|DRUG: Intra-operative SN mapping with indocyanin green|PROCEDURE: Full bilateral laparoscopic lymphadenectomy and Hysterectomy|PROCEDURE: Current initial staging protocols
Morbidity, Per-operative morbidity will be assessed during surgery according to the Oslo classification of intraoperative unfavourable incidents.

Early post-operative morbidity will be assessed up to 30 days and scored according to Clavien-Dindo scale. Distant complications, beyond day 30 for patients with no indication of a secondary surgical staging (e.g. secondary paraaortic dissection for pelvic pN1) will be evaluated in accordance with the NCI-CTCAE scale v4.03, Up to 3 after surgery
Rate of detected sentinel node, number of patients with ≥ 1 Sentinel Node (SN) / total number of explored patients, and bilaterality, During surgery|Rate of pN1, n pN1 / total N, an average of 1 month after surgery|Disease free survival, Time from the date of randomization to the first documentation of local, regional or distant disease or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years after surgery|Overall survival, Time from the date of randomization to the date of death (indicate if the death is due to disease progression or not)., Up to 5 years after surgery|Pronostic value of L1CAM on the risk of reccurrence, A standard staining with HES is carried out in a systematic manner as well as immunohistochemistry with polyclonal anti-L1CAM. If 10% or more of the tumor cells showed L1CAM staining, the sample is rated positive. The rate of L1CAM positive sample will be further correlated with the node involvement and disease recurrence., an average of 1 month after surgery|Proteomic signature of positive SN, Detection of SN involvement with proteomics, an average of 1 year after surgery
1. Routine exams required for diagnosis:

   * Endometrioid biopsy or product of a dilatation-curettage under hysteroscopy for diagnosis of histologic typing
   * Tumor assessment: Lombopelvic MRI (1.5 or 3T) with gadolinium injection, studied by steady and dynamic sequences. US and CT-Scan in case of intolerance to MRI should be discussed. FDG-PET may be an option.
2. Tumor board: The completed chart will be reviewed to confirm the risk group and indication.
3. Complete physical and gynecological examination by surgical oncologist followed by a consultation of anesthesiology to confirm the operability of patient.
4. Informed and signed consent form.
5. Study baseline assessment.

   Then,
6. Surgery should be performed within a maximum of 4 weeks from the first consultation, according arm allocated:

   Arm A: Sentinel node policy\*

   Arm B:
   * Bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy (intermediate risk endometrioid)
   * Or Ilio-infrarenal paraaortic lymphadenectomy (high risk endometrioid)
   * Or Pelvic + paraaortic lymphadenectomies (high risk non endometrioid)\*

     * along with a peritoneal staging for each arm (cytology, random biopsies, infracolic omentectomy)
7. Second tumor board: after definitive pathological results of the hysterectomy-annexectomy and node (sentinel or not) specimens.