Feasibility of a Patient Directed Tool to Assess Heart Health Among Endometrial Cancer Survivors
Investigators are conducting this study to find out more about what heart health means to participants and how healthcare providers can best help to manage heart health. Participants will be asked to view an electronic tool designed to promote heart health awareness and help to manage heart health outside of the clinic. This study will provide important information to help investigators develop future programs that improve cancer patient's heart health after they complete their treatment.
Endometrial Cancer|Survivorship
OTHER: PREVENT Cardiovascular Health Assessment Tool|OTHER: Survey|OTHER: Interview Regarding Heart Health
Number of Participants to Complete Intervention - Feasibility, Feasibility will be defined from the number of participants who complete the web-based assessment using exact 95% binomial confidence intervals., 6 months
Number of Participants Stating Satisfaction With PREVENT Tool, Patient satisfaction will be identified through post-visit survey with a 5-point Likert scale (strongly agree to strongly disagree) regarding liking the tool, helpfulness, ease of understanding and desire to use this tool with their oncologist. One-sample t-tests will be used to test whether the average response to each question is greater than 3.5 (with three denoting a neutral response). Wilcoxon signed rank tests will be used to compare cancer survivors' knowledge regarding their cardiovascular health risk factors and perceived importance of cancer and heart disease before and after using the cardiovascular risk visualization tool., 6 months|Number of Participants to Report Initiating Discussions Regarding Cardiovascular Health With Health Care Providers, The initiation of discussions with participants' health care providers will largely be descriptive (using means as a measurement) to analyze this measure. Participants responded yes/no to the following discussions:

1) Losing weight and maintaining a healthy body weight? 2) Quitting smoking, or staying smoke-free? 3) Controlling your blood pressure? 4) Controlling your cholesterol? 5) Controlling your glucose or hemoglobin A1c? 6) Any discussion regarding health with health care providers, 6 months
Primary Objective: The primary objective of this pilot study is to assess the feasibility of enrolling and completing the heart health assessment among endometrial cancer patients scheduled for routine follow-up care.

Secondary Objectives:

* To assess patient satisfaction with the tool.
* To identify the proportion of patients with non-ideal cardiovascular health scores who report initiating discussions regarding cardiovascular health during their routine oncology appointment.