Innovations in the Treatment of Sexual Health Post Prostate Cancer Treatment: Comparing Mindfulness vs. CBT
Up to 90% of men experience sexual difficulties after receiving treatment for prostate cancer (PC), which can negatively affect their intimate relationships and overall quality of life. In this randomized clinical trial, the investigators will assess and compare two evidence-based treatments, mindfulness-based therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), for couples with sexual complaints following PC treatment to controls who will receive no intervention.
Prostate Cancer|Sexual Dysfunctions, Psychological|Sexual Dysfunction, Physiological|Sexual Dysfunction Male|Relationships, Marital|Prostatic Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)|BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-Based Therapy
Change in relationship satisfaction, Adapted dyadic adjustment scale (A-DAS). The A-DAS is a validated, 7-item measure that assesses relationship adjustment. Total scores range from 0-36 with higher scores indicating greater dyadic adjustment., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in relationship satisfaction, Adapted dyadic adjustment scale (A-DAS). The A-DAS is a validated, 7-item measure that assesses relationship adjustment. Total scores range from 0-36 with higher scores indicating greater dyadic adjustment., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)|Change in sexual satisfaction/distress, Female sexual distress scale - revised (FSDS-R). The FSDS-R is a 13-item measure that assesses sexual distress. Although named for its use with women, this measure has been validated as a measure of sexual distress in women and men. Each item is rated on a scale of 0-4. The total score is a summation, ranging from 0 to 52, and provides a measure of sexual distress in which higher scores represent higher levels of sexual distress., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in sexual satisfaction/distress, Female sexual distress scale - revised (FSDS-R). The FSDS-R is a 13-item measure that assesses sexual distress. Although named for its use with women, this measure has been validated as a measure of sexual distress in women and men. Each item is rated on a scale of 0-4. The total score is a summation, ranging from 0 to 52, and provides a measure of sexual distress in which higher scores represent higher levels of sexual distress., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)|Change in sexual functioning (one of three different questionnaires depending on the participant's demographics), International Index of Erectile Functioning (IIEF) is a 15-item self-reported scale of men's sexual functioning. The scale has five domains: Erectile Function, Intercourse Satisfaction; Orgasmic Function, Overall Satisfaction, and Sexual Desire with ranges 1-30, 0-15, 0-10, 2-10, and 2-10 respectively. Total scores (sum) range from 5-75. Lower domain and total scores denote lower sexual function.

OR International Index of Erectile Functioning for Men who have sex with men (IIEF-MSM) is a 22-item measure of sexual function. Total scores (sum) range from 0-95; lower scores indicate lower sexual function.

OR Female Sexual Functioning Index (FSFI) is a 19-item measure of self-reported sexual dysfunction in women. The scale includes six domains with the following ranges: 1.2-6 for desire; 0-6 for arousal, lubrication, orgasm, and pain; and 0.8-6 satisfaction. Total scores (sum) range from 2 to 36. Lower domain and total scores indicate lower sexual functioning., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in sexual functioning (one of three different questionnaires depending on the participant's demographics), International Index of Erectile Functioning (IIEF) is a 15-item self-reported scale of men's sexual functioning. The scale has five domains: Erectile Function, Intercourse Satisfaction; Orgasmic Function, Overall Satisfaction, and Sexual Desire with ranges 1-30, 0-15, 0-10, 2-10, and 2-10 respectively. Total scores (sum) range from 5-75. Lower domain and total scores denote lower sexual function.

OR International Index of Erectile Functioning for Men who have sex with men (IIEF-MSM) is a 22-item measure of sexual function. Total scores (sum) range from 0-95; lower scores indicate lower sexual function.

OR Female Sexual Functioning Index (FSFI) is a 19-item measure of self-reported sexual dysfunction in women. The scale includes six domains with the following ranges: 1.2-6 for desire; 0-6 for arousal, lubrication, orgasm, and pain; and 0.8-6 satisfaction. Total scores (sum) range from 2 to 36. Lower domain and total scores indicate lower sexual functioning., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)|Change in sexual behaviours, Sexual activity scale. This is a questionnaire developed by the study lead that asks individuals to indicate whether they engaged in a range of sexual activities over 3 time-periods: (a) ever, (b) since their/their partner's prostate cancer surgery, and (c) in the past 4 weeks. There are 15 items on this scale which can be indicated over the three time periods mentioned previously. By tallying the categorical answers (yes or no), total scores can range from 0 to 45 with higher scores indicating greater sexual activity engaged. Subset scores at each time point range from 0-15 and indicate sexual activity in the same way as the total score., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in sexual behaviours, Sexual activity scale. This is a questionnaire developed by the study lead that asks individuals to indicate whether they engaged in a range of sexual activities over 3 time-periods: (a) ever, (b) since their/their partner's prostate cancer surgery, and (c) in the past 4 weeks. There are 15 items on this scale which can be indicated over the three time periods mentioned previously. By tallying the categorical answers (yes or no), total scores can range from 0 to 45 with higher scores indicating greater sexual activity engaged. Subset scores at each time point range from 0-15 and indicate sexual activity in the same way as the total score., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)
Change in psychological well-being, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The HADS is a validated, 14-item measure of depression and anxiety. Total scores range from 0-42, composed of the sum of two sub-scales for anxiety and depression both ranging from 0-21. Higher scores indicate higher levels of anxiety and/or depression symptoms., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in psychological well-being, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The HADS is a validated, 14-item measure of depression and anxiety. Total scores range from 0-42, composed of the sum of two sub-scales for anxiety and depression both ranging from 0-21. Higher scores indicate higher levels of anxiety and/or depression symptoms., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)|Change in distress, Distress Thermometer. The distress thermometer is a single-item distress screening scale, which has been shown to be a valid measure of cancer-specific distress among prostate cancer patients and their partners. Participants indicate their current level of distress on an 11-point scale from 0-10 with 0 being no distress and 10 being extreme distress., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in distress, Distress Thermometer. The distress thermometer is a single-item distress screening scale, which has been shown to be a valid measure of cancer-specific distress among prostate cancer patients and their partners. Participants indicate their current level of distress on an 11-point scale from 0-10 with 0 being no distress and 10 being extreme distress., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)|Change in quality of life, World Health Organization Quality of Life - Brief Form (WHOQOL-BREF). This is a 26-item measure that assesses overall quality of life in four domains of physical health, psychological well-being, social relationships, and environmental well-being. The four domains score with a range from 4-20 with higher scores representing higher quality of life in each domain., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in quality of life, World Health Organization Quality of Life - Brief Form (WHOQOL-BREF). This is a 26-item measure that assesses overall quality of life in four domains of physical health, psychological well-being, social relationships, and environmental well-being. The four domains score with a range from 4-20 with higher scores representing higher quality of life in each domain., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)
Change in Mindfulness, Five Facets of Mindfulness questionnaire; Short form, which is a validated, 24-item measure of different aspects of mindfulness. There are five subscales: non-reactivity, observing, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging. Sub-scale scores range from 5-25 for non-reactivity, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging, and 5-20 for observing. Higher scores indicate greater levels of the respective facet of mindfulness., Baseline and Post Treatment (6 weeks)|Change in Mindfulness, Five Facets of Mindfulness questionnaire; Short form, which is a validated, 24-item measure of different aspects of mindfulness. There are five subscales: non-reactivity, observing, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging. Sub-scale scores range from 5-25 for non-reactivity, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging, and 5-20 for observing. Higher scores indicate greater levels of the respective facet of mindfulness., Baseline and Follow Up (6 months)|Mindfulness (moderator), Five Facets of Mindfulness questionnaire; Short form, which is a validated, 24-item measure of different aspects of mindfulness. There are five subscales: non-reactivity, observing, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging. Sub-scale scores range from 5-25 for non-reactivity, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging, and 5-20 for observing. Higher scores indicate greater levels of the respective facet of mindfulness., Baseline|Mindfulness (moderator), Five Facets of Mindfulness questionnaire; Short form, which is a validated, 24-item measure of different aspects of mindfulness. There are five subscales: non-reactivity, observing, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging. Sub-scale scores range from 5-25 for non-reactivity, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging, and 5-20 for observing. Higher scores indicate greater levels of the respective facet of mindfulness., Post-Treatment (Week 6)|Mindfulness (moderator), Five Facets of Mindfulness questionnaire; Short form, which is a validated, 24-item measure of different aspects of mindfulness. There are five subscales: non-reactivity, observing, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging. Sub-scale scores range from 5-25 for non-reactivity, acting with awareness, describing, and non-judging, and 5-20 for observing. Higher scores indicate greater levels of the respective facet of mindfulness., Follow-Up (6 Months)|Expectations for treatment (moderator), A 4-item questionnaire, designed for and used in a previous mindfulness-based treatment study for women with provoked vestibulodynia. Scores for each item range from 0-10, with higher scores indicating a greater expectation for the treatment to be effective and greater motivation to complete the treatment and assignments., Baseline for Treatment Groups|Expectations for treatment (moderator), A 4-item questionnaire, designed for and used in a previous mindfulness-based treatment study for women with provoked vestibulodynia. Scores for each item range from 0-10, with higher scores indicating a greater expectation for the treatment to be effective and greater motivation to complete the treatment and assignments., Post-Treatment (Week 6)|Expectations for treatment (moderator), A 4-item questionnaire, designed for and used in a previous mindfulness-based treatment study for women with provoked vestibulodynia. Scores for each item range from 0-10, with higher scores indicating a greater expectation for the treatment to be effective and greater motivation to complete the treatment and assignments., Follow-Up (6 Months) for Treatment Groups|Therapeutic Skills Practice (moderator), This is a questionnaire designed by the experimenters to assess the amount that participants practice the skills taught in treatment daily. Participants will indicate the skills practiced each day, and number of minutes they spent practicing each skill. This will be expressed as total number of minutes or an average of minutes per day., Week 1-4 for Treatment Groups|Therapeutic Skills Practice (moderator), This is a questionnaire designed by the experimenters to assess the amount that participants practice the skills taught in treatment. Participants will indicate the skills practiced each day, and number of minutes they spent practicing each skill. This will be expressed as total number of minutes or an average of minutes per day., Follow-Up (6 Months) for Treatment Groups|Big Five Inventory-10 (moderator), Big Five Inventory-10. An adapted, brief 10-item measure of personality characteristics. Scores range from 2-10 on the five personality traits of openness to experience, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. Higher scores indicate higher levels of the respective trait., Baseline|Pre-treatment sexual functioning (moderator), This is an experimenter derived questionnaire asking participants to indicate if they have a history of sexual dysfunction that preceded their own/their partner's prostate cancer treatments. Items are scored on a range from 0-5, with higher scores denoting greater sexual dysfunction. Total number of items varies as participants are able to specify more dysfunction symptoms., Baseline|Time elapsed since treatment (moderator), This measure will review date of prostate cancer diagnosis and the time elapsed from treatment to enrollment. This will be reviewed at 6 Months to capture any changes in treatment., Baseline and Follow-Up (6 Months)
This randomized clinical trial is designed to assess and compare efficacy of two treatment manuals for couples with sexual difficulties secondary to PC treatment: mindfulness-based therapy and CBT. A third arm, where couples receive no intervention will act as a control group. Those randomized to the "control" group will have the opportunity to be randomized to one of the treatment groups following their third and final questionnaire if they wish.

Men and their partners will be invited to participate through the Vancouver Prostate Centre's Prostate Cancer Supportive Care Program (PCSC) at Vancouver General Hospital.

Eligible couples will be randomized to either: 4 consecutive weeks of mindfulness-based therapy, CBT, or no intervention (4-6 couples in each treatment group at a time). All participants will complete an online questionnaire package to assess primary, secondary, and tertiary outcomes at the time of study enrollment or baseline (Time 1). All participants will be invited to complete a Time 2 questionnaire once approximately 6 weeks after they complete the Time 1 questionnaire (for couples randomized to the treatment arms, this will be immediately post-treatment). Finally, all participants will be invited to complete the Time 3 follow up questionnaire 6 months after they complete the Time 2 (post-treatment) questionnaire.

Endpoints will assess effects on intimacy and overall Quality of Life. Additional endpoints of other factors affecting improvement (i.e., moderators like personality and treatment adherence) will be assessed. The investigators predict improvements in both mindfulness-based and cognitive behavioural therapy treatments; moderators will provide insights into which participants benefit most from each treatment arm.

Moreover, in order to improve understanding of the lived experience of patients who take part in the treatment groups or control arm, this study will invite all participants to take part in an exit interview after their Time 2 (post-treatment) questionnaire is completed. A research team member who was not a treatment facilitator will conduct the exit interviews. This information will then be transcribed and used for qualitative data analyses.