A Window-of-opportunity Study of Pelareorep in Early Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out if pelareorep in combination with different therapies helps to reduce the growth of breast cancer cells and increase the immune system's response to cancer. This study will also help to understand what this treatment does to the tumor. In addition, the safety of the combination treatments with pelareorep will be evaluated.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pelareorep|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab
To evaluate if pelareorep in combination with different therapies increases the value of the CelTIL score in women with operable early breast cancer. CelTIL is a combined IHC-based score based on tumor cellularity and stromal TILs., CelTIL score is a metric for quantifying broad changes to the tumor microenvironment and is calculated by the following equation:

CelTIL score = -0.8 × tumor cellularity (in percent) + 1.3 × TILs (in percent). The minimum and maximum unscaled CelTIL scores will be -80 and 130. This unscaled CelTIL score will then be scaled to reflect the reported values ranging from 0 to 100 points where an increase in CelTIL scores represent favorable changes to the tumor microenvironment., The CelTIL score will be measured from on-treatment tumor biopsies collected at baseline (pre-treatment), day 3, and at time of surgery (day ~21 ± 5 days).
To evaluate if pelareorep in combination with different therapies increases the value of the CelTIL score in women with HR+/HER2-negative breast cancer., The CelTIL score will be measured from on-treatment tumor biopsies collected at baseline (pre-treatment), day 3, and at time of surgery (day ~21 ± 5 days).|To evaluate if pelareorep in combination with different therapies increases the value of the CelTIL score in women with HER2-positive breast cancer., The CelTIL score will be measured from on-treatment tumor biopsies collected at baseline (pre-treatment), day 3, and at time of surgery (day ~21 ± 5 days).|To identify biological changes, as defined by gene expression between posttreatment and pretreatment samples following pelareorep in combination with different therapies., throughout|To describe the safety profile of the combination therapies, throughout
This is a window of opportunity non-randomized exploratory study to evaluate the safety and anti-tumor immunogenicity of pelareorep -/+ atezolizumab in five different cohorts in women with operable early breast cancer.

After enrollment, pelareorep will be administered at 4.5 × 1010 TCID50 intravenously on days 1, 2, 8 \& 9. Other therapies will be administered according to the assigned treatment cohort.

After an initial biopsy (diagnostic biopsy in most cases), a second biopsy will be performed on Day 3. Patients will continue the planned treatment until day 21(±5), when a third biopsy will be performed. This third biopsy can be the surgical specimen if patient was scheduled for primary surgery, or a core biopsy if patient will undergo neoadjuvant treatment.

Blood samples will be collected throughout the study at three time points, Day 1, Day 3, and End of Treatment.

Patients will receive treatment for 3 weeks prior to surgery or neoadjuvant therapy. Thereafter, patients will either be considered for definitive surgery or primary medical treatment (e.g. neoadjuvant chemotherapy) at the discretion of the treating physician. Surgery or biopsy prior to neoadjuvant chemotherapy should be done within 3 weeks (±5 days) from the start of the study treatment.

The end of study visit will be performed at the day of surgery. A safety follow-up, the end of study visit, will be done at 28 days (± 7 days) after the last dose of treatment received