A Phase Ib Study of APG-115 Single Agent or in Combination With Azacitidine or Cytarabine in Patients With AML and MDS.
Acute myeloid leukemia is a malignant disorder characterized by the rapid, uncontrolled proliferation of malignant clonal hematopoietic stem cells that accumulate as immature, undifferentiated cells (blasts) in the bone marrow and circulation.

APG-115 is a potent and orally active small-molecule MDM2 inhibitor, it binds to MDM2 protein and shows potent cell growth inhibitory activity in vitro with low nanomolar potencies in a subset of human cancer cell lines. APG-115 has demonstrated its strong antitumor activities with either daily or less frequent dosing-schedules in the acute leukemia xenograft models.

This is a phase 1b, open-label, three-stages study that will initially evaluate the safety and PK/PD profile of APG-115 as a single agent, followed by a combination of APG-115 + azacytidine or cytarabine in R/R AML or MDS subjects.

Patients will continue treatment for maximally 6 cycles or until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity is observed or administrative discontinuation whichever occurs first. Patients who continue to be benefit after 6 cycles' treatment will receive additional cycles of treatment until progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity is observed or administrative discontinuation. (As long as it is proven safe).
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)|Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS)
DRUG: APG-115|DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Cytarabine
Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT), DLT will be graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 5) by organ system. DLT will be defined as clinically significant drug-related adverse events during the Cycle one., From day 1 to the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days).
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined by CR + CRi+ PR (according to IWG AML（2003）and IWG MDS（2006）criteria), Evaluated for response by the end of cycle 1 and cycle 2, and then 2 months thereafter till complete 6 cycles treatment or 1 month after last dose (each cycle is 28 days).|Overall survival (OS), From date of treatment start until the date of death due to any cause or date of termination of the study, whichever came first. Termination of the Study: The last subject has completed at least 6 cycle's treatment or the subject discontinues treatment for any reason., Measured up to 6 months after the last subject has received treatment.
Stage 1: This will be a 3+3 dose escalation to determine the DLTs and MTD/RP2D of APG-115 given according to the different dose levels once daily from Days 1 to 7 every 28 days.

Stage 2: After stage 1 of APG-115 single agent dose escalation first cycle is completed, stage 2 can be initiated with the combination regimen. This will be a 3+3 dose escalation to determine the MTD/RP2D and DLTs of APG-115 + AZA(arm A)/Cytarabine (arm B)combination.

Stage 3: dose expansion of the combination regimes.