Trastuzumab Combined With Pertuzumab for Adjuvant Treatment of Breast Cancer After Neoadjuvant Therapy
Patients with HER-2 positive breast cancer who have poor outcomes after endocrinotherapy and standard chemotherapy can be significantly improved by the use of anti-HER-2 monoclonal antibody trastuzumab. In the current clinical practice of neoadjuvant therapy, trastuzumab combined with chemotherapy can significantly increase the pCR and improve the outcomes in patients. However, there seems to be no available treatment for patients who have no pCR and still have residual tumors except for sequential trastuzumab treatment for 1 year. Compared with trastuzumab, a HER-2 macromolecule inhibitor, pyrotinib has a different site of action and an increased EGFR target. Compared with lapatinib, a small molecule inhibitor of EGFR and HER-2, pyrotinib is an irreversible inhibitor, with the ability to achieve a better curative effect at a lower human plasma exposure level. This trial is designed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of trastuzumab combined with pertuzumab followed by sequential pyrotinib treatment in non-pCR patients after neoadjuvant therapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pyrotinib|DRUG: Trastuzumab
Invasive Disease-Free Survival (IDFS), the time from the date of randomization to the first appearance of recurrent disease. Recurrent diseases include ipsilateral or contralateral breast cancer, local or regional recurrence, distant recurrence and death from any cause., at least 3 years from the beginning of randomization.
Disease-Free Survival (DFS), the time from the date of randomization to the first occurrence of any recurrent disease. Recurrent diseases include second primary malignant tumor in the non-breast region and preinvasive cancer in the breast duct., at least 3 years from the date of randomization|overall survival (OS), the time from the date of randomization to death due to any cause., at least 3 years from the date of randomization|Distant Disease-Free Survival (DDFS), the time from the date of randomization to the first occurrence of distant recurrence or death from any cause, at least 3 years from the date of randomization
Adverse event (AE), AEs will be assessed as per the NCI-CTC AE 5.0 standard., from the date of randomization to no more than 28 days after the last drug withdrawal.
In recent years, the interest has greatly increased in how to proceed with postoperative intensive adjuvant therapy for early breast cancer patients who have not reached pCR and still have residual lesion after neoadjuvant therapy. Relevant efficacy and safety data have been continuously verified in clinical trials, and some treatments have been clinically approved. Moreover, new attempts and explorations are still going on in clinical practice. Based on the preliminary clinical findings, it is planned to design a randomized controlled, open-label, multi-center phase III clinical study that will explore the efficacy of trastuzumab combined with pertuzumab for 1 year followed by sequential pyrotinib vs. touzumab combined with pertuzumab for 1 year, aiming to verify that dual-target adjuvant therapy with sequential use of pyrotinib maleate tablets is superior to dual-target adjuvant therapy alone in HER-2 positive early breast cancer patients who have not reached pCR after neoadjuvant therapy. If this clinical trial achieves a positive result, the use of pyrotinib maleate tablets will be promoted for early breast cancer patients who have not reached pCR and still have residual tumor lesions after neoadjuvant therapy with an attempt to further achieve improved outcomes and prognosis.