Medico-economic Evaluation of Robot-assisted Laparoscopy Compared With Conventional Laparoscopy in Hysterectomy for Endometrial Cancer.
The standard treatment for endometrial cancer is surgery, as long as the stage of the disease and the patient's condition allow. It consists of hysterectomy (TSH) with bilateral adnexectomy. The recommended surgical approach is the minimally invasive or laparoscopic route, whose oncological safety has been demonstrated by the LAP2 study.

Since 2010 and the arrival of robotic surgery in gynaecology, the robot-assisted laparoscopic approach has gradually been used for endometrial cancer Hysterectomy.

Several studies have suggested that the cost and effectiveness of laparoscopy may vary according to the age and body mass index of the patient.

The investigators therefore hypothesise that robot-assisted laparoscopy may be more efficient than conventional laparoscopy for endometrial cancer hysterectomy in the context of an advanced learning curve in France.

The investigators therefore hypothesise that robot-assisted laparoscopy could be more efficient than conventional laparoscopy for endometrial cancer hysterectomy in the context of an advanced learning curve in France. The investigators will also test the efficiency of the surgical technique as a function of age and Body mass Index.
Hysterectomies for Low- or Intermediate-risk Endometrial Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Robot-assisted laparoscopy|PROCEDURE: conventional laparoscopy|OTHER: Prospective cohort study|OTHER: Retrospective cohort study|OTHER: information and consent|OTHER: randomization|OTHER: Collection of socio-demographic, clinical, biological, imaging and histopathological data, treatment decision, recurrence|OTHER: Surgical data collection|OTHER: Biological data collection|OTHER: Collection of histological data from the surgical specimen|OTHER: Phone calls|OTHER: Pain assessment|OTHER: Collect of data on non-reimbursed transport|OTHER: Collect of everyday help|OTHER: Collection of the business resumption date|OTHER: SF36 questionnaire|OTHER: Questionnaire EQ5D-5L|OTHER: FIGO Stadium|OTHER: Collection of treatments (analgesics and anticoagulants up to J42, complication-related treatments, etc.)|OTHER: Collection of adjuvant treatments|OTHER: Recording of any complications, emergency room visits/unscheduled consultations, additional work stoppages to the initial one|OTHER: Collection of data
Cost-utility ratio expressed in terms of costs / QALY, Incremental cost-utility ratio expressed in terms of costs / QALY (Quality-Adjusted Life-Year) gained with robot-assisted laparoscopy versus conventional laparoscopy in patients undergoing THR for low-risk or intermediate-risk endometrial carcinoma (i. e ; endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the endometrium grade 1 or 2 and FIGO stage 1 ((FIGO 2023 classification) in pre-therapeutic MRI) following a collective perspective at 6 weeks post-operatively., 6 weeks post-operatively
Operating time, Operating time, Day 0|Conversion rate, Conversion rate, month 6|Rate and nature of intraoperative complications, Rate and nature of intraoperative complications, Day 0|Post-operative complication rate and nature at D42 (Clavien-Dindo classification), Post-operative complication rate and nature at D42 (Clavien-Dindo classification), Day 42|Post-operative complication rate and nature at M6 (Clavien-Dindo classification), Post-operative complication rate and nature at M6 (Clavien-Dindo classification), Month 6|Volume of intraoperative blood loss, Volume of intraoperative blood loss, Day 0|Number of RBC, FFP, PC transfused during hospital stay, Number of Red Blood Cell Concentrate(s) (RBC), Fresh Frozen Plasma(s) (FFP), and Platelet Concentrate(s) (PC) transfused during hospital stay, Day 3|Visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain 6h after surgery, Visual analogue evaluation (VAS) of pain 6h after surgery. Scale from 0 to 10. VAS between 1 and 3: pain of mild intensity VAS between 3 and 5: pain of moderate intensity VAS between 5 and 7: intense pain VAS greater than 7: very intense pain, 6 Hours after surgery|Visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain 24h after surgery, Visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain 24h after surgery. Scale from 0 to 10. VAS between 1 and 3: pain of mild intensity VAS between 3 and 5: pain of moderate intensity VAS between 5 and 7: intense pain VAS greater than 7: very intense pain, 24 Hours after surgery|Visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain D3 after surgery, Visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain D3 after surgery. Scale from 0 to 10. VAS between 1 and 3: pain of mild intensity VAS between 3 and 5: pain of moderate intensity VAS between 5 and 7: intense pain VAS greater than 7: very intense pain, Day 3|Analgesic consumption at D1 after surgery, Analgesic consumption at D1 after surgery, Day 1|Analgesic consumption at D3 after surgery, Analgesic consumption at D3 after surgery, Day 3|Analgesic consumption at D7 after surgery, Analgesic consumption at D7 after surgery, Day 7|Analgesic consumption at D42 after surgery, Analgesic consumption at D42 after surgery, Day 42|EQ-5D-5L at inclusion after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at inclusion after surgery. Score from 0 to 1 - 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Day 0|EQ-5D-5L at D1 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at D1 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1. 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Day 1|EQ-5D-5L at D3 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at D3 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1. 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Day 3|EQ-5D-5L at D7 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at D7 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1. 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Day 7|EQ-5D-5L at D14 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at D14 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1. 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Day 14|EQ-5D-5L at D21 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at D21 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1. 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Day 21|EQ-5D-5L at D42 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at D42 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1. 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Day 42|EQ-5D-5L at M3 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at M3 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1. 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Month 3|EQ-5D-5L at M6 after surgery, EQ-5D-5L (Euroquol - 5 Dimensions - 5 levels) at M6 after surgery. Score from 0 to 1 0 = deceased

1 = in perfect health, Month 6|SF-36 at baseline after surgery, SF-36 (Short Form 36) at baseline after surgery. Score from 0 to 100. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., Day 0|SF-36 at D3 after surgery, SF-36 (Short Form 36) at D3 after surgery. Score from 0 to 100. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., Day 3|SF-36 at D7 after surgery, SF-36 (Short Form 36) at D7 after surgery. Score from 0 to 100. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., Day 7|SF-36 at D42 after surgery, SF-36 (Short Form 36) at D42 after surgery. Score from 0 to 100. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., Day 42|SF-36 at M6 after surgery, SF-36 (Short Form 36) at M6 after surgery. Score from 0 to 100. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., Month 6|Consumption of care: average length of hospital stay, Consumption of care between surgery and D42 and M6: average length of hospital stay in days, Day 42|Consumption of care: average of number of re-hospitalizations,, Consumption of care between surgery and D42 and M6: average of number of re-hospitalizations, Day 42|Consumption of care: average of emergency room visits, Consumption of care between surgery and D42 and M6: average of emergency room visits, Day 42|Consumption of care: average of number of gynecologist consultations, Consumption of care between surgery and D42 and M6: average of number of gynecologist consultations, Day 42|Consumption of care: quantity of analgesic(s), Consumption of care between surgery and D42 and M6: quantity of consumption of analgesic(s) up to D42, Day 42|Consumption of care:, Consumption of care between surgery and D42 and M6: quantity of consumption of anticoagulant(s) up to D42, Day 42|Consumption of care: average of number of work stoppage(s)., Consumption of care between surgery and D42 and M6: average of number of work stoppage(s)., Day 42|Time to initiate adjuvant treatment when indicated, Time to initiate adjuvant treatment when indicated (radiotherapy and/or brachytherapy and/or chemotherapy)., Month 6|Vital status at 6 months, Patient alive or not at 6 months, Month 6|Gas recovery time, Gas recovery time, Day 3|QALYs from a collective perspective at D42, Incremental cost-utility ratio expressed as costs/QALYs gained with robot-assisted laparoscopy vs. laparoscopy from a collective perspective at D42, stratified by age\<or≥ at 75 and BMI\<or≥ at 30 kg/m2,, Day 42|QALYs from a collective perspective at M6., Incremental cost-utility ratio expressed as costs/QALYs gained with robot-assisted laparoscopy versus laparoscopy from a collective perspective at M6., Month 6|Number of patients who underwent each approach, Number of patients who underwent each approach (laparotomy, conventional laparoscopy, robotic-assisted laparoscopy or vaginal approach) among patients operated on for low- or intermediate-risk endometrial cancer at participating centers during the inclusion period., Month 36|QALYs and average costs in relation to care consumption of patients included in the prospective cohort and in the randomized controlled trial according to the approach used and subgroups defined by age (<or> to 75 years) and BMI <or> to 30 kg/m2)., QALYs and average costs in relation to care consumption of patients included in the prospective cohort and in the randomized controlled trial according to the approach used and subgroups defined by age (\<or≥ to 75 years) and BMI \<or≥ to 30 kg/m2)., Month 36|Surgical teams' perception of the benefits and limitations of robotic surgery in this indication, as well as perceived barriers and levers to the deployment of robot-assisted surgery in low- or intermediate-risk endometrial cancer., Surgical teams' perception of the benefits and limitations of robotic surgery in this indication, as well as perceived barriers and levers to the deployment of robot-assisted surgery in low- or intermediate-risk endometrial cancer. Use of semi directiv interview, qualitative method, Month 36|Assessment of the surgeon's physical stress during and at the end of the operation using the Borg scale, Assessment of the surgeon's physical stress during and at the end of the operation using the Borg scale, Day 0|Assessment of the surgeon's physical stress during and at the end of the operation using the NASA-TLX, Assessment of the surgeon's physical stress during and at the end of the operation using the NASA-TLX, Day 0|Total annual costs of the foreseeable spread of robot-assisted surgery, Total annual costs of the foreseeable spread of robot-assisted surgery for low-risk or intermediate-risk endometrial cancer and of alternative management, with gradual generalization over a 5-year period, based on the outlook for the French healthcare system., Month 36
As part of this project, the investigators are proposing an original approach by combining a randomized controlled trial with a prospective observational cohort and a retrospective cohort.

This research will therefore consist of 3 complementary studies :

A multicenter, parallel-group, open-label, randomized controlled superiority trial (ratio 1:1) comparing two groups:

* Group 1: laparoscopic robot-assisted THR
* Group 2: conventional laparoscopic STH A prospective cohort based on the randomized controlled trial A retrospective cohort Qualitative analysis of perceptions of the benefits and limitations of the surgical robot, and of the obstacles and levers to its deployment: focus groups with a sample of gynecology surgical teams from volunteer centers.

Budget impact analysis