Crizotinib in High-Risk Uveal Melanoma Following Definitive Therapy
The study is designed to determine the 32 month rate of distant relapse in patients with uveal melanoma who are at high risk of recurrence following definitive therapy with surgery or radiation who receive adjuvant crizotinib; and secondarily, the overall survival and disease specific survival in this patient population.
Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: Crizotinib
Relapse Free Survival (RFS) Rate at 32 Months, RFS rate will be defined as the percentage of patients who do not experience any new tumor growth at any site on the body distant from the primary site or death from any cause from the time of study entry to the end of the relevant timepoint. RFS probabilities were estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., 32 Months
Overall Survival (OS), OS will be defined as the time from treatment start to date of death or last followup. Participants were followed up to 36 months after treatment start and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to generate the Overall Survival estimate., Up to 36 months|Disease-Specific Survival (DSS) Time, DSS is defined as the time from treatment start to death due to disease or last followup. Participants who die from other causes will be censored., Up to 36 months|Number of Participants With Treatment Discontinuation Due to Toxicity, Toxicity grading will be performed in accordance with NCI CTCAE, version 4.0., 48 weeks
Uveal melanoma is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults, and arises from melanocytes within the choroid plexus of the eye. Melanomas of the ocular and adnexal structures comprise approximately 5% of all melanomas and are biologically and prognostically distinct from cutaneous melanoma. In the United States, an estimated 2000 patients are diagnosed with this disease each year.

The development of metastasis in this disease is common and occurs in approximately 50% of patients with posterior uveal melanoma within 15 years after the initial diagnosis and treatment. Uveal melanoma is thought to be particularly resistant to systemic treatment, and no systemic therapy has yet been demonstrated to improve survival. Drugs commonly used to treat advanced cutaneous melanoma rarely achieve durable responses in patients with uveal melanoma.