Lenalidomide and Ipilimumab After Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Hematologic or Lymphoid Malignancies
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of lenalidomide and ipilimumab after stem cell transplant in treating patients with hematologic or lymphoid malignancies. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate or suppress the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving lenalidomide with ipilimumab may be a better treatment for hematologic or lymphoid malignancies.
B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma|T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Number of Participants Experienced Severe Toxicity From Lenalidomide and Ipilimumab Post Transplant, Any grade 4 hematological toxicity or grade 3-5 organ toxicity 30 days following the last dose of study drug., Up to 30 days following the last dose of study drugs
Number of Participants Achieved Complete Remission, CR is defined as a complete resolution of all target lesions by CT scans with complete normalization of FDG-PET uptake in all areas, and bone marrow biopsy negativity., Up to 30 days following the last dose of study drug|Progression-free Survival, Number of participants that are alive and disease free 36 months long post transplant, Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of lenalidomide in combination with ipilimumab in autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall response rate. II. Overall survival, progression-free survival. III. Cumulative incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) with the competing risk of relapse in allogeneic transplant patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of courses 1, 3, 5 and 7. Beginning 1-3 days after the last dose of lenalidomide patients receive one dose of ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes of courses 2, 4, 6 and 8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months.