Study of Nivolumab (BMS-936558) Plus Ipilimumab Compared With Ipilimumab Alone in the Treatment of Previously Untreated, Unresectable, or Metastatic Melanoma
The primary purpose of this study is to compare the objective response rate, as determined by investigators, of Nivolumab combined with Ipilimumab versus Ipilimumab monotherapy in patients with untreated, unresectable, or metastatic melanoma
Unresectable Melanoma|Metastatic Melanoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Placebo
Objective Response Rate (ORR) - BRAF Wild-type (WT) Participants, Objective Response Rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), assessed by the investigator by using RECIST 1.1 criteria.

CR=all target and nontarget lesions have disappeared. Lymph nodes selected must have returned to normal size (\<10 mm).

PR=at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., From 12 weeks after Randomization, assessed every 6 weeks up to Week 49 of study treatment and then every 12 weeks until disease progression (up to approximately 76 months)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) - BRAF Wild-type (WT) Participants, PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first date of documented progression, as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Participants who died without a reported progression were considered to have progressed on the date of their death. Participants who did not progress or died were censored on the date of their last evaluable tumor assessment.

PFS values are based on Kaplan-Meier Estimates., From randomization to progression or death (up to approximately 88 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR) - BRAF Mutant Participants, Objective Response Rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), assessed by the investigator by using RECIST 1.1 criteria.

CR=all target and nontarget lesions have disappeared. Lymph nodes selected must have returned to normal size (\<10 mm).

PR=at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., From 12 weeks after Randomization, assessed every 6 weeks up to Week 49 of study treatment and then every 12 weeks until disease progression (up to approximately 76 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) - BRAF Mutant Participants, PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the first date of documented progression, as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Participants who died without a reported progression were considered to have progressed on the date of their death. Participants who did not progress or died were censored on the date of their last evaluable tumor assessment.

PFS values are based on Kaplan-Meier Estimates., From randomization to progression or death (up to approximately 88 months)|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Overall Quality of Life (QOL) C30 Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 version 3 is a questionnaire developed to assess the QOL of cancer patients. The questionnaire is a 30-item tool, and it comprises 6 functional subscales (physical functioning, role functioning, cognitive functioning, emotional functioning, social functioning and global quality of life) as well as 9 symptom subscales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties).

Scores for each subscale range from 0 to 100. For the 6 functional subscales, a higher score represents a better level of functioning/health status. For the 9 symptom subscales, a lower score represents a better outcome (low level of symptomatology).

Scores for the 15 subscales are presented individually., From Baseline (prior to start of study treatment) to Week 25 after first dose
The primary purpose of this study is to compare the objective response rate, as determined by investigators, of Nivolumab combined with Ipilimumab versus Ipilimumab monotherapy in patients with untreated, unresectable, or metastatic melanoma