Effects of 'Pinkwashed' Alcohol Ads in an Online RCT
The primary objective of this study is to examine how exposure to "pinkwashed" alcohol advertisements (i.e., ads that associate the company with breast cancer awareness or charities) affects consumers' perceptions that alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The investigators will randomize participants to view 3 'pinkwashed' social media advertisements for alcohol or 3 control advertisements for alcohol (i.e., 'de-pinked' standard alcohol advertisements that match the intervention advertisements on overall design but do not mention breast cancer). Each participant will view the 3 advertisements for their arm (presented in random order) and respond to survey questions programmed in Qualtrics.
Breast Cancer|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Pinkwashed Advertisements|BEHAVIORAL: Control - Standard Advertisements
Breast cancer risk perceptions, This outcome will be measured with an adapted item from the HINTS (2020) survey. The question is worded " In your opinion, how much does drinking \[wine/beer/liquor\] affect the risk of developing each of the following outcomes... Breast cancer." Response options are on a five point likert-type scale ranging from "Decreases risk a lot" (=1) to "Increases risk a lot " (=5). Participants will be asked to respond to this item three times, once for each type of alcoholic beverage presented (wine, beer, liquor). Scores from the three items will then be averaged for analyses. Higher scores indicate higher risk perceptions., During ~20 minute online survey
Perceived product healthfulness, This outcome will be measured with one item adapted from Bollard et al (2016). The question will read: "How healthy or unhealthy do you think it is to drink this product?" and will be measured with a 5-point likert-type response scale ranging from "Very unhealthy" (1) to "Very healthy"(5). Higher scores indicate greater healthfulness perceptions., During ~20 minute online survey|Perceived social responsibility of brand, This outcome will be measured with one item adapted from Nan \& Heo (2017). The question will read: "How socially responsible do you think the company that makes this product is?" and will be measured with a 5-point likert-type response scale ranging from "Very socially irresponsible" (1) to "Very socially responsible" (5). Higher scores indicate perceptions of social responsibility., During ~20 minute online survey|Favorable attitudes toward brand, This outcome will be measured with one item adapted from Nan \& Heo (2017). The question will read: "How do you feel about the company that makes this product?" and will be measured with a 5-point likert-type response scale ranging from "Dislike it a lot" (1) to "Like it a lot" (5). Higher scores indicate more favorable attitudes., During ~20 minute online survey|Purchase intentions, This outcome will be measured with one item adapted from Hall et al (2020). The question will display all three advertisements that the participant was exposed to (either pinkwashed or control). It will then query: "How likely would you be to buy any of these products in the next 4 weeks, if they were available?" and will be measured with a 5-point likert-type response scale ranging from "Not at all likely" (1) to "Extremely likely" (5). Higher scores indicate greater purchase intentions., During ~20 minute online survey|Perceived misleadingness of ads, Measure of how misleading a participant perceives the advertisement. Assessed with 1 item adapted from Hall et al. 2020, During ~20 minute online survey|Support for breast cancer warnings, Measure of participant support of including breast cancer warning labels on alcoholic beverage products. Assessed with 1 item adapted from Hall et al. 2018, During ~20 minute online survey|Stomach cancer risk perceptions, This outcome will be measured with an adapted item from the HINTS (2020) survey. The question is worded " In your opinion, how much does drinking \[wine/beer/liquor\] affect the risk of developing each of the following outcomes... Stomach cancer." Response options are on a five point likert-type scale ranging from "Decreases risk a lot" (=1) to "Increases risk a lot " (=5). Participants will be asked to respond to this item three times, once for each type of alcoholic beverage presented (wine, beer, liquor). Scores from the three items will then be averaged for analyses. Higher scores indicate higher risk perceptions., During ~20 minute online survey|Mouth and throat cancer risk perceptions, This outcome will be measured with an adapted item from the HINTS (2020) survey. The question is worded " In your opinion, how much does drinking \[wine/beer/liquor\] affect the risk of developing each of the following outcomes... Mouth and throat cancer." Response options are on a five point likert-type scale ranging from "Decreases risk a lot" (=1) to "Increases risk a lot " (=5). Participants will be asked to respond to this item three times, once for each type of alcoholic beverage presented (wine, beer, liquor). Scores from the three items will then be averaged for analyses. Higher scores indicate higher risk perceptions., During ~20 minute online survey|Liver cancer risk perceptions, This outcome will be measured with an adapted item from the HINTS (2020) survey. The question is worded " In your opinion, how much does drinking \[wine/beer/liquor\] affect the risk of developing each of the following outcomes... Liver cancer." Response options are on a five point likert-type scale ranging from "Decreases risk a lot" (=1) to "Increases risk a lot " (=5). Participants will be asked to respond to this item three times, once for each type of alcoholic beverage presented (wine, beer, liquor). Scores from the three items will then be averaged for analyses. Higher scores indicate higher risk perceptions., During ~20 minute online survey|Liver disease risk perceptions, This outcome will be measured with an adapted item from the HINTS (2020) survey. The question is worded " In your opinion, how much does drinking \[wine/beer/liquor\] affect the risk of developing each of the following outcomes... Liver disease." Response options are on a five point likert-type scale ranging from "Decreases risk a lot" (=1) to "Increases risk a lot " (=5). Participants will be asked to respond to this item three times, once for each type of alcoholic beverage presented (wine, beer, liquor). Scores from the three items will then be averaged for analyses. Higher scores indicate higher risk perceptions., During ~20 minute online survey|Hypertension risk perceptions, This outcome will be measured with an adapted item from the HINTS (2020) survey. The question is worded " In your opinion, how much does drinking \[wine/beer/liquor\] affect the risk of developing each of the following outcomes...Hypertension." Response options are on a five point likert-type scale ranging from "Decreases risk a lot" (=1) to "Increases risk a lot " (=5). Participants will be asked to respond to this item three times, once for each type of alcoholic beverage presented (wine, beer, liquor). Scores from the three items will then be averaged for analyses. Higher scores indicate higher risk perceptions., During ~20 minute online survey
The primary objective of this study is to examine how exposure to "pinkwashed" alcohol advertisements (i.e., ads that associate the company with breast cancer awareness or charities) affects consumers' perceptions that alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The investigators will randomize participants to view 3 'pinkwashed' social media advertisements for alcohol or 3 control advertisements for alcohol (i.e., 'de-pinked' standard alcohol advertisements that match the intervention advertisements on overall design but do not mention breast cancer). Each participant will view the 3 advertisements for their arm (presented in random order) and respond to survey questions programmed in Qualtrics.