Smoking Cessation Intervention for Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to see if we can find ways to improve the treatment of tobacco dependence in patients who have cancer or may have cancer. We will compare two ways to help people quit tobacco use before surgery and to stay quit after surgery. One way is a scheduled reduced smoking program followed by use of the nicotine patch. In this program, the tobacco user will gradually cut down on their tobacco use until they quit. Once they quit, they will be offered the nicotine patch. We will compare this approach to our current program of counseling and use of nicotine patch. What we learn from this study may help us to develop new ways to help tobacco users and improve our current smoking cessation program.
Newly Diagnosed Cancer Patients
BEHAVIORAL: Hospital Counseling + Nicotine Replacement Therapy. questionaires|BEHAVIORAL: Hospital Counseling + Nicotine Replacement + Presurgical Scheduled Reduced Smoking, questionaires
efficacy of a presurgical smoking cessation intervention that adds scheduled reduced smoking, a highly effective behavioral treatment in non-medically ill tobacco users, to enhanced usual care, i.e., hospital counseling and nicotine replacement therapy., will be measured at hospital admission, and 3 and 6 months post-hospital admission.
whether addition of a presurgical scheduled reduced smoking intervention improves smoking cessation and long-term abstinence rates c/w hospital counseling and nicotine transdermal patch (enhanced usual care) for recently diagnosed cancer patients., 6-8 months
Smoking cessation offers an important way for newly diagnosed cancer patients to take an active role in their treatment and recovery. Quitting tobacco use decreases cancer patients' risk of disease recurrence and development of second primary cancers. In addition, preoperative tobacco cessation may reduce the likelihood of perioperative pulmonary, cardiovascular, and wound healing complications. Due to increased awareness of the health hazards of tobacco use, rates of cessation after cancer diagnosis are high. However, 35% to 69% of patients continue to use tobacco and this is largely due to strong barriers to quitting (low-self efficacy, psychological distress) rather than lack of positive intentions to quit. Previous attempts to increase smoking cessation among the medically ill have provided intervention either during or after hospitalization.

We propose that the period immediately prior to hospitalization and surgery represents a unique window of opportunity, or "teachable moment," for smoking cessation that could take full advantage of patients' enhanced health awareness and quitting motivation, strong physician quitting advice, and patients' heightened desire to take an active role in their care.