The Effect of Range of Motion (ROM) exercıses on Comfort Level and vıtal sıgns
This experimental study aims to examine the effects of ROM (Range of Motion) exercises on comfort level and vital signs in children diagnosed with cancer.
Children With Cancer
OTHER: Range Of Motion applied group
Body temperature, For 5 days, children's body temperature was taken 2 times before and after 20 minutes of Range Of Motion., For 5 days/ 2 times a day/ before and after a 20 minute range of motion.|Pulse, For 5 days, children's pulse was taken 2 times before and after 20 minutes of Range Of Motion., For 5 days/ 2 times a day/ before and after a 20 minute range of motion.|Respiration, For 5 days, children's Respiration was taken 2 times before and after 20 minutes of Range Of Motion., For 5 days/ 2 times a day/ before and after a 20 minute range of motion.|Blood pressure, For 5 days, children's systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure was taken 2 times before and after 20 minutes of Range Of Motion., For 5 days/ 2 times a day/ before and after a 20 minute range of motion.|Comfort, For 5 days, children's comfort level was taken 2 times before and after 20 minutes of Range Of Motion.

Pediatric Comfort Assessment Scale was used for measurement. It evaluates 5 parameters: sounds, motor movements, performance, facial expressions and other. Each item is evaluated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 to 4 (0/Not Available, 1/No, 2/Somewhat, 3/Moderate, 4/Strong) from bad to good. Higher scores indicate a higher level of comfort., For 5 days/ 2 times a day/ before and after a 20 minute range of motion.
The sample of the study consisted of a total of 60 oncology patient children, 30 in the experimental group and 30 in the control group, between the ages of 6-12, who were hospitalized in the Pediatric Bone Marrow Transplant Unit and Pediatric Hematology Oncology Service of a state hospital. The data of the study were collected with the "Data Collection Form", "Life Findings Table" and "Comfort Scale in Children". Range of motion exercise applications continued once a day for 5 days a week for approximately 20 minutes. Fever, pulse, respiration, blood pressure, pain and comfort levels of the children were measured before and after the exercise. In the study, it was investigated whether Range of motion exercises have an effect on vital signs and comfort levels of children with cancer.