Cerebrospinal Fluid Cytology-guided Intrathecal Chemo-holiday Therapy for EGFR-positive NSCLC Leptomeningeal Metastases
With the rapid development of targeted drugs, the treatment of patients with leptomeningeal metastasis has become a very difficult problem in clinical work. High-dose targeted drugs and intrathecal chemotherapy are important treatment methods for meningeal metastasis. However, it is vital to note that safety is also of concern in previous studies of intrathecal chemotherapy. In this study, we aim to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of patient using chemo-holiday therapy based on the cerebrospinal fluid cytology, combined with double-dose EGFR-targeted drug in patients with leptomeningeal metastases from EGFR-positive NSCLC.
Leptomeningeal Metastases
DRUG: pemetrexed|DRUG: vometinib
Overall survival, Overall survival is the time from the date of enrollment of this study to death due to any cause., From the enrollment of this study until date of death from any cause, up to a maximum of approximately 2 years
Impact on quality of life, Impact on quality of life using QLQ-C30 (V3.0), From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.|Clinical response rate, The response assessment in neuro-oncology criteria (RANO) proposal for response criteria of leptomeningeal metastasis was used to assess the clinical response in this study., From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.|leptomeningeal metastases related progression-free survival, The neurological progression was determined based on the RANO proposal evaluation criteria which have been established and published on Neuro Oncol., From date of treatment until the date of first documented neurological progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.|CSF cytological clearance, The cerebrospinal fluid samples are collected every 4 weeks and the cytology examination will be performed., From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.|Adverse events, The incidence of treatment-related adverse events were measured for determining tolerability and safety according to Common Toxicity Criteria Adverse Event (CTCAE), version 5.0., From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.
This is a single arm phase II clinical trial. The objective of the study is patients with leptomeningeal metastases from non-small cell lung cancer after EGFR TKIs treatment. The pemetrexed is administrated by intrathecal injection with a dose of 50mg, once per week for 4 weeks, followed by every four weeks thereafter. The cerebrospinal fluid(CSF) samples are collected every 4 weeks and the cytology examination will be performed. If CSF cytology was negative, CSF cytology was tested again 1 week later. Two negative tests were considered as negative CSF cytology. If the cytology of cerebrospinal fluid was negative after 4 consecutive intrathecal injections, the intrathecal injection should be stopped. If positive, continue to give a intrathecal injection every 4 weeks until CSF cytology is negative. If CSF cytological positivity or worsening of neurological symptoms occurs again during discontinuation, or if new symptoms appear, the intrathecal injection should be resumed every 4 weeks. in the meantime, double dose of vometinib (160mg) is given.