Comparison of Serum Myokine Dosages and Imaging Methods in the Evaluation of Sarcopenia in Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma
It is known that some substances present in the blood, called 'myokines,' influence muscle loss. Some may accelerate this loss, while others may prevent it. Inflammatory substances in the blood can also contribute to muscle loss. Sarcopenia is assessed by an imaging technique called 'Skeletal Muscle Mass Index (SMI)' to measure muscle mass. This analysis can be done from radiological examinations. Sarcopenia has a serious impact on patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. It increases the risk of death, cancer recurrence, and decreases the response to treatments. Therefore, the investigators want to determine if blood tests for myokines obtained by simple blood draw can improve the assessment of sarcopenia in this specific setting.
Sarcopenia|Hepatocellular Carcinoma
OTHER: Dynamometry measurement, myokine dosing, sarcopenia calculation
Determine if serum myokines measured in patients with HCC are correlated with muscle mass index assessed by standard scanographic technique., Analysis of correlation between serum myokines measured in patients with HCC and muscle mass index assessed by standard scanographic technique, Day 1
Determine the serum myokine concentration threshold for the diagnosis of sarcopenia defined by an L3 SMI < 50 cm2/m2 in men, Analysis of correlation between serum myokines thresholds in patients with HCC and sarcopenia defined by an L3 SMI \< 50 cm\^2/m\^2 in men, Day 1|Determine the serum myokine concentration threshold for the diagnosis of sarcopenia defined by an L3 SMI < 39 cm2/m2 in women, Analysis of correlation between serum myokines thresholds in patients with HCC and sarcopenia defined by an L3 SMI \< 39 cm\^2/m\^2 in women, Day 1|Determine if serum myokines measured in patients with HCC are correlated with muscle strength assessed by dynamometry, Analysis of correlation between serum myokines measured in patients with HCC and Muscle strength assessed by dynamometry, Day 1|Determine if inflammatory cytokines (IL6, TNFα) measured in patients with HCC are correlated with muscle mass index assessed by the standard scanographic technique, Analysis of correlation between inflammatory cytokines (IL6, TNFα) measured in patients with HCC and muscle mass index assessed by the standard scanographic technique, Day 1
Background:

Sarcopenia, which is a reduction of muscle mass and function, frequently occurs from the age of 40 and is exacerbated by diseases such as cirrhosis, chronic inflammation, and cancer. It is well established that sarcopenia impairs quality of life and promotes the occurrence of complications. Myostatin, a muscle hormone (myokine), contributes to sarcopenia by promoting muscle degradation. Conversely, follistatin, an antagonist of myostatin, may play a role in maintaining muscle mass and protein synthesis. Irisin, another myokine, can protect against muscle atrophy and improve metabolism. Inflammatory cytokines like TNF-α and IL-6 can also contribute to sarcopenia by promoting muscle degradation. To evaluate sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis and cancer, the most commonly used method is the calculation of the Skeletal Muscle Index (SMI) at the third lumbar vertebra (L3 SMI: Total Muscle Surface at L3 in cm²/ Height in m²). Other methods can also be used, but are susceptible to being influenced by water retention, particularly in cirrhotic patients. In patients with cirrhosis, sarcopenia negatively impacts quality of life and is associated with an increased risk of serious complications. In patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), it increases mortality, tumor recurrence, and reduces the response to treatments. Thus, its assessment and management are essential to improve the quality of life and prognosis of these patients. The validation of biological diagnostic criteria for sarcopenia would facilitate diagnosis and ensure follow-up without resorting to repetitive imaging.

Materials and Methods:

Type of study: Prospective validation study of a diagnostic method

Judgment criteria:

* Serum concentrations of myostatin, follistatin, and irisin
* Muscle surface calculated at L3 and parameterized according to height (L3 SMI)
* Muscle strength assessed by dynamometry

Investigation plan:

1. Screening of Patient after discussion in Multidisciplinary Liver Cancer Board
2. Proposal of the study during the announcement consultation after RCP.
3. Blood sampling during standard pre-therapeutic care and dynamometry measurement
4. Retrieval of scanographic imaging and calculation of the L3 SMI index
5. Blood dosages of myokines
6. Statistical analyses

Schedule:

* April 2024-July 2024: CPP evaluation
* August 2024-July 2025: Inclusion period.
* August 2024-July 2025: Radiological analyses (in parallel with the inclusions). Selection of available imagery, extraction of key images. Analysis of muscle mass and calculation of the L3 SMI index.
* August 2024-July 2025: Biological analyses (in parallel with the radiological analyses). Measurement of blood concentrations of myokines.
* August 2025-April 2026: Statistical analyses and article writing.

Expected Results and Prospects:

The current priority og investigators is to validate rapid and effective serum markers to facilitate the early diagnosis and clinical follow-up of sarcopenia in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. In the long term, the goal is to implement early interventions aimed at mitigating the effects of sarcopenia. These serum markers could improve the management of liver diseases and cancers as key prognostic factors. The results of this study will also contribute to a better pathophysiological understanding of sarcopenia in these patients.