Personalized Dietary Intervention in Managing Bowel Dysfunction and Improving Quality of Life in Stage I-III Rectosigmoid Cancer Survivors
This pilot clinical trial studies how well personalized dietary intervention works in managing bowel dysfunction and improving quality of life in stage I-III rectosigmoid cancer survivors. Personalized dietary intervention may help people understand bowel symptoms, identify helpful and troublesome foods for bowel symptoms, adjust diets and food preparation based on food triggers, and coach on healthy diet recommendations after cancer treatment.
Cancer Survivor|Stage I Rectosigmoid Cancer|Stage II Rectosigmoid Cancer|Stage III Rectosigmoid Cancer
OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration|BEHAVIORAL: Telephone-Based Intervention
Acceptability assessed by semi-structured interview, Will be assessed through qualitative data analysis using conventional content analysis approach., Up to 6 months|Bowel function assessed by Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Bowel Function Tool, Descriptive statistics will be summarized using validated scoring procedures., Up to 6 months|Feasibility assessed by patient enrollment, Will be assessed through: 1) the ratio of eligible participants to those enrolled and those who declines participation; 2) reasons for non-participation; 3) number of scheduled study encounters completed; 4) attrition rate between pre- and post-intervention; 5) reasons for attrition/dropout; 6) level of intervention participation including the total number of sessions, number of sessions completed without break-offs, number of break-offs, length (minutes) of sessions; and 7) the ratio of all participants to those who complete \>= 80% of the study., Up to 6 months|Quality of life assessed by City of Hope-Quality of Life-Colorectal Cancer, Descriptive statistics will be summarized using validated scoring procedures., Up to 6 months
Scores from the Decisional Conflict Scale, Descriptive statistics will be summarized. This analysis is exploratory only. Will use the findings to support future research related to treatment-decision making in rectal cancer., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Administer and determine the feasibility of the personalized dietary intervention.

II. Using qualitative methods, evaluate the acceptability of the intervention as reported by survivors.

III. Explore decisional conflict associated with treatment decision-making in rectal cancer surgery.

OUTLINE:

At 6 months after standard of care treatment, patients receive 10 sessions of personalized dietary intervention over 30 minutes each over 4 months via the telephone. Patients also receive a workbook including reference materials and intervention content.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 6 months.