Quality of Life Model for Older Patients With AML
The purpose of this study is to describe the differences in quality of life (QOL) among newly diagnosed patients diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) to help design a patient decision-making QOL model for aligning patients' choice of treatment with what matters the most to them.
AML, Adult|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Difference in Quality of Life score between patients receiving intensive versus non-intensive chemotherapy, Difference in Quality of Life between newly diagnosed AML patients 60 years of age and older receiving intensive versus non-intensive chemotherapy. Quality of Life will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy, Leukemia Version (FACT-Leu), a 44-item self reported leukemia specific questionnaire. The FACT-Leu uses a 0-4 Likert scale, 0=not at all and 4=very much. Positive items receive scores from 0-4 points, and negative items are scored from 4-0 points.The FACT-Leu scores are obtained by summing item responses coded so that larger scores indicate better QOL. The leukemia subscale has been validated. A meaningful clinical change for the FACT-Leu is a 13-17 point difference out of a maximum score of 176., At baseline and at 30, 60, 90 and 180 days post treatment|Difference in Quality of Life score between patients with varying disease characteristics, Difference in Quality of Life score between patients with varying disease characteristics such as age, performance status, functional status, comorbidity, fatigue, symptoms, blast percentage, transfusion dependence and cytogenic risk group. Quality of Life will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy, Leukemia Version (FACT-Leu), a 44-item self reported leukemia specific questionnaire. The FACT-Leu uses a 0-4 Likert scale, 0=not at all and 4=very much. Positive items receive scores from 0-4 points, and negative items are scored from 4-0 points. The FACT-Leu scores are obtained by summing item responses coded so that larger scores indicate better QOL. The leukemia subscale has been validated. A meaningful clinical change for the FACT-Leu is a 13-17 point difference out of a maximum score of 176., At baseline and at 30, 60, 90 and 180 days post treatment
The purpose of this study is to describe the differences in quality of life (QOL) among newly diagnosed patients diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) to help design a patient decision-making QOL model for aligning patients' choice of treatment with what matters the most to them.