Relative Desirability of Metformin vs. Birth Control Pill in Treating PCOS in Women of Later Reproductive Age
The goal of this study is to determine the relative desirability of metformin vs. oral combined hormonal contraceptives (OCs) in treating Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) in women of later reproductive age. Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Questionnaire (PCOSQ) score will be used as a proxy for patient satisfaction. In light of their respective effects on the classic and metabolic facets of PCOS, metformin will provide non-inferior patient satisfaction compared to OCs in later reproductive age women with PCOS.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Oral combined hormonal contraceptives
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire (PCOSQ) score, It is a 7-point scale questionnaire assessing health-related quality of life specific to PCOS in 5 different domains, with "7" representing optimal function and "1" representing poorest function., baseline|Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire (PCOSQ) score, It is a 7-point scale questionnaire assessing health-related quality of life specific to PCOS in 5 different domains, with "7" representing optimal function and "1" representing poorest function., 6 months after each intervention.
Short Form (SF)-36 score, It consists of 36 items and has eight scaled scores (transformed into 0-100 scale). It assesses health related quality of life (general). The increasing score indicates better health status., baseline|Short Form (SF)-36 score, It consists of 36 items and has eight scaled scores (transformed into 0-100 scale). It assesses health related quality of life (general). The increasing score indicates better health status., 6 months after each intervention|General Anxiety Disorder (GAD)-7 score, It consists of 7 items with a scale of 0-3, and they are summed up to a total score. Increasing scores mean a greater functional impairment., baseline|General Anxiety Disorder (GAD)-7 score, It consists of 7 items with a scale of 0-3, and they are summed up to a total score. Increasing scores mean a greater functional impairment., 6 months after each intervention|Total testosterone concentrations, ng/dL, baseline|Total testosterone concentrations, ng/dL, 6 months after each intervention|Calculated free testosterone concentrations, pg/mL, baseline|Calculated free testosterone concentrations, pg/mL, 6 months after each intervention|Sex hormone binding globulin, nmoL/L, baseline|Sex hormone binding globulin, nmoL/L, 6 months after each intervention|LDL cholesterol level, mg/dL, baseline|LDL cholesterol level, mg/dL, 6 months after each intervention|HDL cholesterol level, mg/dL, baseline|HDL cholesterol level, mg/dL, 6 months after each intervention|Triglyceride level, mg/dL, baseline|Triglyceride level, mg/dL, 6 months after each intervention|Blood pressure, mmHg, baseline|Blood pressure, mmHg, 6 months after each intervention|Weight, kg, baseline|Weight, kg, 6 months after each intervention|Body mass index, kg/meter square, baseline|Body mass index, kg/meter square, 6 months after each intervention|waist-to-hip ratio, It is a ratio of waist and hip circumference, baseline|waist-to-hip ratio, It is a ratio of waist and hip circumference, 6 months after each intervention|Matsuda index, It is an index to assess insulin sensitivity., baseline|Matsuda index, It is an index to assess insulin sensitivity., 6 months after each intervention|Fasting insulin, uIU/mL, baseline|Fasting insulin, uIU/mL, 6 months after each intervention|Fasting glucose, mg/dL, baseline|Fasting glucose, mg/dL, 6 months after each intervention|2-hour glucose level during oral glucose tolerance test, mg/dL, baseline|2-hour glucose level during oral glucose tolerance test, mg/dL, 6 months after each intervention|Hemoglobin A1c, percent, baseline|Hemoglobin A1c, percent, 6 months after each intervention|Framingham risk score, This is a risk assessing measure that estimates the 10 year cardiovascular risk for an individual. There is no scale for this. A total risk (in percentage) will be calculated., baseline|Framingham risk score, This is a risk assessing measure that estimates the 10 year cardiovascular risk for an individual. There is no scale for this. A total risk (in percentage) will be calculated., 6 months after each intervention
This is a randomized, controlled, double-blinded, crossover study. The investigators will recruit women with PCOS in ages 40-49 yo. Subjects will be randomized to either receive metformin (2000 mg daily) or low dose oral contraceptives (OCs: 20 mcg ethinyl estradiol/norethindrone acetate 1mg) for a total of 6 months, and they will crossover to the other treatment for the following 6 months. Subjects will have the following assessed at baseline and 6 months after each study medication: blood pressure, weight, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), average intermenstrual cycle length (in the previous 3 months), Ferriman-Gallwey score (as a measure of hirsutism), total testosterone (T), sex hormone binding globulin, calculated free T, fasting insulin, fasting glucose, 2-h glucose (during oral glucose tolerance test), Matsuda index, HgA1c, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, estimated cardiovascular risk (Framingham risk score), health-related quality of life using both PCOS questionnaire (PCOSQ) and the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), and severity of anxiety using Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) questionnaire. For safety surveillance, the investigators will measure electrolyte levels, renal function, liver function, and pregnancy tests immediately before study mediation initiation and every 3 months. For statistical analysis, per PCOSQ domain, the post-treatment QoL scores will be analyzed via a linear mixed model (LMM), in which the LMM will be specified in accordance with a 2 treatment by 2 period crossover design. The investigators determined that if 73 subjects complete the study, the investigators expect to have at least an 80% chance of rejecting the null hypothesis that QoL is inferior with metformin therapy vs. OCs.