Study of Regorafenib for Urothelial Cancer Following Chemotherapy (UAB 1477)
This study will test how well Regorafenib controls disease progression in urothelial cancer (cancer occurring in the urinary bladder, ureters, or renal pelvis) following previous therapy with chemotherapy.
Urothelial Cancer (Urinary Bladder, Ureters, or Renal Pelvis Cancer)
DRUG: Regorafenib
Number of Participants With Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Death is also considered as progression in the analysis., Baseline to 6 months following start of treatment
Disease Response Rate, The number of participants showing response at first restaging scan after the start of study treatment. The response will be assessed using tumor measurements which will be documented through CT scans, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and x-rays using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR.", Every 8 weeks until the time of disease progression upto 2 years|Overall Survival, Length of subject survival after starting study treatment, Baseline to 3 years|Rate of Progression-free Survival, Duration of time from the start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever comes first.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, From start of treatment to time of progression or death, assessed up to 6 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.0 will be used for assessment of toxicities., At the end of first treatment until 6 months following last treatment, an expected average of 10 months
Advanced urothelial carcinoma (UC) has a poor long-term prognosis. The disease has not seen improved outcomes despite research efforts in over two decades. Novel therapeutic options are needed. Regorafenib is a novel oral multikinase inhibitor but is more potent than a similar multikinase inhibitor drug that treats advanced renal cell carcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. Regorafenib has been shown to have a broader capacity to inhibit blood supply to tumor sources.

This trial evaluates a proof-of-concept using Regorafenib in patients with metastatic progressive urothelial carcinoma following chemotherapy but still have a high level of activity performance in their daily living. The initial dose of Regorafenib will be 120 mg daily and then be escalated to 160 mg daily before gradually tapering.