Study of the Combination of Panobinostat and Carfilzomib in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
Relapsed/refractory Multiple Myeloma (MM) is an incurable disorder with a poor prognosis. Carfilzomib is a novel proteasome inhibitor with activity in this setting. Panobinostat is a pan-deacetylase inhibitor which has shown synergistic cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo with proteasome inhibitors. The combination should enhance the activity of both agents against myeloma cells. In Phase I, the optimal doses of the combination of carfilzomib and panobinostat will be determined. Assuming this combination is feasible, the Phase II portion will proceed using the doses determined in Phase I.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: panobinostat|DRUG: carfilzomib
Number of Phase I Patients (Dose Level 1-6) Experiencing a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) to Determine the Optimal Dosage, Using a traditional 3+3 dose escalation design, successive cohorts of subjects will receive a fixed dose level of the drug combination. The MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which ≤1 of 6 subjects experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) assessed by NCI CTCAE v4.0. DLT is defined as any of the following that are determined to be related to study treatment during Cycle 1:

Grade 4 neutropenia for \>7 days, Febrile neutropenia, Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with ≥ Grade 2 bleeding, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia \> 7 days, ≥ Grade 2 neuropathy with uncontrolled pain, ≥ Grade 3 non-hematologic drug-related toxicity (excluding alopecia), despite optimal supportive care lasting \>72 hours or requiring a dose reduction in the first cycle and Patients who are unable to receive 75% of the required doses of both agents secondary to toxicity. Number of Participants With such Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) at each level are reported here., 28 days from the start of study treatment|Phase II: Overall Response Rate, Defined as the percentage of patients with confirmed complete response, very good partial response, or partial response (CR, VGPR, or PR) according to International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. CR=bone marrow contains ≤5% plasma cells; negative fixation on serum and urine; disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas. VGPR=≥90% reduction from baseline serum; urine M-protein level 100mg for 24h. PR=≥50% reduction from baseline in serum M-protein; disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas., up to 6 years
Time-to-progression (TTP), Measured from date of first treatment until date of first documented progression as per International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. Progressive disease id defined as an increase of ≥ 25% from the nadir in at least one of the following criteria: serum M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥0.5 g/dL); urine M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥200 mg/24h) ; only in patients with non-measurable serum and urine M-protein levels: difference in involved and uninvolved FLC levels (absolute increase must be \>10 mg/dL); only in patients with non-measurable serum and urine M-protein levels and non-measurable disease by FLC levels, bone marrow plasma cell percentage (absolute % must be ≥10%) OR Definite development of new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas OR definite increase in the size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas OR Development of hypercalcemia (corrected serum Ca \>11.5mg/dL) for patients without hypercalcemia at baseline, up to 6 years|Progression-free-survival (PFS), Measured from date of first protocol treatment until date of tumor progression or death as per International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. Progressive disease id defined as an increase of ≥ 25% from the nadir in at least one of the following criteria: serum M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥0.5 g/dL); urine M-protein (absolute increase must be ≥200 mg/24h) ; only in patients with non-measurable serum and urine M-protein levels: difference in involved and uninvolved FLC levels (absolute increase must be \>10 mg/dL); only in patients with non-measurable serum and urine M-protein levels and non-measurable disease by FLC levels, bone marrow plasma cell percentage (absolute % must be ≥10%) OR Definite development of new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas OR definite increase in the size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas OR Development of hypercalcemia (corrected serum Ca \>11.5mg/dL) for patients without hypercalcemia at baseline, up to 6 years|Overall-survival (OS), Measured from time of first study treatment until date of death or date last known alive., up to 6 years
In this open-label, non-randomized Phase I/II study, a maximum of 4 planned dose levels of carfilzomib and panobinostat were evaluated to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) to administer. The MTD was not reached so patients in Phase II received treatment at dose level 4 to further assess efficacy. Response to treatment was evaluated after each 4-week cycle. Those having an objective response or stable disease are continuing treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.

As the MTD in the 4 planned dose levels were not reached, a parallel Phase I study was initiated to examine additional dose levels using a traditional 3+3 design. If these dose levels are tolerable, then more patients will be recruited into an expansion cohort to assess efficacy at the new dose level(s).