Evaluation of the Effect of Endoscopic Urethral Procedures Applied After Radical Prostatectomy on Urinary Incontinence
The researchers investigated whether endoscopic retrograde urethral interventions applied for various reasons after radical prostatectomy (RP) operation cause a change in urinary incontinence (UI) level, and if there is a change, whether it changes according to the endoscopic procedure time and the endoscopic instrument used.
Prostate Cancer|Incontinence
PROCEDURE: endoscopic surgical intervention
International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence Short Form (ICIQ-SF), The ICIQ-UI Short Form is a questionnaire for evaluating the frequency, severity and impact on quality of life (QoL) of urinary incontinence in men and women in research and clinical practice across the world. Minimum score: 0, maximum score: 21. The higher the score, the higher the level of urinary incontinence is interpreted., 1 month|Daily pad use, It refers to the number of pads used in 1 day due to urinary incontinence., 1 month
Localized prostate cancer is usually treated with RP. The most common complications after RP are erectile dysfunction (ED) and UI. After RP, some patients may require retrograde endoscopic urethral intervention. In this study, researchers investigated whether there is a change in the UI level in patients that underwent retrograde urethral intervention after RP and whether this change was affected by the duration of the procedure and type of endoscopic device used.

Methods: Eighteen patients were included in the study. The patients were divided into 3 groups based on the endoscopic device used: group 1 rigid cystoscopy, group 2 flexible cystoscopy, and group 3 semi-rigid ureterorenoscopy (URS). The Turkish version of the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence Short Form (ICIQ-SF) and the number of pads used daily was questioned before the endoscopic procedure and 1 month after the procedure.