Acupuncture for Sleep Disruption in Cancer Survivors
The proposed study will recruit 60 women with breast cancer who finished undergoing treatment who complain of persistent insomnia problems that began with onset of their cancer diagnosis. The eligible women would be randomized and stratified by sleep problems to two arms: (Acupuncture Arm vs. Sham Acupuncture) with a goal of having 48 patients complete the study (we anticipate about 20% attrition rate). The study interventions will begin after patients completed their treatment. The placebo control for acupuncture will be a validated sham acupuncture control Assessments will be made with daily diaries and with weekly questionnaires. PSG data will be collected on the subsample of the population. Data will be gathered via pencil-and-paper measures before, during, immediately following, one month following the completion of treatment and six months after the conclusion of treatment. In addition, actigraphy data (objective sleep continuity data) will be acquired prior to and following treatment
Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders|Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: acupuncture|OTHER: placebo
Fatigue reduction, 1 month and 3 months post final acupuncture treatment|Quality of life in breast cancer survivors after acupuncture, Quality of life in breast cancer survivors after acupuncture will be measured through questionnaire using 28 item scale of functional assessment of chronic illness therapy- fatigue subscale (FACIT-F) version 4. Total score ranges from 0 to 108. A higher score indicates better quality of life., 1 month and 6 months post final acupuncture treatment|Insomnia reduction, 1 month and 3 months post final acupuncture treatment
The proposed study will recruit 60 women with breast cancer who finished undergoing treatment who complain of persistent insomnia problems that began with onset of their cancer diagnosis. The eligible women would be randomized and stratified by sleep problems to two arms: (Acupuncture Arm vs. Sham Acupuncture) with a goal of having 48 patients complete the study (we anticipate about 20% attrition rate). The study interventions will begin after patients completed their treatment. The placebo control for acupuncture will be a validated sham acupuncture control Assessments will be made with daily diaries and with weekly questionnaires. PSG data will be collected on the subsample of the population. Data will be gathered via pencil-and-paper measures before, during, immediately following, one month following the completion of treatment and six months after the conclusion of treatment. In addition, actigraphy data (objective sleep continuity data) will be acquired prior to and following treatment