Phase I/II Study to Evaluate Nab-paclitaxel in Substitution of CPT11 or Oxaliplatin in FOLFIRINOX Schedule as First Line Treatment in Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
At this moment, FOLFIRINOX is the best treatment for selected patients (pts) with metastatic pancreatic cancer (mPC). Investigator would like to evaluate the substitution of CPT11 or Oxaliplatin in FOLFIRINOX schedule with Nab-paclitaxel (Nab-p) \[Nab-FOLFIRI and Nab-FOLFOX\].

Doses for Nab-FOLFIRI and Nab-FOLFOX will be determined by the phase I trial. One or both schedules will be evaluated in successive phase II part.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel bound albumine
Dose finding safety and activity, To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of the combination Nab-paclitaxel+ Irinotecan+ Leucovorin+ 5-Fluorouracil (Nab-FOLFIRI) and of the combination Nab-paclitaxel+ Oxaliplatin+ Leucovorin+ 5-Fluorouracil (Nab- FOLFOX) in pts with mPC in first-line chemotherapy (CT).

To assess efficacy of Nab-FOLFIRI and Nab-FOLFOX in pts with mPC in first-line CT , in term of ORR \[Complete response (CR) + partial responses (PR)\]., 18 months
Clinical benefit rate [CR+PR+ stable diseases (SD)], - Clinical benefit rate \[CR+PR+ stable diseases (SD)\]: this is defined as the occurrence of either a confirmed CR or PR objective response or a SD over the entire course of treatment, as determined by the RECIST 1.1 criteria based on investigator assessment. Pts for whom no records of post-baseline tumor assessments are reported will be counted as non-responders, 18 months|Progression free survival (PFS) for each schedule, - Duration of PFS: this is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first evidence of progressive disease or date of death, whichever occurs first. Documentation of disease progression will be defined as per RECIST 1.1 criteria based on investigator assessment. The censoring date for a patient who is known to be progression-free would be the date of the last tumor assessment., 18 months|Overall survival (OS),, - Duration of OS: is the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For pts who are still alive on the date of clinical data cut-off for the OS analysis, the last date when the patient is known to be alive on or prior to the clinical cut-off date will be used to determine the censoring date. For pts who do not have any post-baseline information, data will be censored at the date of randomization plus one day., 18 months|Quality of life (QoL) for each schedule, - QoL : assessment of quality of life with the use of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality-of-life core questionnaire (QLQ-C30, version 3.0). The primary QoL endpoint will be the time to a definitive 5% deterioration in the global health status/QoL scale of the QLQ-C30 questionnaire., 18 months|Safety profile, - Safety profile: Safety of the treatment will be evaluated by serious and non serious adverse events (AEs). AEs will be graded according to the CTCAE v4.03, 18 months
The primary objective for phase I of the study is to determine the MTD of Nab-p when used in substitution of OXA or CPT11 in FOLFIRINOX schedule, as first-line treatment in pts with mPC. The dose finding strategy will be based on the classical 3+3 dose escalation design.

-Analysis sets: Modified intention-to-treat population: it consists of all pts who are allocated and receive at least one dose of any component of study treatment. Pts will be grouped according to the randomized treatment assignment. Pts treated during the phase I step will be not included in this population.

Safety population: it consists of all pts who are allocated and receive at least one dose of any component of study treatment. Groups are defined by the study treatment actually received. Pts treated at the MTD during the phase I step will be not included in this population.

Statistical methods Best ORR will be summarized and 95% confidence limits will be calculated according to the exact method for each of the treatment arms included in the phase II step.

All the analyses of primary and secondary efficacy variables will be performed on the modified intention-to-treat population.

The overall incidences of AEs will be summarized. Pts who experienced the same event on more than one occasion are counted only once in the calculation of the event frequency, at the highest intensity ever observed.

Serious adverse events will be summarized. All the safety analyses will be performed on the safety population.

-Sample size: The experimental treatment, to be considered clinically worthwhile, should determine an overall best RR equal to or greater than 40%. According to the Fleming single stage design, for a 90% power towards an alternative hypothesis of an ORR equal to or greater than 40% and a one-sided type I error rate of 5%, respect to the null hypothesis of an ORR equal to or less than 20%, 42 pts must be included in the final evaluation, in each arm of the phase II step. According to the exact binomial test, the experimental treatment will be considered sufficiently promising and candidate to further studies in the case of a major objective response is seen in at least 14 pts.