Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in Cancer Pain Management
Over half of cancer patients experience cancer-related pain. Despite advances in pain management with opioids, many patients continue to suffer from chronic cancer pain. The underlying mechanisms of cancer-related pain remain poorly understood, but they may be linked to brain neuroplasticity. As a result, some researchers suggest that targeting the motor cortex in cancer patients could improve pain management. However, few studies have investigated the effectiveness of remodeling neuroplasticity with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to reduce cancer-related pain. To validate the use of rTMS in cancer-related pain, we plan to conduct a randomized controlled trial involving 30 cancer pain patients. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either rTMS or sham rTMS treatment. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and pain index assessments will be conducted before and after the treatment to evaluate the outcomes.
Pain|Cancer
DEVICE: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)
Brief Pain Inventory, BPI, BPI is to assess the severity of pain and the impact of pain on daily functions, including Severity of pain, impact of pain on daily function, location of pain, pain medications and amount of pain relief in the past 24 hours., Assess the BPI outcome before the intervention, after 1 week and 2 weeks of intervention, as well as 1 week and 4 weeks after the intervention is completed.|McGill Pain Questionnaire, The McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ) is a self-report measure used by patients with various diagnoses to assess pain. It consists of 78 words, from which respondents select those that best describe their pain experience. The words are categorized as follows:

Dimensions 1 to 10 (pain descriptors): 3 words

Dimensions 11 to 15 (affective components of pain): 3 words

Dimension 16 (evaluation of pain): 1 word

Dimensions 17 to 20 (miscellaneous): 1 word.

Scores are calculated by summing the values associated with each selected word, with scores ranging from 0 (no pain) to 78 (severe pain). Qualitative differences in pain are reflected in the respondent's word choices., Assess MPQ scores before the intervention, after 1 week and 2 weeks of intervention, as well as 1 week and 4 weeks after the intervention is completed.
Numerical Rating Scale, NRS, The Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) is commonly used to measure pain intensity and is well validated. It is scored from 0 to 10, with 0 representing no pain and 10 representing the worst pain imaginable, Assess the NRS scale before the intervention, after 1 week and 2 weeks of intervention, as well as 1 week and 4 weeks after the intervention is completed.|Visual Analogue Scale , VAS, The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) is a validated, subjective measure of both acute and chronic pain. Scores are recorded by making a handwritten mark on a 10-cm line that represents a continuum from 'no pain' to 'worst pain.', Assess the VAS scale before the intervention, after 1 week and 2 weeks of intervention, as well as 1 week and 4 weeks after the intervention is completed.|Resting-state functional imaging, rsfMRI, In fMRI, by adding each pixel, the time course of a pixel is related to the average time course of the corresponding region of interest (ROI). In this context, the cross-correlation coefficient map for each seed ROI will be generated. This cross-correlation coefficient map will then undergo Fisher's z-transformation to approximate a normal distribution., Assess the fMRI results before the intervention and after 2 weeks of interventions.|Beck Depression Inventory, BDI, BDI is a 21-item, self-report rating inventory that measures characteristic attitudes and symptoms of depression. Each answer is being scored on a scale value of 0 to 3. Higher total scores indicate more severe depressive symptoms., Assess the BDI scale before the intervention, after 1 week and 2 weeks of intervention, as well as 1 week and 4 weeks after the intervention is completed.|The 36-Item Short Form Survey quality of life, The 36-Item Short Form Survey (It comprises 36 questions that cover eight domains of health) is an outcome measure instrument that is often used, well-researched, self-reported measure of health. It comprises 36 questions that cover eight domains of health., Assess the The SF-36 outcome before the intervention, after 1 week and 2 weeks of intervention, as well as 1 week and 4 weeks after the intervention is completed.
Over half of cancer patients experience cancer-related pain. Despite advances in pain management with opioids, many patients continue to suffer from chronic cancer pain. The underlying mechanisms of cancer-related pain remain poorly understood, but they may be linked to brain neuroplasticity. As a result, some researchers suggest that targeting the motor cortex in cancer patients could improve pain management. However, few studies have investigated the effectiveness of remodeling neuroplasticity with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to reduce cancer-related pain. To validate the use of rTMS in cancer-related pain, we plan to conduct a randomized controlled trial involving 30 cancer pain patients. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either rTMS or sham rTMS treatment. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and pain index assessments will be conducted before and after the treatment to evaluate the outcomes.