Mobile Application for Improving Symptoms and Adherence to Oral Chemotherapy in Patients With Cancer
Many people treated for cancer receive oral chemotherapy medications for their illness. This means that much of their cancer care occurs at home, away from a traditional oncology care setting. The purpose of this study is to explore how a Smartphone mobile application ("mobile app") can help improve the cancer treatment process in people who are prescribed oral chemotherapy medication. The investigators will explore how well the mobile app helps patients stay connected with their oncology care team, take their oral medications as prescribed, and manage their cancer-related symptoms from home. This study will be done in two phases: 1) a pilot phase to assess the feasibility of a mobile application intervention, and 2) a randomized-controlled trial to test the intervention.
Adherence to Medication Regime|Cancer
OTHER: Mobile Application Intervention
Self-reported Difficulties With Adherence on Any of the Four MMAS-4 Items in the Past Week, The Morisky Medication Adherence Questionnaire (MMAS-4) - a 4-item questionnaire that assesses medication adherence in the past week by asking patients to indicate "yes" or "no" to each item (self-report). The four items ask patients to self-report whether they forgot to take their oral chemotherapy (OC) medication in the past week, whether they had any problems remembering to take their OC medication in the last week, whether they stopped taking their OC medication when they felt better in the past week, and whether they stopped taking their OC medication when they felt worse in the past week. Participants who answered "yes" to any of the four items were coded as having adherence problems, while those who indicated "no" to all four items were coded as having no adherence problems. Therefore, the count of participants is the number of participants who reported any difficulties with adherence on any of the four items in the past week., Post-Assessment (12-14 weeks after baseline) controlling for baseline assessment|Adherence to Oral Chemotherapy Medication, Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS) utilizes an electronic pill cap to record the date and time the pill dispenser was opened., Daily over course of study from baseline (within 2 weeks after enrollment) to post assessment (12-14 weeks after baseline)|Change in Symptoms and Side Effects, M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI): a 19-item instrument that assesses the most common symptoms and side effects related to cancer and its treatment (self-report). The MDASI uses a 0-10 numerical rating scale for all items to assess the severity and interference of symptoms patients have experienced in the past 24 hours, with 0 being "not present" or "did not interfere" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine" or "interfered completely". The ratings in the MDASI are averaged into two subscale scores: mean symptom severity (13 symptom items) and mean interference (6 interference items only), with possible scores on both subscales ranging from 0-10. Higher scores indicate worse symptom severity and interference, while lower scores indicate less symptom severity and interference., Change score between 1) Baseline (within 2 weeks after enrollment) and 2) Post-Assessment (12-14 weeks after baseline)|Change in Quality of Life, Functional Assessment of Cancer Treatment - General (FACT-G): a 27-item questionnaire that assesses physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being (self-report). The FACT-G utilizes a five-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Four subscales are computed by taking the sum: physical well-being (7 items; range 0-28), social/family well-being (7 items; range 0-28), emotional well-being (7 items; range 0-24), and functional well-being (7 items; range 0-28). The overall score is the sum of the four subscale scores (range 0-108). Higher scores indicate greater quality of life, while lower scores indicate a worse quality of life., Change score between 1) Baseline (within 2 weeks after enrollment) and 2) Post-Assessment (12-14 weeks after baseline)
Treatment Satisfaction, Description: Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Treatment-Treatment Satisfaction-Patient Satisfaction (FACIT-TS-PS), 21-items that assesses patient satisfaction with doctor and staff competence, communication, and confidence and trust in providers, as well as overall satisfaction of care (self-report). The FACIT-TS-PS uses a 0-3 numerical rating scale to assess satisfaction with healthcare, with 0 representing the lowest level of satisfaction and 3 representing the highest level of satisfaction. Four subscales are computed by taking the sum: explanations (4 items; range 0-12), interpersonal (3 items, range 0-9), comprehensive care (7 items; range 0-21), nurses (3 items; range 0-9), and trust (4 items; range 0-12). A higher score indicates greater satisfaction with care, while a lower score represents lower satisfaction with care., Change score between 1) Baseline (within 2 weeks after enrollment) and 2) Post-Assessment (12-14 weeks after baseline)|Emergency Department Visits, Resource Utilization Questionnaire, an adapted 3-item questionnaire inquiring about the number of emergency department visits and hospitalizations over the past three months (self-report). Patients are asked to indicate how many times they have gone to the emergency room in the past three months on a numerical scale ranging from 0 to "5 or more". Scores ranged from 0-5. A higher score represents more frequent emergency department visits, indicating higher resource utilization., Post-Assessment (12-14 weeks after baseline)|Hospitalizations, Description: Resource Utilization Questionnaire, an adapted 3-item questionnaire inquiring about the number of emergency department visits and hospitalizations over the past three months (self-report). Patients are asked to indicate how many times they have been admitted to the hospital in the past three months on a numerical scale ranging from 0 to "5 or more". Scores ranged from 0-5. A higher score represents more frequent hospital admissions, indicating higher resource utilization., Post-Assessment (12-14 weeks after baseline)
Background: Over the last decade, novel targeted agents have revolutionized the delivery of cancer care and improved survival rates, especially in those with metastatic disease. While oral chemotherapies possess significant advantages with respect to ease of administration, patients and caregivers receive less support for adherence and monitoring of side effects. Therefore, novel interventions are essential to help patients communicate in a more open and timely manner with their oncology clinicians to support adherence. As part of Phase 1 for this Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) grant, we conducted qualitative interviews with patients, clinicians and relevant stakeholders to inform the development of the proposed mobile app intervention. For the randomized-controlled trial, the investigators will recruit and randomly assign 180 adult patients prescribed oral chemotherapy to receive either the intervention (completed smartphone mobile app) or standard care.

Objective/Hypothesis: The goals of this study are to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a mobile application to help improve adherence to oral chemotherapy and symptom to patients with cancer. We will administer the intervention at three cancer centers, hypothesizing that patients with who use the mobile app will report better adherence to their oral chemotherapy and better management of symptoms than those patients who were not assigned to the intervention.

Specific Aims: The primary aims of this study are 1) to implement a patient-centered mobile application to assess symptoms, side effects, and adherence to oral chemotherapy that is feasible for use in oncology patients, and 2) to evaluate the efficacy of the mobile application in improving patient-reported clinical outcomes.

Study Design: We will recruit and randomly assign 180 patients from the three cancer care sites who have recently been prescribed oral chemotherapy to receive either the mobile app intervention or standard care. Participants will be stratified by study site (i.e. Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), North Shore, MGH West, and Emerson Cancer Centers), cancer type, and line of chemotherapy. This will ensure relatively equal percentages of patients from each study site, diagnosis, and line of chemotherapy will be represented in the treatment and control groups. The mobile app intervention which will consist of completing an initial chemotherapy treatment plan with their oncology clinicians, responding to weekly assessments regarding symptoms, side effects, and medication adherence, as well as receiving personalized feedback about responses each week for 12 weeks. Medication adherence, symptom severity, and quality of life will serve as primary outcomes, and we will collect measures of quality cancer care as secondary targets. We will also explore whether particular patient characteristics (i.e. cancer type, demographics) affect patient response to the mobile app intervention.