A Phase I Trial of Enzastaurin (LY317615) in Combination With Carboplatin in Adults With Recurrent Gliomas
This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Enzastaurin, an experimental drug that may prevent the growth of tumor vessels, in combination with Carboplatin, for patients who have a glioma, a type of brain tumor. Carboplatin is used for treating many kinds of cancers, though not recurrent gliomas. Tumor growth involves new cancer cell formation and accumulation, requiring a blood supply. Research shows that brain tumor cells can produce substances that stimulate new blood vessel formation. This study will look into whether the combination of drugs can stop that process.

Patients ages 18 and older who have recurring gliomas, who are not pregnant or breast feeding, and who do not have serious diseases may be eligible for this study. About 96 patients will participate for 1 year. They will have a physical examination, give blood and urine samples for analysis, and undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) scans regarding tumor growth, and perhaps an electrocardiogram. Patients may also undergo a dynamic MRI with spectroscopy or PET scan (positron emission tomography), to distinguish a live tumor from a dying one. Researchers are studying patients taking a certain type of antiseizure medicine and patients who are not taking it because some antiseizure medicines may change the way the body handles a drug such as Enzastaurin. There will be two groups of participants, with 16 to 48 each. Group A is not taking enzyme-inducing antiseizure drugs, and Group B is taking such drugs. In Groups A and B are four dose levels, with 4 to12 patients at each level. Patients' doctors will tell them which group they belong to and how much Enzastaurin and Carboplatin they will take. Treatment consists of Enzastaurin every day for 5 weeks in Cycle 1 only and for 4 weeks beginning with Cycle 2 (each 4-week period as a cycle). Patients take Enzastaurin within 30 minutes after a meal. History, physical, and neurological examinations are repeated at the end of Cycle 1 and then every 4 weeks. Patients will have a repeat head MRI or CT scan before each cycle. If they tolerate the drugs without serious side effects and the tumor is not growing, they may continue with another cycle of Enzastaurin, taking the tablets every day, and Carboplatin being infused on Day 8 of Cycle 1 and on Day 1 of each additional cycle. Routine lab tests are done regularly. Patients will continue the 4-week cycles of treatment for as long as they have no serious side effects and there are no signs of tumor growth. Side effects of Enzastaurin may be fatigue, constipation, cough, and nausea. In men, there may be a decrease in sperm count. Carboplatin can lead to low counts in blood cells and platelets, and there may also be an allergic reaction. Vomiting is a likely side effect. At injection sites, there may be redness, swelling, and pain.

This study may or may not have a direct benefit for participants. However, information gained may help the sponsor of the study, Eli Lilly and Company, and may help patients in the future who have gliomas.
Recurrent Gliomas
DRUG: Enzastaurin (LY317615)|DRUG: Carboplatin
To establish the maximally tolerated dose of enzastaurin in combination with carboplatin in patients with refractory primary brain tumors not on any enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAED) and for patients on EIAEDs.
To obtain exploratory data regarding the relationship between clinical outcome and GSK3-b activation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in treated patients.
Background:

* Enzastaurin, is a macrocyclic bisindolylmaleimide which disrupts the intrinsic phosphotransferase activity of conventional and novel PKC isoforms via an interaction at the ATP binding site, displays selectivity in inhibiting the isoforms. Preclinical studies demonstrate potent anti-angiogenic activity of enzastaurin and studies in normal volunteers and solid tumor patients demonstrate the drug is very well tolerated at doses that achieve a biologically active serum concentration.
* Carboplatin has shown activity as monotherapy in the treatment of recurrent malignant gliomas in adults and preclinical data generated in our laboratory demonstrates additive anti-glioma activity with enzastaurin. The safety profile of carboplatin and the preclinical and clinical data supports its use in combination with enzastaurin in patients with malignant gliomas.

Objective:

-To establish the maximally tolerated dose of enzastaurin in combination with carboplatin in patients with refractory primary brain tumors not on any enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (nEIAED) and for patients on EIAEDs.

Eligibility:

-Patients with histologically proven malignant glioma are eligible for this study.

Design:

-Patients will be stratified into two groups based on their anti-epileptic medications (nEIAEDs = Group A, EIAED = Group B)

Group A: Each cycle of therapy will consist of enzastaurin administered daily for 4 weeks with no breaks between cycles. All patients will receive a 7-day lead-in treatment period (Cycle 1) consisting of a loading dose of oral enzastaurin on Day 1 at 1125mg, followed by enzastaurin administered once daily at 500mg for 6 additional days in order to achieve steady state pharmacokinetics of enzastaurin. The first dose of carboplatin will be administered on Day 8 of Cycle 1, which will consist of 35 days. Following the lead-in treatment period, the first combination cycle of enzastaurin and carboplatin (Cycle 2) will commence as a 28-day cycle. Within each combination cycle, enzastaurin will be orally administered at 500mg once daily on Days 1 through 28 and carboplatin will be administered as an intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes on Day 1 every 28 days. The carboplatin dose will be 3 AUC for dose level one. For dose levels 2, 3, and 4, the carboplatin dose will be 4, 5 and 6 AUC, respectively.

Group B: Each cycle of therapy will consist of enzastaurin administered daily for 4 weeks with no breaks between cycles. All patients will receive a 7-day lead-in treatment period (Cycle 1) consisting of a loading dose of oral enzastaurin on Day 1 at 1125mg, followed by enzastaurin administered once daily at 875mg for 6 additional days in order to achieve steady state pharmacokinetics of enzastaurin. The first dose of carboplatin will be administered on Day 8 of Cycle 1, which will consist of 35 days. Following the lead-in treatment period, the first combination cycle of enzastaurin and carboplatin (Cycle 2) will commence as a 28-day cycle. Within each combination cycle, enzastaurin will be orally administered once daily on Days 1 through 28 at 875mg and carboplatin will be administered as an intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes on Day 1 every 28 days. The carboplatin dose will be 3 AUC for dose level one. For dose levels 2, 3, and 4, the carboplatin dose will be 4, 5 and 6 AUC, respectively.

National Cancer Institute (NCI) registered this trial with Eli Lilly as sponsor. NCI did not update the record. In June 2013, NCI transferred the trial to Lilly's clinicaltrials.gov account and Lilly updated the record with the trial status, study start date, and completion dates. This trial is not an applicable trial under Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (FDAAA).