Lifting of Gastric Tube Through Trans-substernal Versus Trans-esophageal Bed Path in MIE
Esophageal cancer (EC) is the eighth most common cancer and the sixth leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. Minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE) is regarded as a safe and effective management for resectable EC. Gastric tube is considered to be an ideal substitute for the resected esophagus and can be lifted to the neck for anastomosis through two different paths - Trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed routes. However, the differences of operative outcomes between the two paths have not been systematically described. In this study, clinical outcomes including intra- and post-operative status, morbidity and complications, nutrition status, as well as quality of life after surgery will be evaluated, and differences between the trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed groups will be compared. The study might help to individualization treatment for EC.
Esophageal Neoplasms|Esophagectomy
PROCEDURE: lifting of the gastric tube to the neck for gastro-esophageal anastomosis through trans-substernal or trans-esophageal bed path.
Composite intra-operative features., The composite intra-operative features of patients in trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed paths will be evaluated and the results will be compared. These intra-operative features will be composed of duration of operation (min), estimated blood loss (ml), mean arterial pressure (mmHg), central venous pressure (cmH2O), heart rate (beat/min), stroke volume variation (%), cardiac output (L/min), cardiac index (L/m2min) and stroke volume index (ml/m2)., During the operation (an expected average of 5 hours).|Composite post-operative features., The composite post-operative features of patients in trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed paths will be evaluated and the results will be compared. These post-operative features will be composed of duration of ventilation (hours), duration of chest tube drainage (days), duration of stomach tube drainage (days), duration of duodenal feeding (days), duration of parenteral nutrition (days), duration of fasting (days), duration of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (days), duration of ICU stay (days), duration of postoperative hospital stay (days), gastric fluid drainage (ml), number of transfused patients (%) and expense (thousand yuan)., From the day of operation to hospital discharge (an expected average of 2 weeks).|Mortality and complications., Mortality and complications of patients with the gastric tube lifted through trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed paths will be evaluated and the results will be compared. These parameters will be composed of in-hospital/30-day mortality, respiratory failure/adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)/reintubation, chylothorax, pleural infection, hemorrhage requiring reoperation, membranous trachea injury, deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolus, diaphragmatic hernia, arrhythmia, pneumonia, cervical anastomotic leak/stricture, vocal cord palsy, cervical anastomotic stricture, delayed gastric emptying and wound infection., From the day of operation to hospital discharge (an expected average of 2 weeks).
Composite nutrition status., Patients with the gastric tube lifted through trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed paths will be followed-up regularly every 3 months during the first year after surgery. The composite nutrition status of the patients in both groups will be evaluated and the results will be compared. These nutrition status will be composed of weight change (kg), body mass index (kg/m2), body fat (%), red blood cell (10\^12/L), hematocrits (%), hemoglobin (g/L), serum albumin (g/L) and serum prealbumin (g/L)., Every 3 months until the 1st year after operation (follow-up for a year after surgery).|Quality of life., Patients with the gastric tube lifted through trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed paths will be followed-up regularly every 3 months during the first year after surgery. Quality of life (QOL) of the patients will be assessed using a composite cancer-specific core questionnaire, the quality of life questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 (version 3.0, in Chinese) and the esophageal module QLQ-Oesophageal(OES)18 (in Chinese) both developed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), and the results will be compared., Every 3 months until the 1st year after operation (follow-up for a year after surgery).
1. Patients with esophageal cancer (EC) will be histologically proved by endoscopic biopsy, and staged by thoracicoabdominal computed tomography (CT), endoluminal ultrasonography and positron emission tomography (PET) before surgery. The other crucial test including barium meal, pulmonary function tests, arterial blood gas analysis, cardiac ultrasonography, electrocardiogram and treadmill test, as well as blood biochemistry examinations will also be accomplished preoperatively.
2. Patients who meet clinical criteria will be asked to sign a consent form, and divided randomly into two groups - trans-substernal group and trans-esophageal bed group. Patients in both groups will undergo a minimally invasive esophagectomy which consist of 4 steps: (1) thoracoscopic esophageal mobilization followed by mediastinal lymphadenectomy; (2) laparoscopic gastric mobilization followed by abdominal lymphadenectomy and gastric tube construction; (3) cervical esophageal mobilization and transection; (4) lifting of the gastric tube to the neck for gastro-esophageal anastomosis through trans-substernal or trans-esophageal bed path. The operative procedure of the two groups is similar except step 4.
3. Patients in both groups will be followed-up regularly. Intra- and post-operative status, morbidity and complications, nutrition status, as well as quality of life after surgery will be evaluated, and differences between the trans-substernal and trans-esophageal bed groups will be compared.