Gemcitabine and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Uterine Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving gemcitabine together with docetaxel works in treating patients with recurrent or persistent uterine cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Uterine Corpus Sarcoma|Uterine Carcinosarcoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Docetaxel
Percentage of Patients With Objective Tumor Response Rate (Either Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) Using RECIST Version 1.0, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesions for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; every 6 months thereafter until disease progression for up to 5 years.|Incidence of Adverse Effects That Are Grade 3 or Greater as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0, Count of participants with Toxicities maximum grade greater than or equal to grade 3, Assessed every 28 days (28 days=1 cycle) while on study treatment, 30 days after the last cycle of treatment, and up to 5 years in follow-up
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the antitumor activity of gemcitabine and docetaxel in patients with recurrent or persistent uterine carcinosarcoma.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, multicenter study. Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes followed by docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 22-60 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-4 years.