Targeting PD-1 Therapy Resistance With Focused High or High and Low Dose Radiation in SCCHN
This research study is studying immunotherapy in combination with radiation therapy as a possible treatment for head \& neck cancer that has worsened or spread to another organ or part of your body.

The immunotherapy involved in this study is: MK-3475 (pembrolizumab or KEYTRUDA).
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation
Progression-Free Surival, The primary endpoint of this study is progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 3 months. Patients are considered progression-free at 3 months if progression is not observed at the 3-month disease assessment. PFS is defined as the time from registration to disease progression per RECIST or death, whichever occurred first.

Progressive Disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, which must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm (with reference to the smallest sum on study). The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions (RECIST guidelines version 1.1)., 1 year
Overall Survival, 1 year|Overall Response Rate, 1 year|Number of Patients With Treatment Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 1 year|Objective Response by Immune Related Response Criteria (irRC), 1 year|Local Response Determined Using CT Imaging, 1 year|Clinical Benefit Rate, 1 year|Abscopal Response Determined Using CT Imaging, 1 year
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational treatment to learn whether the treatment works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the treatment is being studied.

MK-3475 is a humanized monoclonal antibody. An antibody is a common type of protein made in the body in response to a foreign substance (particles not typically found in the body such as bacteria or viruses). Antibodies attack foreign substances and protect against infection. Antibodies can also be produced in the laboratory for use in treating patients. MK-3475 is designed to restore the natural ability of the immune system to recognize and target cancer cells.

The FDA recently granted approval to MK-3475 as a treatment for patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). This study is testing whether using radiation in combination with MK-3475 will make this drug work better in participants that might otherwise be unlikely to benefit from this drug because they have not responded to either this same drug given without radiation or another similar drug.