Radium-223 and Radiotherapy in Hormone-Na誰ve Men With Oligometastatic Prostate Cancer to Bone
This is a phase IIa, open label, single arm, and prospective study of hormone therapy-na誰ve men with oligometastatic prostate cancer to the bone. The study will test if treating the primary tumor sites and 5 or fewer sites of bone-only metastasis with external beam radiation with concomitant systemic Radium-223 will reduce the utilization of androgen deprivation therapy, improve QOL and improve OS over a the comparator cohort of SWOG intermittent ADT historic cohort.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic to Bone
DRUG: Radium Ra 223 Dichloride|RADIATION: Radiation
Count of Participants Requiring Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) Use at 15 Months, To determine if 20% of ADT na誰ve men treated with concurrent EBRT and Radium-223 will not require ADT for progression by 15 months., 15 months
Median Time From Start of Study Therapy to Start of ADT, Determine the hormone-therapy free survival time for men treated with concurrent EBRT and Radium-223 and determine if it is a 30% risk reduction over the SWOG intermittent ADT historic cohort, 2 years|Mean Expanded Prostate Inventory Composite (EPIC) Scores at End of Treatment, To evaluate health related quality of life (QOL) as scored by the 50 item Expanded Prostate Inventory Composite (EPIC) EPIC urinary, bowel, sexual and hormonal domains.

EPIC assesses the disease-specific aspects of prostate cancer and its therapies and comprises four summary domains (Urinary, Bowel, Sexual and Hormonal). Response options for each EPIC item form a Likert scale, and multi-item scale scores are transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores representing better health-related quality of life., 6 months|Mean PROMIS-29 Scores at End of Treatment, To evaluate health related quality of life (QOL). The PROMIS-29 (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) will be used to assess general function and well-being.

The raw score for each PROMIS instrument is converted to a T-score on a scale of 0-100. For most PROMIS instruments, a score of 50 is the average for the United States general population with a standard deviation of 10. A higher PROMIS T score represents more of the concept being measured. For negatively worded concepts like Anxiety, a T score of 60 is one SD worse than average. By comparison, an Anxiety T score of 40 is one SD better than average. However, for positively worded concepts like Physical Function Mobility, a T score of 60 is one SD better than average while a T score of 40 is one SD worse than average., 6 months|Evaluate Time to First Skeletal Related Event (SRE), Documentation of complications associated with bone metastases and may include (but not limited to) fractures, spinal cord compression, bone pain, and hypercalcemia., 2 years|Evaluate the PSA Doubling Time, This outcome measure will report the mean time elapsed from baseline PSA to PSA to double in value. Participants were followed for 24 months from the initiation of study treatment. PSA doubling time was censored at 24 months., 2 years, assessed at every visit in that time period|Evaluate Overall Surival, This outcome measure will report the overall survival at 2 years. Patients were followed for survival for two years after study enrollment. Patients who refused follow-up were censored at their off-study date., 2 years after study enrollment
This is a phase IIa, open label, single arm, and prospective study of hormone therapy-na誰ve men with oligometastatic prostate cancer to the bone. The study will test if treating the primary tumor sites and 5 or fewer sites of bone-only metastasis with external beam radiation with concomitant systemic Radium-223 will reduce the utilization of androgen deprivation therapy, improve QOL and improve OS over a the comparator cohort of SWOG intermittent ADT historic cohort.