Study of ADI-PEG 20 in Patients With Relapsed Sensitive or Refractory Small Cell Lung Cancer
This was a 2-arm, open-label, phase 2 study of pegylated arginine deiminase (ADI-PEG) 20 in subjects with relapsed sensitive or refractory small cell lung cancer (SCLC). ADI-PEG 20 was administered intramuscularly (IM) at a fixed dose of 320 IU/m\^2 once weekly for a 4-week cycle. The primary objective was to assess clinical efficacy with a primary endpoint of tumor response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 after 4 weeks. Secondary objectives were to assess the safety, pharmacodynamics, and immunogenicity of ADI-PEG 20, as well as clinical efficacy with a secondary endpoint of overall survival.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: ADI-PEG 20 (Arginine deiminase pegylated)
Best Overall Response, Tumor responses were evaluated using any appropriate imaging type and were categorized according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Per RECIST for target lesions and assessed by MRI:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions \[no evidence of disease\]; Partial Response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., Every 4 to 8 weeks for up to 16 weeks
Assessment of Safety of Arginine Deiminase Pegylated (ADI-PEG) 20, Analysis of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) reported from clinical laboratory tests, physical examinations, and vital signs., Every 1 to 4 weeks for up to 16 weeks|Assessment of Pharmacodynamics of ADI-PEG 20, Blood samples were collected from all subjects at enrollment, prior to each treatment, and at the end of study to evaluate changes in plasma arginine and citrulline levels following administration of ADI-PEG 20. Disease state (ie, relapsed sensitive vs refractory) was not considered relevant to this analysis and as such samples were collected without regard for cohort assignment., Every 1 to 4 weeks for up to 16 weeks|Assessment of Immunogenicity of ADI-PEG 20, Blood samples were collected for all subjects at enrollment, prior to each treatment, and at the end of study to evaluate changes in ADI-PEG 20 antibody titer in peripheral blood over time. Disease state (ie, relapsed sensitive vs refractory) was not considered relevant to this analysis and as such samples were collected without regard for cohort assignment., Every 1 to 4 weeks for up to 16 weeks|Assessment of Overall Survival, Overall survival was measured from the initial date of treatment to the recorded date of death. Because the study was terminated prematurely, no statistical analyses of overall survival data were performed., Every 4 weeks for up to 16 months
Subjects were enrolled sequentially (non-randomized) into two separate cohorts in parallel. Cohort 1 comprised subjects with "sensitive" disease and Cohort 2 comprised subjects with "refractory" disease. Both cohorts received the same treatment regimen consisting of 4 weekly IM administrations of ADI-PEG 20 (320 IU/m\^2), followed by a 1-week follow-up (1 cycle). No dose adjustment was allowed. Additional treatment cycles were permitted in the absence of disease progression requiring other therapeutic interventions.

Each cohort was to be enrolled in 2 stages. In the first stage, 15 subjects were to be accrued in Cohort 1 and 12 subjects in Cohort 2. If ≥ 3 subjects met the primary endpoint in Cohort 1, then an additional 13 subjects were to be accrued in the second stage. If ≤ 2 subjects met the primary endpoint in Cohort 1, then the study was to be terminated and declared negative for Cohort 1. If ≥ 1 subject met the primary endpoint in Cohort 2, then an additional 4 subjects were to be accrued in the second stage. If no subjects met the primary endpoint in Cohort 2, then the study was to be terminated and declared negative. Additionally, if at any time a death or two grade 4 adverse events (AEs) that were definitely related or probably related to the study drug occurred, then the study was to be stopped.