Study to Assess Safety and Efficacy of Atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) Compared to Best Supportive Care Following Chemotherapy in Patients With Lung Cancer [IMpower010]
This is a Phase III, global, multicenter, open-label, randomized study to compare the efficacy and safety of 16 cycles (1 cycle duration=21 days) of atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) treatment compared with best supportive care (BSC) in participants with Stage IB-Stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) following resection and adjuvant chemotherapy, as measured by disease-free survival (DFS) as assessed by the investigator and overall survival (OS). Participants, after completing up to 4 cycles of adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy, will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive atezolizumab for 16 cycles or BSC.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Disease-Free Survival (DFS) in Intent-to-treat (ITT) Population, DFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first recurrence of NSCLC or occurrence of new primary NSCLC as determined by the investigator or death, whichever occurs first. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate the median DFS for each treatment arm., Up to 95 months|DFS in All Randomized Stage II-IIIA Population, DFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first recurrence of NSCLC or occurrence of new primary NSCLC as determined by the investigator or death, whichever occurs first. DFS was analyzed in participants with disease stage II-IIIA. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate the median DFS for each treatment arm., Up to 95 months|DFS in the Programmed Death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) SP263 ≥ 1% Tumor Cell (TC) Subpopulation Within the Stage II-IIIA Population, DFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first recurrence of NSCLC or occurrence of new primary NSCLC as determined by the investigator or death, whichever occurs first. DFS was analyzed in PD-L1 ≥1% subpopulation within the Stage II-IIIA population. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate the median DFS for each treatment arm., Up to 95 months
Overall Survival (OS) in the ITT Population, OS was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., Up to 20 years|Disease-free Rate at Year 3 in ITT Population, DFS rate was defined as percentage of participants who were disease-free at Year 3. The DFS rate was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier methodology for each treatment arm. Percentages have been rounded off to the nearest decimal., Year 3|Disease-free Rate at Year 3 in All Randomized Stage II-IIIA Population, DFS rate was defined as percentage of participants who were disease-free at Year 3. DFS rate was analyzed in participants with disease stage II-IIIA. The DFS rate was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier methodology for each treatment arm. Percentages have been rounded off to the nearest decimal., Year 3|Disease-free Rate at Year 3 in PD-L1 (SP263 ≥ 1% TC) Subpopulation Within the Stage II-IIIA Population, DFS rate was defined as percentage of participants who were disease-free at Year 3. DFS rate was analyzed in PD-L1 subpopulation within the Stage II-IIIA population. The DFS rate was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier methodology for each treatment arm. Percentages have been rounded off to the nearest decimal., Year 3|Disease-free Rate at Year 5 in ITT Population, DFS rate was defined as percentage of participants who were disease-free at Year 5. The DFS rate was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier methodology for each treatment arm. Percentages have been rounded off to the nearest decimal., Year 5|Disease-free Rate at Year 5 in All Randomized Stage II-IIIA Population, DFS rate was defined as percentage of participants who were disease-free at Year 5. DFS rate was analyzed in participants with disease stage II-IIIA. The DFS rate was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier methodology for each treatment arm. Percentages have been rounded off to the nearest decimal., Year 5|Disease-free Rate at Year 5 in PD-L1 (SP263 ≥ 1% TC) Subpopulation Within the Stage II-IIIA Population, DFS rate was defined as percentage of participants who were disease-free at Year 5. DFS rate was analyzed in PD-L1 subpopulation within the Stage II-IIIA population. The DFS rate was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier methodology for each treatment arm. Percentages have been rounded off to the nearest decimal., Year 5|DFS in the PD-L1 (SP263 ≥ 50% TC) Subpopulation Within the Stage II-IIIA Population, DFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first recurrence of NSCLC or occurrence of new primary NSCLC as determined by the investigator or death, whichever occurs first. DFS was analyzed in PD-L1 subpopulation within the Stage II-IIIA population. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate the median DFS for each treatment arm., Up to 95 months|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant when administered a pharmaceutical product regardless of the causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom/disease temporally associated with the use of an investigational product, whether or not considered related to the investigational product., Up to 20 years|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Therapeutic Antibodies (ATAs) to Atezolizumab, The percentage of ATA (Also called anti-drug antibodies (ADA))-positive participants after drug administration were determined for participants exposed to atezolizumab. For determining post-baseline incidence, participants were considered to be ADA-positive if they were ADA-negative or had missing data at baseline but developed an ADA response following study drug exposure, or if they were ADA-positive at baseline and the titer of 1 or more post-baseline samples was at least 0.60 titer units (t.u.) greater than the baseline titer result., Predose (Hour 0) on Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 8, 16 (Cycle length = 21 days), at treatment discontinuation (TD) (up to 12 months), 120 days after last atezolizumab administration (up to 16 months)|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Atezolizumab, 30 min post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1 (Cycle length = 21 days)|Minimum Serum Concentration (Cmin) at Steady-State Within a Dosing Interval of Atezolizumab, Prior to infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 16 (Cycle length = 21 days), at study discontinuation visit (up to 12 months), Day 120 post last dose of atezolizumab (up to 16 months)
This is a Phase III, global, multicenter, open-label, randomized study to compare the efficacy and safety of 16 cycles (1 cycle duration=21 days) of atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) treatment compared with best supportive care (BSC) in participants with Stage IB-Stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) following resection and adjuvant chemotherapy, as measured by disease-free survival (DFS) as assessed by the investigator and overall survival (OS). Participants, after completing up to 4 cycles of adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy, will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive atezolizumab for 16 cycles or BSC.