CPI-613 in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Bile Duct Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This pilot clinical trial studies 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid in treating patients with advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma that cannot be removed by surgery. 6,8-Bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid may stop the growth of cholangiocarcinoma by blocking blood flow to the tumor
Adult Primary Cholangiocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma of the Extrahepatic Bile Duct|Cholangiocarcinoma of the Gallbladder|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Metastatic Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer
DRUG: 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid
Overall Survival, Estimated using Kaplan-Meier techniques., From the first dose of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid to death, assessed up to 4 years
Response Rate Defined as Proportion of Patients With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease (PD), Using the RECIST version 1.1 as defined by patient with 95% confidence interval will be included. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note:the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression). Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study, From the start of the treatment until disease progression, assessed up to 4 year|Progression-free Survival, Estimated using Kaplan-Meier techniques as well as RECIST 1.1. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note:the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., From the first dose of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid to disease progression (DP) or death due to any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria, Adverse events will be captured using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria (NCI CTCAE) version 3.0, Up to 1 month completion of study treatment, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of CPI-613 (6,8-bis\[benzylthio\]octanoic acid) in patients with advanced unresectable cholangiocarcinoma who have failed available therapies.

OUTLINE:

Pre-cycle: Patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1-5, 1 week prior to course 1.

Patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid IV over 2 hours on days 1 and 4 of weeks 1-3. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients responding to treatment may receive up to 4 more courses of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up bimonthly.