Dynamic Follow-up of Symptoms Based on Patient-reported Outcomes in Immunotherapy for Esophageal Cancer: a Prospective Multicentre Cohort Study (SPRING)
Immunotherapy shows satisfactory effectiveness and safety in patients with esophageal cancer. Immunotherapy-based regimens have a better survival benefit compared to previous chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Patient-reported outcomes (PRO) provide a reliable assessment of patients' functional status during treatment. However, the spectrum of symptoms in esophageal cancer patients receiving immunotherapy is uncertain, and there are no studies applying the symptom bank based on PRO to the immunotherapy model for esophageal cancer. In this prospective study, the investigators aimed to preliminarily screen for symptoms associated with immunotherapy for esophageal cancer through a systematic literature review and expert evaluation, and build a symptom item bank for esophageal cancer patients receiving immunotherapy. Adverse symptoms in esophageal cancer patients treated with immunotherapy were collected prospectively. The distribution and severity of the symptoms, as well as the trajectory of symptom change were further analyzed to demonstrate the validity and reliability of the symptom item bank. It would refine the spectrum of symptoms for esophageal cancer patients receiving immunotherapy and provide a foundation for assessing the specific symptom burden in patients with esophageal cancer receiving immunotherapy regimens.
Esophageal Cancer|Patient-reported Outcomes|Immunotherapy
Prevalence and severity of adverse symptoms, Incidence and severity of adverse symptoms in esophageal cancer patients treated with immunotherapy, Patients were evaluated from the beginning of immunochemotherapy to three weeks after completion of the last immunochemotherapy treatment. The total time for patient evaluation is less than 6 months.
Trajectory of adverse symptoms, Trajectory of adverse symptoms in esophageal cancer patients treated with immunotherapy, Patients were evaluated from the beginning of immunochemotherapy to three weeks after completion of the last immunochemotherapy treatment. The total time for patient evaluation is less than 6 months.
Immunotherapy shows satisfactory effectiveness and safety in patients with esophageal cancer. Immunotherapy-based regimens have a better survival benefit compared to previous chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Patient-reported outcomes (PRO) provide a reliable assessment of patients' functional status during treatment. However, the spectrum of symptoms in esophageal cancer patients receiving immunotherapy is uncertain, and there are no studies applying the symptom bank based on PRO to the immunotherapy model for esophageal cancer. In this prospective study, the investigators aimed to preliminarily screen for symptoms associated with immunotherapy for esophageal cancer through a systematic literature review and expert evaluation, and build a symptom item bank for esophageal cancer patients receiving immunotherapy. Adverse symptoms in esophageal cancer patients treated with immunotherapy were collected prospectively. The distribution and severity of the symptoms, as well as the trajectory of symptom change were further analyzed to demonstrate the validity and reliability of the symptom item bank. It would refine the spectrum of symptoms for esophageal cancer patients receiving immunotherapy and provide a foundation for assessing the specific symptom burden in patients with esophageal cancer receiving immunotherapy regimens.