A Study of Vismodegib in Patients With Advanced Solid Malignancies Including Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Varying Degrees of Renal or Hepatic Function
This is a Phase Ib, open-label, multiple-center, multiple-dose study designed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and safety of vismodegib in patients with advanced solid malignancies (including hepatocellular carcinoma and lymphoma) that are refractory to standard therapy or for whom no standard therapy exists.
Cancer
DRUG: Vismodegib
Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration and Concentration at Steady-state Following Multiple Doses of Vismodegib, Maximum observed plasma Concentration (Cmax) \& Concentration at steady-state (Css) following multiple doses of vismodegib (150 mg QD) were analyzed. At steady state the amount of drug administered (in a given time period) is equal to the amount of drug eliminated. Blood samples for assessing Cmax and Css for analysis were collected following multiple oral doses of vismodegib at pre-dose and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours post-dose on Day 8. From the plasma concentration-time curve, the PK parameter Cmax and Css were determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin, Day 1,2,4 and 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours post dose on Day 8|The Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve Over the Dosing Interval (AUC[0-24hours]) Following Multiple Doses of Vismodegib, The steady state pharmacokinetic profile following oral administration of multiple doses of vismodegib included determining the area under the curve over the dosing interval (AUC\[0-24 hours\]). The AUC\[0-24 hrs\]) was determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin. Blood samples were collected at pre-dose and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours post-dose on Day 8 to estimate AUC(0-24 hrs)., Day 1, 2, 4 and 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours postdose on Day 8
The Percentage of Dose of Vismodegib in 24-hour Total Urine, The percentage of dose vismodegib excreted in urine over a 24-hr total interval was estimated, 24 hr total interval on Day 8|Renal Clearance of Vismodegib, Renal clearance (CLR) is defined as the apparent total clearance of the drug from plasma after oral administration., 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours postdose on Day 8|Amount of Vismodegib Excreted Into Urine in 24 Hours (Ae0-24hr), The amount of total vismodegib excreted in urine over a 24-hr total interval (Ae0-24hr) was estimated., 24 hr total interval on Day 8|Time to Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of Vismodegib, Tmax is the time to reach maximum plasma concentration of vismodegib. This was a pre-specified PK parameter. However, due to minimal fluctuation of Vismodegib concentrations at steady state, this parameter could not be determined., Up to 8 days|Minimum Plasma Concentration (Cmin) of Vismodegib, Cmin is defined as the minimum observed plasma concentration of Vismodegib. This was a pre-specified PK parameter. However, due to minimal fluctuation of Vismodegib concentrations at steady state, this parameter could not be determined., Up to 8 days|Apparent Clearance (CL/F) of Vismodegib, CL/F is apparent clearance of the drug from the plasma, calculated as the drug dose divided AUC (0-inf), expressed in liter/hour (L/hr). This was a pre-specified PK parameter. However, due to minimal fluctuation of vismodegib concentrations at steady state, this parameter could not be determined., Up to 8 days|Apparent Non-renal Clearance (CLNR/F) of Vismodegib, Apparent Non-Renal Clearance (CLNR) describes the removal of vismodegib by organs other than the kidneys. This was a pre-specified PK parameter. However, due to minimal fluctuation of vismodegib concentrations at steady state, this parameter could not be determined., Up to 8 days
This is a Phase Ib, open-label, multiple-center, multiple-dose study designed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and safety of vismodegib in patients with advanced solid malignancies (including hepatocellular carcinoma and lymphoma) that are refractory to standard therapy or for whom no standard therapy exists.