Extending Prostate Genetic Awareness, Navigation, and Delivery: The EXPAND Network
This trial evaluates whether a network of peer genetic coaches is useful for addressing disparities in genetic testing and screening among African American men with prostate cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). While genetic testing has become central to prostate cancer care, African American men are less likely seek testing due to lack of awareness, cultural beliefs, financial limitations, fear of discrimination, and mistrust in the healthcare system. A network of peer genetic coaches may help address barriers, beliefs, and needs of African American men in the community and provide navigation to increase engagement in genetic testing.
Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
BEHAVIORAL: Training and Education|OTHER: Educational Intervention|PROCEDURE: Discussion
Number of inquiries to the central number (feasibility), Up to 1 year|Percent of callers screened and eligible to participate (feasibility), Up to 1 year|Percent of eligible callers who enroll in the study (feasibility), Up to 1 year|Percent who complete the endpoint assessment (feasibility), Up to 1 year|Number and percent of men making genetic counseling appointments, Up to 1 year
Change in decisional conflict for genetic counseling, Reported with mean and standard deviation., Baseline up to 1 year|Change in acceptability/attitude toward genetic counseling and testing, Reported with mean and standard deviation., Baseline up to 1 year|Change of genetics knowledge, Reported with mean and standard deviation, Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify and train 6 African American (AA) men as peer genetic coaches (PGCs) for the Extending Prostate Genetic Awareness, Navigation, and Delivery (EXPAND) Network. (Train peer genetic coaches) II. Conduct a feasibility study of peer genetic coaching. (Provide individual coaching)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Patient-related outcomes will include change in decisional conflict for genetic counseling, acceptability/attitude toward genetic counseling and testing, and change of genetics knowledge.

OUTLINE:

AIM 1: Peer genetic coaches undergo training and education on study.

AIM 2: Patients receive an educational booklet and attend a discussion with a peer genetic coach on study.