PD-1 Antibody Sintilimab Combined With Capecitabine as Adjuvant Therapy for High-Risk Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
This study will enroll 664 patients who had completed induction chemotherapy combined with the PD-1 antibody sintilimab treatment followed by concurrent cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy (no concurrent sintiliamb). Patients will be randomly divided into two groups. One group will receive 9 cycles of sintilimab therapy, while the other group will receive an additional year of capecitabine chemotherapy on top of the sintilimab treatment. The primary endpoints will be event-free survival and overall survival.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma (NPC)
DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Capecitabine
Event-free survival (EFS), 3-years|Overall survival (OS), 5-years
Distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), 3-years|Locoregional recurrence-free survival (LRFS), 3-years|Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), 5-years|Quality of life (QoL), The change of QoL from randomization to 9 weeks (at the 3rd cycle of adjuvant sintilimab treatment), 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, and 5 years after randomization. The EORTC QoL questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) version 3.0 will be used. This questionnaire comprises 30 questions, 24 aggregated into nine multi-question scales: five functioning scales (e.g., physical), three symptom scales (e.g., fatigue), and one global health status scale. The remaining six single-question (e.g., dyspnoea) scales assess symptoms. These 15 scales will be scored according to the official Scoring Manual of EORTC QLQ-C30., 5-years|Event-free survival (EFS) within different subgroups, analyses for EFS will be performed within the following subgroups: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA (=0 vs. \>0copies/ml after radiotherapy), different PD-L1 CPS (0 vs. ≥1), tertiary lymphoid structure (+ vs. -), age, sex, performance status, T category, N category, and stage (II vs. III)., 3-years|Overall survival (OS) within different subgroups, analyses for OS will be performed within the following subgroups: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA (=0 vs. \>0copies/ml after radiotherapy), different PD-L1 CPS (0 vs. ≥1), tertiary lymphoid structure (+ vs. -), age, sex, performance status, T category, N category, and stage (II vs. III)., 5-years
This study will enroll 664 patients who had completed induction chemotherapy combined with the PD-1 antibody sintilimab treatment followed by concurrent cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy (no concurrent sintiliamb). Patients will be randomly divided into two groups. One group will receive 9 cycles of sintilimab therapy, while the other group will receive an additional year of capecitabine chemotherapy on top of the sintilimab treatment. The primary endpoints will be event-free survival and overall survival.