GRACE-trial: a Randomized Active-controlled Trial for VulvovaGinal AtRophy in BreAst Cancer Patients on Endocrine Therapy.
In this prospective active-controlled randomized trial the investigators will assess for the first time ever the different local treatments of vulvovaginal atrophy in breast cancer patients on endocrine therapy. These patients are currently inadequately treated based on ignorance of possible treatment modalities and stigmatization of vulvovaginal atrophy.
Vulvovaginal Atrophy|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Estrogen|DRUG: dehydroepiandrosterone|DRUG: Estrogen + probiotics|DRUG: Moisturizer
Change in symptoms and quality of life after implementation of treatment in a time frame of 12 weeks using the EQ5D-questionnaire., Efficacy of the implemented treatments will be assessed based on patient-reported outcome measurements (PROM) that describe symptoms and quality-of-life.

The first primary outcome will be based on assessment using the EQ5D-questionnaire.

This endpoint will be assessed at three time points: at start, after 6 weeks, and at the end (after 12 weeks). The change in these PROMs will be evaluated over the predefined timeframe of 12 weeks.

The EQ5D-questionnaire includes a scale describing the general health of the participant at the predefined times, using a metric scale from 0 to 100 (0 being the worst health and 100 being the best health)., 12 weeks|Change in symptoms and quality of life after implementation of treatment in a time frame of 12 weeks using the FACT-ES questionnaire., Efficacy of the implemented treatments will be assessed based on patient-reported outcome measurements (PROM) that describe symptoms and quality-of-life.

The second primary outcome will be based on assessment using the FACT-ES-questionnaire.

This endpoint will be assessed at three time points: at start, after 6 weeks, and at the end (after 12 weeks). The change in these PROMs will be evaluated over the predefined timeframe of 12 weeks.

The FACT-ES consists of question with answer possibilities from 0 to 4 (with the higher the score, the better the quality of life)., 12 weeks|Change in sex steroid hormone concentrations in a time frame of 12 weeks., The change in concentration of sex steroid hormone concentration as a surrogate for safety be be evaluated by measuring the sex hormone concentrations systemically with repeated longitudinal measurements. This endpoint will be assessed at three time points: at start, after 6 weeks, and at the end (after 12 weeks). The following sex steroid hormone concentrations will be assessed: estrone, estradiol, DHEA-S, DHEA, testosterone, and dihydrotestosterone., 12 weeks
Identification of vaginal microbial alterations after implementation of treatment., The vaginal microbiome will be determined at start and after 12 weeks. Bacterial DNA will be extracted and the microbiota will be identified using cpn60 sequencing. The change in microbial profiles between the two timepoints will be assessed., 12 weeks
In this prospective active-controlled randomized trial the investigators will assess for the first time ever the different local treatments of vulvovaginal atrophy in breast cancer patients on endocrine therapy. These patients are currently inadequately treated based on ignorance of possible treatment modalities and stigmatization of vulvovaginal atrophy.

While current knowledge on comparative data of the local treatments of vulvovaginal atrophy is based on retrospective data or one-to-one comparisons, we will prospectively evaluate all different local treatments based on patient-reported outcome measurements. This new data is mandatory for increasing the awareness of physicians of the treatment possibilities of vulvovaginal atrophy in breast cancer patients. Together with the use of different communication channels towards patients, this combination will substantially contribute to the increase of quality-of-life of breast cancer patients with vulvovaginal atrophy.

The primary objectives in this trial are two-fold. The first primary objective addresses the efficacy of the different implemented treatment strategies based on patient-reported outcome measurements (PROMs). These PROMs will be implemented prior to treatment and after initiation of the implemented treatments (estrogen, DHEA, probiotics or moisturizer). By implementing repeated PROM assessment, longitudinal evaluation of symptom alterations due to the treatment can be objectified.

The second primary objective is the safety evaluation of the implemented treatments. This evaluation will be achieved by measuring the sex hormone concentrations systemically with repeated longitudinal measurements.

In this study, the investigators will measure sex hormone concentrations through high-sensitive assessments based on LC-MS/MS. Considering the ALARA (as low a reasonably achievable) principle in radiation safety, we could extrapolate this ALARA principle to the safety of the local hormonal treatment of vulvovaginal atrophy in breast cancer patients, where potential differences in increase of sex hormone concentrations between the different treatment modalities could be objectified. Despite previous literature that could not show increased recurrence of breast cancer, this finding will play an import role in the decision-making of treatment of vulvovaginal atrophy in breast cancer patients. As mentioned earlier, a direct comparison of these sex hormone concentrations for the different treatment modalities is currently lacking.

As translational secondary objective, the investigators aim to investigate the microbial alterations when using local treatment for vulvovaginal atrophy. Identification of these alterations will contribute in understanding the pathophysiology of vulvovaginal atrophy and may unravel changes caused by the local treatment and may create opportunities in the future for additive treatment or new therapeutic strategies to ameliorate the quality-of-life of breast cancer patients with vulvovaginal atrophy.