Cetuximab and Dasatinib in Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This is a single-arm, non-masked, open-label, Phase II study of cetuximab + dasatinib in recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of The Head and Neck (SCCHN) that has recurred after cetuximab-containing therapy (please see attached schema).

The primary endpoint 12-week PFS.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma Of The Head And Neck
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Dasatinib
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Number of patients experiencing a Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) to study treatment / Total number of evaluable patients, per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., Up to 36 months|Response to Treatment, Response of evaluable patients to treatment, per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., Up to 36 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), From date of entry into the study until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months., Up to 60 months
Patients must have recurrent SCCHN and may have received any number of prior palliative systemic therapies for recurrent disease (without cetuximab or othr EGFR inhibitor). One prior curative regimen (induction, primary or postoperative chemoradiotherapy) should have been given AND all patients should have been exposed to cetuximab as part of prior potentially curative treatment.Those who have received a prior Src kinase inhibitor or EGFR inhibitor other than cetuximab are not eligible.

Patients will be tested for serum IL-6. If IL-6 is detectable, the patient will be ineligible. If IL-6 is not detected, the patient will be eligible for the study. Subjects more than 2 weeks post last dose of Cetuximab will receive an initial loading dose 400 mg/m2 on cycle 1, day 1. Subjects who have received Cetuximab within 2 weeks of starting study will start Cycle 1 with dose of 250 mg/m2. Dasatinib will start 3 days after initial cetuximab study dose on cycle 1 (i.e cycle 1, day 4), and continue without interruption.