Neoadjuvant Radiosurgery for Resectable Brain Metastases: Phase I/II Study
This Phase I/II trial studies the ability to stop brain metastases from coming back after treatment with radiosurgery followed by surgical resection. It will also evaluate the side effects of these combined treatments and help determine the best radiosurgery dose. Radiosurgery focuses the x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to the normal tissue in the brain.
Tumors Metastatic to Brain
RADIATION: radiosurgery|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), MTD of radiosurgery determined by dose-limiting toxicities graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.0 (Phase I), Day 0|Proportion of participants without local failure (Phase II), Local control of brain metastases, as measured by proportion of participants without local failure (Local failure is tumor progression of the metastasis treated on the study)

(Phase II)

The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., Up to 3 years
Proportion of participants with distant brain failure, Rate of distant brain failure, defined as progression of brain metastases outside of the brain metastasis treated on study. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., Up to 3 years|Rate of radiation necrosis/steroid dependency, Rate of radiation necrosis/steroid dependency, Up to 3 years|Rate of salvage treatment, Number of patients that have any salvage treatment, including surgery, stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), or whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT), Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety (risk of acute and long-term toxicities) of neoadjuvant radiosurgery at escalating doses followed by surgical resection of brain metastases. (Phase I)

II. To determine the local control of brain metastases treated with neoadjuvant radiosurgery followed by surgical resection. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of distant brain failure when brain metastases are managed with neoadjuvant radiosurgery followed by surgical resection.

II. To estimate the rate of salvage surgery, whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT), or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) for participants treated with neoadjuvant radiosurgery followed by surgical resection.

III. To determine the rate of radiation necrosis/steroid dependency. IV. To determine the radiobiologic impact of neoadjuvant radiosurgery for resected brain metastases.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of radiosurgery followed by a phase II study.

The following outcomes were removed from the protocol in an amendment:

* Changes in neurocognitive function as measured by the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test (HVLT), Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA) \& Trailmaking Test B, and Trailmaking Test A
* QOL measured by FACT-BR and EORTC-QLQ30