High Throughput Drug Sensitivity Assay and Genomics- Guided Treatment of Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Leukemia
This pilot clinical trial studies the feasibility of choosing treatment based on a high throughput ex vivo drug sensitivity assay in combination with mutation analysis for patients with acute leukemia that has returned after a period of improvement (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). A high throughput screening assay tests many different drugs individually or in combination that kill leukemia cells in tiny chambers at the same time. High throughput drug sensitivity assay and mutation analysis may help guide the choice most effective for an individual's acute leukemia.
Recurrent Acute Leukemia of Ambiguous Lineage|Recurrent Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Leukemia of Ambiguous Lineage
OTHER: Chemosensitivity Assay|OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure|GENETIC: Gene Expression Analysis|GENETIC: Genetic Variation Analysis|DRUG: In Vitro Sensitivity-Directed Chemotherapy
Percentage of Patients we Are Able to Test and Initiate Treatment Within a 21 Day Period, The study will be considered successful (feasibility demonstrated) if it is possible to choose and initiate a combination drug regimen within 21 days in 9 out of 15 patients. With that outcome, there would be 90% confidence that the true feasibility rate is at least 40%., Up to 21 days
Rate of Complete Remission, The secondary objective is to evaluate the response to the chosen therapy. Response will be evaluated using European LeukemiaNet Response Evaluation Criteria in AML (2010 version), Up to 2 years|Survival, Disease free and overall survival data will be assessed by contacting the referring MD or the patient every three months for the first two years., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test patient cells in a high throughput assay against individual drugs and drug combinations within 21 days to enable optimal choice of drug combinations for therapy.

II. To test gene expression that reveals activation of druggable pathways or mutations in genes that confer susceptibility to specific agents may also be considered in choice of treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the response to the chosen therapy.

OUTLINE:

Leukemia cells obtained from blood or bone marrow are analyzed for sensitivity to both individual drugs and drug combinations via high throughput chemotherapy sensitivity assay and next generation sequencing assays. Doctors will then recommend chemotherapy regimens based on the results.

After completion of the chemotherapy regimen, patients are followed up at 2-4 weeks for response, and then every 3 months for 2 years for duration of response and survival.