INPWT on Wound Complications & Clinical Outcomes After Lower Extremity Sarcoma Surgery Preop Radiation Therapy Patients
Project Summary - Aggressive soft tissue cancers are commonly treated with radiation followed by surgery. These wounds have a very high rate of wound complications and infection (30%), resulting in more surgeries, longer hospital stays and complex nursing care. Previous research shows that negative pressure (vacuum) dressings applied to the incision at the end of surgery can reduce these complications. The Investigator and his team across Canada will perform a clinical trial comparing standard dressings to these vacuum dressings. The results of this study have the potential to immediately improve the quality of life of soft tissue cancer patients. It can also decrease the amount of time required in hospital and reduce the cost to the Canadian healthcare system.
Soft-tissue Sarcoma|Wound Complication
OTHER: Incisional Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (INPWT)|OTHER: Wound Dressing
Wound Complication including re-operation for superficial or deep site infection, * Wound requiring deep wound packing to an area greater than 2cm in length
* Wound requiring persistent dressing changes for greater than 6 weeks. Wound packing and persistent requirement to change the dressing will reflect if the patient has a wound complication., 120 days post op
patient satisfaction, Patient satisfaction will be evaluated by validated questionnaires., All within this 120 day post-op|Functional outcome, Secondary outcomes include length of stay in hospital,, 120 days postop|Overall cost, A cost analysis will be performed by evaluating the average inpatient cost per day, number of emergency department and clinic visits, cost of secondary procedures cost of INPWT and cost of home care visits., 120 days
This is a multi-center randomized clinical trial lead by the Investigator from the Ottawa Hospital and six other orthopedic cancer centers. The Investigator and the team will be recruiting 248 patients diagnosed with soft tissue cancer who will be treated with radiation therapy followed by surgery. Each of these patients will be randomly assigned to receiving either 7 days of vacuum dressing (Incisional Negative Pressure Wound Therapy) or a standard dressing. Besides this, patients will receive as identical care as possible. The team will then closely follow these patients over a period of 4 month to examine differences in wound complications, length of hospital stay, patient quality of life, patient satisfaction and function. Statistical analysis will be completed by The Ottawa Methods Center and ethical approval will be obtained at each participating site.