Stress Reduction Program in Patients With Malignant Brain Tumors and Their Family Caregivers
RATIONALE: Yoga, meditation, and breathing exercises may help lower stress and improve quality of life in patients with malignant brain tumors and their family caregivers.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well a stress reduction program works to improve the quality of life of patients with malignant brain tumors and their family caregivers.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors|Psychosocial Effects of Cancer and Its Treatment
BEHAVIORAL: exercise intervention|OTHER: educational intervention|OTHER: physiologic testing|OTHER: management of therapy complications|BEHAVIORAL: mind-body intervention procedure|PROCEDURE: Measurement of stress-related hormones
Quality of life as measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 Items (EORTC QLQ-C30) and Brain Cancer Module-20, 12 months
Decrease in perception of stress and anxiety in patients and their primary family caregivers as measured by the Perceived Stress Scale and Beck Anxiety Inventory questionnaires, 12 months|Decrease in stress- and inflammation-related hormones in patients and their primary family caregivers as measured by saliva samples, 12 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine whether regular practice of a stress reduction program for 8 weeks improves the quality of life of patients with malignant brain tumors.

Secondary

* Determine whether regular practice of a stress reduction routine decreases perception of stress and anxiety and stress- and inflammation-related hormones in both patients with malignant brain tumors and their primary family caregivers.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

Patients and caregivers receive a 90-minute stress-reduction session once a week for 8 weeks. Each session comprises an educational session on stress reduction and yoga therapy comprising specific yoga postures, breathing exercises, and relaxation and meditation.

Quality of life, stress, anxiety, and levels of stress-related hormones (cortisol, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate \[DHEAS\], and melatonin) are assessed at baseline and at week 8.

After completion of study treatment, patients and caregivers are followed at 6 and 12 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 14 caregiver/patient pairs will be accrued for this study.