Niraparib and Temozolomide in Patients Glioblastoma
The study evaluates safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics at recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and preliminary antitumor activity of Niraparib + dd-TMZ "one week on, one week off" in patients affected by recurrent GBM IDH wild-type and recurrent IDH mutant (WHO grade 2-4) gliomas.

The treatment will be administered until progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity, consent withdrawal, lost to follow-up or death.

The entire study is expected to last approximately 40 months.
Glioma, Malignant
DRUG: Temodal|DRUG: Niraparib
Escalation Phase : maximum tolerated dose (MTD), To determine the MTD of the combination of dd-TMZ and Niraparib, established in the first cycle of therapy, in order to determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D)., 1 year|Expansion Phase : PFS, To assess the proportion of patients progression-free at 6 months for recurrent IDH wild-type glioblastoma (Cohort 1) and at 8 months for recurrent IDH-mutant lower-grade gliomas (Cohort 2), 8 months
pharmacokinetics CMAX, To evaluate the pharmacokinetics proprieties of the combination of dd-TMZ and Niraparib given on a 7d ON/7d OFF schedule at specific time-points during experimental treatment.Niraparib given on a 7d ON/7d OFF schedule, 1 year|cerebrospinal fluid drug concentration, To evaluate cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drug concentration of the combination of dd-TMZ and Niraparib given on a 7d ON/7d OFF schedule in those cases where it is safely feasible collecting liquor samples through lumbar puncture and only after patient's appropriate consent., 1 year|Adverse event monitoring, To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of dd-TMZ and Niraparib given at the RP2D on a 7d ON/7d OFF schedule, 2 years|tumour tissue drug concentration, To evaluate tissue drug concentration schedule and visualized intra-tumor distribution by mass spectrometry imaging in surgical specimen of the combination of dd-TMZ and Niraparib given on a 7d ON/7d OFF from patients who need second surgery after patient's consent., 2 years|assess objective response rate (ORR), To assess objective response rate (ORR) defined as the proportion of patients who achieved partial response or complete response according to RANO criteria and LGGs RANO criteria on a 7d ON/7d OFF schedule, 2 years|assess disease control rate (DCR), To assess disease control rate (DCR) defined as the proportion of patients who achieved objective partial response, complete response or stable disease according to RANO criteria and LGGs RANO criteria, 2 years|assess progression-free survival (PFS), To assess progression-free survival (PFS) defined as the time from the start of experimental treatment to disease progression according to RANO criteria and LGGs RANO criteria or death from any cause, 2 years|assess overall survival (OS), To assess overall survival (OS) defined as the time from start of experimental treatment to death from any cause in patients with recurrent/progressive IDH wild-type glioblastoma (Cohort 1) and IDH mutant lower-grade gliomas (Cohort 2)., 2 years|magnitude of PFSin cohort 2, To explore the magnitude of PFS in cohort 2 according to brain MRI features (enhancing vs non-enhancing lesions), 2 years|magnitude of ORR in cohort 2, To explore the magnitude of ORR in cohort 2 according to brain MRI features (enhancing vs non-enhancing lesions), 2 years|magnitude of OS in cohort 2, To explore the magnitude of OS in cohort 2 according to brain MRI features (enhancing vs non-enhancing lesions), 2 years
Diffuse malignant gliomas are the most common central nervous system (CNS) primary tumours in adults, characterized by poor prognosis and few treatment options. In the last 15 years, standard treatment consisting of surgery, adjuvant radiotherapy and temozolomide (TMZ)-based chemotherapy has remained unchanged. New therapeutic approaches are urgently needed.

TMZ is a DNA-methylating chemotherapeutic agent with good CNS penetration. Its mechanism of action is increased by either gene promoter methylation or consumption of the methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), an enzyme repairing chemotherapy-induced genome damages.

Alternative, intensified schedules of TMZ (dose-dense TMZ, dd-TMZ) can give patients an increased total dose of drugs per each cycle, progressively consuming MGMT and overcoming resistance of cancer cells to standard first-line schedule. They are usually used at disease recurrence, with a tolerable safety profile. For example, a clinical study testing the 7 day on / 7 day off schedule showed that MGMT activity in blood mononuclear cells decreased at day 8 and progressively recovered during the week-off. This may limit haematological toxicity.

The inhibition of Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) proteins, normally involved in genomic stability, may rationally improve TMZ efficacy. Switching off PARP molecules can block both base-excision repair (BER) system and Poly-ADP ribose-ylation of MGMT (a key process for its function), leading to an amplification in DNA damages. In the subset of Isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) 1/2 mutant gliomas, the enzyme leads to 2-hydroxy-glutarate (2HG) accumulation in cancer cells. This onco-metabolite increases sensitivity to DNA damages by alkylating agents and induces a Breast Cncer gene(BRCA)-ness phenotype indeed. Considering all this, the use of PARP inhibitors seems promising even for these patients.

When compared to other PARP inhibitors, Niraparib has peculiar pharmacokinetics proprieties, such as higher volume of distribution (Vd) and blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration. These characteristics lead to a progressive drug accumulation in brain and other body tissues with standard daily administration, reaching concentration well over that necessary for PARP inhibition. Overall, Niraparib can represent an ideal candidate to explore for treatment of malignant gliomas and a non-continuous administration may lead to a reduced bone marrow exposure, decreasing haematological toxicity without compromising anticancer activity.

Previous clinical experiences have already explored PARP inhibitors combined to TMZ in solid malignancies, with scarce tolerability mainly due to bone marrow exhaustion. In one small trial, a continuous administration of Niraparib in combination with standard schedule TMZ across several cohorts confirmed high rate of hematologic toxicities and interestingly showed signals of activity in glioblastoma (GBM).

Considering the peculiar pharmacokinetics proprieties of Niraparib and the recovery in MGMT activity described for dd-TMZ, investigator speculate that different schedules and doses of the two drugs (compared to the ones approved in clinical practice) may be explored to improve tolerability preserving the synergistic activity.