Pilot Trial for Treatment of Recurrent Glioblastoma
This will be a single-arm open-label prospective pilot feasibility trial recruiting 10 adult patients with recurrent glioblastoma who are assigned to receive the personalized study treatment based on the genetic profile of their recurrent GBM tumor resected at the time of surgery. It will be aimed to gather preliminary information on the study intervention and the feasibility of conducting a full-scale trial.
Glioblastoma|Recurrent Disease|Recurrent Glioblastoma
DRUG: Afatinib|DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Olaparib
Success rate of personalized GBM treatment based on molecular characterization of recurrent tumor, Percentage of patients, interested in participating, consented and detected with target mutations and completed the treatment with one of the 5 study drugs, From date of initial consent to participate to the end of follow up period (24 months)
Overall survival (OS), OS is calculated as the period from the day of starting administration of the study drug to the day of death from any cause., From date of study drug administration until date of death from any cause (approximately 24 months)|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is calculated as the period from the day of starting administration of the study drug to the date that disease progression is confirmed by radiographic assessment and RANO criteria., From date of study drug administration until date of radiographic confirmed progression (approximately 2 years)|Quality of Life (QoL) EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined score will be presented., Baseline until the end of treatment|Quality of Life (QoL) EORTC QLQ BN-20, Quality of Life measures are recorded according to EORTC QLQ BN-20 module, which is validated for brain tumor patients and measured as a unit of scale. This is a standard tool for assessing patient reported quality of Life along time during treatment. EORTC QLQ BN-20 (BN-20): 4 scales comprised of multiple items and 7 single items. All items are rated on a 4-point Likert-type scale, 1=not at all' to 4=very much, and linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale, higher scores indicating more severe symptoms.

The scores across all time points were averaged to obtain the mean., Baseline until the end of treatment
Genomic and expression profiling, Number of patients for whom we were able to have genomic and expression profiling on their tissue samples and organoids, From date of initial consent to participate to end of follow up period (24 months)|Organoid drug response, Number of patients for whom we can determine organoid drug response to study drugs, From date of initial consent to participate to end of follow up period (24 months)|Correlation of genomic and expression profiling of tissue and organoid with the organoid's best drug response, Number of patients for whom the genomic and expression profiling of their tissue and organoid directly correlates to the organoid's best drug response, From date of initial consent to participate to end of follow up period (24 months)
This will be a single-arm open-label prospective pilot feasibility trial recruiting 10 adult patients with recurrent glioblastoma who are assigned to receive the personalized study treatment based on the genetic profile of their recurrent GBM tumor resected at the time of surgery. It will be aimed to gather preliminary information on the study intervention and the feasibility of conducting a full-scale trial.