Effectiveness and Safety of Firmagon®
Effectiveness and Safety of Firmagon® in Androgen Ablative Therapy of Advanced Hormone-dependent Prostate Carcinoma. The period until Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) progression during the Firmagon® therapy is to be documented and related to the testosterone values measured in the course of therapy (if available). Other clinical parameters, the patients' quality of life and the direct and indirect costs incurred by the medical care for the advanced hormone-dependent prostate carcinoma and its consequences will be evaluated. In this context the medical outcome and the life quality are defined as effectiveness and benefit value parameters. Both the effectiveness under daily life circumstances and economic variables of the therapy can thus be shown and compared within an analysis of costs vs. benefits or costs vs. effectiveness.
Androgen Ablative Therapy of Advanced Hormone-dependent Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Firmagon given by prescription according to SPC
duration of the PSA progression-free survival, open (until therapy end or stop)
1. testosterone levels, open (until therapy end or stop)|2. number of ADRs and SUSARs, open (until therapy end or stop)|3. quality of life, open (until therapy end or stop)
Effectiveness and Safety of Firmagon® in Androgen Ablative Therapy of Advanced Hormone-dependent Prostate Carcinoma. The period until Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) progression during the Firmagon® therapy is to be documented and related to the testosterone values measured in the course of therapy (if available). Other clinical parameters, the patients' quality of life and the direct and indirect costs incurred by the medical care for the advanced hormone-dependent prostate carcinoma and its consequences will be evaluated. In this context the medical outcome and the life quality are defined as effectiveness and benefit value parameters. Both the effectiveness under daily life circumstances and economic variables of the therapy can thus be shown and compared within an analysis of costs vs. benefits or costs vs. effectiveness.