DEB-TACE+HAIC vs. HAIC for Large HCC
This study is conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of transarterial chemoembolization with drug-eluting beads (DEB-TACE) plus hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) compared with HAIC alone for unresectable large hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: dTACE-HAIC|PROCEDURE: HAIC|DRUG: dTACE-HAIC protocol|DRUG: HAIC protocol
Overall survival (OS), The time from date of randomization to death due to any cause., 4 years.
Objective response rate (ORR) per mRECIST., The proportion of patients with the best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to mRECIST., 4 years.|ORR per RECIST 1.1., The proportion of patients with the best response of CR or PR according to RECIST 1.1., 4 years.|Disease control rate (DCR) per mRECIST., The proportion of patients with the best response of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) according to mRECIST., 4 years.|DCR per RECIST 1.1., The proportion of patients with the best response of CR, PR, or SD according to RECIST 1.1., 4 years.|Progression free survival (PFS) per mRECIST., The time from date of randomization until the first occurrence of disease progression (according to mRECIST) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 4 years.|Progression free survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1., The time from date of randomization until the first occurrence of disease progression (according to RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 4 years.|Success rate of conversion to resection, The proportion of patients with initially unresectable large HCC who were evaluated by the surgical team as suitable for surgical resection after dTACE-HAIC or HAIC treatment., 4 years.|Adverse Events (AEs), Number of patients with AEs assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0., 4 years.
This is a multicenter, prospective and randomized study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of DEB-TACE (with CalliSpheres) plus HAIC compared with HAIC alone for unresectable large HCC (\>7cm).

230 patients with initially unresectable large HCC (\> 7cm) will be enrolled in this study. The patients will receive either DEB-TACE plus HAIC (dTACE-HAIC) or HAIC as the primary treatment using an 1:1 randomization scheme. In the dTACE-HAIC arm, the microcatheter will be reserved at the proper/left/right hepatic artery and chemotherapy drugs (FOLFOX-based regimen) will be intra-arterially administered though the microcatheter. The treatment can be repeated on demand (at a 4-6-week interval usually) based on the evaluation of follow-up laboratory and imaging examination by the multidisciplinary team. In the HAIC arm, treatment will repeated once every 3 weeks for up to six cycles. During follow-up, the potential resectability of the tumor will be assessed by the multidisciplinary team (MDT). Once the tumors become resectable, curative surgical resection will be recommended for the patients.

The primary end point of this study is overall survival (OS). The secondary endpoints are tumor response (objective response rate and disease control rate), success rate of conversion to resection, progression-free survival (PFS), and adverse events (AEs).