Alisertib in Treating Patients With Myelofibrosis or Relapsed or Refractory Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of alisertib and its effect, bad and/or good, on acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) or myelofibrosis (MF). The study drug, alisertib, is an investigational drug. An investigational drug is one that has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Alisertib has shown evidence in the lab that it may have an effect on a type of cell that produces platelets. This cell is called a megakaryocyte and it is known to be defective (doesn't work well) in both AMKL and MF.
Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia|Myelofibrosis|Primary Myelofibrosis
DRUG: Alisertib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Safety Profile of Alisertib Per NCI's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., Adverse events will be defined as those included in CTCAE v 4.0. The AEs that were determined to be at least possibly related to study drug and graded 3, 4, 5 are included here. Grade 1 (mild): the event causes discomfort without disruption of normal daily activities. Grade 2 (moderate): the event causes discomfort that affects normal daily activities. Grade 3 (severe): the event makes the patient unable to perform normal daily activities or significantly affects his/her clinical status. Grade 4 (Life-threatening): the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event. Grade 5 (fatal): the event caused death. All patients who received at least 1 dose of alisertib were considered evaluable for this endpoint., From time of treatment to 6 months post discontinuation (range of cycles attempted 1 to 29, median 7.5 cycles, 1 Cycle = 21 days)
Response to Treatment, Serial blood and/or bone marrow samples will be collected at specific timepoints for each disease to determine response to alisertib treatment., Baseline to up to 6 months after the last dose of treatment
Changes in Biomarker Expression Levels, To evaluate the relationship between biomarker expression levels and response. Biomarkers will include a) genes encoding key enzymes in Aurora kinase signaling, b) markers of cellular aneuploidy and apoptosis, and c) markers of megakaryocytic differentiation., Baseline to up to 6 months after the last dose of treatment|Changes in MF Symptoms Assessed by the MPN-SAF (Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form) Score (MF Patients), To evaluate improvement in MF symptoms in the MF arm, changes in symptom scores over time will be calculated., Once per cycle (1 cycle=21 days)|Changes in Pharmacodynamic Effects of Alisertib, Serial blood and/or bone marrow samples will be collected at specific timepoints. Flow cytometry, colony forming assays, AURKA autophosphorylation assays, and in vitro cultures of patient specimens to assess the effect of MLN8237 on megakaryocytes and other hematopoietic cells will be measured., Baseline to up to 6 months after the last dose of treatment|Changes in Splenomegaly by Palpation (MF Patients), To evaluate reduction in splenomegaly by palpation in the MF arm. Patients will be examined for splenomegaly by palpation once per cycle and change from baseline will be calculated over time., Baseline to up to 6 months after the last dose of treatment|Change in Bone Marrow Fibrosis (MF Patients), Assess change in bone marrow fibrosis in patients in the MF arm. Bone marrow will be assessed at screening and after cycle 6 in this population., Screening and up to 54 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety profile of alisertib in patients with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) and in patients with myelofibrosis (MF).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine preliminary efficacy of alisertib in both populations.

TERCIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe pharmacodynamics (PD) effects of alisertib in peripheral blood and/or bone marrow samples.

II. Evaluate the relationship between biomarker expression levels and response to alisertib.

III. Evaluate reduction in splenomegaly by palpation (MF arm only). IV. Evaluate improvement in MF symptoms (MF arm only), as assessed by the Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment form (MPN-SAF).

V. Assess change in bone marrow fibrosis in patients in the MF arm.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at approximately 30 days and 6 months.