Cyclophosphamide, Paclitaxel, and Trastuzumab in Treating Stage I-II HER2/Neu Positive Breast Cancer After Surgery
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well cyclophosphamide, paclitaxel, and trastuzumab work when given after surgery in treating patients with stage I-II human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2/neu) positive breast cancer (confined to the breast or the breast and lymph nodes under the arm). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving cyclophosphamide, paclitaxel, and trastuzumab after surgery may help prevent the cancer from coming back.
HER2 Positive Breast Carcinoma|Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab
Incidence of neutropenia, graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03, The incidence rates of neutropenia and adverse events will be summarized using frequencies, percentages and 90% confidence intervals. Adverse events will be described by cycle. The frequency of toxicity, categorized by toxicity grades, will be summarized., Up to 3 months after final chemotherapy treatment (including trastuzumab)|Incidence of paclitaxel-related neuropathy, graded according to the NCI CTCAE v4.03, The incidence rates of paclitaxel-related neuropathy and adverse events will be summarized using frequencies, percentages and 90% confidence intervals. Adverse events will be described by cycle. The frequency of toxicity, categorized by toxicity grades, will be summarized., Up to 3 months after final chemotherapy treatment (including trastuzumab)|Incidence of grade 3/4 cardiotoxicity, graded according to the NCI CTCAE v4.03, The incidence rates of grade 3/4 cardiotoxicity and adverse events will be summarized using frequencies, percentages and 90% confidence intervals. Adverse events will be described by cycle. The frequency of toxicity, categorized by toxicity grades, will be summarized., Up to 3 months after final chemotherapy treatment (including trastuzumab)|Incidence of grade 3/4 nausea/vomiting, graded according to the NCI CTCAE v4.03, The incidence rates of grade 3/4 nausea/vomiting and adverse events will be summarized using frequencies, percentages and 90% confidence intervals. Adverse events will be described by cycle. The frequency of toxicity, categorized by toxicity grades, will be summarized., Up to 3 months after final chemotherapy treatment (including trastuzumab)|Recurrence free survival (RFS), RFS and survival curves will be plotted following the method of Kaplan and Meier using the full analysis set., First date of therapy until the first notation of clinical progression, relapse or death from any cause, assessed at 2 years|Incidence of inability to complete treatment, defined as a patient that requires a lower dose of therapy (defined as dose lowered by 50%), or a postponement of scheduled treatment of longer than 28 days, or discontinuation of treatment for any reason, Inability to complete treatment will be described using frequencies and proportions and 90% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicities and ability to complete the planned treatment of a dose-dense regimen of cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel with trastuzumab in subjects with newly diagnosed stage I-II HER2/neu positive breast cancer.

II. To estimate recurrence free survival of a dose-dense regimen of cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel with trastuzumab in subjects with newly diagnosed stage I-II HER2/neu positive breast cancer.

OUTLINE:

SYSTEMIC THERAPY: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 1 hour, paclitaxel IV over 3 hours, and trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE TRASTUZUMAB THERAPY: Beginning in course 6, patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 52 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients may undergo radiation therapy at the discretion of the radiation oncologist and medical oncologist and patients with estrogen/progesterone receptor positive tumors receive hormonal therapy as determined by the medical oncologist per standard National Comprehensive Care Network (NCCN) guidelines.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.