Multitracer [18F]Fluciclovine and 18F-FDG PET, and Advanced MRI for Metabolic Profiling of Glioblastoma
* To perform metabolic phenotyping of treatment naïve and recurrent GBM by multitracer \[18F\]Fluciclovine and 18F-FDG PET.
* To compare uptake measures of 18F-Fluciclovine and 18F-FDG and MRI quantification of glutamate and lactate levels to tumor tissue laboratory assays (RNA seq and proteomics) of glutamine/glutamate, glucose, and lactate metabolism.
* To perform metabolic phenotyping of treatment naïve and recurrent GBM by advanced MRI methods at 7 Tesla
Glioblastoma|Recurrent Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme of Brain
DRUG: Fluciclovine F18
Uptake Values (SUV), Quantification of \[18F\]Fluciclovine and 18F-FDG uptake values (SUV) in treatment naïve and recurrent GBM., 2 years
PET uptake values relation to kinetic parameters, Correlation of PET uptake values (SUV) and kinetic parameters (volume of distribution) with gene expression of glutamine and glucose metabolism., 2 years|Quantification of glutamate and lactate levels, The amount of metabolic markers (e.g., glutamate, 5 to 15 mM in normal brain tissue) using 7T MRI. Tumors with high glutamate secretion are associated with increased tumor cell invasiveness., 2 years
Subjects with a new intra-axial brain mass that is consistent with glioblastoma (GBM) on brain MRI or post-treatment histologically or molecularly proven GBM who are suspected to have progression and are candidates for surgical resection according to standard of care may be eligible for this study.

Subjects will undergo approximately 45 minutes of dynamic PET/CT scanning after injection of 2 mCi (±20%) of 18F-Fluciclovine. The subject will have a 60-minute break after this initial scan session, they will be allowed to get off the scanner during this time and encouraged to stay hydrated and void as necessary. Subsequently, the subjects will undergo injection of up to 10 mCi of 18F-FDG followed by a static 20-minute scan approximately 60 minutes post injection. Subjects will have the option to undergo PET/CT imaging with 18F-Fluciclovine and 18F-FDG on separate days as long as the imaging happens within 7 business days. An optional 60-minute brain MRI without contrast will also be performed with the 7.0 Tesla MRI machine. The timing of the optional second PET scans will be within 7 business days of the baseline PET scans.

Positron emission tomography (PET/CT) imaging will be used to evaluate 18F-fluciclovine and 18F-FDG uptake in treatment naïve and recurrent GBM. Brain MR with Chemical Exchange Saturation Transfer (CEST) and MR spectroscopy (MRS) will be used to determine the glutamate and lactate levels. In addition, clinical brain MRI with and without contrast will be used to evaluate the tumor pre-operatively. This is a non-therapeutic trial in that imaging will not be used to direct treatment decisions.