The Effect of Self-Acupressure Application on Pain, Fatigue and Sleep Quality in Cancer Patients Receiving Chemotherapy
The aim of this study is to examine the effect of Self-Acupressure application on pain, fatigue and sleep quality in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.
Cancer
OTHER: Self-Acupressure
Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line.

In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. GAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm, 1. week|Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line.

In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. GAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm, 4. week|The Piper Fatigue Scale, The Piper Fatigue Scale is a 22-item, self-reported scale. A total score of fatigue was recorded., 1. week|The Piper Fatigue Scale, The Piper Fatigue Scale is a 22-item, self-reported scale. A total score of fatigue was recorded., 4. week|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a valid and consistent survey comprising of 19 questions to assess quality and amount of sleep and the existence of a sleep disorder and its level in the previous month. The scale was adapted into the Turkish language by Agargün et al. (1996). The scale consists of seven components that assess patients subjective sleep quality, sleep delay, use of sleeping medication and disfunction in daily activities. Each item scores in the range 0-3 points and the total score of the seven components gives the total PSQI score. The total score has a value between 0-21 and a high total score demonstrates a poor quality of sleep. A total PSQI score which is ≤5 indicates "good sleep", and a score which is \>5 indicates "poor sleep", 1. week|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a valid and consistent survey comprising of 19 questions to assess quality and amount of sleep and the existence of a sleep disorder and its level in the previous month. The scale was adapted into the Turkish language by Agargün et al. (1996). The scale consists of seven components that assess patients subjective sleep quality, sleep delay, use of sleeping medication and disfunction in daily activities. Each item scores in the range 0-3 points and the total score of the seven components gives the total PSQI score. The total score has a value between 0-21 and a high total score demonstrates a poor quality of sleep. A total PSQI score which is ≤5 indicates "good sleep", and a score which is \>5 indicates "poor sleep", 4. week
Self-Acupressur application will improve pain, fatigue and sleep quality in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.