Taxotere/Prednisone Plus Sunitinib in Chemotherapy-Naïve, Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer Patients
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel and prednisone, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Sunitinib malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving docetaxel and prednisone together with sunitinib malate may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This pilot phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best way to give docetaxel and prednisone together with sunitinib malate and to see how well it works in treating patients with prostate cancer that progressed after hormone therapy.
Prostate Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage I Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: sunitinib malate|DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: prednisone
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Response Rate, Defined by \>= 30% decline in PSA from baseline for at least 3 months during study entry. Response rates will be expressed with two-sided exact binomial confidence intervals. Significance of changes between pre- and after-treatment PSA or testosterone will be determined by the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Associations between PSA response and tumor response will also be examined by Fisher's exact test., Baseline, every 3 weeks, at study termination, and then for 3 years
Rates of Tumor Response (ORR), Response rates will be expressed with two-sided exact binomial confidence intervals. The difference of response rates between different pre-treatment pathological stages or Gleason scores will also be examined by Fisher's exact test. Associations between PSA response and tumor response will also be examined by Fisher's exact test., Every 2 months|Duration of Response (DR), Response rates will be expressed with two-sided exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 3 years|Time to Progression (TTP) by PSA Response and Disease Response, Defined as an absolute increase in PSA of at least 2 ng/ml. For subjects with measurable disease, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria will be used. Significance of changes between pre- and after-treatment PSA or testosterone will be determined by the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Associations between PSA response and tumor response will also be examined by Fisher's exact test., Baseline, every 3 weeks, at study termination, and then for 3 years|Survival, Quantitative Kaplan-Meyer estimates of progression-free survival and overall survival will be determined., At 2 and 3 years|Qualitative and Quantitative Toxicity, Severity will be categorized by toxicity grade according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v3.0 (CTCAE). Categorical analysis of toxicities will be performed., Every 3 weeks and at study termination
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response by prostate specific antigen (PSA) of docetaxel/prednisone plus sunitinib (sunitinib malate) in chemotherapy-naive, hormone refractory prostate cancer subjects with biochemical relapse.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) and duration of response (DR) in subjects with measurable disease.

II. To determine overall survival (OS) and time to progression (TTP). III. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of sunitinib in combination with docetaxel and prednisone.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1, prednisone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, and sunitinib malate PO once daily (QD) on days 2-15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients then receive sunitinib malate PO QD on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 3 years.