CPI-613 in Combination With Modified FOLFIRINOX in Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to treat participants with the combination of CPI-613 (the study drug) with FOLFIRINOX (the standard combination of drugs) to determine if it is safe and effective for participants with localized and unresectable pancreatic cancer. This study is specifically for participants who have a pancreatic cancer that is localized and not considered resectable or removable by a surgeon, without additional treatment.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: CPI 613|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: 5-flurouracil|DRUG: Folinic acid
Overall Survival, Interval between enrollment and death for participants for all participants.

Median OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method along with a two-sided 80% confidence interval (CI). OS will be documented and reported separately per cohort, Two years after completion of treatment|MTD of CPI-613 when given in combination with mFOLFIRINOX, MTD of CPI-613 when given in combination with mFOLFIRINOX in the added small cohort of participants with higher doses of CPI-613 developed to redefine MTD, Up to 4 weeks from start of treatment
Median Progression free survival (PFS), Median (and 95% CI) time from study enrollment to progression or death from any cause for all participants.

Distribution of PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Participants alive at the end of follow-up are censored. PFS will be documented and reported separately per cohort, Two years after completion of treatment|Median Time to progression (TTP), Median (and 95% CI) time from enrollment to progression

Distribution of TTP will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who die but have not progressed are censored., Two years after completion of treatment|Response rates per RECIST version 1.1, RECIST version 1.1 response rates including complete response, partial response and stable disease (CR+PR+SD)., Two years after completion of treatment|Complete pathologic response rates (CRp), CRp defined as the proportion of participants that are designated having a complete response after treatment on protocol, evidenced by tissue samples taken during the subsequent resection

CRp is defined by the NCI as "the lack of all signs of cancer in tissue samples removed during surgery or biopsy after treatment with radiation or chemotherapy"., Two years after completion of treatment|Resection margins, Resection margins are defined by the NCI as "The edge or border of the tissue removed in cancer surgery. The margin is described as negative or clean when the pathologist finds no cancer cells at the edge of the tissue, suggesting that all of the cancer has been removed. The margin is described as positive or involved when the pathologist finds cancer cells at the edge of the tissue, suggesting that all of the cancer has not been removed."

The rate of negative resection margins will be estimates with 95 % confidence intervals, Two years after completion of treatment|Surgical resection rates, Percent of participants previously determined to be borderline- or non-resectable that undergo complete surgical resection after treatment on protocol., Up to 4 weeks from end of treatment
This is a single-arm study of participants with locally advanced pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma evaluating combination CPI-613 with modified FOLFIRINOX, with the addition of a dose escalation cohort to assess safety. All study participants will get the same study intervention, which includes the best available treatment for locally advanced pancreatic cancer, plus an experimental therapy. The standard therapy is called mFOLFIRINOX, which is a combination of three chemotherapy drugs (Oxaliplatin, Irniotecan and 5-flurouracil) and one additional vitamin derivative (Folinic acid). The experimental drug is CPI-613, which inhibits energy production in cells, and early studies suggest that pancreatic cancer cells may be especially sensitive. Pre-treatment, diagnostic biopsy tissue will be collected when available, and clinical data will be evaluated to determine if the combination results in improved overall survival compared to historical experience. Based on new data, the study team will also attempt to identify a new maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CPI-613 in a phase 1 open-label dose-regimen finding study.

The objectives of the Standard Dose Cohort are to determine the safety and efficacy of CPI-613, in combination with mFOLFIRINOX for locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

The objectives of the Dose Escalation Cohort is to determine a new maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of CPI-613 when given in combination with mFOLFIRINOX.