PET Scans in Patients With Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Receiving Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone
RATIONALE: Studying PET scans given to patients with cancer who are undergoing treatment may help doctors predict how patients will respond to treatment.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying PET scans in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who are receiving rituximab together with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography
Event-free survival, at 2 years
Event-free survival, at 5 years|Overall survival during follow-up, at 2 and 5 years|Objective response, at 2 years|Positron emission tomography (PET) results, at 2 years|Histological results of remaining PET-positive lesion(s) after treatment, at 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To evaluate if an early positive positron emission tomography (PET) scan after 2 courses of rituximab with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, and prednisone can be used to identify a group of patients having a poor prognosis.

Secondary

* To compare modified PET/CT scan response criteria with revised standard response criteria.
* To evaluate, in a prospective manner, whether a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) expression is a prognostic factor in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive rituximab IV, cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and vincristine IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Rituximab IV alone is continued for an additional 2 courses after completion of the initial 6 courses.

Patients undergo positron emission tomography (PET) scan prior to and after completion of study therapy. Patients also undergo PET scan after course 2, and those with a positive PET result undergo an additional PET scan after course 4.

Previously collected tumor samples are analyzed for a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) expression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.