Yangzheng Compound Mixture in the Treatment of Sleep Disorder in Cancer Patients
This is a nationwide, multicenter, randomized, prospective, real-world study. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect and safety of Yangzheng Compound Mixture in the treatment of sleep disorder in cancer patients with Qi-Yin deficiency syndrome during chemotherapy.
Carcinoma|Sleep Disorder
DRUG: Yangzheng Compound Mixture|OTHER: Conventional Treatment
Best effective rate for sleep disorder treatment, Proportion of participants with a minimum PSQI score \< 8 during the treatment period., Measurement was taken at week 6.|Effective rate for sleep disorder treatment, Proportion of participants with PSQI score \< 8 after the end of the different treatment courses., Measurement was taken at week 6.|Improvement rate for sleep disorder treatment, Proportion of participates whose PSQI score decreased during treatment compared with the baseline., Measurement was taken at week 6.|Change of PSQI score compared with baseline, The PSQI score difference between the end of different treatment courses and baseline., Baseline and week 6.|Score of Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Sleep duration, Sleep efficiency, Subjective sleep quality, Sleep latency., 1. The outcomes were evaluated using the PSQI scale.
2. Sleep duration: response to question 4;
3. Sleep efficiency= (hours slept/ hours in bed) \* 100%; Hours slept: response to question 4; Hours in bed: calculated from responses to questions 1 and 3;
4. Subjective sleep quality: response to question 9;
5. Sleep latency: response to question 2., Measurement was taken at week 6.|Incidence and severity of AE or SAE, AE: Any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment.

SAE: A serious adverse event (experience) or reaction is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect., Start of treatment until 30 days after the last day of the sleep disorder treatment|Incidence and severity of ADR or SADR, All noxious and unintended responses to a medicinal product related to any dose should be considered adverse drug reactions. A SADR is a serious ADR according to the above criteria of SAE., Start of treatment until 30 days after the last day of the sleep disorder treatment
Use frequency of hypnotic agents, Response to question 6 of the PSQI scale., Up to 18 weeks since the start of treatment|Appetite, Appetite was evaluated by using the Cancer Appetite and Symptom Questionnaire(CASQ)., Up to 18 weeks since the start of treatment|Fatigue, Fatigue was evaluated by using the Brief Fatigue Inventory(BFI)., Up to 18 weeks since the start of treatment|Quality of life (QOL), Quality of Life (QOL) was measured by using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30)., Up to 18 weeks since the start of treatment|Traditional Chinese Medical symptoms scale, Traditional Chinese Medical (TCM) symptoms were measured from these six aspects: weakness, shortness of breath, palpitations, deficiency-heat and vexation, dry mouth, sweat. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum value is 18. Higher scores of TCM scale means a worse outcome., Up to 18 weeks since the start of treatment
Proportion of leukocyte-increasing drugs used, Proportion of participates used leukocyte-increasing medication during the treatment period, Up to 18 weeks since the start of treatment
Sleep disturbance is one of the most common symptoms in cancer patients, the morbidity is about 60%. Drugs commonly used to treat sleep disorders include benzodiazepines, hypnotic antidepressants and melatonin receptors agonists. The short-term efficacy of these drugs has been proven in many clinical trials, but long-term medications bear the risk of adverse reactions and addiction.

Yangzheng Compound Mixture is an extract of several traditional Chinese medicines, used as a basic prescription for cancer therapy, especially for patients who received chemotherapy with Qi-Yin deficiency syndrome, which often lead to sleep disturbance, fatigue and anorexia. According to some clinical and basic studies, Yangzheng Compound Mixture also has antitumor and immunomodulatory effects.

In this study, about 10 research centers will participate. We planned to enroll 1526 cancer patients (1144 cases in the observation group and 382 cases in the control group) with Qi-Yin deficiency Syndrome and sleep disorders during the period of receiving chemotherapy or combination of chemotherapy. The dynamic random method was adopted in this study, participants will be randomly divided into the experimental group (Yangzheng Compound Mixture plus conventional treatment) and control group (conventional treatment only), all of them will be interviewed once every 3 weeks until the end of the study.