Autologous CARTmeso/19 Against Pancreatic Cancer
Pancreatic cancer patients receive chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells against mesothelin (CARTmeso) or CD19 (CART19) cells administered at 3 days via pancreatic artery infusion or i.v. after preconditioning of cyclophosphamide. Both CART cells are autologous. CARTmeso cells target pancreatic cells which highly express mesothelin, while CART19 cells target tumor-associated B cells expressing cluster of differentiation antigen 19 (CD19) which are mostly immunosuppressive. The investigators hypothesize that this combination therapy may enhance the efficacy of CARTmeso cells in the body. Additionally, a medium dose of cyclophosphamide is used to enhance the engraftment of CART cells.
Pancreatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: CARTmeso CART19
The Percentage of Adverse Events (AEs) ≥ grade 3 assessed through MedDra and CTCAE v4.03 [Time frame: from infusion to 3 month afterward], Primary outcome is the percentage of adverse events (AEs) ≥ grade 3. AEs are assessed through MedDra and CTCAE v4.03. Any patients who receive any dose of CART cells will be evaluated, From first infusion to 3 months afterward
Overall Response Rate defined as any improvement measured by imaging following RECIST 1.1 [Time Frame: Day 14 and 1 month after infusion], Secondary outcome is overall response rate. A response is defined as any improvement measured by imaging following RECIST 1.1. Only patients who receive infusions per protocol will be evaluated., Day 14 and 1 month after infusion, or until patient withdraw consent or receive new therapy
This is a single arm, open-label, pilot study to determine the safety and feasibility of combination CARTmeso cells and CART19 cells in patients with pancreatic cancer following lymphodepletion with cyclophosphamide. Both cells contain CAR proteins consisting of a murine-derived single chain antibody fragment (scFv), cluster of differentiation antigen 137 (41BB) co-stimulatory domain and cluster of differentiation antigen 3 zeta chain (CD3ζ) signaling domain transduced by lentivirus