Phase 1 Study of Locoregional Injections of Ex Vivo Expanded Natural Killer Cells
Each patient will receive up to 12 cycles of TGFβi NK cell infusions. Each cycle will be of 4 weeks duration. During the first 3 weeks, TGFβi NK cells will be infused once weekly. The 4th week will be a rest week. TGFβi NK cell infusions should be delivered at least 3 days apart (e.g., Friday of Week 1 and Monday of Week 2). Dose will be escalated in an inter-patient stepwise fashion consisting of 3 dose levels.
High Grade Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: NK cells
Maximum tolerated dose or Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the RP2D of UD TGFβi NK cells that have been propagated ex vivo with genetically modified feeder cells and administered using an Ommaya reservoir (into tumor cavity) or a programable ventriculoperitoneal shunt (intraventricular)., 36 months|Maximum tolerated dose, To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of autologous natural killer cells that have been propagated ex vivo with genetically-modified feeder cells and administered intra-tumoral via Ommaya reservoir in patients with recurrent high-grade glioma. MTD will be the maximum dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity during cycle 1 of therapy, 36 months
Define tumor activity in children, To preliminarily define the antitumor activity in children with recurrent, refractory, or progressive primary malignant CNS tumors with the exception of diffuse midline gliomas and or diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma as measured by objective response rate (ORR) of UD TGFβi NK cells within the confines of a Phase I study., 6 months
NK cell antitumor activity, To assess the antitumor activity based on imaging and cytology of autologous NK cell administration directly into the tumor or the resection cavity., 36 months|Assessment of the immuno-phenotype of expanded NK cells for high-grade glioma patients, To determine the persistence, immuno-phenotype and function of adoptively transferred expanded TGFβi NK cells and correlate the findings with the overall response., 36 months|Assessment of health-related quality-of-life of patients using patient reported outcomes measurement information system (PROMIS), To assess health-related quality-of-life of patients by parent report, and when possible patient report using PROMIS., 36 months|Assessment of the immune signature based profile, To determine the gene expression-based immune profile of each patient's tumor (e.g., RNA-seq or NanoString)., 36 months|Changes of the T-cell Receptor (TCR) Repertoires in Tumor Tissue before and after NK Cell Treatment, The aim is to compare the mRNA expression of specific immune genes before and after NK cell treatment. By analyzing RNA from tumor tissue, we will identify and quantify immune cells in each patient's tumor. These profiles will be linked to treatment outcomes, helping understand response or non-response. For patients whose disease progresses, the goal is to study changes in their immune cells through RNA analysis., 36 months
A cycle is 28 days (4 weeks) consisting of weekly infusions of UD TGFβi NK cells via Ommaya or a programable ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt for three weeks followed by one week of rest. The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) period is the first 28 days (4 weeks). A DLT is defined as any event that is at least possibly attributable to the TGFβi NK cell product and that occurs from the time of initial NK cell infusion through the end of the first cycle (28 days). Patients with stable or improved disease will receive up to 12 cycles of TGFβi NK cell infusions.