Her2-BATS and Pembrolizumab in Metastatic Breast Cancer
This proposal uses HER2Bi armed activated T-cells (HER2 BATs) to target breast cancer in combination with pembrolizumab (PBZ) in women with metastatic breast cancer (MBC). Phase I will determine a safe dose of the combination of PBZ and HER2 BATs in 3 to 18 patients. In the phase II portion, an additional 12 patients will be treated at the selected dose to further evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy.

Study treatment includes a combination of 8 infusions of BATs using a previously established schedule and one to three infusions of PBZ (200 mg per dose). PBZ will be added to 8 infusions of BATs in 3 schedules: #1) after the 8th BATs infusion; #2) after the 4th and 8th BATs infusions; and then, #3) before the 1st and after the 4th and 8th BATs infusions.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: HER2 BATs with Pembrolizumab
Dose Limiting Toxicities on each schedule/arm, Maximum tolerated dose will be based on number of dose limiting toxicities in each schedule/arm, The study will not advance to the next schedule until 3 weeks after the last patient in the cohort completes her last dose of Pembrolizumab.
Dose Limiting Toxicities on the selected arm in the expansion cohort, Dose Limiting toxicities on the arm selected based on the dose/schedule selection part of the study. More patients will be enrolled onto this cohort to confirm safety., All dose limiting toxicities are expected to be identified within the three weeks following the last dose of Pembrolizumab|Immune response to treatment in blood, Sequential monitoring of phenotype, IFN-γ EliSpots, anti-breast cancer cytotoxicity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) directed at breast cancer cell lines, Th1/Th2 serum cytokine patterns, and anti-breast cancer antibodies in the serum during the "vaccinate and consolidate" process, Blood will be collected about 5 weeks before any treatment, just before first HER2 BATs infusion, before HER2 BATs #5, before HER2 BATs #8, and 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months after last Pembrolizumab|Disease control rate, The percentage of subjects who achieve complete response, partial response and stable disease following treatment., Imaging will be done prior to study treatment, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after completion of study treatment. Imaging will then be performed according to standard of care.|Objective response rate, The percentage of subjects with a response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per immune related response criteria (irRC), Imaging will be done prior to study treatment, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after completion of study treatment. Imaging will then be performed according to standard of care.|Duration of response, The time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression., Imaging will be done prior to study treatment, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months after completion of study treatment. Imaging will then be performed according to standard of care.|Survival, Progression-free and Overall Survival in a dose-expansion cohort of an additional 12 subjects, Every 3 months following last study visit until death or for 10 years
Once subjects are determined eligible, white blood cells (lymphocytes) are collected via leukapheresis procedure. Depending on arm/schedule, about 4-5 weeks later, study treatment will begin. For HER2 BATs, the white blood cells, specifically T cells, are then mixed with two proteins - OKT3 and IL-2 -- which activates the cells to multiply. After approximately 14 days in culture, the activated T cells are coated with OKT3 and trastuzumab/Herceptin (HER2Bi), and washed to remove excess Herceptin in order to produce bispecific antibody armed T cells (BATs). Cells are then frozen and stored until scheduled to be infused.

Follow-up appointment schedule will include clinic visits 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months after the last dose of Pembrolizumab.