Disitamab Vedotin, Fruquintinib and Tislelizumab in Second-line Treatment for HER2-positive MGC
At present, there is no anti-HER2 therapy recommended by guidelines for second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer with HER2-positive or HER2-overexpression, and combined with anti-angiogenic drugs are mainly used. Disitamab Vedotin is an anti-HER2 ADC, and its cytotoxic drugs are also anti-microtubule formation as the main mechanism of drugs. Fruquintinib is an anti-vascular TKI drug. In addition, according to the results of KEYNOTE-811, patients with HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer benefit significantly from immunotherapy, so the investigators hope to explore the possibility of immunotherapy in second-line treatment of HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer. Therefore, the study plans to enroll HER2-positive patients who have failed first-line therapy and explore the efficacy of the regimen of Disitamab Vedotin combined with fruquintinib combined with Tislezumab in second-line therapy.
HER2-positive Gastric Cancer|Immunotherapy
DRUG: Disitamab Vedotin combined with fruquintinib and Tislelizumab
objective response rate, the proportion of patients whose tumor dcrease to a certain size and remained for a certain period of time, including those with complete response(CR) and partial response (PR)., 8 weeks, up to 1 year.
At present, there is no anti-HER2 therapy recommended by guidelines for second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer with HER2-positive or HER2-overexpression, and combined with anti-angiogenic drugs are mainly used. Disitamab Vedotin is an anti-HER2 ADC, and its cytotoxic drugs are also anti-microtubule formation as the main mechanism of drugs. Fruquintinib is an anti-vascular TKI drug. In addition, according to the results of KEYNOTE-811, patients with HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer benefit significantly from immunotherapy, so the investigators hope to explore the possibility of immunotherapy in second-line treatment of HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer. Therefore, the study plans to enroll HER2-positive patients who have failed first-line therapy and explore the efficacy of the regimen of Disitamab Vedotin combined with fruquintinib combined with Tislezumab in second-line therapy.