Retinoblastoma Phase II Expanded Access Clinical Trial
In this research study investigators want to learn more about treatment of advanced or recurrent retinoblastoma. For children with retinoblastoma that have an advanced stage of presentation in one eye or if they have failed all conventional treatment, eye removal is considered. This study will investigate the utility of a chemoplaque(s) to salvage eyes involved with retinoblastoma. The goal of the study is to further determine/assess the safety and efficacy and optimal chemotherapy dose for retinoblastoma.
Retinoblastoma
DRUG: Chemoplaque also referred to as Episcleral Topotecan
To determine the safety and tolerability of Episcleral Topotecan in participants with retinoblastoma by measuring the rate and severity of treatment related adverse events in study participants as assessed by CTCAE version 5.0 criteria., 12 weeks and follow up
To determine the safety and tolerability of Episcleral Topotecan in participants with retinoblastoma by measuring the rate and severity of treatment related ocular adverse events in study participants as assessed by CTCAE version 5.0 criteria., 12 weeks and follow up|To determine the safety and tolerability of Episcleral Topotecan in participants with retinoblastoma by measuring the rate and severity of treatment related systemic adverse events in study participants as assessed by CTCAE version 5.0 criteria., 12 weeks|To describe the anti-tumor efficacy of Episcleral Topotecan, Tumor response will be assessed via image analysis with following criteria: Complete Response (CR): Decrease in tumor activity 100% from baseline. Very good partial response (VGPR): Decrease in tumor activity greater than or equal to 80% and less than 100% from baseline. Partial response (PR): Decrease in tumor activity greater than or equal to 20% and less than 80% from baseline. Stable disease (SD): Less than 20% decrease in tumor activity from baseline. Progressive disease (PD): Increase in tumor activity greater than or equal to 20% from baseline or development of new tumours requiring more than minimal focal therapy., 12 weeks and follow up
The chemoplaque will be placed during the first exam under anesthesia (EUA) and this involves a surgery wherein the reservoir that will release the chemotherapy medication will be placed under the conjunctiva (surface lining of the eye) and will be applied with tissue adhesive to the sclera (coating of the eye). The chemoplaque will remain on the eye until day 56 when the chemoplaque will be removed. Eye exam under anesthesia (EUAs) will be performed on Day 0, Day 28, Day 56 (prior to chemoplaque removal), and Day 84 (final visit). Blood will be drawn periodically for testing the blood parameters (CBC) and to evaluate toxicity of the medication. Study subjects will be followed until Day 84 when protocol therapy will be completed.