Phase II Study to Evaluate Fenofibrate Therapy in Patients With Smoldering or Symptomatic Multiple Myeloma
Multiple myeloma cells are dependent on calcium (Ca2+) for their function. Specifically, Ca2+ is required for the function of the endoplasmic reticulum in which proteins, including immunoglobulins, are folded prior to their release from the cell. Multiple myeloma cells secrete large concentrations of immunoglobulins continuously and as result depend on mitochondria activity to replenish the Ca2+ levels in the endoplasmic reticulum as was shown in vitro in our lab. Fenofibrate has been shown to inhibit mitochondrial function resulting in inhibition of protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum of multiple myeloma (MM) cells that leads to the induction of a stress signal known as the unfolded protein response and subsequently apoptosis. The effective anti-myeloma concentrations for fenofibrate are attainable in the clinical setting as they are in the same range as the effective concentrations for anti-hyperlipidemic effect. The investigators propose to evaluate fenofibrate therapy in multiple myeloma patients.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Fenofibrate
Rate of Response in Participants Receiving Fenofibrate Therapy, To determine response rate (Strict Complete Response (sCR), Complete response (CR), Very Good Partial Response (VgPR), and Partial Response (PR)) in multiple myeloma patients receiving oral fenofibrate therapy. Response will be measured by serum and urine protein electrophoresis and immunofixation, as well as by percentage of plasma cells present on bone marrow biopsy., After two cycles, about 2 months
Number of Subjects Experiencing Adverse Events, To evaluate safety and tolerability of fenofibrate therapy in patients with multiple myeloma., Up to 8 months|Proportion of Participants Achieving Progression-Free Survival, Proportion of participants achieving progression-free survival. Measured from date of initiation of treatment (Day 1) to the earliest occurrence of any of the following events: documented disease progression, or death from any cause. Patients who are alive and progression-free will be censored at the date of last documented progression-free status., 6 months, 12 months
Multiple myeloma cells are dependent on calcium (Ca2+) for their function. Specifically, Ca2+ is required for the function of the endoplasmic reticulum in which proteins, including immunoglobulins, are folded prior to their release from the cell. Multiple myeloma cells secrete large concentrations of immunoglobulins continuously and as result depend on mitochondria activity to replenish the Ca2+ levels in the endoplasmic reticulum as was shown in vitro in our lab. Fenofibrate has been shown to inhibit mitochondrial function resulting in inhibition of protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum of multiple myeloma (MM) cells that leads to the induction of a stress signal known as the unfolded protein response and subsequently apoptosis. The effective anti-myeloma concentrations for fenofibrate are attainable in the clinical setting as they are in the same range as the effective concentrations for anti-hyperlipidemic effect. The investigators propose to evaluate fenofibrate therapy in multiple myeloma patients.