Irinotecan/Cisplatin Plus Simvastatin in Extensive Disease-Small Cell Lung Cancer (ED-SCLC)
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors, commonly referred to as the statins, have proven therapeutic and preventative effects in cardiovascular diseases. Recently, there are emerging interests in their use as anticancer agents based on preclinical evidence of their antiproliferative, proapoptotic, anti-invasive, and radiosensitizing properties. Inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase by the statins interferes with the rate-limiting step of the mevalonate pathway, leading to reduced levels of mevalonate and its downstream products, many of which play important roles in critical cellular functions such as membrane integrity, cell signaling, protein synthesis, and cell cycle progression. Perturbations of these processes in neoplastic cells by the statins may therefore result in control of tumor initiation, growth, and metastasis. The statins have demonstrated growth inhibitory activity in cancer cell lines and preclinical tumor models in animals. Simvastatin, a member of the statin family, profoundly impaired basal and growth factor-stimulated SCLC cell growth in vitro and induced apoptosis. SCLC cells treated with simvastatin were sensitized to the effects of the chemotherapeutic agent etoposide. Moreover, SCLC tumour growth in vivo was inhibited by simvastatin. Therefore, the investigators will conduct this phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy \& toxicity of irinotecan/cisplatin plus simvastatin in patients with chemo-naïve ED-SCLC.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Simvastatin
1-year survival & overall survival, the first day of treatment to death or last survival confirm date
Tumor response rate, the ratio between the number of responders and number of patients assessable for tumor response|Time to progression, the first day of treatment to the date that disease progression is reported|Toxicity, the first date of treatment to 30 days after the last dose of study drug
Cisplatin-30 mg/m2 on day 1 and 8 repeat q 3 weeks Irinotecan-65 mg/m2 on day1 and 8 repeat q 3 weeks Simvastatin 40 mg per day orally from D1 of cycle 1

Treatment will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or patients' refusal.