Saracatinib in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well saracatinib works in treating patients with previously treated metastatic pancreatic cancer. Saracatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: saracatinib|OTHER: pharmacogenomic studies|OTHER: pharmacological study|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography|RADIATION: fludeoxyglucose F 18|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Six Month Survival, The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of surviving participants at 6 months divided by the total number of evaluable patients. A confidence interval for the 6-month survival rate was calculated using the exact binomial method., Up to 6 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The median survival time and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 2 years|Confirmed Tumor Responses (Complete Response [CR] or Partial Response [PR]), A confirmed tumor response is defined to be a CR or PR noted as\> the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart. Response will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1)\> \> Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions and each target lymph node must have a reduction in short axis to \<1.0 centimeters.\>

\> Partial response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of the non-nodal target lesions and the short axes of the target lymph nodes taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Evaluated using the first 6 courses of treatment|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented. Estimated by the method of Kaplan-Meier., From the date first objective status is noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented, assessed up to 2 years|Progression-Free Survival, Time from the date of registration to the date of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Estimated by the method of Kaplan-Meier., Progression and survival status assessed every month, up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 6-month survival of biomarker-positive patients with previously treated metastatic pancreatic cancer receiving AZD0530 (saracatinib).

II. To determine the adverse events of this drug in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate in patients treated with this drug. II. To evaluate the overall survival of patients treated with this drug. III. To explore the pharmacodynamic effects of AZD0530 with optional tumor biopsies, pharmacokinetic studies, and positron emission tomography (PET) scans in a subset of patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive saracatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.