Rucaparib Plus Ramucirumab With or Without Nivolumab in Advanced Gastric and Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
The study population is advanced gastric, gastroesophageal, and esophageal adenocarcinoma participants who have failed upfront standard of care chemotherapy. The goal is to demonstrate that Rucaparib plus Ramucirumab with or without Nivolumab has a higher response rate than what has been reported for Ramucirumab in previously treated patients. Trial will be a phase 1/2 trial. The Phase 1 portion will determine the recommended Phase 2 treatment dose for the combination of Rucaparib plus Ramucirumab and Nivolumab and enroll approximately 6-9 participants. The Phase 2 portion of the study will involve 52 participants allocated between two treatment groups comparing Rucaparib plus Ramucirumab with or without Nivolumab. The participants will be selected based on the results of a screening HRD gene panel.
Esophagus Cancer, Adenocarcinoma|Stomach Cancer, Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Rucaparib|DRUG: Ramucirumab|DRUG: Nivolumab
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), Defined as the highest dose studied for which the observed incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLT) is less than 33%. DLTs will be measured per the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 28 days|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of participants with overall response to therapy. Overall response is defined as the best response recorded, (including Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR)), from the start of the treatment until the end of treatment. ORR will be measured per the Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, up to 12 months
Number of participants with treatment related adverse events (TRAEs), Determining per CTCAE 5.0, Up to 12 months|Overall Benefit Rate (OBR), Defined as the proportion of participants with overall benefit to therapy. Overall benefit is defined as the best response recorded, (including complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), and Stable Disease (SD)), from the start of the treatment until the end of treatment. Determine overall benefit of therapy using modified RECIST version 1.1, Up to 12 months|Progression free survival (PFS), Reported as the proportion of participants that achieve PFS. PFS is defined as the time from the start of treatment until the first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Measured per modified RECIST version 1.1, Up to 12 months|Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time from the start of treatment until death due to any cause, reported as the mean of all participants' OS. Measured per the medical record., Up to 12 months
The study population is advanced gastric, gastroesophageal, and esophageal adenocarcinoma participants who have failed upfront standard of care chemotherapy. The goal is to demonstrate that Rucaparib plus Ramucirumab with or without Nivolumab has a higher response rate than what has been reported for Ramucirumab in previously treated patients. Trial will be a phase 1/2 trial. The Phase 1 portion will determine the recommended Phase 2 treatment dose for the combination of Rucaparib plus Ramucirumab and Nivolumab and enroll approximately 6-9 participants. The Phase 2 portion of the study will involve 52 participants allocated between two treatment groups comparing Rucaparib plus Ramucirumab with or without Nivolumab. The participants will be selected based on the results of a screening HRD gene panel.