Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy in Stage II/III Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
It is apparent that local control for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) remains a significant problem. Conventional radiation therapy techniques have limitations for the dose that can be delivered to a chest tumor mass due to the adjacent dose limiting organs. Mounting evidence supports the use of hypofractionated stereotactically delivered radiation therapy to control lung cancer with acceptable toxicity profiles.

Thus the investigators propose to increase the doses of radiation to residual masses of NSCL to a BED \> 100 Gy by the addition of two fractions of stereotactically delivered boost radiation therapy to residual disease post-conventional chemoradiation to at least 59.4 Gy in 180 cGy fractions. Using the linear quadratic equation to model doses of radiation therapy, 59.4 Gy would have a BED of approximately 70 Gy. Single fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) of 10 Gy would have a BED of approximately 20 Gy. Thus the addition of two fractions of 10Gy of SBRT to limited volumes of PET residual disease would theoretically result in higher degrees of local control of lung cancer masses, achieving a minimum cumulative BED of approximately 110Gy-equivalent.
Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Boost Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Boost Dose Toxicity, Pneumonitis will be used as a marker of lung toxicity as a result of the Boost treatment. Participants will follow up with their treating physician annually for five years after treatment with SBRT . Any incidence of pneumonitis will be documented. Data will be presented as the percent of subjects receiving SBRT that required treatment for pneumonitis., Up to 5 years
Primary Tumor Relapse Following SBRT, The response rates of the residual primary tumor following SBRT boost will be determined using a modified version of the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. Data will be presented as the percent of participants with recurrence of the primary tumor after extended follow up, up to 5 years., Up to 5 years
Lung cancer represents one of the most challenging malignancies to manage. Cure rates have only marginally improved in the last 20 years. It is the most commonly fatal cancer in both men and women with overall 5 year survivals of 15%. Lung cancer kills more Americans than the next three most common malignancies combined.

Most non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) presents at advanced stages. Only approximately 25% present with stage I/II disease, 40% with stage III and 35% patients present with stage IV. (1) The optimal treatment of stage II/III NSCLC is complex. For those patients who are surgical candidates and a complete resection is technically feasible, radical surgery remains the standard of care. Traditionally, those patients with multiple N2 nodal levels or T4 disease are considered inoperable. Given that the average age of patients diagnosed with NSCLC is in their mid-60's and usually have long smoking histories, many patients are medically inoperable.