Vaccine Therapy With or Without Cyclophosphamide and Doxorubicin in Women With Stage IV Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Vaccines made from a person's tumor cells may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining vaccine therapy with cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin when given with vaccine therapy in treating women with stage IV breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: allogeneic GM-CSF-secreting breast cancer vaccine|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride
Toxicity of vaccine w/ & w/o cyclophosphamide+doxorubicin by history and phys. exam. at 28-42 days after each vaccination, 56-84 days after third vaccination, 6 months after first vaccination, and annually after first vaccination, 4 years|Toxicity of vaccine w/ & w/o cyclophosphamide+doxorubicin by CBC w/ differential at days 7, 14, 21, and 28-42 days after each vaccination, 56-84 days after third vaccination, 6 months after first vaccination, and annually after first vaccination, 4 years|Toxicity of vaccine w/ & w/o cyclophosphamide+doxorubicin by comprehensive metabolic panel at day 7 and 28-42 days after each vaccination, 56-84 days after third vaccination, 6 months after first vaccination, and annually after first vaccination, 4 years|Immune resp. of HER-2/neu by serum antibody titers, delayed hypersensitivity to HER-2/neu-derived peptides, and CD4+ T-cell resp. by ELISPOT at days 28-42 after each vaccination and days 56-84 after third vaccination, 4 years|Immune responses by immunohistochemical analysis of vaccine site biopsies at days 3 and 7 after the first and third vaccinations, 4 years
Time to disease progression by history and physical examination, computed tomography, bone scans, and tumor markers as appropriate at days 28-42 after third and fourth vaccinations and days 56-84 after third vaccination, 4 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the safety of vaccination comprising allogeneic sargramostim (GM-CSF)-secreting breast cancer cells with or without immunomodulation using cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin in women with stage IV breast cancer.
* Determine the doses of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin that maximize vaccine-induced immunity, in terms of immune response to HER2/neu, in patients treated with these regimens.
* Compare in vivo immune response induced by these regimens, as measured by immunohistochemical analysis of vaccine site biopsies from these patients, with responses seen in prior preclinical and clinical studies.

Secondary

* Determine the time to disease progression in patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-finding study.

The first 6 patients receive 1 of 2 doses of vaccine comprising allogeneic sargramostim (GM-CSF)-secreting breast cancer cells intradermally (ID) on day 0. Subsequent patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on day -1, vaccine at the higher dose ID on day 0, and doxorubicin IV on day 7. Treatment in all patients repeats every 4-6 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or responding disease after the third course receive a fourth course of treatment at approximately 4 months after completion of the third course.

Cohorts of 2-3 patients receive a fixed dose of vaccine in combination with escalating doses of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide. Doses of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin are escalated until an optimal dose of combination chemotherapy with a fixed dose of vaccine is achieved.

Patients are followed at 1 month and 4 months after completion of study therapy and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-60 patients will be accrued for this study.