Telerehabilitation in Oncology Patients
The aim is to analyze the feasibility and effect of an online Therapeutic Exercise and Education programme (TEEP) in cancer patient and survivors
Cancer Metastatic|Cancer|Survivorship
OTHER: Therapeutic Exercise and Education
Suitability of exercise intensity, Patients are asked before each session to mark in a numerical scale how are they feeling that day to push themselves and get their session well done. From 0 (very well) to 10 (very badly). Higher scores mean a worse feeling., Through study completion, an average of 3 months|Verification of exercise intensity, Patients are asked to score the feeling of perceived effort after the session with the Borg Perceived Exertion scale (6-20). Higher scores mean a worse perceived exertion., Through study completion, an average of 3 months|Total attendance, Total of days of attendance, After intervention, an average of 3 months|Absence type, Reasons of absence, categorized as: personal matter, visit the oncology, medical appointment (no related to oncology treatment), health problem, connection problem or unknown., Through study completion, an average of 3 months|Attendance type, Attendance type, categorized as: full attendance, partly attendance because of lack of time, partly attendance because of internet connection problem, Through study completion, an average of 3 months
Change from Cancer-Related Fatigue (CRF), The Spanish version of the Piper Fatigue Scale-Revised (PFS-R) will be used. Its total score is the sum of all items (from 0 to 220), with higher values indicate a higher level of fatigue (worse outcome), Prior and after intervention, an average of 3 months|Change from Functional capacity, It will be tested by 30-second Sit-To-Stand Test (30-STS), number of repetitions completed., prior and after intervention, an average of 3 months|Change from Upper limb functionality (%), the Spanish version of Upper Limb Functional Index (ULFI) questionnaire will be filled online, prior and after intervention, an average of 3 months|Change from Lower limb functionality (%), the Spanish version of Lower Limb Functional Index (LLFI) questionnaire will be filled online, prior and after intervention, an average of 3 months|Change from Quality of life (self-reported questionnaire), It will be assessed by The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) version 3.0. EORTC QLQ-C30 comprises 30 items and contains five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status/QoL scale, and six single items. Raw scores can be linearly converted to a 0-100 scale with higher scores reflecting higher levels of function (better outcome) and higher levels of symptom show bigger problems (worse outcome)., prior and after intervention, an average of 3 months|Change from specific Breast Cancer Quality of life (self-reported questionnaire), It will be assessed by The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Breast Cancer-Specific Quality of Life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-BR23). This is a breast cancer module of EORTC QLQ-C30 which contains 23 items that assess disease symptom, side effects of treatment, body image, sexual functioning, and future perspective. All items are rated on a 4-point scale (from 1- not at all, to very much). Higher scores represent better functioning (better outcome), and higher scores of symptom show bigger issues (worse outcome), prior and after intervention, an average of 3 months
Current literature shows that Therapeutic Exercise has multiple benefits in oncology patients, such as improvements in function and quality of life, and ameliorates symptoms such as cancer-related fatigue. Furthermore, given the risk of obesity, both exercise and diet play a key role in recovery from cancer. In fact, current guidelines support the use of exercise with therapeutic purposes as a complement to cancer treatment.

As a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, oncology patients present more difficulties to attend programs, as the vast majority are immunosuppressed, and they are considered risk population. Therefore, new online (TEEP) must be developed to facilitate the benefits of these programs in the post-COVID Era. This study analyses the feasibility (in terms of suitability and verification of exercise prescription, absence and attendance type, and total days of attendance) and the effect (in weight, physical function, and symptoms) in cancer patients and survivors.