A Prospective Study of Conventional Bone Marrow Biopsy Versus Portomar(TM) Biopsy
This is a self-controlled, prospective trial. The objective of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the Portomar(TM) device for bone marrow biopsy.
Hematologic Malignancy
DEVICE: Portomar(TM) Device
Pain intensity, Pain Comparison- The scale used to assess pain is a modified National Cancer Institute (NCI) Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS). Patients are asked to rate their pain intensity from 0 (no pain)-10 (worst pain ever) comparing the bone marrow biopsy performed with the Portomar(TM) device and a standard bone marrow biopsy. The endpoint will be the proportion of patients experiencing at least a 2 point improvement in score between Portomar(TM) and standard biopsy., Day of bone marrow biopsy (approximately 1 month after Portomar(TM) placement)|Portomar(TM) pain intensity, Pain related to Portomar(TM) will be assessed using the same modified NCI PROMIS Scale. The endpoint is the proportion of patients experiencing severe pain (\>8)., Day of placement (beginning of study)|Portomar(TM) pain intensity, Pain related to Portomar(TM) will be assessed using the same modified NCI PROMIS, 1 day after study begins with Portomar(TM) placement|Portomar(TM) pain intensity, Pain related to Portomar(TM) will be assessed using the same modified NCI PROMIS, 2 days after study begins with Portomar(TM) placement|Portomar(TM) pain intensity, Pain related to Portomar(TM) will be assessed using the same modified NCI PROMIS, 7 days after study begins with Portomar(TM) placement|Portomar(TM) pain intensity, Pain related to Portomar(TM) will be assessed using the same modified NCI PROMIS, 14 days after study begins with Portomar(TM) placement|Portomar(TM) pain intensity, Pain related to Portomar(TM) will be assessed using the same modified NCI PROMIS, 30 days after study begins with Portomar(TM) placement|Portomar(TM) pain intensity, Pain related to Portomar(TM) will be assessed using the same modified NCI PROMIS, 90 days after study begins with Portomar(TM) placement
Safety Events, Adverse events, Study duration, approximately 2 years|Satisfaction Score, Patient and practitioner satisfaction questionnaires, Day of placement and every time a bone marrow biopsy is performed using the Portomar(TM) device for study duration approximately 2 years|Pain Score, Pain from Portomar(TM) and bone marrow biopsies. The modified PROMIS scale 0-10 will be used., Study duration (approximately 2 years) at all bone marrow biopsies with Portomar(TM)|Specimen-Core Biopsy, Adequacy. This will be judged by the proportion of biopsies at least 1.2 cm length., Study duration (approximately 2 years) at all bone marrow biopsied performed with Portomar(TM)|Specimen-Aspirate, Adequacy This will be judged by the proportion of aspirations with at least 1 spicule seen., Study duration (approximately 2 years) at all bone marrow biopsied performed with Portomar(TM)|Time, Time from needle anesthetic to sample acquired. Comparison of conventional vs. Portomar(TM)., Study duration (approximately 2 years) at all bone marrow biopsied performed with Portomar(TM)
This is a self-controlled, prospective trial. Subjects will undergo conventional bone marrow biopsy compared to bone marrow biopsy with the Portomar(TM) device. Subjects will be evaluated at multiple time points comparing the two biopsies. Data through the 6 month time point will be used for Regulatory Submission to the FDA. Additionally subjects will be followed for two years post enrollment.