WSD0922-FU for the Treatment of Glioblastoma, Anaplastic Astrocytoma, or Non-small Cell Lung Cancer With Central Nervous System Metastases
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of WSD0922-FU for the treatment of glioblastoma, anaplastic astrocytoma, or non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to the central nervous system (central nervous system metastases). WSD0922-FU is a targeted treatment which blocks the EGFR protein - a strategy that has led to a lot of benefit in patients with many different cancers. WSD0922-FU may also be able to get into cancers in the brain and spinal cord and help patients with brain and spinal cord cancers.
Anaplastic Astrocytoma, IDH-Wildtype|Glioblastoma, IDH-Wildtype|Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Central Nervous System|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection - blood samples|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection - CSF samples|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: EGFR/EGFRvIII Inhibitor WSD0922-FU|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Recommended phase 2 dose, The RP2D is either the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the highest dose tested (in the case that none of the doses are deemed higher than the MTD), whichever is higher., Up to 28 days
Incidence of adverse events, Up to 4-6 weeks after study completion|Overall response rate, The overall response rate will be defined as the number of patients with a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) that is confirmed in consecutive evaluations (at least 8 weeks apart) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. A 95% confidence interval will also be constructed using the properties of the binomial distribution., Up to 5 years|Duration of response (DOR), Duration of response is defined as the number of days between a patient's first occurrence of a PR (or better) and progression. If a patient goes off study prior to progression (for another reason) then they will be censored at that time. A time to event analysis will be performed utilizing the Kaplan-Meier method which will yield a median DOR., From the first occurrence of a PR (or better) and progression, assessed up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), A patient's progression free survival time is the number of days between study entry and disease progression. These data will be analyzed utilizing the Kaplan-Meier method which will yield a median PFS time., From study entry to disease progression, assessed up to 5 years
Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - AUCs, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Day 1 Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - AUCs, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., D15 Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - AUCs, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., D1 Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - AUCs, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose at end of study (EOS) - each cycle is 28 days|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Day 1 Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., D15 Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., D1 Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis (Dose escalation cohort) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose at end of study (EOS) - each cycle is 28 days|PK analysis (Cohort I) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., D1 of cycles 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort I) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., D1 of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort I) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose D1 of cycles 3 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort I) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose D1 of cycles 4 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort II) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Day 1 of cycle 0|PK analysis (Cohort II) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose D1 of cycles 3 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort II) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose D1 of cycles 4 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort II) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Day 1 of cycles 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort II) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Day 1 of cycles 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort II) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose day 1 of cycles 3 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort II) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose day 1 of cycles 4 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort III) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Days 1 and 4 of cycles 0|PK analysis (Cohort III) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Day 1 of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort III) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose day 1 of cycles 3 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort III) - AUC, A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under curves (AUCs) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics, AUC will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose day 1 of cycles 4 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort III) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Days 1 and 4 of cycles 0|PK analysis (Cohort III) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., D1 of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort III) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose day 1 of cycles 3 (each cycle is 28 days)|PK analysis (Cohort III) - Clearance (CL), A population pharmacokinetic model will be developed utilizing the pharmacokinetic time points collected, and then used to estimate individual clearance (CL) of WSD0922. The pharmacokinetic will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics,as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes in responses., Pre-dose day 1 of cycles 4 (each cycle is 28 days)|Proteomic analysis, Partial least squares regression will be used to perform unbiased correlations of network-level signaling data acquired from patient samples with patient phenotypic data or to drug distribution data., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of EGFR/EGFRvIII inhibitor WSD0922-FU (WSD0922-FU) in subjects with recurrent glioblastoma, IDH wildtype (GBM), anaplastic astrocytoma, IDH wildtype (AA) and central nervous system (CNS) metastases of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) related to WSD0922-FU.

II. To assess anti-tumor activity: intracranial and extracranial overall response rate (ORR), and change in tumor size compared with baseline according to Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria for GBM/AA and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for NSCLC.

III. To assess anti-tumor activity: intracranial and extracranial disease control rate (DCR) and change in tumor size compared with baseline according to RANO criteria for GBM/AA and RECIST 1.1 for NSCLC.

IV. To assess anti-tumor activity: intracranial and extracranial duration of response (DOR) and change in tumor size compared with baseline according to RANO criteria for GBM/AA and RECIST 1.1 for NSCLC.

V. To assess anti-tumor activity: intracranial and extracranial progression-free survival (PFS) and change in tumor size compared with baseline according to RANO criteria for GBM/AA and RECIST 1.1 for NSCLC.

EXPLORATORY/CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the presence and/or identity of the drug metabolites of WSD0922-FU, and the concentrations of these in the plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and tumor.

II. To assess plasma concentration of WSD0922-FU and metabolite SN16110801P1 and pharmacokinetics (PK) parameters after single and multiple doses of WSD0922-FU.

III. To assess the brain tumor pharmacokinetics of WSD0922-FU and SN16110801P1 after a single dose of WSD0922-FU (Dose Expansion - Brain tumor penetration \[BTP\] cohort only).

IV. To assess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration of WSD0922-FU and SN16110801P1 after multiple doses of WSD0922-FU (Dose Expansion - NSCLC cohort only).

V. To explore the impact of tumor markers (e.g. MGMT promoter methylation, EGFR mutation \[including EGFR vIII\], PTEN deletion, TP53 mutation, etc.) on clinical parameters associated with WSD0922-FU treatment.

VI. To evaluate and measure pharmacodynamic biomarkers of inhibition of EGFR and downstream signals in tumor samples after a single dose of WSD0922-FU (Dose Expansion Cohort - BTP cohort only).

VII. To evaluate the effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of single dose of WSD0922-FU in plasma (Dose Expansion - GBM/AA cohort only).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

DOSE ESCALATION: Patients receive WSD0922-FU orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and collection of blood samples on study. Patients with NSCLC with leptomeningeal metastases (LM) also undergo collection of CSF samples on study.

DOSE EXPANSION: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients with GBM/AA receive WSD0922-FU PO on days 1 and 4 of cycle 0. Patients then receive WSD0922-FU PO BID on days 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo MRI during screening and on study, as well as blood sample collection on study. Patients may undergo additional optional blood sample collection on study.

COHORT II: Patients with BTP receive a single dose of WSD0922-FU prior to surgery. Patients then undergo surgical resection of brain tumor. After surgery, patients receive WSD0922-FU PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo MRI during screening and on study, as well as blood sample collection on study.

COHORT III: Patients with NSCLC receive WSD0922-FU PO BID on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo MRI and CT during screening and on study, as well as blood sample collection on study. Patients with LM also undergo collection of CSF samples on study. Patients may also undergo optional blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks, then every 2 months until progressive disease, at progressive disease, and then every 3 months after progressive disease for up to 5 years.