Pembrolizumab Combined With Cetuximab for Treatment of Recurrent/Metastatic Head & Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, non-randomized, multi-arm phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy of combination therapy with pembrolizumab and cetuximab for patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC. There will be four patient cohorts, including a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-naïve, cetuximab-naïve arm (Cohort 1), a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-refractory, cetuximab-naïve arm (Cohort 2), a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-refractory, cetuximab-refractory arm (Cohort 3), and a cutaneous HNSCC arm (Cohort 4). A total of 83 patients (33 in Cohort 1, 25 in Cohort 2, 15 in Cohort 3, and 10 in Cohort 4) will be eligible to enroll. Patients will be enrolled at 4 sites: UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center, UC Los Angeles Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center, and University of Washington Siteman Cancer Center.
HNSCC|Lip SCC|Oral Cavity Cancer|Oropharynx Cancer|Larynx Cancer|Hypopharynx Cancer|Nasopharynx Cancer|Sinonasal Carcinoma|Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Head and Neck Neoplasms|Head and Neck Cancer|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab, Cetuximab
Overall Response Rate, Proportion of patients with partial or complete response in tumor burden as defined by RECIST, 6 months from the time of study enrollment
Progression Free Survival Probability, Probability of no disease progression or death from any cause at 12 months from the time of study enrollment, 12 months from the time of study enrollment|Overall Survival, Time from study enrollment to death from any cause, From the time of study enrollment until the date of death from any cause or completion of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months|Duration of Response, Time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression, Every 9 weeks from first on-treatment scan until disease progression or patient withdrawal from study or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months|Number of patients with grade 3 through grade 5 adverse events that are related to pembrolizumab and cetuximab, graded according to NCI CTCAE v4.03, Description, grade (per CTCAE v4.03), seriousness and relatedness, Upon study enrollment, then subsequently at the first visit of each cycle (cycle length is 21 days), at the time of any adverse event, through end of treatment study visit, assessed up to 36 months|Correlative analyses, Tumor tissue biomarkers correlated with outcome to pembrolizumab or cetuximab, such as PD-L1 expression, EGFR expression, p16 status, and immunophenotyping, Tumor specimens (archival or new specimen) should be obtained within 42 days of screening|Correlative analyses, Blood biomarkers correlated with outcome to pembrolizumab or cetuximab, including T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing, Blood samples will be collected at screening, at time of first radiographic disease assessment on treatment (prior to initiation of cycle 4), and at time of clinical or radiographic disease progression, up to 36 months|Correlative analyses, Blood biomarkers correlated with outcome to pembrolizumab or cetuximab, including Epstein-Barr virus plasma DNA titers, Blood samples will be collected at screening, at time of first radiographic disease assessment on treatment (prior to initiation of cycle 4), and at time of clinical or radiographic disease progression, up to 36 months|Correlative analyses, Whole exome sequencing for neoantigen discovery, Newly obtained tumor specimen within 42 days of screening (when feasible)
Primary Objectives:

To determine the clinical efficacy of pembrolizumab combined with cetuximab for patients with R/M HNSCC.

1. Cohort 1 (PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-naïve, cetuximab-naïve): clinical efficacy defined as overall response rate.
2. Cohort 2 (PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-refractory, cetuximab-naïve): clinical efficacy defined as overall response rate.
3. Cohort 3 (PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-refractory, cetuximab-refractory): clinical efficacy defined as overall response rate.
4. Cohort 4 (cutaneous HNSCC): clinical efficacy defined as overall response rate.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine 12 month progression-free survival probability.
2. To determine overall survival.
3. To determine duration of response.
4. To assess safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab combined with cetuximab.
5. To evaluate the correlation between molecular markers and disease outcome.