Gluten Related Disorders in Barrett's Esophagus
In a small group of people gluten, a storage protein commonly in wheat and other grains, can cause gut inflammation and symptoms like diarrhea and abdominal pain. Gluten-related disorders include celiac disease (CD) and non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS) and are treated by starting a gluten free diet (GFD). Patients with CD and NCGS also more commonly experience esophageal reflux and damage to the lining of the esophagus. A potential consequence of long-standing heartburn is Barrett's esophagus (BE), a major risk factor for cancer of the esophagus.

This study aims to investigate the mechanism that leads to reflux and BE in those with gluten related disorders, and to assess if a GFD is beneficial. We will study the upper gut function and reflux activity in patients with BE both with and without a GRD disorder. Testing will occur before and after a gluten free diet is instituted. The results will help inform health care providers and patients about the connection between gluten-related disorders, reflux, BE, and the role of GFD.
Celiac Disease|Barrett Esophagus|Gluten Sensitivity|GERD
OTHER: Gluten free diet
Ratio of non-acidic to acidic reflux events, Proportion of non-acid to acid reflux events as determined by pH-impedance, At study start and at one month after a gluten free diet
Reflux disease questionnaire, 12 questions with six choices each. Results are added such that best score is 12 and worst score is 72., At study start and one month after a gluten free diet|Esophageal motility, Manometric findings of the upper and lower sphincters and esophageal body, At study start|Upper gastrointestinal motility, Fluoroscopic findings of gastroduodenal motility, At study start|Leeds short form questionnaire, Questionnaire for dyspepsia. Nine questions with five choices each. Only eight question scores are summed. Best score is 8 and worst score is 40., At study start and one month after a gluten free diet|Gastroesophageal reflux disease-health related quality of life instrument, 11 questions. Ten of them are summed with six choices each. The best score is 0 and the worst score is 50., At study start and one month after a gluten free diet
Perhaps patient's with gluten related disorders develop Barrett's esophagus due to non-acid reflux precipitated by upper gastrointestinal motility changes that respond to a gluten free diet; whereas patients without gluten related disorders develop Barrett's due to the accepted mechanism of acid reflux.

The primary objectives are to explore if patients with gluten-related disorders (CD and GS) may have an altered mechanism of developing Barrett's esophagus typified by increased alkali reflux compared to those without gluten-related disorders; and to determine if this mechanism (altered motility and increased non-acid reflux) responds to a gluten free diet.

Specific objectives include assessing whether patients with GRD and Barrett's esophagus have altered esophageal reflux extent, frequency, and type (assessed by pH-impedance); altered symptom profiles; differential esophageal body and sphincter pressures (assessed by manometry); aberrant gastroduodenal motility (assessed by videofluoroscopy) in comparison to patients with BE and no GRD. Finally a gluten free diet will be instituted to assess whether a gluten-free diet alters esophageal reflux extent, frequency, and type or symptom profiles in those with BE with and without a GRD.