Getting Ahead for Cancer Control
A new, practical program, entitled Getting Ahead in a Just-Gettin'-By World, provides a novel approach to addressing this previously intractable problem. During the progression through the Getting Ahead program, individuals develop an understanding of the hidden rules of economic class and have an opportunity to craft a hopeful future story based on the practical concepts investigated in the modules. Getting Ahead has shown great success in various organizations and communities in multiple sectors, including healthcare, but has not been studied in the context of advancing cancer prevention and control.
Cancer Prevention
BEHAVIORAL: Getting Ahead in a Just-Gettin'-By World
Change in composite score of cancer prevention, Change in composite score of cancer prevention based on changes in cognition, intention and behavior regarding tobacco reduction, fruit and vegetable consumption, and physical activity; Immunizations for human papillomavirus (HPV) or hepatitis B; Age/sex appropriate use of Pap tests, mammograms, stool tests, endoscopy or imaging studies for colorectal cancer, From baseline up to 3 years
Change in composite score of progress toward a future orientation, change in composite scores based on 11 resource areas with a score ranging from 1-5 (total scores ranging from 11-55 with 55 being the most stable score). The score indicates the level of stability, From baseline up to 3 years
The study team hypothesizes that the Getting Ahead program, applied in safety net practices with primary care patients living in poverty, will improve cancer prevention and early detection activities, mediated by a shift in future orientation gained through the program.

This pilot study aims to adapt, apply, and evaluate the established Getting Ahead program in a health care setting and assess its effect on cancer prevention and early detection activities for vulnerable populations. By generating process and outcome data on a novel intervention to help people advance out of poverty, this research will set the stage for larger intervention studies, and also will advance understanding of the mechanisms by which growing a future orientation can improve cancer preventive service delivery among vulnerable populations.

Specifically, this study aims to:

1. Implement Getting Ahead among cohorts of patients at a network of safety net practices.
2. Assess the paradigm shift in developing a future orientation associated with participation in the Getting Ahead program.
3. Evaluate the effect of the Getting Ahead program and its associated paradigm shift on graduates' cancer prevention and early detection activities.