Neurobiology and Treatment of Reading Disability in NF-1
The goal of this trial is to determine if children with neurofibromatosis type 1 who have reading disabilities respond the same way-both behaviorally and neurobiologically-to specialized treatment programs as children with idiopathic reading disabilities do, and to determine which intervention is best for particular learner profiles.
Neurofibromatosis Type 1|Reading Disabilities
BEHAVIORAL: Tutoring Program I|BEHAVIORAL: Tutoring Program II
Change From Baseline in WJ-III Basic Reading Normative Update (Woodcock Johnson Psychoeducational Battery - 3rd Edition; WJ-III NU) Standard Score at 15 Hours, This metric measures change in reading abilities, including word recognition and decoding, as assessed by standard educational assessments (Woodcock Johnson Psychoeducational Battery - 3rd Edition Normative Update; WJ-III NU). The scores are reported as change in age-normed standard scores (a change of 15 standard score points would represent a change of 1 standard deviation in the general population).The Basic Reading score is a normed composite of the WJ-III subtests Letter-Word Identification and Word Attack, representing word-level reading skill., 0 and 15 hours
Neuroimaging Data, Neuroimaging data consists of functional MRI and structural MRI measures., Collected before and after intervention
The most common concern of parents of children with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF-1) is learning disabilities (LD). Approximately one half of all children with NF-1 have LD-the most debilitating and common of which are reading disabilities.

The purpose of this study is to determine if children with NF-1 who have reading disabilities respond the same way-both behaviorally and neurobiologically-to specialized treatment programs known to improve the decoding deficits in children with idiopathic reading disabilities. The trial will also determine which intervention is best for particular learner profiles. The overall purpose of this research is to gain a deeper understanding of the characteristics and treatment of reading disabilities in NF-1.

In the trial, researchers will compare children with NF-1 who show weaknesses in reading to children with reading disabilities of no known cause (idiopathic) using two different interventions and behavioral and neurobiological measures. Both interventions focus on teaching sound-symbol relationships, but vary in terms of relative emphasis on verbal versus visual methods of teaching.

Scientists hope findings from the trial will advance knowledge about the best therapies for LD in children with NF-1. And, by further refining how children with NF-1 who have reading disabilities are similar (or different) to children with idiopathic reading disabilities, the researchers may be able to learn if reading interventions that address areas other than decoding will also benefit children with NF-1. Also, by understanding the similarities and/or differences in the neuropsychological and neurobiological profiles of children with NF-1 who have reading disabilities, and those without, scientists will be able to refine the cognitive phenotype and neurobiological characteristics of NF-1, which will further understanding of central nervous system abnormalities in NF-1.