Effect of N-acetyl Cysteine and Zinc in Management of Head and Neck Cancer Radiotherapy Induced Oral Mucositis
The majority of individuals diagnosed with head and neck cancer, who undergo radiotherapy or concurrent Chemoradiotherapy, experience oral mucositis. Our research focuses on investigating the preventive and therapeutic impact of N-acetylcysteine and zinc in managing radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis.
Radiation-Induced Mucositis
DRUG: N-acetyl cysteine|DRUG: Zinc sulfate|DRUG: saline mouth wash
Incidence of Radiotherapy-Induced Oral Mucositis, The incidence of any grade of oral mucositis will be measured in each group. This will be evaluated by recording the number of patients who develop oral mucositis during and after radiotherapy treatment., From the start of radiotherapy to 2 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy.|Time to Onset of Oral Mucositis, The time from the start of radiotherapy to the onset of any grade of oral mucositis in groups I, II, III, and V (control group). This will be measured by tracking the number of days until the first appearance of mucositis symptoms., From the start of radiotherapy to the onset of oral mucositis, monitored daily during radiotherapy and up to 2 weeks after completion of radiotherapy.|Severity of Oral Mucositis, The severity of oral mucositis will be measured using the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria for grading oral mucositis, which includes objective symptoms (redness, edema, wound development) and subjective symptoms (dysphagia, mucosal severity). Mucositis will be classified into grades:

Grade 0: No change or erythema without pain. Grade 1: Pain with or without erythema, no ulcers. Grade 2: Oral erythema and ulcers, but the patient can eat solid and liquid food.

Grade 3: Oral erythema and ulcers, the patient can eat only liquid/puree food. Grade 4: Severe oral ulcers; patient cannot eat solid or liquid food., Assessed weekly during radiotherapy and up to 2 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy.
almost all head and neck cancer patients who to receive radiotherapy or concurrent chemotherapy suffer from oral mucositis. Oral mucositis (OM) is associated with pain, difficulty in eating, dysphagia, and the need for enteral or parenteral nutrition, increased opioid consumption or even interruptions to cancer therapy. In immunosuppressed patients, OM is associated with bacteremia, increased inpatient hospitalization duration and higher 100-day mortality.

Treatments to manage cancer, such as radiotherapy, generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) that target neoplastic cell DNA resulting in cell damage and death. ROS from these therapies also indiscriminately target healthy non-neoplastic DNA.

Zinc carries out its antioxidant function in two ways: Reducing the concentration of oxidant agents and protecting structures and macromolecules suffer from oxidant agent.

N-acetylcysteine is an aminothiol and precursor to glutathione (GSH), glutathione in its reduced form is the most powerful intracellular antioxidant, thereby protecting against radiation-induced free radical damage.

our study is A randomized, controlled, parallel clinical trial that will be applied at Clinical Oncology and Nuclear Medicine Center at Mansoura University Hospital to investigate the prophylactic and therapeutic effect of N-acetylcysteine and zinc on radiotherapy induced oral mucositis in Head and Neck cancer patients.