LB-100 (PP2A Inhibitor) and Atezolizumab (PD-L1 Inhibitor) in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients
This Phase Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of LB-100 when given with atezolizumab for the treatment of patients with metastatic microsatellite stable colorectal cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of the tumor to grow and spread. LB-100 has been shown to make anticancer drugs work better at killing cancer. LB-100 blocks a protein on the surface of cells called PP2A. Blocking this protein increases the stress signals for the tumor cells that express PP2A. Giving atezolizumab in combination with LB-100 may work better to treat metastatic colorectal cancer patients as the cancer cells that experience increased stress signals are more susceptible for the immunotherapy.
Metastatic Microsatellite-stable Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: LB-100|DRUG: Atezolizumab
The RP2D of LB-100 when given in combination with standard doses of atezolizumab, up to 2 years
Disease control rate, Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, 6 months|Objective response rate, Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, 6 months|Duration of overall response, Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, up to 2 years|Progression free survival, Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, up to 2 years|Overall survival, The time from the first dose of study treatment to the time of death from any cause. Patients who are still alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of their last study assessment (for active patients) or at the last date know alive (for patients in follow-up)., Assessed up to 2 years|Observed plasma concentrations of LB-100, its active metabolite endothall and atezolizumab, Blood samples are obtained and plasma concentrations of LB-100, endothall and atezolizumab are measured, Prior to initial dose, on day 1, day 2, day 3, day 8, day 15 and prior to second cycle. Each cycle is 21 days|Area under the plasma-time concentration curve of LB-100, its active metabolite endothall and atezolizumab, Blood samples are obtained and plasma concentrations of LB-100, endothall and atezolizumab are measured, Prior to initial dose, on day 1, day 2, day 3, day 8, day 15 and prior to second cycle. Each cycle is 21 days|Elimination half-life of LB-100, its active metabolite endothall and atezolizumab, Blood samples are obtained and plasma concentrations of LB-100, endothall and atezolizumab are measured, Prior to initial dose, on day 1, day 2, day 3, day 8, day 15 and prior to second cycle. Each cycle is 21 days|Total body clearance of LB-100, its active metabolite endothall and atezolizumab, Blood samples are obtained and plasma concentrations of LB-100, endothall and atezolizumab are measured, Prior to initial dose, on day 1, day 2, day 3, day 8, day 15 and prior to second cycle. Each cycle is 21 days|The incidence and severity of adverse events, As assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 2 years|The incidence of dose-limiting toxicity, As assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, 21 days
Serine/threonine hyperphosphorylation in peripheral white blood cells, Western Blots to evaluate serine/threonine hyperphosphorylation in peripheral white blood cells, Blood sample cycle 1 day 1. Each cycle is 21 days.|Mismatch repair deficiency status, Immunohistochemistry for mismatch repair proteins, Before start of treatment and one on treatment biopsy at Cycle 3 day 3. Each cycle is 21 days|Concentration of LB-100 and endothall in tumor tissue, To evaluate pharmacodynamic biomarkers of LB-100, On treatment biopsy at Cycle 3 day 3. Each cycle is 21 days
The goal of this Phase Ib monocenter, open-label, non-randomized clinical trial is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and preliminary efficacy of the combination of LB-100 and atezolizumab in patients with metastatic microsatellite stable colorectal cancer.

This study will consist of a dose escalation phase and a dose expansion phase. The dose escalation phase is designed to find the recommended phase II dose of LB-100 in combination with atezolizumab standard dosage of 1200 mg. The dose expansion phase further explores the clinical activity, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics/dynamics of LB-100 combined with atezolizumab.

LB-100 will be administered intravenously on day 1 and day 3 of every 21-day cycle.

Atezolizumab 1200 mg will be administered intravenously on day 1 of every 21-day cycle, which is the labelled dose as monotherapy.

Clinical assessments will be performed routinely to monitor safety. Anti-tumor activity will be measured by CT scan according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria. Tumor biopsies will be obtained for exploratory objectives.