How Effective is the Dose-graded Aerobic Training in Children Survivors of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia?
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of a 12-week dose-graded aerobic exercise program (D-GAE) on cardiopulmonary fitness and physical performance in children survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). A total of 58 ALL survivors were randomly assigned to the D-GAE group (n = 29, who underwent a combination of traditional physical rehabilitation and intensity- and duration-graded aerobic training three times per week for 12 weeks) or the control group (n = 29, who underwent only traditional physical rehabilitation).

Cardiopulmonary fitness and physical performance were evaluated in both groups before and after treatment.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
OTHER: Dose-graded aerobic exercises|OTHER: Traditional physical rehabilitation
Peak oxygen uptake, The peak oxygen uptake (mL/kg/min) was assessed through a symptom-free exercise tolerance test (i.e., the McMaster cycling protocol)., 3 months
Six-minute walk test., This test identified the maximum distance (m) that each child was able to cover over six minutes on a straight flat 30-m walkway, without running or jogging. Walking is regarded as more efficient in line with a longer distance coverage, 3 months|Timed up and down stairs test, This test measured the time (seconds) that each child took to climb up and down a 14-step stair flight (each 20 cm in height). Better performance is indicated by a shorter time., 3 months|4x10 meter Shuttle Run test, This test measured the time (seconds) that each child took to run forth and back a 10-meter track. Better performance is indicated by a shorter time., 3 months
Fifty-eight survivors of ALL were recruited from the hematology-oncology polyclinic at King Khalid Hospital and two referral pediatric hospitals in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The study included survivors aged 10-18 years, who completed maintenance therapy, had no abnormalities of the lower limbs or spine and did not participate in a regular exercise program (in the past six months). survivors who had secondary malignancies, significant musculoskeletal/neurological issues affecting the capacity to participate in exercises or neurocognitive impairments were excluded.

Outcome measures

1. Cardiopulmonary fitness: The peak oxygen uptake was assessed through the McMaster cycling protocol.
2. Physical Performance: Three tests were used; the 6-minute walk test, the timed up and down stairs test, and the 4x10 meter Shuttle Run test.

Interventions

The D-GAE group received a 12-week aerobic training, three times in addition to the traditional physical rehabilitation. The D-GAE program commenced with a training intensity corresponding to 50% of the maximum age-predicted heart rate for 25 minutes in the first two weeks, which progressed on a two-week basis, and ended up with a training intensity corresponding to 75% of the maximum age-predicted heart rate for 50 minutes in the last two weeks. The D-GAE program included a warm-up for 5 minutes and a cool-down for 5 minutes. The control group received the traditional physical rehabilitation only, 45 minutes per session, three times a week for 12 consecutive weeks. The program consisted of flexibility exercises, strengthening exercises, balance training, and general conditioning exercises.