Effects of Oral Aloe Vera Juice on Chemotherapy and Radiation-induced Oral Mucositis and Esophagitis
As mentioned above, several prior studies have shown the positive effects of oral use of aloe vera juice in managing chemotherapy and radiation-induced oral mucositis and esophagitis. This study aims to add to the existing body of research around aloe vera juice and its effects on oral mucositis and esophagitis. The intention is to determine whether aloe vera juice should be considered as part of standard treatment.
Oral Cavity Cancer|Head and Neck Cancers - Tonsils|Esophageal Cancer|Laryngeal Cancer|Oropharynx Cancer|Mediastinal Cancer|Chest Wall Tumor|Radiation Mucositis
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: 100% Aloe Vera Juice|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Magic Mouthwash|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Salt and Baking soda rinse|DRUG: Carafate
Prevention of Oral Mucositis and Esophagitis, to determine whether to add oral aloe vera juice to standard of care treatments for lip, oral cavity, hard palate, tongue, tonsil , pharyngeal, laryngeal, neck , esophageal, mediastinal, and chest wall cancers will help prevent oral mucositis and esophagitis symptoms while patients undergo radiation therapy. Symptoms will be assessed using the CTCAE v. 5.0 weekly while on treatment to determine if the addition of aloe vera juice impacts these symptoms when compared to subjects that don't receive aloe vera juice., 10 weeks|Management of Oral Mucositis and Esophagitis, to determine whether to add oral aloe vera juice to standard of care treatments for lip, oral cavity, hard palate, tongue, tonsil , pharyngeal, laryngeal, neck , esophageal, mediastinal, and chest wall cancers will help manage oral mucositis and esophagitis symptoms while patients undergo radiation therapy. Symptoms will be assessed using the CTCAE v. 5.0 weekly while on treatment to determine if the addition of aloe vera juice impacts these symptoms when compared to subjects that don't receive aloe vera juice., 10 weeks
Oral mucositis and esophagitis are side effects of both chemotherapy and radiation that can interfere with a patient's ability to eat, drink, and maintain weight. They can significantly impact quality of life as well as creating the need for treatment breaks. Treatment breaks decrease the efficacy of treatment. A suspected method of treatment is aloe vera juice. Several prior studies have shown the positive effects of oral use of aloe vera juice in managing chemotherapy and radiation-induced oral mucositis and esophagitis. Aloe vera, or aloe barbadensis miller as it is known in the botanical world, is a succulent plant used in traditional medicine.

In this study, the aloe vera juice that will be utilized by the patients is George's 100% Aloe Vera Juice, manufactured by Warren Laboratories. This aloe vera juice has been fractionally distilled to remove anthraquinone and other compounds that can cause nausea, abdominal cramping, and diarrhea, as well as bitter, unpleasant taste.

This study aims to add to the existing body of research around aloe vera juice and its effects on oral mucositis and esophagitis. The intention is to determine whether aloe vera juice, in combination with standard treatments, is more effective in management of oral mucositis and esophagitis than standard treatment alone. If so, aloe vera offers a natural, cost-effective option for managing radiation and chemotherapy side effects.

Patients in arm 1 of cohort 1 or 2 will be given 3 gallons of George's 100% Aloe Vera Liquid Supplement, free of cost, to utilize throughout treatment. Patients in cohort 1, arm 2 will be asked to swish and spit ¼ cup (2 ounces) of the aloe vera juice 3 times per day, 7 days per week while they are on radiation treatment. Patients in cohort 2, arm 2 will be asked to drink ¼ cup (2 ounces) of aloe vera juice 3 times per day, 7 days per week while they are on chemotherapy and radiation treatment.