Altering Lipids for Tolerance of Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy
Aromatase inhibitor medications have been approved by the U.S Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of hormone receptor positive breast cancer. This treatment has been shown to be very effective for treating breast cancer. However, some patients have difficulty tolerating the treatment, and some even decide to stop treatment because of the side effects. Research has shown that over half of patients who had joint pain and stiffness when taking an aromatase inhibitor had an improvement in their symptoms when they took omega-3 fatty acid supplements. This study is being conducted to test whether having patients start to take an omega-3 fatty acid supplement soon after they starting taking an aromatase inhibitor medicine will reduce the likelihood that they will have bothersome symptoms.
Breast Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega-3 fatty acid supplement
Change in percentage of total fatty acids for each polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) group from start of Omega-3 Fatty Acid (O3-FA) supplementation to 3 months of O3-FA, Plasma oxylipins from blood samples collected at the start of O3-FA supplementation (3 months after start of Aromatase Inhibitor \[AI\] therapy alone) and after 3 months of AI therapy + O3-FA supplementation (6 months after start of AI therapy alone) will be quantified using solid phase extraction-liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectroscopy. Oxylipins will be grouped according to PUFA substrate (linoleic acid \[LA\], arachidonic acid \[AA\], alpha-linoleic acid \[ALA\], eicosapentaenoid acid \[EPA\], and docosahexaenoic acid \[DHA\]). For each patient, the percentage of total fatty acids of each PUFA group will be calculated at both time points. The overall study percentage per PUFA group will be derived from the mean percentage of that PUFA group for all patients at each time point. The change in percentage between the two time points will be reported in tabular format for each PUFA group., From start of Omega-3 Fatty Acid (O3-FA) supplementation to 3 months of O3-FA (at 6 months after start of AI therapy)
Change in percentage of total fatty acids for each PUFA group from baseline to 6 months of Aromatase Inhibitor (AI) (3 months of AI alone + 3 months of AI with O3-FA supplementation), Plasma oxylipins from blood samples collected at baseline (before AI therapy) and at 3 months of AI therapy + O3-FA supplementation (O3-FA supplementation starts 3 months after start of AI therapy) will be quantified using solid phase extraction-liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectroscopy. Oxylipins will be grouped according to PUFA substrate (LA, AA, ALA, EPA and DHA). For each patient, the percentage of total fatty acids of each PUFA group will be calculated at both time points. The overall study percentage per PUFA group will be derived from the mean percentage of that PUFA group for all patients at each time point. The change in percentage between the two time points will be reported in tabular format for each PUFA group., At 6 months after start of AI therapy|Change in percentage of total fatty acids for each PUFA group from baseline to 3 months of AI therapy alone, Plasma oxylipins from blood samples collected at baseline and at 3 months after start of AI therapy alone will be quantified using solid phase extraction-liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectroscopy. Oxylipins will be grouped according to PUFA substrate (LA, AA, ALA, EPA and DHA). For each patient, the percentage of total fatty acids of each PUFA group will be calculated at both time points. The overall study percentage per PUFA group will be derived from the mean percentage of that PUFA group for all patients at each time point. The change in percentage between the two time points will be reported in tabular format for each PUFA group., At 3 months after start of AI therapy|Number of participants who develop AI-associated musculoskeletal symptoms (AIMSS), Patients will be considered to have developed AIMSS if any of the following apply: (1) a ≥0.22 increase in the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) score within 9 months, (2) a ≥2.0 increase in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) average pain within 9 months, or (3) discontinuation of AI therapy within 9 months because of new or worsened musculoskeletal symptoms, assessed using a protocol-specific discontinuation form completed by the patient's provider. The HAQ assesses interference of pain with daily activities (range 0-3), with change of 0.22 defined as a clinically meaningful difference, as noted in the literature.\* The BPI assesses average pain over 7 days (range 0-10), with a change of 2.0 defined as a clinically meaningful difference, as noted in the literature.\* Patients whose providers specify pain as the first or second-ranked reason for discontinuation will be considered to have discontinued AI therapy because of new or worsened musculoskeletal symptoms. \*See references., Up to 9 months after start of AI therapy|Number of participants that discontinue AI therapy due to AIMSS, Patients whose providers specify pain as the first or second-ranked reason for discontinuation (in a protocol-specific discontinuation form) will be considered to have discontinued AI therapy because of new or worsened musculoskeletal symptoms., Up to 9 months after start of AI therapy|Number of participants that discontinue AI therapy due to toxicity., Patients whose providers specify toxicity as the first or second-ranked reason for discontinuation (in a protocol-specific discontinuation form) will be considered to have discontinued AI therapy due to toxicity., Up to 9 months after start of AI therapy
Aromatase inhibitor medications have been approved by the U.S Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of hormone receptor positive breast cancer. This treatment has been shown to be very effective for treating breast cancer. However, some patients have difficulty tolerating the treatment, and some even decide to stop treatment because of the side effects. Research has shown that over half of patients who had joint pain and stiffness when taking an aromatase inhibitor had an improvement in their symptoms when they took omega-3 fatty acid supplements. This study is being conducted to test whether having patients start to take an omega-3 fatty acid supplement soon after they starting taking an aromatase inhibitor medicine will reduce the likelihood that they will have bothersome symptoms.