HAIC Combined with PD-1 Inhibitor in Potentially Resectable Locally Advanced HCC
Hepatocellular carcinoma patients are mostly diagnosed at locally advanced stage. Nowadays, hepatic artery interventional therapy and/or systemic therapy are the main treatments options for these patients. Our previous study showed that compared to than conventional transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE), hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) has better objective response, better safety profile, and increased resection rates. The PD-1 inhibitors emerged in recent years have shown good momentum in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. The single-drug treatment on advanced hepatocellular carcinoma has a tumor response rate of 17%, the disease control rate exceeds 60%, and the overall survival time exceeds 12 months. And it has good tolerance and less adverse events. In studies of other cancer, combined with traditional chemotherapy can further improve the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors. Our study is a prospective phase II clinical study for patients with potentially resectable locally advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (tumor confined to the liver with invasion to branches of the portal vein or hepatic vein). Progressive survival (PFS) is the primary end point of study. The OS and overall survival rate, RFS, ORR, DCR, conversion rate, pathological response, and safety are the secondary endpoints. The efficacy and safety of HAIC combined with PD-1 inhibitor in the treatment of potentially resectable locally advanced hepatocellular carcinoma will be discussed.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: HAIC+PD1|DRUG: HAIC
Progression Free Survival (PFS) assessed by RECIST 1.1, The duration from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause in patients who did not undergo surgery, or to the date of postoperative relapse or death from any cause in patients who had received surgery, whichever occurs first. The baseline of the tumor before the initial treatment was used as a reference, and the assessments are performed according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria based on the imaging test (enhanced CT or MRI)., From date of the first treatment until the date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 96 months
Overall survival (OS), The time between the first HAIC +PD1 treatment and death from any cause., From date of the first treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 96 months|1-, 2- and 3-year Overall Survival (OS) rate, The percentage of patients who were still alive at the 1-, 2-, and 3-year time point since the first cycle of treatment. The end point of observation is death due to tumor., From date of the first treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 96 months|Safety: the percentage of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.03, adverse events will be assessed and reported according to NCI CTC AE v4.03., From date of the first treamtment until 100 days after the last treatment.|Pathological Response: pathological complete response (pCR) and major pathological response (MPR: >90% of tumor necrosis), According to post-operative pathology, the proportion of tumor necrosis, viable. tumor cells, and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes indicated by surgical resected specimens., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) assessed by RECIST 1.1, The proportion of complete response or partial response as optimal response among all treated patients., Through study completion, an average of 3 year.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The proportion of complete response, partial response or stable disease as optimal response assessed by RECIST 1.1 among all treated patients., Through study completion, an average of 3 year.|Conversion rate, The proportion of patients who received surgical resection among all treated patients., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Recurrence-free survival (RFS), The time between surgery and first recurrence/metastasis after resection or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., From date of the surgery until the date of first recurrence/metastasis after resection or death from any cause, assessed up to 96 months
Biomarkers of treatment response by single-cell RNA sequencing, To find biomarkers of treatment response by investigating the variation of tumor and immune cells before and after treatment., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 96 months
Sintilimab (IBI308) is a recombinant human IgG4 PD-1 monoclonal antibody. It has been proved in many preclinical and in vitro trials that the effect of blocking PD-1 pathway with Sintilimab on. The results of preclinical pharmacodynamics, animal pharmacokinetics and toxicology all indicated that Sintilimab has clear targets, reliable cell lines and drug stability. It has considerable characteristics and has shown good activity in various preclinical studies.

Hepatocellular carcinoma patients are mostly diagnosed in locally advanced stage, and hepatic artery interventional therapy and/or systemic therapy are the main treatments options for these patients. In recent years, some researchers have reported that chemotherapy plays a critical role in transcatheter arterial intervention (Shi et al. JNCI, 2012, 105: 59). Compared with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE), hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) provides a more stable and long-lasting local control rate, which promised better outcomes. However, the effectiveness of HAIC varies greatly depending on the chemotherapy drug used, with an efficiency ranging from 7-81% and OS ranging from 6-15.9 months.

The single-drug treatment of PD-1 inhibitor in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma has a tumor response rate of 17%, the disease control rate exceeds 60%, and the overall survival time exceeds 12 months. And it has good tolerance and less adverse events. In studies in other cancers, combined with traditional chemotherapy can further improve the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors.

Our study is a prospective phase II clinical study for patients with potentially resectable locally advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (tumor confined to the liver with invasion to branches of the portal vein or hepatic vein). Progressive survival (PFS) based on RECIST 1.1 is the primary end point of the present study. The OS and overall survival rate, RFS, ORR, DCR, conversion rate, pathological response, and safety are the secondary endpoints. The exploratory endpoints included the research on biomarkers. The efficacy and safety of HAIC combined with PD-1 inhibitor in the treatment of potentially resectable locally advanced hepatocellular carcinoma will be discussed.

Radiological assessments are performed every two cycles over the course of treatment, then every 3 months within the first two years following the completion of treatment and every 6 months thereafter, until PD were recorded. All subjects are followed until death or lost to follow up. The recurrence, metastasis sites, detection methods, adjuvant treatment and accurate survival time were recorded in detail.

Due to the lack of historical data and expected effect size for this population, the sample size of this pilot study is arbitrarily set at 40, including two intervention arms. Arm A will included 30 patients who receive HAIC combined with sintilimab. Arm B will included 10 patients who receive only HAIC. The patients are assigned to any group according to their willing.

The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate progression-free survival and overall survival; the Log-rank method was used for single factor analysis; the Cox model was analyzed by multivariate analysis. All the statistical tests were two-sided, and P \< 0.05 was considered statistically significant.