Dual Task Training On Children With Ataxia After Medulloblastoma Resection
Medulloblastoma is a rapidly-growing tumor of the cerebellum, this area controls balance, posture and sophisticated motor functions like finer hand movements, speech, and swallowing. With the goal of, complete resection, major complications during tumor removal are usually caused by damage to the brain stem and injury to the lower cranial nerves.It has been reported that those children present Ataxia after resection. So the purpose of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of using a selected dual-task- training program to improve postural stability in those Children.
Medulloblastoma, Childhood|Childhood Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Dual Task Training Program Group|BEHAVIORAL: Control Group
Dual Task Training program, Determining the efficacy of "Dual-Task Training in children with ataxia after Medulloblastoma Resection regarding "Static Balance" and "Dynamic Balance" will be assessed with HUMAC Balance system as indicators of Postural Control, 8 Weeks
Ataxia after Medulloblastoma Resection, The degree of ataxia will be assessed in children by SARA (Scale of Assessment and Rating of Ataxia) with a scoring scale with minimum value (0, which means there is no Ataxia) and maximum values (40, high score of Ataxia)., 8 Weeks
Balance system in children with ataxia after Medulloblastoma Resection, Will be assessed with Pediactris Balance Scale with scoring range with a scoring scale with minimum value (0, which means the child has no balance ) and maximum values (56, which means the child has a good balance score)., 8 Weeks|ADL (activity of daily living) in children with ataxia after Medulloblastoma Resection, assessment of ADL (activity of daily living) with functional independence measurement questionnaire which the higher scores mean a better daily activity independence lower score means worse activity with dependency in function., 8 Weeks
Most patients present with symptoms of hydrocephalus due to obstruction by tumor at the level of the fourth ventricle or cerebral aqueduct, and ataxia (Martin et al., 2014). If the tumor is large enough, the lesion itself can also cause mass effect and increased intracranial pressure. Furthermore, direct structural damage from the children can thus present with nausea, vomiting, ataxia,diplopia.

Ataxia in children is a common clinical sign of various origins consisting of impaired coordination of movement and balance with a lack of muscle control during voluntary activity. Ataxia is most frequently caused by dysfunction of the complex circuitry connecting the basal ganglia, cerebellum and cerebral cortex, and this type of involvement is recorded as "cerebellar ataxia.

Recently, the evidence for procedural memory training has advanced sophistication to suggest and ultimately prove that automaticity of a primary (motor task can be developed through exposure to massive repetitions practice) and the forced subconscious processing using dual task interference (Bermúdez, 2017).

The Objectives of the Study:

1- Aim of the Study: Determining the efficacy of "Dual Task Training in children with ataxia after Medulloblastoma Resection regarding "Static Balance" and "Dynamic Balance" as indicators of Postural Control

2-Specific Objectives:

1. Assess static balance by measuring center of pressure using force plate mode in the humac balance system.
2. Assess dynamic balance by using tilt mode in the humac balance system .
3. Evaluate the improvement on functional status and independence in ADL activities by functional independence measurement.
4. Determine the more effective program for rehabilitation of children with ataxia

3-Secondary Objectives:

1. Assess the degree of ataxia in children after medulloblastoma resection by SARA scale.
2. Detect the effect of cognitive interference on postural stability and balance.
3. Detect if there is improvement in cognitve function after dual task training.