Lurbinectedin With or Without Irinotecan in Treating Patients With Relapsed or High Risk Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma
This phase Ib/II trial studies best dose and side effects of lurbinectedin and how well it works with or without irinotecan in treating patients with Ewing sarcoma that has come back (relapsed) or is high risk and has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Lurbinectedin may decrease chemicals in the body related to Ewing sarcoma, and reducing these chemicals may make the tumor cells more sensitive to irinotecan. Chemotherapy drugs, such as irinotecan, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether giving lurbinectedin with or without irinotecan may work better in treating patients with Ewing sarcoma.
Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma
PROCEDURE: Fine-Needle Aspiration|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Lurbinectedin
Time course of nuclear receptor subfamily 0 group B member 1 (NR0B1) suppression, Werner syndrome RecQ like helicase (WRN) suppression, and S-phase blockade (Phase IB), All analyses of data will be descriptive in nature., Up to 2 years|NR0B1 suppression, and S-phase blockade after lurbinectedin (Phase IB), All analyses of data will be descriptive in nature., Up to 2 years|Recommended dose of lurbinectedin (Phase IB), Dose-limiting toxicity is defined as grade 3 or 4 toxicity that does not resolve to grade 1 or less by 4 weeks., Up to 21 days|Suppression extension of NR0B1 (Phase II), Up to 2 years|Histological characteristics of patients (Phase II), Will assess the histological characteristics of patients to determine if they are true responders by descriptive statistics., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in survival between groups. Regression analysis of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model will be conducted on PFS. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically, and regression diagnostics (e.g., martingale and Shoenfeld residuals) will be examined to ensure that the models are appropriate., Time from treatment onset to either disease progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be performed to test the difference in survival between groups. Regression analysis of survival data based on the Cox proportional hazards model will be conducted on OS. The proportional hazards assumption will be evaluated graphically and analytically, and regression diagnostics (e.g., martingale and Shoenfeld residuals) will be examined to ensure that the models are appropriate., Time from treatment onset to death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall response rate (Phase II), Will be defined as evidence of complete or partial response 6 weeks after the initiation of combination therapy., At 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the time course of nuclear receptor subfamily 0 group B member 1 (NR0B1) suppression, Werner syndrome RecQ like helicase (WRN) suppression, and S-phase blockade after lurbinectedin (PM01183) administration in patients with Ewing sarcoma and Ewing's Sarcoma-Friend leukemia integration 1 transcription factor (EWS-FLI1) translocation. (Phase IB) II. To determine whether similar NR0B1 suppression, and S-phase blockade after lurbinectedin (PM01183) administration is seen in patients with Ewing sarcoma other EWSR1 translocations. (Phase IB) III. To determine the recommended dose (RD) of lurbinectedin (PM01183) in combination with irinotecan every 3 weeks for patients with relapsed Ewing sarcoma. (Phase IB) IV. To assess the activity of lurbinectedin in combination with low-dose irinotecan in patients with relapsed Ewing sarcoma. (Phase II) V. To assess if the suppression of NR0B1is extended after combining irinotecan with lurbinectedin. (Phase II) VI. To assess the histological characteristics of patients with prolonged stable disease to determine if they are true responders. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of lurbinectedin, followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive lurbinectedin intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo fine-needle aspiration on days 2-6 of cycle 1. Beginning in cycle 2, if the biopsy shows suppression of NR0B1, then patients receive irinotecan IV over 1 hour on the day of maximum NR0B1 suppression on cycle 2. If the duration of NR0B1 suppression from lurbinectedin alone exceeds 48 hours, or if the duration of NR0B1 suppression from lurbinectedin and irinotecan exceeds 48 hours and is longer than that seen with lurbinectedin alone, then patients may receive a second dose of irinotecan during the extended period of NR0B1 suppression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 2 months for 6 months, and then every 3 months for at least 2 years.