A Safety and Feasibility Study of AGS-003-LNG for the Treatment of Stage 3 Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
Feasibility and Safety study of autologous dendritic cell immunotherapy (AGS-003-LNG) in patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
BIOLOGICAL: AGS-003-LNG|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Abraxane|DRUG: Alimta|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Taxol|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Safety - Adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.03, Safety of AGS-003-LNG for subjects who receive 1 or more doses of AGS-003-LNG in combination with standard platinum-doublet chemotherapy with or without radiation. Adverse events will be collected per CTCAE V4.03., 2 Years|Immunogenicity - Generation of Cluster of Differentiation-8 (CD8)+ Cluster of Differentiation (CD28)+ memory T-cells, Generation of CD8+CD28+ memory T-cells against tumor associated antigens in subject receiving 5 or more doses of AGS-003-LNG., After 5th dose of AGS-003-LNG. Within 6 months.
Efficacy - Overall survival, While the study is not powered for efficacy Overall Survival (including median and one year survival) be analyzed as an exploratory endpoints., 2 Years|Efficacy - Progression-free survival as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria., While the study is not powered for efficacy, Progression Free Survival will be analyzed as an exploratory endpoint., 2 Years|Efficacy - Objective response rate. The number of patients with a Complete Response or Partial Response., While the study is not powered for efficacy Objective Response Rate will be analyzed as an exploratory endpoint., 2 Years|Feasibility - Number of patients with a success in the manufacture of AGS-003-LNG., AGS-003-LNG manufacturing success rate for non small cell lung cancer tumor RNA isolation from surgical resection., 1 Month
Feasibility and Safety study of autologous dendritic cell immunotherapy (AGS-003-LNG) in patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer tumor will be resected from the patient. RNA from the tumor will be amplified and subsequently electroporated into matured, autologous dendritic cells. The dendritic cells with tumor RNA will be dosed back to the patient. Study will investigate feasibility and safety.