Azeliragon and Chemoradiotherapy in Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
This is an open label study to determine the safety and preliminary evidence of a therapeutic effect of azeliragon in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma receiving concurrent radiation and temozolomide.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Azeliragon 5 mg|DRUG: Azeliragon 10 mg|DRUG: Azeliragon 20 mg
Recommended phase 2/3 dose, To assess the recommended phase 2/3 dose (RP2/3D) in mg/day of azeliragon in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma receiving concurrent radiation and temozolomide.

Dose limiting toxicities were defined as listed AEs, dose-reductions, treatment interruptions, or discontinuation occurring during the DLT period (28 days), which are attributable (definite, probable, possible) to azeliragon will be classified as a DLT. 6 patients must be treated at that dose level with ≤ 1 DLT observed, Throughout the DLT observation period, approximately 28 days per patient
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Percentage of patients experiencing an adverse event, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs), Percentage of patients experiencing a serious adverse event, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Disease control rate (DCR), Percentage of patients who experience a complete response, partial response or stable disease according to Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria as their best response throughout the study, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Overall survival (OS), Defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of death, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Patients with changes in the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, Percentage of patients who experience a change in ECOG status through the study, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|S100A9 expression levels, Expression levels of the S100A9 molecular biomarker in blood samples from patients. Samples will be taken at baseline, Week 10 and after progression, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient in 3 occasions for each patient
Patients will receive involved field radiation therapy and temozolomide consisting of fractionated focal irradiation in daily fractions of 2 Gy given 5 days/week for 6 weeks, for a total of 60 Gy, plus concomitant daily temozolomide (TMZ; 75 mg/m2/day, 7 days/week from the first to the last day of radiotherapy), followed by six cycles of adjuvant TMZ (150-200 mg/m2/day for 5 days during each of six 28-day cycles.

Patients will receive azeliragon for up to 2 years or as long as the patient and study investigator feel that a therapeutic benefit is possible.

Patients will be accrued in groups of six starting with Dose Level 1. Escalation will continue as described in Table 2 until stopping rules are met or the highest defined dose level is reached. If Dose Level 1 is deemed intolerable, the trial will be closed to accrual.

The dose limiting toxicities (DLT) evaluation period will be defined as 28 days from initiation of dosing. The severity of adverse events will be graded according to CTCAE v 5.0. For the purpose of dose-finding, any listed AEs occurring during the DLT period, which are attributable (definite, probable, possible) to azeliragon will be classified as a DLT. In addition, the RP2/3D will take into account dose-reductions, treatment interruptions, discontinuation, and toxicities after the DLT period.

RP2/3D was defined as the dose with 6 patients treated at that dose level with ≤ 1 DLT observed.