E7389 in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of E7389 in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: eribulin mesylate|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of eribulin mesylate defined as the highest dose tested in which no more than 1 of first 6 patients evaluated for toxicity experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) as assessed by NCI CTC version 2.0, Summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity, time of onset (i.e., course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by cycle., 28 days
Pharmacokinetics of eribulin mesylate, The pharmacokinetic data will be analyzed using compartmental and non-compartmental models for each patient., At baseline and at the first and third dose of treatment|In vivo anti-mitotic activity of E7389 by cell cycle analysis and immunohistochemistry, At pre- and post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of E7389 administered as an IV bolus over 1-2 minutes weekly for 3 weeks.

II. To describe the toxicities of E7389. III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of E7389. IV. To determine the in vivo anti-mitotic activity of E7389 by cell cycle analysis and immunohistochemistry in pre- and post-treatment tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

Patients receive E7389 IV over 1-2 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for at least 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of E7389 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences dose-limiting toxicity.