The Drug Rediscovery Protocol (DRUP Trial)
This is a prospective, non-randomized clinical trial that aims to describe the efficacy and toxicity of commercially available, targeted anticancer drugs\* prescribed for treatment of patients with advanced cancer with a potentially actionable variant as revealed by a genomic or protein expression test. The study also aims to simplify patient access to approved targeted therapies that are contributed to the program by collaborating pharmaceutical companies and to perform next generation sequencing on tumor biopsies for biomarker analyses. Eligible patients have an advanced solid tumor, multiple myeloma or B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma for which standard treatment options are no longer available and acceptable performance status and organ function. A genomic or protein expression test must have been performed on the tumor and the results must identify at least one potentially actionable molecular variant as defined in the protocol. Results from the molecular profiling test will be used to determine an appropriate drug(s) from among those available in the protocol. The choice of drug will be supported by a list of potential profiles, a molecular tumor board, a knowledge library and by study coordinators for review and approval of the match. The protocol-specified treatment will be administered to the patient once any drug-specific eligibility criteria are confirmed and a fresh pre-treatment biopsy is performed for future genetic studies. All patients who receive treatment with a drug available in the protocol will be followed for standard efficacy outcomes including tumor response, progression-free and overall survival as well as duration of treatment. In addition, treatment related toxicity will be evaluated.
Cancer|Tumors|Neoplasm|Neoplasia
DRUG: Panitumumab|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Nilotinib|DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Trastuzumab and Pertuzumab (combination treatment)|DRUG: Vemurafenib and Cobimetinib (combination treatment)|DRUG: Vismodegib|DRUG: Regorafenib|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Afatinib|DRUG: Dabrafenib and trametinib|DRUG: Ribociclib|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Rucaparib|DRUG: Axitinib|DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Crizotinib|DRUG: Sunitinib|DRUG: Cabozantinib|DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Alectinib|DRUG: Atezolizumab and Bevacizumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab and nivolumab|DRUG: Entrectinib|DRUG: Talazoparib|DRUG: Dacomitinib|DRUG: Lorlatinib|DRUG: Erdafitinib|DRUG: Alpelisib|DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Pemigatinib|DRUG: Selpercatinib|DRUG: Tepotinib
Percentage of patients that are treated based on their molecular tumor profile, Primary outcome measure 1 is the percentage of submitted patients, that can be treated based on their molecular tumor profile within the context of this protocol., 6 months after treatment initiation (estimated average)|Objective tumor response, Primary outcome measure 2 is the proportion of study participants with an objective tumor response upon study treatment.., 6 months after treatment initiation (estimated average)|Stable disease, Primary outcome measure 3 is the proportion of study participants that has stable disease (SD) during study treatment., 6 months after treatment initiation (estimated average)|Treatment-related grade≥3 and serious adverse events, Primary outcome measure 4 is the proportion of patients that experience treatment-related grade≥3 and /or serious adverse events., 6 months after treatment initiation (estimated average)
Progression-free survival, Up to 1 year after study completion|Overall survival, Up to 1 year after study completion|Duration of treatment on study (time on drug), 6 months after treatment initiation (estimated average)
Concordance between pre-treatment and historic mutational tumor profile, Sequencing results of fresh pre-treatment biopsies will be available within 2 months after treatment initiation., 2 months after treatment initiation (estimated average)
Problem description: evidence is building that matching targeted agents to tumor characteristics can improve outcomes. Such reports have fueled interest among patients and physicians to use molecular testing for treatment planning when standard treatment options have been exhausted. When oncologists aim to provide such personalized treatment to their patients though, obtaining the drugs can be challenging since off-label prescribing, while legal, is generally not reimbursed by insurance companies. Furthermore, outcomes of off-label treatment in routine clinical practice are not systematically recorded. As a result, the research and clinical communities have limited insight in these outcomes, leading to repetitive use of ineffective treatment for some tumor types, while effective treatment strategies might be missed for others. The latter is especially relevant for 'orphan diseases', that are too rare to conduct formal phase II and III trials. In summary, there is a lack of access to potentially effective therapy on one hand, and a lack of knowledge on broader use of such therapies on the other, altogether leading to sub-optimal use of available resources.

Envisioned solution and study aim: creation of a drug-access program, in which patients are treated with registered targeted therapy matched to their molecular tumor profile, and in which the outcomes of such therapies are recorded systematically, per tumor profile and tumor type (this is important since it is becoming increasingly clear that the tissue of origin is an important determinant of outcome of genetic abnormalities). We hereby aim to improve and broaden the use of registered targeted therapy, whilst facilitating patient access to such therapy.

Plan of investigation: patients will be treated with approved targeted agents, selected based on results of a molecular profiling test of the patient's tumor. Eligible patients will have exhausted standard treatment options, and their tumor must harbor a potentially actionable molecular variant as defined in the protocol. The study will provide a tumor board to help physicians understand the profiling test results and treatment options, and will enable insights about the utility of this approach. In addition, next generation sequencing will be performed on fresh tumor biopsies for additional biomarker discovery. Patients from the Netherlands and the USA will be included in two similar though independent protocols (DRUP and TAPUR), allowing data-exchange and empowering of both trials.

Expected outcome: early signs of clinical activity of approved drugs outside their label, providing effective personalized treatment options, improved patient outcomes and access to targeted therapy.