Move For Surgery - A Novel Preconditioning Program
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Canada. Most patients with this cancer will undergo treatment with major chest surgery that is associated with serious complications. As many as 50% of patients will suffer respiratory complications after surgery, keeping them in the hospital for extended periods of time. These long hospitalizations have a dramatic negative effect on the lives of those people, in addition to a large cost burden on our healthcare system. Traditionally, patients who suffer from complications are treated with rehabilitation AFTER the complications have occurred. But what if complications can be prevented BEFORE they happen? Having major chest surgery imposes great stress on the human body, one that is equivalent to running a marathon. Analogous to training before completing a marathon, the investigator designed Move For Surgery (MFS), a novel preconditioning program that encourages and empowers patients to improve their health prior to surgery. The investigator aims to demonstrate that patients who train with Move For Surgery will have lower respiratory complication rates, will recover better, and will leave the hospital sooner than their counterparts.
Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell
DEVICE: Move For Surgery Preconditioning Program using a Wearable Activity Tracker (Fitbit) Intervention Group
The primary outcome of the comparative trial will be length of stay (LOS) in hospital after surgery, which will also be used to measure speed of recovery from surgery and postoperative complications., LOS is a good surrogate measure for the speed of recovery from surgery (patients who recover faster leave hospital earlier) and postoperative complications (patients who do not suffer complications leave the hospital earlier)., 24 months
Secondary outcome will include differences in the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) scores before and after the intervention., The quality of life as reported by patients will be compared., 24 months
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Canada. Most patients with this cancer will undergo treatment with major chest surgery that is associated with serious complications. As many as 50% of patients will suffer respiratory complications after surgery, keeping them in the hospital for extended periods of time. These long hospitalizations have a dramatic negative effect on the lives of those people, in addition to a large cost burden on our healthcare system. Traditionally, patients who suffer from complications are treated with rehabilitation AFTER the complications have occurred. But what if complications can be prevented BEFORE they happen? Having major chest surgery imposes great stress on the human body, one that is equivalent to running a marathon. Analogous to training before completing a marathon, the investigator designed Move For Surgery (MFS), a novel preconditioning program that encourages and empowers patients to improve their health prior to surgery. The investigator aims to demonstrate that patients who train with Move For Surgery will have lower respiratory complication rates, will recover better, and will leave the hospital sooner than their counterparts.