Bovine Lactoferrin in Reducing Taste Disturbances in Patients With Colorectal Cancer Receiving Oxaliplatin-Based Chemotherapy
The purpose of this research study is to determine if using a lactoferrin supplement will improve taste perception. Lactoferrin is a type of protein that is naturally produced in the body and is commonly found in saliva.
Colorectal Cancer|Dysgeusia|Oral Complications of Chemotherapy
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: bovine lactoferrin
Change in the Taste Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and taste and smell questionnaire responses, Paired-tests will be used to assess the significance of these changes. Linear regression models will be used to determine which patient covariates are associated with change. Repeated measures models will also be used to assess the changes over time using all the repeated measures and contrasts will be used to assess individual pair-wise differences. Descriptive reports will consist of summary statistics (means, standard deviations, proportions, etc.)., Approximately 1 month
Effect of bovine lactoferrin on lipid peroxidation byproducts in saliva as measured by the TBARs assay, Approximately 2 months|Malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations before and after a ferrous iron oral rinse, Approximately 2 months|Quality of life as quantified by the Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Treatment (FAACT) questionnaire, Approximately 2 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of lactoferrin (bovine lactoferrin) supplementation on self-reported taste and smell disturbances in patients with colorectal cancer receiving oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of lactoferrin supplementation on the baseline lipid peroxidation byproducts in saliva in these patients as measured by the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARs) assay.

II. To assess the impact of lactoferrin supplementation on the ability of these patients to generate increased lipid peroxidation byproducts when challenged with a weak iron containing solution.

III. To assess the impact of lactoferrin supplementation on self-reported general quality of life and on specific self-reported anorexia/cachexia issues in patients with established chemotherapy-induced taste disturbances.

IV. To assess the incidence of vitamin D deficiency in patients with oxaliplatin-based therapy induced taste changes

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bovine lactoferrin orally (PO) (rinse or tablet) thrice daily (TID) for 1 month. Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 and 4 weeks.