Everolimus Post Pazopanib Treatment in Metastatic or Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
Study to determine the efficacy, safety and tolerability of first-line pazopanib followed by second-line everolimus in metastatic and advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Due to changes in the RCC treatment landscape, info gained is no longer clinically relevant to patients. Data collected is deemed sufficient to meet objective.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Pazopanib followed by everolimus
Progression Free Survival (PFS) for the Everolimus Treatment Period Using RECIST, Time between the date of first everolimus dose and date of disease progression or death (whichever comes first) in patients treated initially with pazopanib.

Disease progression is measured by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors), which is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the target lesion longest diameters (LDs)., Throughout the study period, up to 4 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rates, PFS rates 3 and 6 months after date of first dose of second-line everolimus treatment., 3 months, 6 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) for the Everolimus Treatment Period Using RECIST, Percentage of patients with Complete or Partial Response at any time following the start of second-line everolimus treatment as per RECIST.

RECIST Complete Response is defined to be a disappearance of all target lesion(s). RECIST Partial Response is defined to be at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the target lesion LDs., Throughout the study, up to 4 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR) for the Pazopanib Treatment Period Using RECIST, Percentage of patients with Complete or Partial Response at any time following the start of first-line pazopanib treatment.

RECIST Complete Response is defined to be a disappearance of all target lesion(s). RECIST Partial Response is defined to be at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the target lesion LDs., Throughout the study period, up to 4 years|Overall Survival of Everolimus (OSE), Time from first everolimus dose until death due to any cause, Throughout the study period, up to 4 years|Overall Survival From the Start (OSS) of Study Treatment, Time from first pazopanib dose until death due to any cause in patients who received at least one dose of pazopanib followed by everolimus, Throughout the study, up to 4 years|PFS for the Pazopanib Treatment Period Using RECIST, Time from first pazopanib dose until disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurred earlier), provided this occurred prior to the start of everolimus and within 6 months of last dose of pazopanib, Throughout the study period, up to 4 years
A non-randomised, open label, single-arm phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 1st-line pazopanib followed by 2nd-line everolimus in patients with previously untreated advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Subjects received initial therapy with pazopanib followed, on progression, by 2nd-line therapy with everolimus. Study treatment - sequential treatment with pazopanib followed by everolimus - to continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or death.