Fluorescence-guided Resection Of Colorectal Liver Metastases Using SGM-101 and Indocyanine GREEN
This will be the first trial testing the feasibility of working simultaneously with the two fluorescent dyes ICG and SGM-101 in 10 patients with colorectal metastases.
Colorectal Cancer|Liver Metastasis Colon Cancer|Image
DRUG: SGM-101 op top of ICG
To assess the feasibility of simultaneous use of ICG and SGM-101 for intraoperative imaging of colorectal liver metastases., It is deemed feasible when it meets all of the following criteria:

1. A positive score on practical workability measured with survey A 'practical workability during surgery'
2. A positive score on the patient's experience measured with survey B 'patient experience'.
3. SGM-101: at least 80% sensitivity, measured as follows:

   * For capsular lesions, that are visible in white light are counted positive if TBR ≥ 1.5 in vivo.
   * For subcapsular lesions that are not visible in white light will be counted as positive if:

   A: TBR ≥ 1.5 in vivo, OR B: TBR ≥ 1.5 ex vivo on whole specimen or on bread loafs
4. No cross-interference of fluorescent signal of both dyes within the two different excitation and emission channels.

Feasibility is reached when a positive result on all four items is scored., 1.5 years
25-30% of patients with colorectal cancer develop colorectal liver metastases (CRLM). Cornerstone for optimal survival is achieving radical surgical resections of all metastases . To assist the surgeon in achieving this, the use of intra-operative ICG for fluorescent tumour delineation has widely been adopted as standard of care. Multiple international trials have demonstrated that the use of ICG increases the rate of radical resections and result in the detection of additional malignant lesions invisible to the naked eye. However, the rate of false positives is still high and although it has increased the number of radical resections, even in a minimal invasive cohort the unintended R1 rate is still as much as 8%. Therefore, there is a need of an additional real-time intra-operative tool to detect R1 resections, especially in patients with a priori high risk for R1. To illustrate, in a large shared database of the Erasmus University Medical Center was found that patients that either received neoadjuvant chemotherapy, underwent a resection for \>3 CRLM or patients that had a locally recurrent liver metastasis were independently associated with high R1 rates, ranging between 23-29%. Therefore, here is proposed the addition of SGM-101, a tumour targeted (carcinoembryonic antigen, CEA) NIR-fluorescence probe to ICG in patients scheduled for a resection with high risk of R1, ultimately to reduce the R1 ratio. This is the first trial testing the feasibility of working simultaneously with the two fluorescent dyes. If feasibility is met in this trial, this is a step-up towards a powered trial with primary objective to reduce the rate of R1 resections.

An additional exploratory objective of this study is to investigate the feasibility of SGM-101's potential to isolate circulating tumour cells (CTCs) and tumour-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) as biomarkers for CRC. The load of CTCs and EVs in the circulation is strongly associated with poor clinical outcomes. Studies have shown that they contain information about the molecular profile of the tumour. The administration of SGM-101 may enable the detection of CEA positive CTCs and EVs.