Adebrelimab Combined With Bevacizumab and Albumin Paclitaxel in Non-squamous NSCLC After First-line Treatment
A prospective, single-arm, phase II trial of Adebrelimab combined with bevacizumab and albumin paclitaxel in advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer after first-line immunotherapy progression.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Adebrelimab Combined With Bevacizumab and Albumin Paclitaxel
6-month PFS rate, 6-Month PFS Rates for Adebrelimab Combined with Bevacizumab and Albumin Paclitaxel in Patients with Advanced NSCLC Progressed by First-Line Immunotherapy Evaluated by Investigators, 6 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time elapsed between the start of treatment and the first sign of disease progression or death from any cause., up to 12 months|Over survival (OS), OS is defined as the time elapsed between the initiation of treatment and mortality from any cause., up to 12 months|Disease control rate (DCR), Number of cases with completed/partial response and stable disease after treatment as a percentage of evaluable cases., up to 12 months
The study consisted of a screening period (no more than 4 weeks after patients signed informed consent until enrollment, with imaging assessments allowed to be archived within 4 weeks prior to enrollment), a treatment period (treatment termination defined as discontinuation of treatment for any reason, or withdrawal from the study for any reason), a safety follow-up period, and a survival follow-up period.

Screening period:

Patients were required to undergo a screening evaluation to determine their eligibility for the study within 4 weeks prior to enrollment.

Patients eligible for the study receive adebrelimab, 20 mg/kg, Intravenous infusion, Q3W + bevacizumab, 7.5 mg/kg, Intravenous infusion, Q3W + albumin paclitaxel 100 mg/m2, D1, 8, 15, Intravenous infusion, Q3W. albumin paclitaxel treatment for 4 cycles, adebrelimab, bevacizumab use to PD, intolerable toxicity, patient withdrawal of informed consent, investigator decision to discontinue study treatment.

Treatment period:

Patients eligible for study enrollment were given medication sequentially on day 1 of each cycle, with a dosing window of ±5 days, and patients were required to complete various examinations including vital signs, height and weight, physical examination, laboratory tests, and physical status scores to assess tolerance for continued treatment. The specific examinations and requirements for each visit are shown in the study flow chart.

End of treatment:

End of treatment is defined as confirmation of disease progression or withdrawal from the study and requires an end-of-treatment visit ±5 days from the time of the decision to discontinue treatment and/or withdraw from the study.

Safety follow-up. Safety follow-up visits will be conducted within 30±7, 60±7 days, and 90±7 days after the last dose.

Survival follow-up. Survival follow-up will be conducted every 3 months after safety follow-up and telephone follow-up is acceptable.