Osimertinib Therapy After Resection in High-risk Stage I EGFRm NSCLC (OSTAR)
This is a prospective, open, single-center, single-arm phase II clinical study with common EGFR-sensitive mutations (Ex19del and L858R) identified in the central laboratory.To evaluate the efficacy and safety of adjuvant Osimertinib therapy in completely resected stage I non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with high-risk factors (solid and/or micropapillary component ≥10%, and/or airway spread).
NSCLC, Stage I
DRUG: Osimertinib
3-year DFS rate, DFS is defined as time from randomization to disease recurrence (determined by CT or MRI scan and/or pathologic disease on biopsy) or death (from any cause) by investigator assessment. 3-year DFS rate is Disease-Free Survival at 3 Years., From date of randomisation up to approximately 5 years
DFS, DFS is defined as time from randomization to disease recurrence (determined by CT or MRI scan and/or pathologic disease on biopsy) or death (from any cause) by investigator assessment., From date of randomisation up to approximately 10 years|3-year OS rate, Defined as the percentage of patients alive at 3 years, respectively, estimated from a Kaplan Meier plot of OS at the time of the primary analysis, From date of randomization up to approximately 5 years|5-year OS rate, Defined as the percentage of patients alive at 5 years, respectively, estimated from a Kaplan Meier plot of OS at the time of the primary analysis, From date of randomization up to approximately 5 years|OS, OS is defined as the time from the date of randomisation until death due to any cause., From date of randomization up to approximately 10 years|Safety and tolerability in overall population, AEs graded by CTCAE version 5.0, From date of randomisation up to approximately 10 years|health-related quality of life and Symptoms (HRQoL), Change from baseline will be calculated for each domain and summary scale at each scheduled post-baseline assessment. The SF-36 includes eight domains: Physical Functioning (PF); Role Limitations-Physical (RP), Vitality (VT), General Health Perceptions (GH), Bodily Pain (BP), Social Function (SF), Role Limitations-Emotional (RE), and Mental Health (MH) and two summary scores: The Physical Component Summary (PCS) and Mental Component Summary (MCS). Final scores for each scale range from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better health., Measured by SF-36 Questionnaire at baseline, 12 week,and then every 24 weeks until study complete, disease recurrence or other discontinuation criteria met, up to approximately 5 years.
Patients will be tested for the status of EGFR-sensitive mutations prior to enrollment and confirmed positive by central laboratory testing.The surgically removed tumor foci will be confirmed by central laboratory pathologic examination for their pathological subtypes, solid and/or micropapillary components ≥10%, and/or STAS positive.

These patients had undergone complete resection of the tumor, and 65 patients who met the criteria for inclusion were enrolled to receive Osimertinib. Patients had to be enrolled and given Osimertinib within 10 weeks of complete resection.The dose of Osimertinib in this study was 80 mg once a day and the planned duration of treatment was 3 years (156 weeks). Patients will be evaluated for safety and efficacy at baseline, at week 12, and every 12 weeks thereafter until completion or termination of treatment. Patients were followed up every 24 weeks to 5 years (264 weeks) and annually thereafter for disease recurrence.

Overall survival (OS) was observed every 24 weeks for 5 years (264 weeks) after disease recurrence and annually thereafter.The primary endpoint of the study was 3-year DFS rate. Disease-free survival (DFS) should be calculated from the date of entry on Osimertinib to the date of disease recurrence or death.

After the primary analysis (3-year DFS rate), patients' survival status will be followed up according to the simplified study plan (OS analysis period) until the final OS analysis data is available. In the event of disease recurrence, patients will be re-staged and all sites of recurrence of NSCLC will be recorded. It will be up to the doctor to decide what treatment the patient will receive after a relapse;and cancer treatment after recurrence will be documented.Taken together, all primary, secondary, and exploratory endpoints in this study strongly describe the overall benefit of adjuvant Osimertinib in a population of patients with high-risk EGFRm+ stage I NSCLC who have been surgically completely resected.