Predicting Sites of Tumour Progression in the Invasive Margin of Glioblastomas (PRaM-GBM Study)
Brain tumours are the leading cause of cancer deaths in children, men under the age of 45 and women under the age of 25. Glioblastoma is the most common and most malignant primary tumour. The predominant treatment is surgical removal of the tumour followed by radiotherapy. Sadly the majority of patients given this treatment develop recurrent and progressive disease.

Better understanding of the invasive margin might improve outcomes by facilitating more complete surgical resection beyond the traditional contrast enhancing margins. Diffusion tensor MRI (DTI) is an imaging technique which may be able to predict the site of tumour recurrence. DTI has previously been shown to identify regions, which have been confirmed with biopsies, to be areas of invasive tumours and are present before progression is seen with an MRI.

The primary aim of this study is to qualify an imaging biomarker that can be applied at initial presentation, that can accurately predict the site of where glioblastomas will progress after treatment and allow personalisation of both radiotherapy and surgical targets.
High Grade Glioma
OTHER: Diffusion tensor Imaging (DTI)
Site of glioblastoma true progression correctly predicted by DTI scan, Assess the diagnostic accuracy of DTI at pre-surgery or/and pre-radiotherapy as a biomarker to predict site of glioblastoma progression, 18 months
Accuracy of DTI as a biomarker, Explore difference of DTI performed pre-surgery and pre-radiotherapy to predict the site of glioblastoma progression, 18 months|Perfusion imaging, Investigate dynamic susceptibility imaging to measure rCBV of the invasive margin to improve the accuracy of the DTI biomarker., 18 months|Time to progression, Investigate if pattern of invasion can predict time to progression, 18 months|Extent of resection and volume of tumour that remains post-surgery by standard imaging and DTI, Determine the effect of resection on the invasive margin as determined by DTI, 18 months|Radiotherapy dose according to DTI-defined invasive region, Retrospectively compare dose of radiotherapy using the DTI-defined invasive region receives with conventional radiotherapy plans, 18 months
Difference of area highlighted by amino-acid PET and DTI-MRI, Investigate the relationship between amino-acid PET, area of surgical resection and the area highlighted by DTI-MRI, 18 months|Number of amino-acid PET only image guided biopsies taken from patients, Investigate the feasibility of taking image-guided biopsies from patients in the region outside of the area with increased amino-acid PET uptake, 18 months|Site of glioblastoma true progression correctly predicted from pre-operative imaging by a region that is predicted by the DTI abnormality outside of the area of increased uptake to amino-acid on PET, Explore the extent of invasive disease (from DTI/perfusion) that is likely to be left following surgery by assessing potential resected tumour using amino acid PET, 18 months
This is a multicentre, prospective longitudinal observational cohort study in patients with high grade glioma, who have surgery planned to remove \>90% of the tumour, and subsequent radical radiotherapy with concomitant tomozolomide. The purpose of this study is to establish a model using DTI that can accurately predict the site of where glioblastomas will progress after treatment. This study aims to validate the use of DTI as a biomarker across multiple centres to develop analysis methods that could be used in the future to personalise radiotherapy treatment volumes, and potentially surgical targets.

Patients will be given a DTI-MRI both prior to the operation and prior to radiotherapy. Clinical MRIs will take place according to standard guidelines. Whilst the study is open patients will participate in the study until death. Once a total of 70 patients from the first 90 have shown true progression patients will participate in the study for a minimum of 6 months from the beginning of radiotherapy.

This study will be conducted in 6-10 NHS centres, where 120 patients will be recruited, patients who are withdrawn will be replaced.