Cabozantinib S-Malate in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Endometrial Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well cabozantinib s-malate works in treating patients with endometrial cancer that has come back (recurrent) or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Cabozantinib s-malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Endometrial Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Mixed Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Cancer|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Uterine Corpus Carcinosarcoma
DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., At 12 weeks, then every 8 weeks during treatment; up to 12 weeks post-treatment if discontinued due to toxicities, a maximum of 16 weeks|Progression-free Survival, Defined as the percentage of patients progression free 12 weeks from starting treatment., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, assessed at 12 weeks
Number of Participants With Archival Specimens That Had C-met Amplification or Mutation, Will correlate with clinical response.

83 tumors were profiled on the NGS TruSeq amplicon panel and 1 on Sequenom. Fields with at least 50 tumor cells were captured to analyze 100 non-overlapping tumor cell nuclei to calculate a ratio of MET to CEP7 signal; MET ampliction was defined as MET/CEP7 ratio \>=2., Baseline|Overall Survival, Will correlate with clinical response., Time from start of treatment to time of death, every 6 months|Pharmacodynamic Responses in Levels of Soluble, Circulating Angiogenic Factors, Will correlate with clinical response., Baseline and day 1 of course 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine efficacy of single agent cabozantinib s-malate (cabozantinib) in women previously receiving one line of chemotherapy for metastatic endometrial cancer or with progression within 12 months of completing adjuvant therapy, with co-primary endpoints of objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and progression-free-survival at 12 weeks (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Correlation of clinical response with baseline molecular status of archival tumor (hepatocyte growth factor receptor \[c-met\] amplification \& mutation status) and overall survival.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib s-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 weeks or every 6 months.