Clinical Trial of Expanded and Activated Autologous NK Cells to Treat Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to determine wether activated and expanded autologous Natural Killer cells (NKAEs) are effective in the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma on second or later relapse. NKAEs are used in combination with anti-myeloma drugs such as lenalidomide or bortezomib.
Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: NKAE cells infusion|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Bortezomib
Number of Participants With Adverse Events During NKAE Treatment, Toxicity will be assessed by adverse events count during NKAE treatment monitoring peripheral blood absolute neutrophil count (cells/μl). Toxicity will be evaluated monthly during NKAE treatment (4 months). During follow-up, it will be assessed monthly the first 6 months. After that, quarterly until one year of follow-up, based on Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events of the National Cancer Institute (CTCAE) to v.4.03., 16 months
Number of Participants With Peripheral Blood Monoclonal Protein Reduction or Stabilization, Efficacy will be assessed monthly during NKAE treatment (4 months) by peripheral blood monoclonal protein monitoring. During follow-up, efficacy will be evaluated monthly the first 6 months. After that, quarterly until one year of follow-up., 16 months
It is expected to enroll 10 to 15 patients within 18 months. Patients have to achieve stable disease after induction therapy. Peripheral blood from patients will be collected every cycle (n=4) to produce NKAEs under Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) conditions peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMCs) will be co-cultured with a genetically modified cell line (K562-mb15-41BBL) and 100 IU/ml interleukin-2.

Treatment consists of 4 cycles of anti-myeloma consolidation treatment with two infusions of NKAEs every day 1 and 8 of each cycle. Usually, chosen treatment regime will be bortezomib (Velcade) or lenalidomide (Revlimid). These treatments are used to be combined with corticosteroid medications which needs to be suspended before NKAEs infusions. A washout period of 2 weeks is required.

NKAEs dose of cells will be constant, 7.5x106/kg. There will be an interim analysis intra-cohort one week after the first batch of two infusions. If at the analysis no grade IV adverse effect is observed we will proceed to the second cycle and the inclusion of other patients.