Targeted Intervention for Melanoma Prevention
In this study, the researchers will conduct interviews with melanoma patients to describe the sun exposure and sun protection practices of patients and their children. The researchers will use the findings of this interview study to develop a salient intervention targeted to the needs of melanoma patients and their children. The researchers will evaluate the intervention in a randomized, controlled trial.

The specific aims of this study are:

* To interview 210 melanoma patients with children 12 years of age or younger to describe patients' socio-cognitive and psychological factors, describe patients' and children's sun exposure and sun protection practices, and identify determinants of patients' and children's sun exposure and protective practices.
* To develop a targeted behavioral intervention that is designed to increase patients' protective practices to reduce their children's sun exposure, increase patients' self-protective practices, decrease the sun exposure levels of patients and their children, and positively influence socio-cognitive and psychological determinants of child-centered and self-protective practices.
* To conduct a randomized, controlled trial in a sample of 360 melanoma patients with children 12 years of age or younger to evaluate the targeted behavioral intervention consisting of print and video materials. The intervention will be assessed for its effects on: 1) child sun exposure and sun protection; 2) patients' protective practices to reduce their children's sun exposure; 3) patients' sun exposure and self-protective practices; and 4) patients' socio-cognitive and psychological factors that facilitate behavior change.
Melanoma
BEHAVIORAL: Interview
Patients'and Children's Sun Exposure and Protective Practices <Patient Interview Responses>, Standard descriptive statistics computed for measures administered during structured interview, including means, standard deviations, ranges, measures of skew and kurtosis, together with 95% confidence intervals. Distributional characteristics of variables closely examined using boxplots, histograms, quantile-quantile plots, and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test of normality.

General linear mixed-model approach used evaluate associations between patient socio-cognitive factors, psychological factors, phenotypic characteristics, and demographic characteristics; child phenotypic and demographic characteristics; and practices of participants to reduce their children's sun exposure, self-protective practices of participants, and sun exposure practices of children and participants., Baseline Interview, 6 Month and 9 Month Interviews
Research is to learn about awareness, attitudes, and behaviors related to sun exposure, sun protection, skin examination, and other risk-reducing behaviors. The results of this study will be used to design an educational program on sun protection for persons who have had melanoma and their children.

The study will involve a telephone interview that will last about 45 minutes and will be scheduled at your convenience. Your participation in this study is completely voluntary and you may refuse to participate. Your decision about participating will not affect the care or services you or your family may receive at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.