Bevacizumab and Temsirolimus Alone or in Combination With Valproic Acid or Cetuximab in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Malignancy or Other Benign Disease
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of bevacizumab and temsirolimus alone or in combination with valproic acid or cetuximab in treating patients with a malignancy that has spread to other places in the body or other disease that is not cancerous. Immunotherapy with bevacizumab and cetuximab, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Temsirolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as valproic acid, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether bevacizumab and temsirolimus work better when given alone or with valproic acid or cetuximab in treating patients with a malignancy or other disease that is not cancerous.
Advanced Malignant Neoplasm|Castleman Disease|Digestive System Carcinoma|Erdheim-Chester Disease|Lip and Oral Cavity Carcinoma|Lymphangioleiomyomatosis|Malignant Endocrine Neoplasm|Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Malignant Male Reproductive System Neoplasm|Malignant Neoplasm|Malignant Respiratory Tract Neoplasm|Malignant Thoracic Neoplasm|Malignant Urinary System Neoplasm|Mesothelial Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm|Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|Neurofibromatosis Type 2|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Digestive System Carcinoma|Recurrent Female Reproductive System Carcinoma|Recurrent Male Reproductive System Carcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm|Recurrent Pharyngeal Carcinoma|Recurrent Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Malignant Neoplasm|Soft Tissue Neoplasm|Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Pharyngeal Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Pharyngeal Cancer|Stage IVA Pharyngeal Cancer|Stage IVB Pharyngeal Cancer|Stage IVC Pharyngeal Cancer|Thyroid Gland Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Temsirolimus|DRUG: Valproic Acid
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bevacizumab, defined as the dose level below the dose at which 2 of 6 patients experience drug-related dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Graded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0., 4 weeks|MTD of temsirolimus, defined as the dose level below the dose at which 2 of 6 patients experience DLT, Graded by the NCI CTCAE version 3.0., 4 weeks
Anti-tumor efficacy of each combination (objective response), Will be determined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors and World Health Organization criteria, Up to 6 years|Levels of surrogate anti-angiogenesis markers, Correlated with anti-tumor activity., Up to week 4 of course 1
The properties of the tissue microvasculature., The properties of the tissue microvasculature measured by Dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) include parameters:

volume transfer coefficient, (Ktrans), fractional volume (ve), and rate constant (kep).For each of these parameters, an exploratory analysis of change from baseline will be conducted which will include mean, median, standard deviation, and 95% confidence limits., Up to week 4 of course 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of treatment with bevacizumab and temsirolimus in combination and plus valproic acid or cetuximab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Preliminary descriptive assessment of anti-tumor efficacy of each combination.

II. Preliminary assessment of the pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic markers of target inhibition and correlates of response (optional).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bevacizumab and temsirolimus. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive temsirolimus intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22; bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15; and cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

GROUP II: Patients receive temsirolimus and bevacizumab as in Group I and valproic acid orally (PO) daily on days 1-7 and 15-21.

GROUP III: Patients receive temsirolimus and bevacizumab as in Group I.

In all groups, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.