Use of T-allo10 in Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) for Blood Disorders
A significant number of patients with hematologic malignancies need a hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) to be cured. Only about 50% of these patients have a fully matched donor, the remaining patients will require an HSCT from a mismatched related or unrelated donor. Almost 60% of these mismatched donor HSCTs will result in graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), which can cause significant morbidity and increased non-relapse mortality. GvHD is caused by the donor effector T cells present in the HSC graft that recognize and react against the mismatched patient's tissues.

Researchers and physicians at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, Stanford are working to prevent GvHD after HSCT with a new clinical trial. The objective of this clinical program is to develop a cell therapy to prevent GvHD and induce graft tolerance in patients receiving mismatched unmanipulated donor HSCT. The cell therapy consists of a cell preparation from the same donor of the HSCT (T-allo10) containing T regulatory type 1 (Tr1) cells able to suppress allogenic (host-specific) responses, thus decreasing the incidence of GvHD.

This is the first trial of its kind in pediatric patients and is only available at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, Stanford.

The purpose of this phase 1 study is to determine the safety and tolerability of a cell therapy, T-allo10, to prevent GvHD in patients receiving mismatched related or mismatched unrelated unmanipulated donor HSCT for hematologic malignancies.
AML - Acute Myeloid Leukemia|MDS (Myelodysplastic Syndrome)|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia|NHL - Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|ALL
BIOLOGICAL: T-allo10
Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), Number of participants experiencing TEAEs. Assessments of TEAE will include laboratory abnormalities, changes in vital signs, and changes in physical examination related to the infusion of T-allo10 cells in order to assess the tolerability of T-allo10., Time of T-allo10 cell infusion until 28 days following the infusion.|Severity of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), Number of participants experiencing TEAEs related to infusion, by severity graded according to the CTCAE grading system, from grade 1 (least severe) to grade 5 (death). Assessments of TEAE will include laboratory abnormalities, changes in vital signs, and changes in physical examination following infusion of T-allo10 cells in order to assess the safety of T-allo10., Time of T-allo10 cell infusion until 28 days following the infusion.|Number of Participants Who Achieved Stem Cell Engraftment After Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant (HSCT)., Stem cell engraftment is evaluated by clinical laboratory studies including absolute neutrophil count above 500/mm3 for three consecutive days, hematopoiesis at bone marrow examination, with cellularity \>5 % and donor chimerism \>90% by short tandem repeat (STR) analysis for the presence of donor cells, and minimal residual disease (MRD) assay \< 0.1%., +42 days post HSCT|Number of Successful T-allo10 Products Manufactured for Patients Enrolled, Feasibility defined by the rate of successful manufacture of the T-allo10 product to satisfy the targeted dose level and meet the required release specifications. Number of products meeting specifications out of total products manufactured is reported., By Day -2
Number of Participants Who Experienced Grade III and/or IV Acute GvHD, The number of patients who experienced grade III and IV acute GvHD at Day +100 following infusion of Tallo10 cells, assessed using the Modified Keystone scale administered by an independent evaluator on study visits through Day +100, Study visits through Day +100
Number of Patients Who Developed Chronic GvHD, The number of participants who experienced chronic GvHD and severity will be assessed by an independent evaluator. Outcome is reported as the highest level of chronic GVHD reported., After Day +100 through Day +365|Number of Days to Reach Immune Reconstitution, Immune reconstitution will be evaluated by clinical laboratory studies of CD3+ T cells, assessed by the number of days to reach \>200/microliter CD3+ T cells., Up to Day 365|Number of Participants Who Experienced Disease Free Survival, Disease free survival is defined as the absence of minimal residual disease in the bone marrow.

The investigators will use bone marrow aspirate examination, minimal residual disease (MRD) assay, and donor chimerism by STR analysis to evaluate disease free survival., At Day +365
Patients ages 3-30 years, with hematologic malignancies undergoing mismatched related or unrelated donor transplant will receive conditioning chemotherapy with Total body radiation and cyclophosphamide, according to the standard procedure.

The investigators plan to infuse the donor T-allo10 product one day before HSCT so that the Tr1 cells contained within the T-allo10 product will be able to prevent anti-host alloreactivity of the T cells present within the unmanipulated HSC graft. Indeed, Tr1 cells best exert their suppressive activity at the time of effector T cell activation, occurring when the T cells present in the HSC graft will be transferred to the patient ; therefore, the investigators expect that the early infusion of T-allo10 cells will optimally modulate anti-host alloreactivity of the donor T cells and prevent GvHD.

Immunosuppression will also be administered at the time of HSCT.

Up to 27 eligible patients will be given the T-allo10 product sequentially in 3 escalating dose cohorts to determine the maximum tolerated dose (or the highest dose tested if no maximum tolerated dose is reached). Each cohort will begin by evaluating 3 patients. The patients in each cohort will be staggered by 28 days and each succeeding patient will be enrolled no sooner than the 29 day after the preceding patient's infusion of T-allo10.

* If no patient in a cohort develops a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) following infusion of the investigational cellular product, the investigators will start enrolling patients at the next higher cell dose after completing the 28-day safety evaluation of the 3rd patient in the dose cohort.
* If one out of 3 patients in a cohort has a DLT, 3 additional patients will be evaluated at the same dose level.
* If one out of 6 patients experiences a DLT, dose escalation will occur.
* If 2 out of ≤ 6 patients experience a DLT, dose escalation will cease and that dose will be designated the maximally administered dose.
* Up to three (3) additional patients will be entered at the next lowest dose level if only 3 patients were treated previously at that dose