Efficacy of AFL-assisted PDT in Microinvasive Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Surgical excision is the standard treatment for cutaneous SCC. However, many patients diagnosed with SCC are elderly and ineligible for surgery. Ablative fractional laser- assisted photodynamic therapy (AFL-PDT) offered a higher efficacy than conventional Methylaminolevulinate (MAL)-PDT.
Microinvasive Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: lidocaine-prilocaine 5% cream application|DEVICE: 2940-nm Er:YAG AFL pretreatment|DRUG: methyl-aminolevulinate application|DEVICE: Illuminating using red light-emitting diode lamps
Difference of short-term complete response (CR) rate between AFL-PDT and MAL-PDT, The response was classified as either complete response (complete disappearance of the lesion) or incomplete response (incomplete disappearance of the lesion), Short-term CR rate was evaluated at 3 months|Difference of long-term complete response (CR) rate between AFL-PDT and MAL-PDT, The response was classified as either complete response (complete disappearance of the lesion) or incomplete response (incomplete disappearance of the lesion), Long-term CR rate was evaluated at 24 months|Difference of recurrence rate at 24 months, In all cases of complete response, the patients were reviewed at 24 months to check for recurrence. Post-therapy punch biopsies were performed when there was doubt concerning incomplete-response and clinical recurrence, Recurrent rate was evaluated at 24months
Difference of the cosmetic outcome between AFL-PDT and MAL-PDT, The overall cosmetic outcome was assessed by each investigator for all lesions that achieved complete response at 24 months, and was graded using a 4-point scale: excellent (only slight occurrence of redness or change in pigmentation), good (moderate redness or change in pigmentation), fair (slight to moderate scarring, atrophy, or induration), or poor (extensive scarring, atrophy, or induration), Cosmetic outcome was assessed by each investigator for all lesions that achieved a complete response at 24 months
Differences of Adverse events(erythema, burning sensation, swelling, bleeding) between AFL-PDT and MAL-PDT, Adverse events reported by the patients were noted at each follow-up visit, including severity, duration, and need for additional therapy. All events due to PDT were described as phototoxic reactions(e.g erythema, burning sensation, swelling, bleeding), Within 24 months after each treatment
Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) lesions are potentially metastatic and can be life threatening. Hence, surgical excision is the standard treatment for cutaneous SCC. However, some patients are ineligible for surgery because of their poor general health, concomitant anticoagulant or immunosuppressive therapies, or allergy to local anesthetics.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) with methylaminolevulinate (MAL) is an innovative treatment modality that has been approved in Europe for the treatment of actinic keratosis, basal cell carcinoma, and Bowen's disease. However, currently, there is insufficient evidence to support the routine use of topical PDT for SCC.

Ablative fractional laser (AFL) ablates the epidermis and dermis without significant thermal injury, creating microscopic ablation zones in the portion of the skin that the laser is applied to. Our previous studies showed that AFL-primed MAL-PDT (AFL-PDT) offered a higher efficacy than conventional MAL-PDT in the treatment of many other diseases, such as actinic keratosis, actinic cheilitis, and Bowen's disease.

Investigators recruited Korean patients with microinvasive SCC and compared the efficacy, recurrence rate, and cosmetic outcomes of AFL-PDT with those of standard MAL-PDT.