Evaluation of Azacitidine in Transfusion Dependent Patients With Low-risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) or Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (CMML)
Azacitidine has proved prolonged overall survival in patients with high-risk MDS. Minor pilot studies have shown that treatment with Azacitidine can induce transfusion independency in previous transfusion dependent patients with low-risk MDS. This study will evaluate the effect of Azacitidine in transfusion dependent patients with low-risk MDS (IPSS low or int-1) or low risk CMML. Included patients should first have failed, or considered not being eligible to, treatment with EPO +/- G-CSF. Our hypothesis is that Azacitidine can lead to transfusion independency in this group of patients. Those patients who do not respond to treatment with Azacitidine alone, will be given treatment with the combination of Azacitidine and EPO where our hypothesis is that Azacitidine can restore sensitivity to EPO.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Erythropoetin
Hemoglobin level, Week 28|Number of patients reaching transfusion independency after treatment with Azacitidine, Week 28
Effect on leucocyte, platelet count, Week 28 and End of Trial|Effect on bone marrow morphology and cytogenetics, Week 28 and End of Trial|Number of patients reaching transfusion independency after treatment with Azacitidine and Epo, End of Trial|Effect on genetic and epigenetic profile, Week 28|Hemoglobin level, End of Trial
Azacitidine has proved prolonged overall survival in patients with high-risk MDS. Minor pilot studies have shown that treatment with Azacitidine can induce transfusion independency in previous transfusion dependent patients with low-risk MDS. This study will evaluate the effect of Azacitidine in transfusion dependent patients with low-risk MDS (IPSS low or int-1) or low risk CMML. Included patients should first have failed, or considered not being eligible to, treatment with EPO +/- G-CSF. Our hypothesis is that Azacitidine can lead to transfusion independency in this group of patients. Those patients who do not respond to treatment with Azacitidine alone, will be given treatment with the combination of Azacitidine and EPO where our hypothesis is that Azacitidine can restore sensitivity to EPO.