Methylphenidate and Exercise in Reducing Cancer-Related Fatigue in Patients With Prostate Cancer
This phase II/III trial studies how well methylphenidate and exercise work in reducing cancer-related fatigue in patients with prostate cancer. Methylphenidate is a type of central nervous system stimulant that can improve cognitive ability, mainly in memory and cognitive function. Exercise can improve mood and the physical aspects of cancer-related fatigue. Giving methylphenidate in combination with exercise may work better in reducing cancer-related fatigue in patients with prostate cancer.
Prostate Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|DRUG: Methylphenidate|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Stretching
Level of cancer-related fatigue in all groups, Will measure cancer-related fatigue (CRF) using the area under the curve (AUC) of the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) subscale score. The intervention exposure will be operationalized as proportion of the total minutes of prescribed exercise intervention the study patient was actually able to participate, or the proportion of prescribed study medication the study patient was able to actually take., Up to 12 weeks
Change in quality of life, mood, physical and cognitive measures in all groups, Will use a mixed-effects model to compare changes in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory - Short Form (MFSI-SF), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), usual gait speed, hand grip strength (HGS), 30 second chair stand test (30s-CST), actigraphy, VO2 max, and C-reactive protein scores over time between the four treatment groups. For the mixed effects model, we will estimate the slopes for the changes in scores over time for each group and test the difference in these slopes., Baseline up to 12 weeks
Synergistic effects of methylphenidate and exercise in all groups, Will measure the synergistic effects of methylphenidate and exercise in improving CRF using the AUC of the FACIT-F subscale score. The analysis will be conducted using a linear model with the AUC as the response variable and indicator variables for the exercise and methylphenidate main effects as well as a product term of these indicator variables to assess the magnitude of synergy., Up to 12 weeks|Change in brain activity by electroencephalography (EEG) in responders versus non-responders as measured by the FACIT-F score, Responders are identified as those who report a 4 point or greater change, while non-responders report less than a 4 point change in the FACIT-F score. EEG data will be grouped according to response status. Between-group differences will be examined using univariate analysis of variance (ANOVA) with condition (responders or non-responders) as the fixed factor of interest, and the change of power from baseline to the resting state EEG at day 29 and day 84 as the dependent variable. Additional analyses will include analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) by adjusting for baseline covariates including age, stage of disease, total dose of radiotherapy, and other covariates as necessary., Baseline up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if the combination of exercise (EX) plus methylphenidate (MP) is superior to exercise plus placebo in the treatment of cancer-related fatigue (CRF) in patients with prostate cancer scheduled to receive radiotherapy with androgen deprivation therapy for 12 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the effects of combined exercise plus methylphenidate on quality-of-life, mood, physical, and cognitive measures.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify potential synergistic effects of exercise and methylphenidate in improvement of CRF.

II. To explore changes in brain activity by electroencephalography (EEG) in responders (with 4 point or greater change in Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue \[FACIT-F\] scores) versus (vs) non-responders to the intervention.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive methylphenidate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and undergo exercise program consisting of resistance training twice weekly (BIW) and walking 15- 40 minutes a day 4 days a week for 12 weeks.

GROUP II: Patients receive a placebo PO BID and undergo exercise program consisting of resistance training BIW and walking 15-40 minutes a day for 4 days a week for 12 weeks.

GROUP III: Patients receive methylphenidate PO BID and undergo stretching for 4 days a week for 12 weeks.

GROUP IV: Patients receive a placebo PO BID and undergo stretching for 4 days a week for 12 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months.