Lovastatin and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Patients with Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer, LAPP Trial
This phase II trial tests how well lovastatin and pembrolizumab work in treating patients with head and neck cancer that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Lovastatin is a drug used to lower the amount of cholesterol in the blood and may also cause tumor cell death. In addition, studies have shown that lovastatin may make the tumor cells more sensitive to immunotherapy. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving lovastatin and pembrolizumab may kill more tumor cells in patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer.
Clinical Stage IV HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC V8|Human Papillomavirus-Related Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC V8|Stage IV Laryngeal Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IV Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC V8|Stage IV Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC V8|Stage IV Sinonasal Cancer AJCC V8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Lovastatin|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the proportion of subjects with partial response or complete response. ORR will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version (RECIST) (v)1.1 response criteria. ORR will be calculated with 95% confidence interval by binomial distribution., Up to 1 year
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the duration from the date of treatment start to the date of objectively documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever status is recorded first. PFS will be assessed using RECIST v1.1 response criteria. Median PFS will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method along with 95% confidence interval., From date of treatment start to the date of objectively documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever status is recorded first, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of the combination of by assessing overall survival (OS)., Up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), AEs and SAEs will be assessed and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0. Frequency of AEs and SAEs will be summarized accordingly., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate anti-tumor activity of the combination of pembrolizumab and lovastatin by assessing the objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of the combination of by assessing progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

TERTIARY/EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effects of the combination of lovastatin + pembrolizumab on immune cells in blood.

II. To assess the association between efficacy measures and expression in tumors.

III. To assess the association between anti-tumor activity and immune cells in the blood.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive lovastatin orally (PO) once daily (QD) and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection, and computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET)/CT throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 2 years.