Validation Study on the Impact of Decipher® Testing - VANDAAM Study
The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether a tumor test recently developed by GenomeDx Biosciences known as Decipher® can predict aggressive prostate cancer with the same accuracy in African-American men (AAM) as in non-African-American men (NAAM). The Decipher® test was developed from samples derived mainly from men of European origins and little is known about its performance in AAM. It is important to study whether this test can be used in AAM who are known to experience the highest rates of prostate cancer as well as death from prostate cancer. The use of the Decipher® test result to predict how well a patient will do before treatment may make it possible for doctors to distinguish aggressive disease from low risk prostate cancer and modify treatment accordingly. Thus, patients that do not need additional therapies may be spared from unnecessary side effects and those that are at risk may be provided with more aggressive therapy to improve survival. This study is being done to learn whether the Decipher test can really affect these outcomes.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Decipher® Testing
Two Year Prostatic Specific Antigen (PSA) Failure Rate, PSA failure defined for first line treatment options of Radical Prostatectomy (RP) and Radiotherapy (RT) in accordance with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines: PSA failure for RP is defined by an undetectable PSA after surgery with a subsequent detectable PSA that increases on 2 or more determinations (PSA recurrence); or failure of PSA to fall to undetectable levels (PSA persistence). PSA failure for treatment with RT is defined as PSA increase by 2 ng/mL or more above the nadir PSA.

To estimate the performance of genomic classifier (GC) in predicting 2-yr PSA failure rate, the area under curve (AUC) of a standard Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve will be calculated with corresponding 95% confidence intervals using resampling methods. In addition, positive and negative predictive probabilities, sensitivity, specificity and accuracy and associated 95% confidence intervals will also be calculated using predefined cut-points of 0.45 and 0.60., Up to 24 months
This is a multisite, prospective validation trial. Based on a population consisting of 25% AAM and 75% NAAM, investigators will actively recruit participants and aim to achieve a 1:1 enrollment ratio of AAM to NAAM. To achieve this, low risk AAM will be accrued first and then matching NAAM will be enrolled. NAAM men will be matched to AAM on prostate specific antigen (PSA) at diagnosis.

There will be no treatment intervention beyond standard of care (SOC), and therefore participants will be allowed to choose their definitive treatment option. The intent is to enroll low risk and high volume disease (burden) patients to limit the accrual of patients that would select active surveillance (AS).