Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin Compared With Doxorubicin in Treating Patients With Bladder Cancer
RATIONALE: Biological therapies use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop cancer cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known whether keyhole limpet hemocyanin is more effective than doxorubicin for bladder cancer.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of keyhole limpet hemocyanin with that of doxorubicin in treating patients who have bladder cancer that has not responded to BCG or in those patients who cannot tolerate BCG.
Bladder Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: keyhole limpet hemocyanin|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the efficacy of BCI-ImmuneActivator™ (keyhole limpet hemocyanin) versus doxorubicin in BCG refractory or intolerant patients with carcinoma in situ with or without resected superficial papillary bladder cancer.
* Compare the toxicity and safety of these treatments in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating center and prior BCG response (refractory vs intolerant). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive a sensitizing dose of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) intradermally at week -2 followed by induction KLH IV once weekly at weeks 1-6. Patients with partial or no response receive IV KLH reinduction therapy once weekly at weeks 13-18. Patients with complete response receive IV KLH maintenance therapy monthly at weeks 13, 17, and 21, and then at months 6-12.
* Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin IV once weekly at weeks 1-6. Patients with complete response receive maintenance therapy comprising doxorubicin IV at weeks 13, 17, and 21 and months 6-12.

Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1.5 years, and then every 6 months for 1 year. (Patient total participation in this study may last as long as 42 months.)

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 150 patients (75 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study.