Safety and Efficacy of Everolimus (Afinitor®) in Chinese Adult Patients With Angiomyolipoma Associated With Tuberous Sclerosis Complex.
The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of everolimus (Afinitor®) in Chinese patients with renal angiomyolipoma (AML) associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC).
Renal Angiomyolipoma
DRUG: Everolimus
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Percentage of participants with AEs and SAEs including significant changes from baseline in vital signs, electrocardiograms and laboratory parameters (laboratory assessments included hematology, biochemistry, coagulation and urinalysis) qualifying and reported as AEs. The percentage of participants in each category is reported in the table., From the start of treatment to 30 days after end of treatment, assessed up to maximum duration of 52 weeks
Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response (BOR) Status of Angiomyolipoma (AML) Response During Maximum Treatment Duration of 48 Weeks, BOR status is the best status recorded from start of treatment until disease progression. AML response status: reduction in AML volume of at least 50% relative to screening AML. In addition, AML response have to satisfy: no new AML ≥ 1 cm in longest diameter are identified, neither kidney increases in volume by more than 20% from nadir (where nadir is the lowest kidney volume at the screening), the participant does not have any angiomyolipoma-related bleeding of grade equal or over 2 (as defined by NCI CTCAE, version 4.03).

Up to five of the largest measurable lesions (≥ 1 cm in longest diameter) in each kidney were measured at screening via Magnetic Resonance Imaging/Computed tomography (MRI/CT) and were defined as screening AML. The sum of the volumes of these individual lesions was defined as AML volume and it was measured at each assessment during the trial. Increases in the AML volume were evidence of worsening AML, decreases were evidence of clinical response., Baseline, 48 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response Status of Angiomyolipoma (AML) Progression During Maximum Treatment Duration of 48 Weeks, AML progression status is defined as one or more of the following: an increase from nadir of 25% or more in AML volume to a value greater than screening AML (where nadir is the lowest AML volume obtained for the participant previously in the trial), the appearance of a new AML ≥ 1.0 cm in longest diameter, an increase from nadir of 20% or more in the volume of either kidney to a value greater than screening (where nadir is the lowest kidney volume obtained for the participant previously in the trial), angiomyolipoma-related bleeding grade ≥2 (as defined by NCI CTCAE, version 4.03).

Up to five of the largest measurable lesions (≥ 1 cm in longest diameter) in each kidney were measured at screening via Magnetic Resonance Imaging/Computed tomography (MRI/CT) and were defined as screening AML. The sum of the volumes of these individual lesions was defined as AML volume and it was measured at each assessment during the trial. Increases in the AML volume were evidence of worsening AML., Baseline, 48 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Severe Renal Impairment, Renal impairment is defined as calculated Creatinine Clearance (CrCl) \< 30 mL/min. CrCl was measured at baseline and at four other time points; only the baseline and the worst post-baseline value for every participant were counted (lowest value for CrCl).

Creatinine clearance was estimated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula:

creatinine clearance (mL/minute) = urine creatinine concentration (mL/dL) x volume of urine (mL/24 hour) / plasma creatinine concentration (mg/dL) x 1440 minute/24 hour, Baseline, 48 weeks|Percentage of Participants With NCI CTCA Grade 3/4 Serum Creatinine, NCI CTCAE grade 3/4 serum creatinine is defined as \> 3.0 x upper limits of normal (ULN). Serum creatinine was measured at baseline and at four other time points; only the worst post-baseline value for every participant was counted (highest value for serum creatinine)., Baseline, 48 weeks
This was an open label, single arm, multi-center, Phase IV Post-Approval Commitment (PAC) study with once daily oral dose of 10 mg everolimus in participants with renal AML associated with TSC. There were three separate phases in this study: a Screening phase, an Open-label treatment phase where participants received everolimus for 48 weeks or until disease progression, and a Treatment discontinuation follow-up phase for patients who discontinue study drug for reasons other than disease progression. Every participant had an End of Treatment visit within 28 days after last dose and a safety follow-up visit 30 days after last dose.