A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Selinexor With or Without Pembrolizumab Versus Standard of Care in Previously Treated Metastatic Colorectal Cancer With RAS Mutations
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of selinexor alone or with pembrolizumab in participants with advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC). Approximately 78 participants with advanced or metastatic CRC will be enrolled, and randomized (1:1:1) into three arms A (selinexor only), B (selinexor and pembrolizumab), and C (standard of care \[Combination of trifluridine and tipiracil\]). Randomization will be based on stratification factors: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0 or 1 versus 2. The end of treatment (EoT) visit will occur less than or equal to (\<=30) days post-treatment discontinuation. A survival follow-up visit will be performed every 3 months from EoT and will continue for 12 months.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Trifluridine|DRUG: Tipiracil
Arm B and C: Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Investigator Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS was assessed by the investigator per RECIST 1.1. As per RECIST 1.1 criteria, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD), taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter (SLD) recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From the date of randomization until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first (up to 8 months)
Arm A, B and C: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as time from the date of randomization to death due to any cause., From the date of randomization up to death (up to 8 months)|Arm B and C: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or or initiating a new antineoplastic therapy. ORR was assessed by RECIST 1.1 as defined by the Investigator based on radiologic criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the date of randomization until the documentation of CR or PR, whichever occurs first (up to 8 months)|Arm A and C: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieve CR or PR or or initiating a new antineoplastic therapy. ORR was assessed by RECIST 1.1 as defined by the Investigator based on radiologic criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the date of randomization until the documentation of CR or PR, whichever occurs first (up to 8 months)|Arm A, B and C: Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, PFS at 6 months was defined as the time from the date of randomization without disease progression at 6 months as assessed by the investigator per RECIST 1.1. As per RECIST 1.1 criteria, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD), taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., At 6 Months|Arm A, B and C: Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival (OS) at 6 Months, OS was defined as the time from the first dose date to date of death due to any cause. Participant was considered as event (overall survival) free if participant was not died and was alive at 6 months., At 6 Months|Arm A, B and C: Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival (OS) at 12 Months, OS was defined as the time from the first dose date to date of death due to any cause. Participant was considered as event (overall survival) free if participant was not died and was alive at 12 months., At 12 Months|Arm B and C: Duration of Response (DOR) Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first occurrence of CR or PR until the first date of PD per RECIST version 1.1 or death. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From first occurrence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first (up to 8 months)|Arm A and C: Duration of Response (DOR) Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first occurrence of CR or PR until the first date of PD per RECIST version 1.1 or death. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From first occurrence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first (up to 8 months)|Arm B and C: Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Disease Control Rate as Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, Disease control rate was defined as participants who achieved best overall response of CR, PR, or at least 12 continuous weeks of stable disease (SD) as assessed by investigator as per RECIST v 1.1. As per RECIST v 1.1 before PD or initiating a new antineoplastic therapy, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions) taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., From the date of randomization up to death (up to 8 months)|Arm A and C: Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Disease Control Rate as Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, Disease control rate was defined as participants who achieved best overall response of CR, PR, or at least 12 continuous weeks of stable disease (SD) as assessed by investigator as per RECIST v 1.1. As per RECIST v 1.1 before PD or initiating a new antineoplastic therapy, CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions) taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., From the date of randomization up to death (up to 8 months)|Arm A, B and C: Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious TEAEs, An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. A SAE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. A TEAE was defined as those AEs that develop or worsen after the first dose of study drug. TEAEs included both serious and non-serious TEAEs., From start of study drug administration up to 12 months
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of selinexor alone or with pembrolizumab in participants with advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC). Approximately 78 participants with advanced or metastatic CRC will be enrolled, and randomized (1:1:1) into three arms A (selinexor only), B (selinexor and pembrolizumab), and C (standard of care \[Combination of trifluridine and tipiracil\]). Randomization will be based on stratification factors: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0 or 1 versus 2. The end of treatment (EoT) visit will occur less than or equal to (\<=30) days post-treatment discontinuation. A survival follow-up visit will be performed every 3 months from EoT and will continue for 12 months.