Laparoscopic Versus Open Gastrectomy for Elderly Local Advanced Gastric Cancer Patients
Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide. With the rapid aging of global population, the number of elderly patients with local advanced gastric cancer is increasing. Surgery is the essential treatment for local advanced gastric cancer. However, because of the degeneration of physiological organs, cell functions, compensatory ability, immunity, and physiological reserve ability, elderly patients often face great safety issues when having surgery. Therefore, how to treat the elderly patients with local advanced gastric cancer with safe and effective surgery is one of the important problems in the field of gastric cancer treatment. With the introduction of minimally invasive treatment concepts and techniques, the role of laparoscopic radical gastrectomy in the treatment of early gastric cancer, as well as the advantages of trauma control and postoperative accelerated rehabilitation have been confirmed, however, there is still a lack of sufficient high-level clinical evidence in the elderly patients with advanced gastric cancer. The current study therefore aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic versus open gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer in elderly patients, using a randomized parallel controlled study design. The investigators hypothesized that laparoscopic gastrectomy is superior to open gastrectomy in terms of perioperative safety for local advanced gastric cancer patients aged 70 and above.
Advanced Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic gastrectomy|PROCEDURE: Open gastrectomy
Postoperative complication rate, Surgery related complications include incision complications (infection, effusion, dehiscence, poor healing), peritoneal effusion or abscess formation, hemorrhage (inside abdominal cavity, inside digestive tract), ileus, anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stenosis, intestinal fistula, lymphatic leakage, pancreatic fistula, gastroparesis, pancreatitis, lung infection, pleural effusion, urinary tract infection, renal failure, liver failure, cardio-cerebrovascular events (both lower extremities thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, cerebral infarction, etc.), and others. Complications will be reported and graded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification of surgical complications., within 30 days after surgery
Length of postoperative hospitalization stay, Postoperative hospitalization stay refers to the time interval between the day of surgery and discharge, and will be recorded by the investigators., within 30 days after surgery|Postoperative life quality, Will be assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life questionnaires (i.e. QLQ-C30), which contains both QLQ-STO22 and ELD14 modules. This is a questionnaire developed to assess the generic and disease-specific quality of life for elderly gastric cancer patients by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer. The Summary Score will be calculated from the mean of scales. Prior to calculating the mean, the symptom scales will need to be reversed to obtain a uniform direction of all scales. The summary score should only be calculated if all of the required scale scores are available (using scale scores based on the completed items, provided that at least 50% of the items in that scale have been completed., one-year after surgery|Three-year overall survival rate, Overall survival is defined as the time interval from the time of the radical gastrectomy to the date of all-cause death or the last follow-up. Three-year overall survival rate will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier Methods., Three-year after surgery|Three-year disease-free survival rate, Disease-free survival is defined as the time interval from the time of the radical gastrectomy to the date of the detection of cancer recurrence or the last follow-up. Three-year disease-free survival rate will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier Methods., Three-year after surgery|Postoperative pain, Postoperative pain will be measured using the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS-11) which is an 11-point scale for patient self-reporting of pain. The scale ranges from 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain. Pain level will be graded into four levels for analysis: "0: No Pain", "1-3: Mild Pain", "4-6 Moderate Pain", and "7-10 Severe Pain"., within 2 weeks after surgery
Gastric cancer is one of the most common cancer and cause of cancer death worldwide. With the rapid aging of global population, the number of elderly patients with local advanced gastric cancer has been continuously increasing. Surgery is the essential treatment for local advanced gastric cancer. However, elderly patients are at high risk of postoperative complications due to reduced functional reserve and increased comorbidities. Studies have shown that elder patients can have postoperative complication incidence up to 18%-32% and surgery-related mortality rate to 3.8%-9.5%. Therefore, elderly patients usually require more restrict operative injury control compared to the younger population. Surgical safety and effectiveness has become a crucial research focus for local advanced gastric cancer among elderly patients.

Laparoscopic gastrectomy is one of the standard treatments for early gastric cancer and has demonstrated its application value in local advanced gastric cancer. Two recent meta-analysis on observational studies have shown the feasibility of laparoscopic gastrectomy in elderly gastric cancer patients. Compared to conventional open resections, elderly patients may benefit from the advantages of laparoscopic approach such as less trauma, less blood loss, faster bowel movement recovery, earlier food intake, and shorter hospitalization. However, laparoscopic gastrectomy raises issues such as prolonged operation time and disturbance of circulatory and respiratory dynamics by carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum during the procedure. Nonetheless, all currently available evidence comes from observational studies that are susceptible to bias and evidence on long-term survival is scarce. The investigators therefore proposed to conduct this randomized controlled trial comparing the feasibility and survival benefit of laparoscopic with open gastrectomy for elderly patients with local advanced gastric cancer. The investigators hypothesized that laparoscopic gastrectomy is superior to open gastrectomy in terms of perioperative safety for local advanced gastric cancer patients aged 70 and above.