Safety and Efficacy of Expanded, Universal Donor Natural Killer Cells for Relapsed/Refractory AML
This is a phase I/II dose escalation study designed to determine the safety and estimate the efficacy of UD-NK cells combined with FLA chemotherapy in patients age 1-24.99 with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and recommended phase II dose of adoptive NK cell therapy using UD-NK cells in pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed/refractory AML.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the efficacy of UD- NK cells with FLA chemotherapy in pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed/refractory AML.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the immunophenotype and function of UD-NK cells

II. To characterize in vivo expansion of UD-NK cells

III. To determine the persistence of UD-NK cells

Six doses of universal donor mbIL-21 expanded NK cells (UD-NK) given thrice weekly for two weeks. Days may vary and NK cells can be given from days 0 to 21. Patients may receive up to 2 cycles of fludarabine/cytarabine (FLA) + NK cells (up to 12 NK cell infusions) if they do not achieve CR after cycle 1 or if necessary to bridge to transplant.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: Universal Donor Natural Killer Cells
Incidence and severity of adverse events, Up to 56 days after the first NK cell infusion|Rate of dose limiting toxicities, Up to 56 days after the first NK cell infusion
Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) negative response rate by flow cytometry, At the end of Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|CR rate after first cycle, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Relapse free survival and overall survival, 1 year|Median time to neutrophil and platelet count recovery, 1 year|Median duration of remission for patients who do not go onto transplant, 1 year|Incidence of infectious complications, 1 year|Percentage of patients receiving this regimen who are rendered transplant-eligible, 1 year
Immunophenotype of UD-NK cells, Immunophenotyping by flow cytometry and CyTOF., Weekly samples from day 0 to day +28 after the first NK cell infusion for each cycle (each cycle is 28 days)|Function of UD-NK Cells, Cytokine secretion and cytotoxicity of UD-NK cells cultured with patient leukemia samples, Day 0 of the first cycle|Expansion/persistence of UD-NK cells after infusion, Peripheral blood will be obtained before therapy, during the NK cell treatment period, and after NK cell treatment to evaluate for UD-NK cell expansion and persistence. UD-NK cells will be identified by chimerism assay. Chimerism may be determined by flow cytometry using haplotype-specific antibodies, short tandem repeat polymorphisms, or when there is a sex-mismatch between the donor and the recipient, assays based on determining the frequency of sex-chromosomes may be used., Weekly samples from day 0 to day +28 after the first NK cell infusion for each cycle (each cycle is 28 days)
The treatment plan consists of Fludarabine/Cytarabine chemotherapy followed by six doses of universal donor mbIL-21 expanded NK cells (UD-NK) given thrice weekly for two weeks. Days may vary and NK cells can be given from days 0 to 21. Patients may receive up to 2 cycles of fludarabine/cytarabine (FLA) + NK cells (up to 12 NK cell infusions) if they do not achieve CR after cycle 1 or if necessary to bridge to transplant.

In this study the first NK cell infusion is referred as day zero (D0), treatment plan activities prior or after D0 are denominated as day minus (D-) or day plus (D+).

FLA will be give as follows: Fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day (day -6 to day -2) and Cytarabine 2000 mg/ m2/day (days -6 to day -2)

Six doses of UD-NK cells will be given thrice weekly for two weeks beginning day 0. NK cell administration schedule may vary and doses may be given from day 0 to 21. A minimum of 2 days between NK cell doses is required. Patients must meet eligibility criteria for NK cell infusion as described in the protocol.

Patients will be eligible to receive a second cycle of chemotherapy for the following reasons:

1. \<CR after cycle 1
2. Additional cycle is needed to bridge the patient to HSCT

Criteria to begin Cycle 2:

1. ≥28 days since the first NK Cell infusion
2. ≥2 days since the last NK Cell infusion in cycle 1
3. Bone marrow evaluation after cycle 1 complete
4. It is suggested but not required for ANC \> 500/uL AND platelets \>50,000/uL prior to beginning cycle 2
5. Prior treatment related toxicities must have resolved to ≤ Grade 2

NK Cell Dose Levels:

1. Dose level 1: 1.00x10\^7 NK cell/kg (±20%) each dose for 6 doses per cycle
2. Dose level 2: 3.00x10\^7 NK cell/kg (±20%) each dose for 6 doses per cycle
3. Dose level 3: 1.00x10\^8 NK cell/kg (±20%) each dose for 6 doses per cycle

The NK dose will be calculated based on actual body weight. Dose escalation will proceed according to the study design outlined in Section 9.1 to determine the MTD. Once a patient is enrolled at a dose level, the dose will remain at the enrolled dose level for all subsequent NK cell infusions.