Effectiveness of Cohesive Bandage on Axillary Web Syndrome After
Objective: To determine the effectiveness of cohesive bandage on the axillary web syndrome in improving pain, reducing swelling and increasing mobility and functionality of the shoulder. Design: randomized single-blinded controlled trial. Follow-up: five physical therapy assessments: pre-intervention; post-intervention, 3 and 6 months post-intervention post-intervention. Participants: 90 consecutive women diagnosed with axillary web syndrome after undergoing unilateral breast cancer surgery with ALND or SLND at the Prıíncipe de Asturias Hospital in Alcalà de Henares, Madrid (Spain). Randomization: women will be randomly assigned to two groups by EpiData 3.1 software. Interventions: Control group: Physical Therapy composed of manual lymph-drainage technique in axilla, and proximal ipsilateral arm, specific thumb manual lymph-drainage on the taut cords to make them gradually more flexible, in conjunction with progressive active arm therapeutic exercises; Intervention group: progressive active arm therapeutic exercises with cohesive bandage.
Axillary Web Syndrome
OTHER: Manual drainage & arm therapeutic exercise|OTHER: Cohesive bandaging & arm therapeutic exercise
Change from baseline in Subjective pain, Visual Analogue Scale (0-10 cm), 4 assessments to evaluate change from baseline: at baseline, after the intervention period (6 weeks from baseline), 3 and 6 months after the intervention.
Change from baseline in Range of shoulder motion, Inclinometer (measured in grades), 4 assessments to evaluate change from baseline: at baseline, and after the intervention period (6 weeks from baseline), 3 months and 6 months after the intervention.|Change from baseline in perceived shoulder disability, Oxford Shoulder Score. The OSS is a unidimensional score comprising 12 questions about pain and disability involving activities of daily routine. Thus, each of the 12 questions is scored from 0 to 4, with 4 representing best outcome/least symptoms. Scores from each question are summed so the overall score run from 0 to 48 with 48 being the best outcome; so that the lower scores indicate more pain and disability. The OSS Spanish version is applicable, reliable, valid, and responsive to assess shoulder disability in Spanish women after breast cancer treatment, 4 assessments to evaluate change from baseline: at baseline, and after the intervention period (6 weeks from baseline), 3 months and 6 months after the intervention.|Change from baseline in QoL, FACTB+4. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL): HRQoL was measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B) Spanish version 4. FACT-Bv4 is a 40-item questionnaire designed to measure multidimensional HRQoL in women with breast cancer. The 40 items cover four generic scales of well-being (Physical, Emotional, Social, and Functional) and two side-specific subscales: Breast Cancer (9 items) and Arm (4 items). The Arm-specific subscale assesses arm morbidity: 1) pain, 2) poor range of arm movements, 3) numbness, and 4) stiffness. The Breast Cancer subscale plus the arm subscale range from 0 to 56 points. The Trial Outcome Index (TOI) is the sum of Physical and Functional wellbeing plus Breast Cancer Subscale (range 0-92 points). The FACT-B total score can range from 0 to 144, with a higher score indicating better HRQoL., 4 assessments to evaluate change from baseline: at baseline, and after the intervention period (6 weeks from baseline), 3 months and 6 months after the intervention.
Objective: To determine the effectiveness of cohesive bandage on the axillary web syndrome in improving pain, reducing swelling and increasing mobility and functionality of the shoulder. Design: randomized single-blinded controlled trial. Follow-up: five physical therapy assessments: pre-intervention; post-intervention, 3 and 6 months post-intervention post-intervention. Participants: 90 consecutive women diagnosed with axillary web syndrome after undergoing unilateral breast cancer surgery with ALND or SLND at the Prıíncipe de Asturias Hospital in Alcalà de Henares, Madrid (Spain). Randomization: women will be randomly assigned to two groups by EpiData 3.1 software. Interventions: Control group: Physical Therapy composed of manual lymph-drainage technique in axilla, and proximal ipsilateral arm, specific thumb manual lymph-drainage on the taut cords to make them gradually more flexible, in conjunction with progressive active arm therapeutic exercises; Intervention group: progressive active arm therapeutic exercises with cohesive bandage.