Hepatic Arterial Infusion Plus Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Colorectal Cancer Metastatic to the Liver
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of hepatic arterial infusion plus chemotherapy in treating patients who have colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving the drugs in different combinations and different ways may kill more tumor cells.
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Liver Metastases|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
DRUG: floxuridine|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: capecitabine
Toxicity of oxaliplatin as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) version 2.0, Up to 6 months|Survival rate, From the date of resection, cryoablation, or radiofrequency ablation to up to 2 years
Survival time, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from metastasectomy, cryoablation, or radiofrequency ablation to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3.5 years|Time to recurrence, The distribution of the disease free interval will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from metastasectomy, cryoablation, or radiofrequency ablation to documentation of disease recurrence, assessed up to 2 years|Time to treatment failure, From the date of metastasectomy, cryoablation, radiofrequency ablation to the date at which the patient is removed from treatment due to recurrence, toxicity, or refusal, assessed up to 3.5 years|Adverse events as assessed by NCI CTC version 2.0, Patterns of treatment failure, toxicity, including complications associated with the intra-arterial catheter, will be summarized in tabular form., Up to 3.5 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and toxicity of hepatic arterial infusion with floxuridine and dexamethasone followed by systemic therapy with oxaliplatin and capecitabine in patients with surgically resected liver metastases from primary colorectal carcinoma.

II. Determine the 2-year survival rate of patients treated with this regimen. III. Determine the 2-year recurrence rate and time to recurrence in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive floxuridine and dexamethasone intra-arterially continuously on days 1-14, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 22, and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 22-35. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of the fourth course, patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 2.5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-75 patients will be accrued for this study within 9 months-3.25 years.