High-Intensity Exercise and High-Fiber Diet for Immunotherapy Outcomes in Melanoma Patients: The DUO Trial
The purpose of this study is to determine whether high-intensity exercise and high-fiber diet are feasible and improve various health outcomes among participants with advanced melanoma receiving immunotherapy.

The names of the groups in this research study are:

* High-Intensity Exercise (EX)
* High-fiber Diet (DT)
* Combined High-Intensity Exercise and High-Fiber Diet (COMB)
* Attention Control (AC)
Melanoma (Skin)|Skin Cancer|Advanced Melanoma
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Program|BEHAVIORAL: Diet Program
Change in Gut Microbiome Diversity, The primary outcome of the study is the gut microbiome diversity measured by the Shannon Diversity Index. Alpha diversity of samples will be quantified using the Shannon diversity index, and beta diversity will be quantified using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)
Change in Systemic Immune Function, Immune phenotyping will be conducted using the blood samples drawn at baseline and post-intervention. Immunofluorescence will be performed using a flow cytometry, which analyzes the physical and fluorescent properties of cells in suspension in real-time as they flow through the instrument., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Cardiopulmonary Fitness, Cardiorespiratory fitness will be assessed as VO2peak by a graded maximal cycle exercise stress test. VO2peak is defined as the highest values of oxygen uptake averaged among every 15-second interval during the test., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), Physical function will be assessed by the SPPB. This includes the following 3 lower extremity measures completed in the following order. Timed balance (seconds): Balance will be assessed under 3 conditions (side-by-side, semi-tandem, and tandem stands). Gait speed (seconds): Gait speed will be assessed over a 4-meter flat surface distance. The participant will be asked to complete 2 attempts of this test. Time will be recorded using an electronic timing system. Chair stand (seconds): Chair stand will be performed under 2 conditions: a) subjects will perform a single chair stand; b) subjects will be asked to perform 5 repeated chair stands as quickly as possible; time to completion will be recorded., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Percent Body Fat, Percent body fat will be assessed via bioelectrical impedance using a validated device (Tanita 780, Arlington Heights, IL). Participants will be asked to remove their shoes and socks and stand still on the device while holding the handles with their hands at their sides. The device will estimate body fat using an algorithm based on age, sex, height, and body weight., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Lean mass, Lean mass (kg) will be assessed via bioelectrical impedance using a validated device (Tanita 780, Arlington Heights, IL). Participants will be asked to remove their shoes and socks and stand still on the device while holding the handles with their hands at their sides. The device will estimate body fat using an algorithm based on age, sex, height, and body weight., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Hip circumference, A constant-tension tape measure will be used to obtain waist circumference (i.e., the distance around the waist using the umbilicus as the reference point) (cm)., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Waist circumference, A constant-tension tape measure will be used to obtain hip circumference (the distance around the widest girth of the buttocks using the greater trochanter as a landmark) (cm)., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Health-Related Quality of life (EORTC-QLQ C30), The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer- Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 will assess health-related quality of life, consisting of subscales including functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting), global health status and quality of life scale, also several single-item symptom measures. The score ranges from 0 to 100 and a higher value indicates a better quality of life., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in MDASI-Immunotherapy Questionnaire Score, MD Anderson Symptom Inventory-Immunotherapy (MDASI-Immunotherapy EPT) module is comprised of 20 symptoms including 7 immunotherapy-specific items in addition to the 13 MDASI core symptoms.The MDASI asks participants to rate the severity of disease-related and treatment-related symptoms during the past 24 h. Each symptom (pain, fatigue, nausea, disturbed sleep, emotional distress, shortness of breath, difficulty remembering, lack of appetite, drowsiness, dry mouth, sadness, vomiting, numbness or tingling, rash, diarrhea, pain the abdomen, swelling in the hands and legs, headache, night sweats and fever and/or chills) is rated on an 11-point scale ranging from 0 (not present) to 10 (as bad as you can imagine). The MDASI-Immunotherapy EPT has been shown to be valid and reliable., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Anxiety (HADS), The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) is a 14-question instrument that measures anxiety and depression with seven questions for each. Each question is scored between zero (no impairment) and three (severe impairment), with a maximum score of 21 for anxiety., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Depression (HADS), The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) is a 14-question instrument that measures anxiety and depression with seven questions for each. Each question is scored between zero (no impairment) and three (severe impairment), with a maximum score of 21 for depression., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Change in Sleep Quality (PSQI), The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) is a self-rated questionnaire which assesses sleep quality and disturbances over a 1-month time interval. The PSQI contains 19 self-rated questions and 5 questions rated by the bed partner or roommate (if one is available). Only self-rated questions are included in the scoring. The 19 self-rated items are combined to form seven "component" scores, each of which has a range of 0-3 points. The seven components are then summed to obtain a global score ranging from 0-21 points., Baseline (Week 1) and post-intervention (Week 10)|Proportion of Participants Completing the Exercise Intervention Sessions, The primary outcome is feasibility and will be assessed by the proportion of participants completing the exercise intervention sessions with \>70% completion considered feasible., Post-intervention (Week 10)
This single-center, four-arm, pilot randomized research study is to test if high-intensity exercise and high-fiber diet are feasible and effective in improving the gut microbiome health, immune function, physical fitness, treatment-related side effects, and treatment outcomes in participants with advanced melanoma receiving immunotherapy. Participants will be randomized into 1 of 4 study groups: Group A Exercise, Group B Diet, Group C Combined, and Group D Attention Control. Randomization means a participant will be placed into an intervention group by chance.

The information learned by doing this research may help determine whether participating in such lifestyle interventions are tolerable during immunotherapy and exert health benefits among melanoma participants.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study visits, stool samples, blood tests, and questionnaires.

Participation in this study is expected to last up to a total of 9 weeks.

It is expected about 40 people will take part in this research study.

This study is sponsored by the World Cancer Research Fund International.