Celecoxib, Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b, and Rintatolimod in Treating Patients With Colorectal Cancer Metastatic to the Liver
This early phase IIA trial studies how well celecoxib, recombinant interferon alfa-2b, and rintatolimod work in treating patients with colorectal cancer that as spread to the liver. Celecoxib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Recombinant interferon alfa-2b is a substance that can improve the body's natural response and may interfere with the growth of tumor cells. Rintatolimod may stimulate the immune system. Giving celecoxib, recombinant interferon alfa-2b, and rintatolimod may work better at treating colorectal cancer that has spread to the liver.
Metastatic Carcinoma in the Liver|Recurrent Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Celecoxib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b|DRUG: Rintatolimod
Change in Tumor-infiltrating Lymphocytes (TILs) in the Colorectal Cancer Lesions, The TILs will be summarized by time-point (pre-/post-treatment) using the mean, median, standard deviation; and graphically using dot-plots.

The TIL of interest is CD8a expression, which is reported as the mean fold change from pre-treatment (i.e. post treatment / pre treatment)., Baseline up to 12 months
Number of Participants With Indicated Grade Adverse Event, Safety profile will be characterized by type, frequency, severity, timing, seriousness and relationship to study treatment. The highest grade treatment related AE is provided (per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0)., Up to 12 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1, Will be treated as binary data and summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies; with the ORR estimated using a 90% confidence interval obtained using Jeffrey's prior method., Up to 12 months
Progression Free Survival, Will be treated as bivariate time-to-event data and will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods., From the start of treatment until disease progression (defined by RECIST 1.1) or last-follow-up, assessed up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Will be treated as bivariate time-to-event data and will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods., From the start of treatment until death due to any cause or last follow-up, assessed up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the impact of a chemokine-modulatory regimen on the immune microenvironment of colorectal liver metastases, specifically the changes in the ratio between cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) marker (CD8a gene expression) to regulatory T cell (Treg) markers (FoxP3 gene expression).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the objective response rate of a chemokine-modulatory regimen in metastatic colorectal cancer (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1).

II. Examine the safety and tolerability profile of the combination of recombinant interferon alfa-2b (interferon alpha-2b), rintatolimod, and celecoxib when given as chemokine modulation to colorectal cancer patients prior to surgical resection using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.0).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

* Estimate the median progression free survival of a chemokine-modulatory regimen in metastatic colorectal cancer
* Estimate overall survival in participants with recurrent and/or metastatic unresectable colorectal cancer who received the chemokine-modulatory regimen
* Comparison (using RT-PCR, immunofluorescence \[IF\] and immunohistochemistry \[IHC\] on serial sections) of the metastatic tissue specimen with regard to total numbers of infiltrating T cells, their CD4/CD8 ratios, frequencies of FoxP3 cells, and the expression of chemokine receptors on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells (CXCR3, CCR5, CCR4, CCR6, and CXCR4)
* Evaluate the local expression of effector T cells (Teff)-attracting chemokines (CCR5, CXCL9, CXCL10 and CXCL11) and Treg-favoring chemokines (CCL22 and CXCL12) using IF and RT-PCR.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive celecoxib orally (PO) twice daily (BID), recombinant interferon alfa-2b intravenously (IV) over 20 minutes, and rintatolimod IV QD on days 1, 2,3,8,9,10,15,16 and 17 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 12 months.