Study of Selective BRAF Kinase Inhibitor Dabrafenib Monotherapy Twice Daily and in Combination With Dabrafenib Twice Daily and Trametinib Once Daily in Combination Therapy in Subjects With BRAF V600E Mutation Positive Metastatic (Stage IV) Non-small Cell Lung Cancer.
This was a Phase II, multicenter, non-randomized, open-label study to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of dabrafenib administered as a single agent and in combination with trametinib in stage IV disease to subjects with BRAF mutant advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Central confirmation testing for the BRAF V600E mutation was performed and a sufficient number of subjects were enrolled with the intent of having at least 125 centrally confirmed subjects among the three cohorts.
Cancer
DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Trametinib
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) by investigator assessment as per RECIST v1 .1 criteria. Specifically, ORR = (number of subjects with a confirmed best overall response of CR or PR) divided by the total number of subjects in the corresponding analysis population., From study treatment start date until first documented complete response or partial response, assessed up to approximately 50 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on Local Investigator Assessment, Progression Free Survival (PFS) was defined as the time from study treatment start date to the date of first radiologically documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient did not progress or die at the time of the analysis data cut-off or start of new antineoplastic therapy, PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment before the earliest of the cut-off date or the start date of additional anti-neoplastic therapy. Progression was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria RECIST v1.1, as 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline and/or unequivocal progression of the non-target lesions and/or appearance of a new lesion. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From study treatment start date until date of radiographic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 113 months|Duration of Response (DoR) Based on Local Investigator Assessment, Duration of Response (DoR) was defined as the time from the first documented occurrence of response (PR or CR) until the date of the first documented progression based on RECIST v1.1 or death., From first documented evidence of CR or PR (the response prior to confirmation) until time of documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to approximately 113 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time from first dose until death due to any cause. If a patient was not known to have died at the time of analysis cut-off, OS was censored at the date of last contact., From study treatment start date until date of of death from any cause, assessed up to approximately 113 months|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, The distribution of adverse events (AE) was done via the analysis of frequencies for treatment emergent Adverse Event (TEAEs), Serious Adverse Event (TESAEs) and Deaths due to AEs, through the monitoring of relevant clinical and laboratory safety parameters., From study treatment start date till 30 days safety follow-up, assessed up to approximately 81 months|Apparent Clearance (CL/F) of Dabrafenib, Blood samples from participants were collected for population pharmacokinetic analysis including the apparent base clearance (CL/F) following oral dosing of dabrafenib. Concentrations of dabrafenib was determined in plasma samples using the currently approved analytical methodology., Week 3, Week 6, Week 12 and Week 18|Oral Volume of Distribution (V/F) of Dabrafenib, Blood samples from participants were collected for population pharmacokinetic analysis including the oral volume of distribution (V/F) following oral dosing of dabrafenib. Blood samples from participants were collected for population pharmacokinetic analysis including the apparent base clearance (CL/F) following oral dosing of dabrafenib. Concentrations of dabrafenib was determined in plasma samples using the currently approved analytical methodology., Week 3, Week 6, Week 12 and Week 18|Apparent Clearance (CL/F) of Trametinib, Blood samples from participants were collected for population pharmacokinetic analysis including the apparent base clearance (CL/F) following oral dosing of trametinib. Blood samples from participants were collected for population pharmacokinetic analysis including the apparent base clearance (CL/F) following oral dosing of dabrafenib. Concentrations of trametinib was determined in plasma samples using the currently approved analytical methodology., Week 3, Week 6, Week 12 and Week 18|Oral Volume of Distribution (V/F) of Trametinib, Blood samples from participants were collected for population pharmacokinetic analysis including the oral volume of distribution (V/F) following oral dosing of trametinib. Concentrations of trametinib was determined in plasma samples using the currently approved analytical methodology., Week 3, Week 6, Week 12 and Week 18
Subjects enrolled in Cohort A (Monotherapy Population) were required to have relapsed or progressed on at least one platinum based chemotherapy regimen prior to enrollment (i.e. dabrafenib was no less than second line treatment for metastatic disease). Additional lines of prior anti-cancer therapy were allowed. Subjects received dabrafenib as a single agent at the recommended dose of 150 mg twice daily. A 2 stage design with a planned sample size of 40 subjects was initially used for Cohort A.

Subjects enrolled in Cohort B (Combination Second-Line Population) were required to have relapsed or progressed on at least one platinum based chemotherapy prior to enrollment but did not receive more than 3 prior systemic anti-cancer therapies (i.e. dabrafenib/trametinib were second, third, or fourth line treatment for metastatic disease). Subjects received the recommended dose of both drugs (dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily and trametinib 2 mg once daily).

Subjects enrolled in Cohort C (Combination First-Line Population) did not receive prior systemic anti-cancer therapies for metastatic disease (i.e. dabrafenib/trametinib was first line treatment for metastatic disease). Subjects received the recommended dose of both drugs (dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily and trametinib 2 mg once daily).

Crossover: Subjects receiving and adequately tolerating dabrafenib as a single agent and who continued to meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria (including the additional criteria for combination therapy) had the option to crossover to dabrafenib (150 mg BID) and trametinib (2 mg once daily) combination treatment at the time of radiologic disease progression with prior approval from a Medical Lead. If a subject was receiving less than 150 mg BID of dabrafenib at the time of the crossover, the subject was to continue at the lower dose of dabrafenib when initiating combination therapy.