Selumetinib in Cancers With BRAF Mutations
The purpose of this research study is to determine if selumetinib is safe and effective in treating patients with cancers with a mutated BRAF gene. Selumetinib is an investigational drug that works by blocking a protein called MEK, which is known to play a role in the growth of cancer cells lines and tumors that have a mutated BRAF gene. There are multiple types of cancers that have mutations in the BRAF gene and depend on the activity of this gene for their growth and survival.
Adult Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Selumetinib
Objective Response Rate in Patients With Cancers Other Than Melanoma, Percentage of participants achieving either complete response (disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, when compared with baseline) using CT (computed tomography) scans (which are done every 6 weeks)., 4 years
AKT Pathway Activity, Correlation between response to AZD6244 and mutational analysis of AKT pathway (an intracellular signaling pathway important in regulating the cell cycle), Up to 4 years|Objective Response Rate in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancers and Colon Cancers, Percentage of participants with either colon cancer or non-small cell lung cancer achieving either complete response (disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, when compared with baseline) using CT (computed tomography) scans., Up to 4 years|Progression-free Survival, Reported as percentage of participants alive and progression free at 4-months. Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Confidence intervals will be calculated and reported., 4 months|Sensitivity and Specificity of Detection of the BRAF V600E Mutation in CTC Using the CTC-chip, Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the objective response rate to AZD6244 (selumetinib) in patients with cancers other than melanoma in which BRAF mutations have been identified prospectively.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression-free survival in subjects treated with AZD6244. II. To obtain a preliminary estimate of the objective response rate in non-small cell lung cancers and colon cancers with BRAF mutations.

III. To explore biologic correlates of responsiveness to AZD6244, and specifically to correlate AKT pathway activity with sensitivity to MEK inhibition in the BRAF mutant class of tumors.

IV. To estimate the sensitivity and specificity of detection of the BRAF V600E mutation in circulating tumor cells (CTC) using a microfluidic platform (the 'CTC-chip').

OUTLINE:

Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 3 weeks. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.