Pilot Clinical Trial of Pazopanib in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) or at Initial Diagnosis When no Intensive Treatment is Possible
Long term disease-free survival (DFS) of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is still poor. Recently, so-called "targeted therapy" for cancer has been introduced to the treatment of patients with AML. This phase II clinical trial will explore the efficacy, safety, and pharmacodynamics of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor pazopanib in patients with relapsed or refractory AML or patients with AML who are not eligible for intensive treatment. Biomarker studies will be included to study whether the targets are indeed inhibited and whether this leads to decreased BM angiogenesis. Toxicity assessments will be included, and the antileukemic effectiveness will be studied.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Pazopanib
Cumulative response rate (CR, CRp, CRi, PR) within up to one year of pazopanib treatment, 12 months|Reduction of BM microvessel density on day 28, 28 days
Safety and Tolerability (Rate of adverse events), Rate of adverse events, 12 months|Cumulative incidence and degree of inhibition of target receptor phosphorylation (PDGFR, VEGFR, and c-KIT) and correlation with clinical response, 12 months|Reduction of BM microvessel density on day 14, 14 days|Relapse-free survival in relationship to historical control patients, Overall survival in relationship to historical control patients, Duration of response, 12 months
Long term disease-free survival (DFS) of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is still poor. Recently, so-called "targeted therapy" for cancer has been introduced to the treatment of patients with AML. This phase II clinical trial will explore the efficacy, safety, and pharmacodynamics of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor pazopanib in patients with relapsed or refractory AML or patients with AML who are not eligible for intensive treatment. Biomarker studies will be included to study whether the targets are indeed inhibited and whether this leads to decreased BM angiogenesis. Toxicity assessments will be included, and the antileukemic effectiveness will be studied.