APOLLO: A Randomized Phase II Double-Blind Study of Olaparib Versus Placebo Following Curative Intent Therapy in Patients With Resected Pancreatic Cancer and a Pathogenic BRCA1, BRCA2 or PALB2 Mutation
This phase II trial investigates how well the addition of olaparib following completion of surgery and chemotherapy works in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has been surgically removed (resected) and has a pathogenic mutation in BRCA1, BRCA2, or PALB2. Olaparib is an inhibitor of PARP, an enzyme that helps repair deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) when it becomes damaged. Blocking PARP may help keep tumor cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. PARP inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy.
Pancreatic Acinar Cell Carcinoma|Pancreatic Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Pancreatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Resectable Pancreatic Acinar Cell Carcinoma|Resectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Resectable Pancreatic Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Resectable Pancreatic Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Placebo Administration
Improvement in relapse-free survival (RFS), Will demonstrate an improvement in the RFS from 22 months to 44 months (hazard ratio 0.5) in patients treated with olaparib after perioperative (neoadjuvant, adjuvant or a combination) chemotherapy compared to those treated with perioperative therapy alone., From randomization to first documentation of disease recurrence (primary tumor relapse) or death, assessed from 22 months to 44 months
RFS, Will evaluate RFS in patients with olaparib after perioperative chemotherapy compared to those treated with perioperative therapy alone. Analysis will be largely exploratory. Within each arm any proportion endpoint (toxicity, mutation rate, etc.) will be estimable with a 95% confidence interval. Arm A would have a confidence interval that is 20 percentage points wide, and Arm B would have a confidence interval that is 29 percentage points wide., From randomization to first documentation of disease recurrence (primary tumor relapse) or death, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Analysis will be largely exploratory. Power for overall survival in particular will be limited. Within each arm any proportion endpoint (toxicity, mutation rate, etc.) will be estimable with a 95% confidence interval. Arm A would have a confidence interval that is 20 percentage points wide, and Arm B would have a confidence interval that is 29 percentage points wide., From randomization until 10 years after registration or until death, whichever comes first|Efficacy of olaparib after chemotherapy in patients with a pathogenic germline BRCA or PALB2 mutation, Will analyze the efficacy of olaparib after chemotherapy in patients with a pathogenic germline BRCA or PALB2 mutation compared to those with a somatic mutation., Up to 10 years|Differences in survival, Will analyze survival differences between patients who received neoadjuvant or perioperative chemotherapy compared to those who received adjuvant therapy alone., Up to 10 years|RFS in those who received =< 3 months of perioperative platinum chemotherapy compared to > 3 months of perioperative platinum chemotherapy, Analysis will be largely exploratory. Within each arm any proportion endpoint (toxicity, mutation rate, etc.) will be estimable with a 95% confidence interval. Arm A would have a confidence interval that is 20 percentage points wide, and Arm B would have a confidence interval that is 29 percentage points wide., From randomization to first documentation of disease recurrence (primary tumor relapse) or death, assessed up to 5 years|OS in those who received =< 3 months of perioperative platinum chemotherapy versus > 3 months of perioperative platinum chemotherapy, Analysis will be largely exploratory. Power for overall survival in particular will be limited. Within each arm any proportion endpoint (toxicity, mutation rate, etc.) will be estimable with a 95% confidence interval. Arm A would have a confidence interval that is 20 percentage points wide, and Arm B would have a confidence interval that is 29 percentage points wide., From randomization until 10 years after registration or until death, whichever comes first|RFS in those who received any platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy versus no platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy, Analysis will be largely exploratory. Within each arm any proportion endpoint (toxicity, mutation rate, etc.) will be estimable with a 95% confidence interval. Arm A would have a confidence interval that is 20 percentage points wide, and Arm B would have a confidence interval that is 29 percentage points wide., From randomization to first documentation of disease recurrence (primary tumor relapse) or death, assessed up to 5 years|OS in those who received any platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy versus no platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy, Analysis will be largely exploratory. Power for overall survival in particular will be limited. Within each arm any proportion endpoint (toxicity, mutation rate, etc.) will be estimable with a 95% confidence interval. Arm A would have a confidence interval that is 20 percentage points wide, and Arm B would have a confidence interval that is 29 percentage points wide., From randomization until 10 years after registration or until death, whichever comes first
RFS and OS differences in patients who had R1 vs R0 resections, Up to 10 years|RFS and OS differences in patients who had lymph node positivity at resection, Up to 10 years|RFS and OS differences in patients who had elevated or rising CA 19-9 or CEA, A cutoff of 35 will be used to determine elevated versus normal CA 19-9 (i.e., greater than 35 will be considered elevated), and the cutoff for CEA will be based on the treating institution's definition of the upper limit of normal. Univariate differences by marker status will be analyzed and Cox proportional hazards models will be fit, adjusting for other clinical and demographic factors that may be confounders., Up to 10 years|RFS and OS differences with those who had resectable disease at diagnosis, Will be compared to those who did not., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the relapse-free survival (RFS)-benefit from the addition of a maintenance olaparib following completion of chemotherapy in patients with resected pancreatic carcinoma and a pathogenic germline or somatic mutation in BRCA1, BRCA2 or PALB2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate RFS in patients with olaparib after perioperative chemotherapy compared to those treated with perioperative therapy alone among patients who received prior platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy.

II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in patients treated with olaparib after adjuvant chemotherapy compared to those treated with adjuvant treatment alone.

III. To analyze the efficacy of olaparib after chemotherapy in patients with a pathogenic germline BRCA or PALB2 mutation compared to those with a somatic mutation.

IV. To analyze survival differences between patients who received neoadjuvant or perioperative chemotherapy compared to those who received adjuvant therapy alone.

V. To analyze RFS and OS differences in those who received =\< 3 months of perioperative platinum chemotherapy compared to those who received \> 3 months of perioperative platinum chemotherapy.

VI. To analyze RFS and OS differences in those who received any platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy compared to no-platinum based perioperative chemotherapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze RFS and OS differences in patients who had R1 versus (vs) R0 resections, lymph node positivity at resection, and/or elevated or rising CA 19-9 or CEA at time of study enrollment in the post-operative setting.

II. To analyze RFS and OS differences with those who had resectable disease at diagnosis compared to those who did not.

III. To analyze RFS and OS differences in those with gBRCA1 mutations compared to those with gBRCA2 mutations and gPALB2 mutations.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) scans or CT/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and collection of blood throughout the study.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT scans or CT/MRI and collection of blood throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 4 months for year 1, then every 6 months for years 2-10 after randomization.