Study of Sacituzumab Govitecan (SG) Versus Docetaxel in Participants With Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The goal of this clinical study is to compare the study drug, sacituzumab govitecan-hziy (SG), versus docetaxel in participants with advanced or metastatic (cancer that has spread) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab Govitecan-hziy (SG)|DRUG: Docetaxel
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause. OS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier estimate. Participants without documentation of death were censored on the date they were last known to be alive., Up to 24.4 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Assessed by Investigator Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objective disease progression (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by RECIST v.1.1. As per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum measured while on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study), in addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm or the appearance of of 1 or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Participants who did not have documented disease progression and did not die were censored at their last tumor assessment date. Kaplan-Meier estimate was used for analysis., Up to 24.4 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Assessed by Investigator Per RECIST Version 1.1, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) that was confirmed at least 4 weeks later as assessed by RECIST v.1.1. As per RECIST 1.1 CR was defined as: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; and normalization of tumor marker levels initially above upper limits of normal; PR was defined as: At least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 24.4 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Assessed by Investigator Per RECIST Version 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from the first documentation of CR or PR to the earlier of the first documentation of PD or death from any cause (whichever comes first) as assessed by RECIST v. 1.1. As per RECIST 1.1 CR was disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; and normalization of tumor marker levels initially above upper limits of normal; PR was at least 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD, and PD was at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum measured while on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study), in addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm or the appearance of of 1 or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Kaplan-Meier estimate was used for analysis., Up to 24.4 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Assessed by Investigator Per RECIST Version 1.1, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a CR, PR,or stable disease(SD)as assessed by RECIST v.1.1. Per RECIST 1.1 CR was disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; and normalization of tumor marker levels initially above upper limits of normal;PR was at least 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD.SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD,taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started and persistence of 1 or more nontarget lesion(s).PD was at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum measured while on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study),in addition of increase of 20% sum also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm or appearance of 1 or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to 24.4 months|Percentage of Participants Who Experienced Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participants administered a medicinal product that does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. TEAEs were defined as any AEs that begin or worsen on or after the start of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of the study drug. The severity was graded based on the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0., Up to 3.5 years|Percentage of Participants Who Experienced Grade 3 or 4 Treatment Emergent Laboratory Abnormalities Post-Baseline, Blood samples were collected for hematology, serum chemistry, and the laboratory abnormalities were assessed. A treatment-emergent laboratory abnormality was defined as an increase of at least 1 toxicity grade from baseline at any time postbaseline up to and including the date of last study drug dose plus 30 days.The most severe graded abnormality observed post-baseline for each graded test was counted for each participant. Safety as assessed by grading of laboratory values and AEs according to the National Cancer Institutes' Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) covering grades 0-5 (0=Normal, 1=Mild, 2=Moderate, 3=Severe, 4=Life-threatening, 5=Death). The percentage of participants with worst postbaseline grades 3 or 4 will be reported., Up to 3.5 years|Time to First Deterioration in Shortness of Breath Domain as Measured by Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Symptom Assessment Questionnaire (NSCLC-SAQ), The NSCLC-SAQ is a participant reported outcome with seven items assessing five symptom concepts of NSCLC: cough, pain, dyspnea, fatigue, and appetite. Each item is rated using a five-point verbal rating scale from "No \<symptom\> At All" to "Very severe \<symptom\>" or from "Never to Always" depending on the item's question structure relative to either intensity or frequency, corresponding to a score of 0 to 4, with total score ranging from 0 to 20. The dyspnea (shortness of breath) item uses a "Never(0) to Always(4)" rating scale with higher score indicating higher frequency of dyspnea. Time to deterioration (TTD) was defined as the time from date of randomization to the first date a participant achieves 2-point deterioration from baseline. For shortness of breath domain, a 1-point or greater worsening from baseline represents a clinically meaningful deterioration. Kaplan-Meier estimate was used for analysis., Up to 24.4 months|Time to First Deterioration in NSCLC-SAQ Total Score, The NSCLC-SAQ is a participant reported outcome measure with seven items assessing five symptom concepts of NSCLC: cough, pain, dyspnea, fatigue, and appetite. Each item is rated using a five-point verbal rating scale from "No \<symptom\> At All" to "Very severe \<symptom\>" or from "Never to Always" depending on the item's question structure relative to either intensity or frequency, corresponding to a score of 0 to 4. A total score sums all five domain scores at each visit. If any domain score was missing, the score was not computed. The total score ranges between 0 and 20, with higher scores indicating more severe symptoms. TTD was defined as the time from date of randomization to the first date a participant achieves 2-point deterioration from baseline. For NSCLC-SAQ total score, a 2-point or greater worsening from baseline represents a clinically meaningful deterioration. Kaplan-Meier estimate was used for analysis., Up to 24.4 months
The goal of this clinical study is to compare the study drug, sacituzumab govitecan-hziy (SG), versus docetaxel in participants with advanced or metastatic (cancer that has spread) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).