A Treatment With Fulvestrant and Exemestane in Postmenopausal Patients With Advanced Hormone Receptor-Positive (HR) + Breast Cancer
For patients receiving Faslodex 500 mg, to compare the effectiveness in terms of Time to Progression (TTP) as a function of the line of treatment (i.e. 1st vs. 2nd vs. 3rd line). For all patients, to collect and explore real-life data on the epidemiology and management of Pseudomyxoma Peritonea (PMP) patients with HR+ advanced breast cancer (ABC) treated with Faslodex 500 mg or exemestane.
Postmenopause|Breast Cancer
Evaluation of the effectiveness of Faslodex 500 mg in terms of time to progression (TTP) of disease., Period from inclusion up to 9 months (average time period )|Disease management data, The analysis will be adjusted for the main prognostic factors, such as visceral metastases, age, receptor status etc, Period from inclusion up to 9 months (average time period )
Real-life data on patient outcomes by line of treatment (i.e. 1st vs. 2nd vs. 3rd line)., Including overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS),time to progression (TTP), response rate (RR) and clinical benefit rate (CBR), Every 3 months|Real-life pharmacoeconomic data and use of health care resources., According to lines of treatment and other patient related factors (such as age, co-morbidities etc.), including primary care visits, hospital stays and other resource, Every 3 months|Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients undergoing treatment with Faslodex 500 mg or exemestane., Health-related quality of life will be assessed with a patient-based instrument (eg, EQ5D)., Every 3 months
For patients receiving Faslodex 500 mg, to compare the effectiveness in terms of Time to Progression (TTP) as a function of the line of treatment (i.e. 1st vs. 2nd vs. 3rd line). For all patients, to collect and explore real-life data on the epidemiology and management of Pseudomyxoma Peritonea (PMP) patients with HR+ advanced breast cancer (ABC) treated with Faslodex 500 mg or exemestane.