Move for Surgery (MFS): Evaluating the Use of Wearable Technology for Preconditioning Before Thoracic Surgery
Wearable technology is increasingly being used to promote healthy behaviour. In this study, the investigators propose the development and evaluation of Move for Surgery, which utilizes a wearable activity bracelet (Fitbit) and proven behavioural change techniques, for preconditioning of patients prior to lung cancer surgery. The primary outcome of this study will be compliance with Move for Surgery, as a surrogate measure for feasibility. Secondary outcomes, including accrual rates, perioperative pulmonary complications, cost per patient, and patient satisfaction, will also be collected. The investigators have partnered with the Canadian Partnership Against Cancer (CPAC) and Lung Cancer Canada (LCC) to develop Move for Surgery. The ultimate goal of this preliminary study is to lay the groundwork for a subsequent comparative trial to evaluate the impact of Move for Surgery on postoperative complications in the thoracic surgery population.
Preconditioning|Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell
OTHER: Fitbit
The feasibility of Move for Surgery, as measured by a rate of compliance of >70% until program completion., The feasibility of Move for Surgery, as measured by a rate of compliance of \>70% until program completion., 12 months
Rate of accrual, Rate of accrual, 12 months|Perioperative patient complications, Perioperative patient complications, 12 months|Cost per patient, Cost per patient, 12 months|Patient-reported health-related quality of life, EuroQol-5Dimensions-5Levels (EQ-5D-5L), 12 months|Patient-reported health-related physical activity, International Physical Activity Questionnaire - Short Form (IPAQ-SF), 12 months
Wearable technology is increasingly being used to promote healthy behaviour. In this study, the investigators propose the development and evaluation of Move for Surgery, which utilizes a wearable activity bracelet (Fitbit) and proven behavioural change techniques, for preconditioning of patients prior to lung cancer surgery. The primary outcome of this study will be compliance with Move for Surgery, as a surrogate measure for feasibility. Secondary outcomes, including accrual rates, perioperative pulmonary complications, cost per patient, and patient satisfaction, will also be collected. The investigators have partnered with the Canadian Partnership Against Cancer (CPAC) and Lung Cancer Canada (LCC) to develop Move for Surgery. The ultimate goal of this preliminary study is to lay the groundwork for a subsequent comparative trial to evaluate the impact of Move for Surgery on postoperative complications in the thoracic surgery population.