Bortezomib and Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving bortezomib together with gemcitabine works in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic nasopharyngeal cancer. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bortezomib together with gemcitabine may kill more tumor cells
Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Cancer|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Cancer
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response) based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) in patients treated with bortezomib, Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival rate, 3 months
Response probability (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response) based on the RECIST in patients treated with bortezomib and gemcitabine hydrochloride, Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival rate, 6 months|Progression-free survival rate, 1 year|Adverse events, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v3.0, 95% confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, 1 year|Relationship between Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) level, NF-kB DNA- binding activity, and methylation status of E-cadherin promoter with clinical outcome, Day 4
OBJECTIVES: Primary I. Assess the response probability (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses) and 3-month progression-free survival rate in patients with metastatic or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) who are treated with bortezomib.

Secondary I. Estimate 1-year progression-free survival and assess quantitative toxicities in this group of patients treated with bortezomib.

II. Evaluate the response probability (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) in the subset of patients who progress on bortezomib, with measurable disease at the time of progression, and go on to receive bortezomib and gemcitabine hydrochloride combination therapy.

III. Estimate 1-year overall survival of all patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Estimate 6-month progression-free survival from the start of combination therapy and assess quantitative toxicities in the subset of patients who progress on bortezomib and receive combination therapy.

V. Explore, in a preliminary manner, the relationship between changes in Epstein-Barr virus DNA level, NF-kB DNA-binding activity, and methylation status of E-cadherin promoter with clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study of bortezomib.

Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses of treatment with bortezomib.

Patients who experience disease progression on single-agent bortezomib and did not receive prior gemcitabine hydrochloride may begin combination therapy within 10-28 days of the last dose of bortezomib. Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR receive 2 additional courses beyond the confirmed CR.

After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.