Guiding Instillation in Non Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer Based on Drug Screens in Patient Derived Organoids
From patients with intermediate risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer tumor (NMIBC) specimens will be harvested during transurethral resection. Fresh specimens will be cultured as patient derived organoids (PDO). After approx. 10 days, PDO are exposed to different drugs that are used as intravesical instillation agents in these patients (epirubicin, mitomycin, gemcitabine, docetaxel). After 2 days of exposure, PDO viability will be measured. The drug with the highest antitumor effect on PDO will be applied as weekly intravesical instillations 6 times. Thereafter, patients are followed according to the standard of care.
Bladder Cancer|Non-muscle Invasive
DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Mitomycin|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Docetaxel
Proportion of patients with successful drug selection, Proportion of patients for which a specific selection of chemotherapeutic agent for intravesical instillation can be determined by using drug screens in PDOs., 24 months
Proportion of patients for whom patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can be successfully generated (regardless of subsequent drug screen), Proportion of patients for whom patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can be successfully generated (regardless of subsequent drug screen), 24 months|Rate of recurrence in the study population, Rate of recurrence in the study population, 24 months|Recurrence free survival 24 months after TURBT, Proportion of patients that show recurrence 24 months after TURBT, 24 months|Progression free survival 24 months after TURBT, Proportion of patients that show progression 24 months after TURBT, 24 months|General quality of Life, Description of the general quality of life based on the questionnaire EORTC-QLQ-C30, 24 months|Quality of Life related to the bladder cancer, Description of the Quality of Life related to the bladder cancer based on the specific NMIBC24 module, 24 months|Safety profile of instillations, Description of the side effects related to the chemotherapeutic intravesical instillations occuring during the treatment phase., 24 months
From patients with intermediate risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer tumor (NMIBC) specimens will be harvested during transurethral resection. Fresh specimens will be cultured as patient derived organoids (PDO). After approx. 10 days, PDO are exposed to different drugs that are used as intravesical instillation agents in these patients (epirubicin, mitomycin, gemcitabine, docetaxel). After 2 days of exposure, PDO viability will be measured. The drug with the highest antitumor effect on PDO will be applied as weekly intravesical instillations 6 times. Thereafter, patients are followed according to the standard of care.