Health Status and Burden of Late Effects in Very Long-term Testicular Cancer Survivors (STANDBY-study)
Depending on disease stage, testicular cancer (TC) treatment consists of an orchidectomy, alone or followed by radiotherapy (RT) or platinum-based chemotherapy (CT). TC survival rates are above 90% nowadays, which results in growing TC survivor population. Because of the long life expectancy of these survivors, prevention or early detection of late treatment effects has become increasingly relevant. Yet known late effects are nephrotoxicity, cardiovascular disease (CVD), secondary malignant neoplasms (SMN), neurotoxicity, pulmonary toxicity, Raynaud's phenomenon, hypogonadism, fatigue and psychosocial problems. Nephrotoxicity is an important late effect, but data is lacking in very long-term survivors since performed studies have a follow-up duration of 5-14 years. Decreased renal function is a known risk factor for CVD development and also an association between renal function and neurtoxicity via circulating platinum levels has been shown. It is hypothesized that treatment induced nephrotoxicity is prevalent in TC survivors and might be a mediator for development of late effects. The secondary aim is to assess prevalence of late effects in very long-term TC survivors: until now, most data have been collected through questionnaires in large epidemiological studies in TC survivors till approximately 10 years after treatment. The prevalence of late effects may increase over time: 10 years after treatment late effects may not be present yet, whilst late effects can emerge just after 20 years. Consequently, health status and possible late effects, resulting in morbidity, are underestimated in patients who are 20-30 years after treatment. By investigating health status of these very long-term survivors a more profound insight in the prevalence and aetiology of these late effects and the development over time can be assessed. Current treatment is very similar to TC treatment 20-30 years ago and therefore knowledge on late effects is relevant for currently treated patients. Furthermore, as a result of this study, we will better understand which factors and issues should be watched closely during follow-up, which TC survivors are at increased risk of developing late treatment effects and how to detect early damage before overt morbidity occurs.
Testicular Cancer
Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in ml/min, 3 years
Development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) according to the WHO ICD-10 classification (I10-I15: hypertensive disease; I20-I25: ischemic heart disease; I60-I69: cerebrovascular disease; I70-I79: disease of arteries, arterioles and capillaries), 3 years|Peripheral neuropathy (anamnestic with SCIN questionnaire which assesses a.o. chemotherapy-induced peripheral sensory neuropathy), 3 years|Raynaud's phenomenon (anamnestic with SCIN questionnaire which assesses a.o. Raynaud's phenomenon and objectified with standardized digital cooling tests), 3 years|Lung function (FEV1, FVC, TLC, RV, FRC and diffusion capacity (DLCO, KCO)), 3 years|Hypogonadism (LH > 10 U/l or testosterone < 14 ng/ml), 3 years|Cognitive function (neuropsychological assessment of different domains: learning, memory, processing speed, executive function), 3 years|Fatigue (scaled; VVV-questionnaire), 3 years|Testicular cancer disease characteristics: stage, prognosis group, chemotherapy regimen/dose, radiotherapy doses/location, 3 years|Health-related quality of life (HRQoL), 3 years|Physical fitness (according to six-minute walk test with sex, age and BMI specific reference values), 3 years|Intima media thickness (IMT), 3 years|Advanced Glycation End products (AGEs), 3 years|Cardiovascular risk factors (presence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, impaired fasting glucose, overweight/obesity, tobacco and alcohol use, family history), 3 years|Genetic susceptibility for (cardio)vascular damage (single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in DNA), 3 years|Leukocyte telomere length, 3 years|Arterial stiffness measured as pulse-wave velocity (PWV), 3 years
Objective: The aim of this study is to compare glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in very long-term testicular cancer (TC)-survivors treated with chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgery only and non-cancer treated healthy controls. Secondary aim is to assess prevalence of adverse late treatment effects in very long-term TC-survivors treated with chemotherapy (CT), radiotherapy (RT) or surgery only (SU) and investigate the relationship between GFR parameters and these late effects.

Study population: Patients treated with CT, RT or only surgery for TC more than 20 years ago and an age-matched male control population.

Study design: An observational cross-sectional cohort study will be performed. Patients will be invited for a single study visit, which consists of collection of urine during 24 hours, withdrawal of blood samples, filling in questionnaires, physical examination, vascular function and structure tests, lung function tests, digital cooling tests, neuropsychological assessment and a walk test.

Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary study parameter is renal function as expressed by glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Secondary endpoints are the prevalence of the following defined adverse late effects: cardiovascular disease (CVD), peripheral neuropathy, reduced lung function, Raynaud's phenomenon, hypogonadism, fatigue and cognitive dysfunction. Other secondary parameters are health related quality of life (HRQoL), physical fitness, markers for (subclinical) vascular damage, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and aging markers.