Pevonedistat, Irinotecan, and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors or Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of pevonedistat when given together with irinotecan hydrochloride and temozolomide in treating patients with solid tumors, central nervous system (CNS) tumors, or lymphoma that have come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or that do not respond to treatment (refractory). Pevonedistat and irinotecan may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving pevonedistat, irinotecan hydrochloride, and temozolomide may work better in treating patients with solid tumors, central nervous system (CNS) tumors, or lymphoma compared to irinotecan and temozolomide alone.
Recurrent Lymphoma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Pevonedistat|DRUG: Temozolomide
MTD/RP2D of Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be the maximum dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience dose limiting toxicities., Up to 28 days|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Greater Toxicities Associated With Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, Frequency of patients who experience at least one grade 3 or higher toxicity that is at least possibly attributable to pevonedistat using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 by dose level stratified by study part and dose level., Up to 3 years 8 months|Half-life of Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, Median (Range) for the time required for the serum concentration to fall to 50% of its starting dose by dose level stratified by study part and dose level., Up to 10 days|T Max of Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, Median (Range) for the time at which the maximum (peak) serum concentration occurs by dose level stratified by study part and dose level., Up to 10 days|C Max of Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, Median (Range) for the maximum (peak) serum concentration by dose level stratified by study part and dose level., Up to 10 days|AUC of Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, Median (range) of the area under the drug concentration over time (pre-dose and then 0, 1, 2, 4, 6-8, and 24-hours post-dose infusion) curve stratified by study part and dose level., Up to 10 days|Clearance of Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, Median (Range) for the rate of elimination of the drug by dose level stratified by study part and dose level., Up to 10 days
Anti-tumor Activity of Pevonedistat in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide, Frequency of disease response (best overall response of partial or complete response) assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR by dose level., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of pevonedistat administered as an intravenous infusion on days 1, 8, 10, and 12 of a 28-day cycle (cycle 1), and on days 1, 3, and 5 of a 21-day cycle (cycle 2 and beyond) in combination with irinotecan (administered as an intravenous infusion on days 8-12 of cycle 1 and days 1-5 of cycles 2+) and temozolomide (administered orally on days 8-12 in cycle 1 and days 1-5 of cycles 2+) in children with recurrent or refractory solid tumors, including central nervous system (CNS) tumors and lymphoma.

II. To define and describe the toxicities of pevonedistat administered on this schedule.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of pevonedistat in children with recurrent or refractory cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of pevonedistat within the confines of a phase 1 study.

II. To assess the biologic activity of pevonedistat.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of pevonedistat.

Patients receive pevonedistat intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 10, and 12, temozolomide orally (PO) daily on days 8-12, and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 8-12 of cycle 1. Beginning cycle 2, patients receive pevonedistat IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5, temozolomide PO daily on days 1-5, and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for cycle 1 and 21 days for subsequent cycles for up to 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.