Healthy Homes/Healthy Families (HH/HF) Intervention in 2-1-1 Callers
This trial will evaluate a healthy eating and weight gain prevention intervention for delivery through calls to the 2-1-1 number.
Weight Change, Body
BEHAVIORAL: Health Homes/Healthy Families (HH/HF) Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Control
Change in United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Healthy Eating Index (HEI), The USDA HEI measures diet quality and is calculated from two telephone administered 24-hr dietary recalls (one weekday, one weekend day). The HEI evaluates foods with a scoring system using 13 components for different food groups and the key recommendations of the 2015-2020 "Dietary Guidelines for Americans". Scores range from 0 to 100 where a score of 100 is an ideal score indicating that a diet follows the key recommendations of the 2015-2020 "Dietary Guidelines for Americans"., Baseline, Month 4, Month 9
Change in Kcal per day intake, Kcal per day will be calculated and recorded. The most recent version of the Automated Self-Administered 24-hour dietary recall (ASA24) program prompts for food description details and automatically codes and calculates nutrient intakes using the USDA Food and Nutrient Database for Dietary Studies. The average of one weekday and one weekend day will be used to estimate Kcal per day at each time point., Baseline, Month 4, Month 9|Change in self-reported weight, Participants will self-report weight in pounds each time point, Baseline, Month 4, Month 9|Changes to food environment, A home environment survey will be administered via telephone at each time point to assess household food inventory, food preparation methods, meals/snacks with the television on, use of non-home food sources for family meals, and frequency of shopping for fruits and vegetables., Baseline, Month 4, Month 9
It is now well-established that obesity and excess weight increase the risk of cancer (i.e., colorectal and post-menopausal breast cancer), as well as other chronic diseases including diabetes, stroke, coronary heart disease, and arthritis. The World Cancer Research Fund and the American Institute for Cancer Research state "maintenance of a healthy weight throughout life may be one of the most important ways to protect against cancer". Unfortunately, adults generally gain weight as they age.

Healthy Homes/Healthy Families (HH/HF) Intervention involves a tailored home environment profile and a health coach working with participants to select and implement a series of healthy actions to create a home environment more supportive of healthy eating and physical activity.

The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) designated 2-1-1 as the 3-digit number to call for information and referrals to social services and other assistance in the United States. This study will evaluate a healthy eating and weight gain prevention intervention for delivery through 2-1-1 calls.