Topical Perillyl Alcohol in Treating Patients With Sun Damaged Skin and Actinic Keratoses
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as perillyl alcohol, work in different ways to stop the growth of abnormal cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not yet known which dose of topical perillyl alcohol is more effective in stopping the development of cancer in sun damaged skin.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying high-dose topical perillyl alcohol to see how well it works compared with low-dose topical perillyl alcohol in treating patients with sun damaged skin and actinic keratoses.
Precancerous Condition
DRUG: perillyl alcohol|OTHER: placebo
Change in Histopathology Score of Sun Damaged Skin by Treatment Group, The histopathologic scoring for skin biopsies from sun-damaged skin to assess the following seven characteristics: 1- atypia (levels 0, 1 \& 2), 2- inflammation (grades 0, 1 \& 2), 3- hyperkeratosis (loss of basket weave pattern of stratum corneum), 4- parakeratosis (present when there were \>3 characteristic nuclei per 40:1 field in stratum corneum), 5- dyskeratosis (focal presence of cells with homogenous, pink cytoplasm n pyknotic nuclei), 6- epidermotropism (lymphocytes migration of \>3 cells into epidermis, 7- loss of granular layer. All assessments were done using a 40:1 objective., Baseline to 3 months
Skin Related Events From Perillyl Alcohol at Administered Doses by Participants, The events do not have to be caused by the drug or therapy, and they may be mild, moderate, or severe. (NCI), 3 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine if topical administration of perillyl alcohol (POH) cream can reverse actinic damage as evidenced by normalization of quantitative skin histopathology scores in skin tissue biopsy samples from patients with moderate to severe sun damage.

Secondary

* To determine if topical POH can be administered safely to the forearms of these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

* Placebo: Patients apply a placebo cream topically to each dorsal forearm twice daily for 3 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
* Low Dose: Patients apply perillyl alcohol (POH) cream (0.3%) topically to each dorsal forearm twice daily for 3 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
* High Dose: Patients apply POH cream (0.76%) as in arm II. Patients undergo tissue sampling of the right or left dorsal forearm and of physician-selected representative actinic keratoses (AK) at baseline and after completion of study therapy. Tissue samples are assessed for changes in patterns of biomarker expression (i.e., p53, apoptosis, c-Fos histopathology) and karyometry. After completion of study therapy, patients undergo tissue sampling of the opposite forearm as well as blood sample collection to determine perillyl alcohol (POH) levels in blood and biopsy samples. Urine is also collected and analyzed for safety at the end of treatment. Digital photographs of the forearms and hands are obtained at baseline and after 3 months of study treatment. Optical coherence tomography imaging is also performed on pre- and post-biopsy sites to quantify the effect of POH on sun damage and AK in skin.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed monthly.