Magnetic Resonance (MR) Imaging With Hyperpolarized 13C-Pyruvate +/- 13C,15N-Urea in Patients With Prostate Cancer
This is a Phase 2 clinical study of hyperpolarized (HP) 13C-pyruvate (13C), 15N-urea (13C,15N) metabolic MR imaging in prostate cancer patients who are undergoing or have received radiation therapy for prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: hyperpolarized pyruvate +/-urea (13C/15N)|RADIATION: Non-investigational Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)|PROCEDURE: Radiotherapy (RT)|PROCEDURE: Multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI)|BIOLOGICAL: Non-interventional hormone therapy|PROCEDURE: Prostate Biopsy
Signal-to-noise ratio (Part 1), A signal-to-noise ratio is defined as a MR/spectroscopy parameter, consisting of the HP C13-Pyruvate or Lactate signal (peak) relative to background noise level (baseline) in MRI spectra of the tissue., Day of MR imaging (1 day)|Mean HP 13C-pyruvate to lactate metabolic rate of conversion (kPL) over time (Part 2A), The mean percent change in tumoral kPL between baseline and 1-year post-SBRT will be reported., Up to 24 months|Mean HP 13C-pyruvate to glutamate metabolic rate of conversion (kPG) over time (Part 2A), The mean percent change in tumoral kPG between baseline and 1-year post-SBRT will be reported., Up to 24 months|Mean change in on-treatment kPL over time (Part 2B), Mean percent change in tumoral kPL for participants receiving systemic hormone therapy between baseline and 1 -year post-SBRT will be reported., Up to 24 months|Mean change in on-treatment kPG over time (Part 2B), Mean percent change in tumoral kPG for participants receiving systemic hormone therapy between baseline and 1 -year post-SBRT will be reported., Up to 24 months|Mean kPL at time of biochemical failure (Part 3), The mean kPL for participants with biochemical failure will be reported., Up to 24 months|Mean kPG at time of biochemical failure (Part 3), The mean kPG for participants with biochemical failure will be reported., Up to 24 months
Intra-patient variability of kPL, Intra-patient variability in the kPL will be summarized by the intraclass correlation and presented with a 90% confidence interval when multiple HP-MRI scans are obtained for a participant., Up to 12 months|Intra-patient variability of kPG, Intra-patient variability in the kPG will be summarized by the intraclass correlation and presented with a 90% confidence interval when multiple HP-MRI scans are obtained for a participant., Up to 12 months|Mean intra-tumoral kPL above and below the median PSA (Parts 2-3) and the mean serum PSA, The study cohort will be dichotomized by mean intra-tumoral kPL obtained at baseline with median serum PSA and will be compared between the two dichotomized subgroups using Mann-Whitney test., Up to 24 months|Correlation of kPL with Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) version 2 classification score, Spearman's rank order correlation coefficient will be used to determine the relationship between kPL with PI-RADS version 2 classification score (1 through 5; PI-RADS 1 - Very low (clinically significant cancer is highly unlikely to be present) PI-RADS 2 - Low (clinically significant cancer is unlikely to be present)). The Spearman's correlation coefficient (rs) measures the strength and direction of association between two variables. The Spearman correlation coefficient, rs, can take values from +1 to -1 where a value of +1 indicates a perfect association, an rs of 0 indicates no association and an rs of -1 indicates a perfect negative association. The closer rs is to 0, the weaker the association., Up to 24 months|Correlation of kPG with PI-RADS version 2 classification score, Spearman's rank order correlation coefficient will be used to determine the relationship between kPL with PI-RADS version 2 classification score (1 through 5; PI-RADS 1 - Very low (clinically significant cancer is highly unlikely to be present) PI-RADS 2 - Low (clinically significant cancer is unlikely to be present)). The Spearman's correlation coefficient (rs) measures the strength and direction of association between two variables. The Spearman correlation coefficient, rs, can take values from +1 to -1 where a value of +1 indicates a perfect association, an rs of 0 indicates no association and an rs of -1 indicates a perfect negative association. The closer rs is to 0, the weaker the association., Up to 24 months|Proportion of participants with concordant mismatch of low HP 13C-urea perfusion (ureaAUC), A secondary endpoint will be to identify concordant mismatch of low HP 13C-urea perfusion (ureaAUC) in lesions assessed for kPL., Up to 24 months|Mean percent change in kPL over time for participants with optional scan, For the subset of participants who undergo optional follow up MR scan following baseline MRI, the mean percent change from baseline in kPL will be descriptively reported using summary statistics., Up to 24 months|Number of participants with reported treatment-related adverse events, The incidence of adverse events as graded by Common Toxicity Criteria version 5.0 will be determined, From start of HP 13C-pyruvate MR imaging to 20 minutes after the procedure for all scans
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Part 1: To Optimize the imaging sequences that maximize signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and intra-tumoral kPL and kPG in regions of tumor vs. adjacent benign tissue as assessed by mpMRI imaging characteristics.

II. Part 2A To perform HP 13C-MRI and measure the changes in tumoral kPL and kPG.

III. Part 2B: To perform HP 13C-MRI and study the metabolic effects (changes in tumor kPL and kPG).

IV. Part 3: To perform HP 13C-MRI at time of Biochemical Failure and measure tumoral kPL and kPG, in previously SBRT treated patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the intra-patient variability in intra-tumoral kPL and kPG with repeated dose studies (Part 1, 2 \& 3).

II. To determine the association between peak intra-tumoral kPL observed on baseline imaging with serum PSA. (Part 2 \& 3).

III. To determine the association between changes in intra-tumor kPL after 4-12 weeks of systemic hormone therapy and PSA response (Part 2B).

IV. To compare and contrast intra-tumoral kPL and kPG with Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) version 2 and individual mpMRI parameters including apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) on diffusion-weighted imaging (Part 1, 2 \& 3).

V. To describe the frequency of up-grading of tumor with MR/US-guided fusion biopsy obtained following baseline HP-MRI exam. (Part 3).

VI. To further characterize the safety profile of HP C-13 pyruvate injections (Part 1, 2 \& 3).

VII. For patients imaged with HP 13C-MRI at time of biochemical failure post-SBRT, correlate peak intra-tumoral kPL and kPG with radiotherapy dose distributions from SBRT course (Part 3).

VIII. For studies incorporating HP 13C-urea, the baseline and the on-treatment changes in ureaAUC parameter will be measured and compared to kPL endpoints of the same lesions (Part 1, 2 \& 3).

OUTLINE:

The study is divided into 3 parts. Part 1: Participants undergo imaging as part of a multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) exam to determine exact parameters for imaging.

Part 2A: Participants planned for stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) Part 2B: Participants with high-risk localized prostate cancer planned to receive primary radiation therapy with concurrent systemic hormone therapy Part 3: Evaluable SBRT participants scanned at time of biochemical failure and MR/US fusion-guided prostate biopsy within 12 weeks. Participants have the option of undergoing a follow up HP Pyruvate +/- Urea MR exam 6-15 months following the baseline scan.

All participants will receive a scan at baseline and other procedures may be performed as part of routine, non-interventional standard of care at the time of biochemical failure, including serial prostate-specific antigen (PSA) monitoring and gene expression profiling of tumor tissue. Participants will be followed for 24 months after last procedure or removal from study, or until death, whichever occurs first.