Pembrolizumab and Hypofractionated Stereotactic Radiotherapy in Patients With Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
This is a multi-centre non-randomised open-label phase 1 trial of pembrolizumab given in combination with SBRT to part of a pleural-based lesion in patients with unresectable MPM. This study will recruit up to 18 patients whose MPM has progressed beyond first-line of palliative chemotherapy, with a platinum-based doublet, and now requires further palliative systemic treatment, or have declined first-line palliative chemotherapy, however must have been considered suitable for a platinum doublet chemotherapy.
Advanced Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT)
Toxicity rate, stated as the number of patients who have had a Dose Limiting Toxicity calculated along with an exact binomial 95% confidence interval. All toxicities will be graded by CTCAE v5.0, tabulated by type, grade and dose level., Hypothesis: SBRT in MPM can be safely administered in combination with pembrolizumab without significant dose limiting acute toxicity., 12 weeks from the last dose of SBRT
Number of patients of toxicity (adverse events) using CTC AE v5.0, tabulated by type, grade and dose level, defined as up to 12 weeks after the last fraction of stereotactic radiotherapy|Overall response rate (ORR) in Malignant pleural mesothelioma using RECIST v1.1 and mRECIST, at 6 and 12 months|Responses rates in epithelioid versus sarcomatoid histological subtypes of MPM using RECIST v1.1 and mRECIST, at 6 and 12 months|Response rates in relation to tumour PD-1/PD-L1 expression, To correlate the number of patients that responded to the treatment with their tumour PD-1/PD-L1 expression., 12 months|Overall survival (OS) (proportion of patients), To measure the OS, at 6 and 12 months|Progression free survival (PFS) (proportion of patients)., To measure the PFS, at 6 and 12 months|Disease control rate (DCR) in Malignant pleural mesothelioma using RECIST v1.1 and mRECIST, at 6 and 12 months|Duration of response (DOR) in Malignant pleural mesothelioma using RECIST v1.1 and mRECIST, at 6 and 12 months
To characterise TILs and tumour antigens in the tumour biopsies. These immunohistochemistry analyses will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following markers: CD4, CD8, FOXp3, PD-1, PD-L1, and PD-L2., To characterise TILs and tumour antigens in the tumour biopsies. These immunohistochemistry analyses will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following markers: CD4, CD8, FOXp3, PD-1, PD-L1, and PD-L2. To identify biomarkers that correlate with immunological response to therapy., 12 months|To analyse peripheral blood samples for ctDNA, To assess for levels of ctDNA, Cycle1 Day1, Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day1 and End of treatment (an average of 7 months)
The study will be conducted in two parts; an initial safety phase (Part A), followed by an expansion cohort (Part B). The initial safety phase (Part A) is based on a 3+3 design such that patients will be treated in a cohort of 3-6 patients. A maximum of 6 patients will be allocated to Part A exploring SBRT 30 Gy in 3 fractions in combination with pembrolizumab. If there is more than one DLT in the first 3 patients or two or more DLTs in the first 6 patients, this treatment combination will be deemed as being unacceptable and it would lead to termination of the study. During the expansion cohort (Part B), 12 patients will have SBRT 30 Gy in 3 fractions with pembrolizumab to obtain additional safety and response data. Maintenance pembrolizumab will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicities, the patient withdraws consent to the trial, or the patient has completed 35 cycles of treatment. A maximum of 18 patients will be treated in the study.

All patients will receive pembrolizumab on cycle (C) 1 day (D) 1, in Part A and B of the study. All patients will receive SBRT on C1D15, C1D17 and C1D19, as per SBRT protocol. Patients in part A will receive SBRT 30 Gy in 3#. Patients in Part B will receive 30 Gy in 3 fractions if considered safe after part A. All patients in Part A and Part B will receive pembrolizumab dosed at 200 mg every 3 weeks, until disease progression, unacceptable toxicities, the patient withdraws consent from the trial or the patient has completed 35 cycles of treatment.

In the initial safety cohort, a minimum of 3 patients will be treated at the SBRT dose of 30Gy in 3 fractions combined with pembrolizumab. The gap left between the treatments of each subsequent patient will start after the second cycle of Pembrolizumab in the previous dosed patient to mitigate against multiple patients suffering from acute toxicity. The DLT period for this study is 12 weeks from the last dose of SBRT (i.e. at C6D1). Patients included in Part A will be considered by the Safety Review Committee (SRC) once the 3rd and 6th patient in the Part A cohort has completed the DLT period. If 0 out of 3 patients experience a DLT, or if 1 out of 3 patients experience a DLT in Part A, then the cohort will be expanded to 6 patients. If 1 in 6 patients experience a DLT, then it will be acceptable to move forward to the expansion cohort (Part B).

However, if ≥ 2 in 6 patients (or more than 1 in the first 3 patients) experience a DLT then the maximum administered dose (MAD) will have been reached. If the MAD is seen at a dose level of 30 Gy in 3# then the study will be terminated.

While waiting for 3 or 6 patients to complete the DLT period, no additional patients will be recruited. Further patients can only be recruited after the SRC has reviewed the toxicity data for the cohort to proceed to Part B. Patients obtaining complete response or having completed 35 cycles of pembrolizumab must discontinue and may recommence for additional 17 cycles upon subsequent disease, the CI/PI will need to discuss with the sponsor and MSD, on a case by case basis for the continuation of pembrolizumab