Brentuximab Vedotin in Early Stage Hodgkin Lymphoma
RADAR is a multicentre, international, randomised, open-label phase III clinical trial composed of 2 trials running in parallel. Trial 1 will be led and sponsored by University College London (UCL) and conducted in Europe and Australia/New Zealand. Trial 2 will be led by the Canadian Cancer Trials Group (CCTG) and conducted in North America, with CCTG the regulatory sponsor in Canada, and University of Miami the regulatory sponsor and IND holder in the US. Datasets from Trial 1 and Trial 2 will be combined to achieve the total sample size. Data analysis will be performed by UCL and therefore UCL is responsible for the clinicaltrials.gov entry.

Eligible patients will be randomised to receive either ABVD or A2VD chemotherapy.

An interim PET-CT scan will be performed after 2 cycles of treatment, which will be used to adapt subsequent treatment. Patients will receive a total of 3-4 cycles of chemotherapy and may also receive involved site radiotherapy as consolidation.

Patients will be followed up for a minimum of 5 years after treatment.
Hodgkin Lymphoma
RADIATION: Involved site radiotherapy|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Bleomycin|DRUG: Brentuximab vedotin|DRUG: Vinblastine|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Haematopoietic growth factor
Progression free survival (PFS), Time from randomisation to first date of progression or death, 3 years from end of treatment
PET-CMR (complete metabolic response) rate, Proportion of patients who have Deauville score 1-3 on PET-CT scan, At the end of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Event-free survival (EFS), Time from randomisation to first date of progression, death or a positive PET2 scan (whichever occurs first), 5 years from end of treatment|Overall survival (OS), Time from randomisation to death, 5 years from end of treatment|Incidence of second cancers and cardiovascular disease, Proportion in each arm who develop a second cancer or cardiovascular disease, 5 years from end of treatment|Safety and toxicity of ABVD and A2VD as described by CTCAE v5.0, Numbers of patients experiencing a grade 3+ adverse event of each type will be presented and compared between the arms. Only patients who start treatment will be included, From start of treatment to 30 days post treatment
Prognostic power of PET after 1 and 2 cycles of ABVD/A2VD, 7A Associations between PET1 Deauville score (DS) and PET2 DS; 7B Associations between PET1 DS and EFS; 7C Associations between PET1 DS and OS; 7D Associations between PET1 DS and PFS; 7E Associations between PET2 DS and EFS; 7F Associations between PET2 DS and OS; 7G Associations between PET2 DS and PFS; 7H Associations between EORTC baseline stratification and PET1 DS; 7I Associations between EORTC baseline stratification and PET2 DS; 7J Associations between EORTC baseline stratification and EFS; 7K Associations between EORTC baseline stratification and OS; 7L Associations between EORTC baseline stratification and EFS; 7M Associations between GHSG baseline stratification and PET1 DS; 7N Associations between GHSG baseline stratification and PET2 DS; 7O Associations between GHSG baseline stratification and EFS; 7P Associations between GHSG baseline stratification and OS; 7Q Associations between GHSG baseline stratification and EFS, Up to 5 years after end of treatment|Prognostic and predictive power of baseline PET features, The association of baseline quantitative PET parameters such as total lesion glycolysis (TLG) and PFS/EFS/OS will be assessed. The ability to predict PET score (PET1 and PET2) and Hodgkin lymphoma events within 3 years will be compared: 8A Associations between baseline quantitative PET parameters such as total lesion glycolysis (TLG) and PFS; 8B Associations between baseline quantitative PET parameters such as total lesion glycolysis (TLG) and OS; 8C Associations between baseline quantitative PET parameters such as total lesion glycolysis (TLG) and EFS; 8D Associations between baseline quantitative PET parameters such as total lesion glycolysis (TLG) and PET1 DS; 8E Associations between baseline quantitative PET parameters such as total lesion glycolysis (TLG) and PET2 DS, Up to 3 years after end of treatment|Change in pulmonary function tests at end of treatment, 1 and 2 years, Change from baseline pulmonary function test (DLCO/TLCO percentage of normal) will be compared, 3 months & 1 year after end of treatment|Correlation between maximum tumour dimension at baseline and end of treatment with PFS, The relationship between maximum tumour dimension at baseline and at end of treatment and PFS will be examined. This may also be analysed within the groups that achieve/do not achieve CMR after 2 cycles and may also be adjusted for the use of consolidation radiotherapy, Up to 5 years after end of treatment
Eligible patients will be randomised to receive either ABVD chemotherapy (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine) or A2VD chemotherapy (doxorubicin, brentuximab vedotin, vinblastine and dacarbazine, with growth factor support).

If patients agree, they will have a PET-CT scan after 1 cycle (PET1). The result of this scan will be blinded and used for exploratory endpoints only. Treatment will not be influenced by the result of this scan.

All patients will have a PET-CT scan after 2 cycles of treatment (PET2) which will be centrally reviewed. The Deauville score from central review will be used to risk adapt subsequent therapy as follows:

* Patients with Deauville score 1-3 will have one further cycle of their randomised chemotherapy and then enter follow up.
* Patients with Deauville score 4 will have two further cycles of their randomised chemotherapy followed by involved site radiotherapy
* Patients with Deauville score 5 will be withdrawn from trial treatment. They will have further treatment at their treating clinician's discretion and will enter follow up for the trial.

Patients with Deauville score 4 on PET2 will have a final PET-CT scan to confirm adequate treatment response.

Patients will be followed up for a minimum of 5 years after completing treatment.