Evaluation of Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Efficacy of Proellex Administered Vaginally in Women With Uterine Fibroids
To determine the safety, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of 4 doses (3, 6, 12, 24 mg) of Proellex in premenopausal women with uterine fibroids confirmed by ultrasound. Drug will be administered vaginally.
Uterine Fibroids
DRUG: Proellex
Change From Baseline in Vaginal Bleeding, Change from baseline in vaginal bleeding assessed at the end of treatment (12 or 16 weeks) using a Pictorial Blood Loss Assessment Chart (PBAC), which measures volume (mL) of blood loss over a 28-day period

Less blood loss represents an improvement., 12 or 16 weeks
Blood Levels of Proellex, Determination of Cmax of Proellex at end of treatment, 12 or 16 weeks|Uterine Fibroid Size, Percent change in volume of confirmed uterine fibroids at end of treatment, assessed by MRI, 12 or 16 weeks|Induction of Amenorrhea at End of Treatment, Percentage of subjects with induced amenorrhea during last 28 days on drug

Amenorrhea was deemed to be achieved if no daily bleeding score was greater than 1 during the last 28 calendar days of the dosing period. A score of 1 was to be indicated if spotting was observed which did not require a sanitary product. Subjects that terminated early were deemed not to have achieved amenorrhea., End of treatment|Endometrial Thickness, Percent change in median endometrial thickness from baseline to end of treatment assessed by ultrasound determination of uterine stripe., 12 or 16 weeks|Change in Quality of Life, Percentage change from baseline in median quality of life using uterine fibroid symptom and quality of life questionnaire (UFSQOL), 12 or 16 weeks
This study is a phase II, 5 arm study with a 12 week active dosing period. The study will be conducted in 2 stages. In the first stage, the first 6 women to be enrolled will be treated at the 12mg dose level, and in addition to the other required study assessments will be monitored with a 24-hour PK assessment on Day 14, and daily trough assessments for the first 14 days. If, at Visit 3, the Cmax or AUC of any subject treated at 12mg exceeds the mean observed for the highest safe oral dose administered in the ZP-204 study, all subjects enrolled at the 12mg level will be discontinued, no further patients will be treated at this dose level, and the 6mg vaginal dose will be assessed in a similar fashion. In the second stage, the remaining subjects will be randomized to a dose of 3, 6, 12 or 24 mg.

For all subjects there will be a 4-6 week placebo run-in period, to establish baseline parameters (bleeding and quality of life) followed by treatment at one of three single-blind Proellex doses (3, 6 or 12 mg daily, administered vaginally in capsule form.) The primary efficacy endpoint will be bleeding assessed using the Pictorial Blood Loss Assessment Chart (PBAC) after 12 or 16 weeks of treatment. The secondary endpoints will be changes in size of uterine fibroids assessed by MRI and improvement in quality of life assessed using the Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Health-Related Quality of Life questionnaire (UFSQOL0. Safety endpoints include significant adverse events, changes in physical examination results, and/or clinical laboratory results significantly outside of normal range. For subjects enrolled in Stage 2, PK will be assessed after the first and last doses and trough levels every 2 weeks.