Prevention of Frailty with Fisetin and Exercise (PROFFi) in Breast Cancer Survivors
This phase II trial tests how well fisetin and exercise works in preventing frailty in breast cancer survivors. Fisetin is a natural substance found in strawberries and other foods and is available as a nutritional supplement. Nutritional supplements may be useful in eliminating cells that have undergone a process called senescence. Senescence is when a cell ages and permanently stops dividing but does not die. Over time, large numbers of these cells build up in tissues throughout the body and can release harmful substances that cause inflammation and damage nearby healthy cells. Giving fisetin may eliminate senescent cells in patients with breast cancer undergoing physical activity.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) V8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC V8|Early Stage Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Exercise Intervention|DRUG: Fisetin|OTHER: Physical Performance Testing|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in 6 minute walk distance (6MWD), The 6MWD will assess the distance walked over 6 minutes and is measured in meters. A linear model will be fit to outcome variable (change score) with a factor variable representing the four study arms and control for baseline 6MWD, site, and age stratum. The analysis will be conducted as intention-to-treat analysis. Will conduct an as-treated analysis, comparing the treatments received (instead of as-randomized)., From baseline to day 120
Change in heart rate, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends., From baseline to day 120|Change in step count, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends., From baseline to day 120|Change in short physical performance battery (SPPB), Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends., From baseline to day 120|Change in grip strength, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends., From baseline to day 120|Change in frailty phenotype, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends., From baseline to day 120|Change in physical function subsection of Short Form (SF)-36, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends., From baseline to day 120|Change in the Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE), Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends., From baseline to day 120|Change in Quality of Life Questionnaire - Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy 20 (QLQ-CIPN20) scores, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends. Quality of Life Questionnaire - Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy 20 (QLQ-CIPN20). Scoring range is from 20-80. A lower score defines a more favorable outcome., From baseline to day 120|Change in Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) cognitive function short form score, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends. Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) cognitive function short form. A composite score of 0-40 is created with higher scores indicating a better health outcome., From baseline to day 120|Change in SF-36 scores, Changes will be calculated for treatments A, B, AB, and C. Linear models will be used to determine treatment effects using the two-stage testing procedure. Will conduct as-treated analysis and linear mixed models will also be fit to examine trends. Soring range is 0-100. a higher score defines a more favorable outcome., From baseline to day 120|Local and distant recurrence free survival, Up to 3 years|Breast cancer specific survival, Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, Measured by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0., Up to day 120|Adherence rate, Treatment adherence will be evaluated in clinic on day 1 of each cycle and via telephone follow-up on day 2, day 3 of each cycle. Adherence information obtained will include the start and finish time for ingesting the drug and the number of pills ingested. Adherence will also be collected in a pill diary., Up to day 120
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on physical function, as assessed using the 6-minute walk distance (6MWD), in chemotherapy-treated postmenopausal breast cancer survivors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on heart rate and step count, as measured by wearable device.

II. To determine the effect of fisetin on other measures of physical function beyond 6MWD (short physical performance battery \[SPPB\], grip strength, frailty phenotype, physical activity).

III. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on fatigue (Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion \[RPE\]).

IV. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on neuropathy (Quality of Life Questionnaire - Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy 20 \[QLQ-CIPN20\]).

V. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on cognition (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System \[PROMIS\] cognitive function short form).

VI. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on health-related quality of life (Short Form \[SF\]-36).

VII. To determine the effect of fisetin on local and distant recurrence free survival (RFS).

VIII. To determine the effect of fisetin on breast cancer-specific survival and overall survival.

IX. To evaluate the safety and tolerability (National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] version \[v\]5.0) of fisetin.

X. To estimate rates of adherence to fisetin and/or exercise regimen.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on p16 expression in peripheral CD3+ T-cells.

II. To determine the effect of fisetin and/or exercise on circulating senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) inflammatory factors in blood and urine.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

ARM AB: Patients receive fisetin orally (PO) on days 1-3 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive individually tailored supervised exercise training consisting of 30-45 minutes of aerobic training and 20-30 minutes of resistance training three times a week over 16 weeks. Patients undergo collection of blood samples on study.

ARM A: Patients receive fisetin PO on days 1-3 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive handout on the importance of physical activity during baseline. Patients undergo collection of blood samples on study.

ARM B: Patients receive placebo PO on days 1-3 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive individually tailored supervised exercise training consisting of 30-45 minutes of aerobic training and 20-30 minutes of resistance training three times a week over 16 weeks. Patients undergo collection of blood samples on study.

ARM C: Patients receive placebo PO on days 1-3 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive handout on the importance of physical activity during baseline. Patients undergo collection of blood samples on study.

Following completion of study intervention, patients are followed up on days 120 and 180 and then annually for up to 3 years.