Nimotuzumab Combined With Trifluridine/Tipiracil in the Treatment of Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. The main purpose of the study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of nimotuzumab combined with trifluridine/tipiracil in third-line and beyond for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). This study planned to be divided into two parts: Part A and Part B. Part A (safety run-in) with a 3 + 3 study design, which primary endpoint is safety; Part B (main study) with a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design, which primary endpoint is overall survival (OS).
Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Nimotuzumab injection|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Trifluridine/tipiracil
overall survival (OS), The primary endpoint is overall survival (OS, defined as from randomization to death due to any cause)., Up to 18 months|dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), DLTs at the end of the 4 weeks' treatment in part A (safety run-in)., Up to 4 weeks for each participant in part A
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS, defined as from randomization to disease progression or all-cause death. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 18 months|time to progress (TTP), TTP, defined as from randomization to the first observation of disease progression. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 18 months|overall response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR), including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 18 months|disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR), including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) and stable disease(SD). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI: CR, disappearance of all target lesions; PR, at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions.

SD, neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD (PD, defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions)., Up to 18 months|duration of response (DoR), Duration of response (DoR) is defined as the period from the first evaluation of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) to the first evaluation of disease progression or all-cause death., Up to 18 months|European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30), Quality of Life will be evaluated by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30). The scale assesses symptoms, functionality, and overall health status/life quality. Each item is transformed to a 0-100 scale according to a standardized scoring procedure. Higher scores indicate more severe symptoms, while in the functionality and overall health status/life quality sections, higher scores signify better conditions., Up to 18 months|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Colorectal Cancer 29 (EORTC-QLQ-CR29), Quality of Life will also be evaluated by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Colorectal Cancer 29 (EORTC-QLQ-CR29). EORTC-QLQ-CR29 is a supplementary questionnaire module to be employed in conjunction with the Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30). All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high score for the functional scale and functional single-items represents a high level of functioning, whereas a high score for the symptom scales and symptom single-items represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., Up to 18 months|Adverse Events, Any untoward or unfavorable medical occurrence in a participant, including any abnormal sign (for example, abnormal physical exam or laboratory finding), symptom, or disease, temporally associated with the participant's participation in the research, whether or not considered related to the participant's participation in the research., Up to 18 months
tumor-related markers, To explore the influence of tumor-related markers (such as EGFR, p53, etc.) on prognosis., Up to 18 months
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. The main purpose of the study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of nimotuzumab combined with trifluridine/tipiracil in third-line and beyond for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). This study planned to be divided into two parts: Part A and Part B. Part A is a dose escalation study, and two dose levels are set up in terms of the dose of nimotuzumab (dose level 1: nimotuzumab 400 mg weekly; dose level 2: nimotuzumab 600 mg weekly), while the dose of trifluridine/tipiracil remains unchanged. The aim of this part is to investigate the safety of combination therapy and ensure the dose of nimotuzumab in Part B. After completed the safety-run-in of Part A, Part B can be started. In Part B (main study), a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design is proposed. Patients of this part will be stratified by tumor site (left half of colorectal vs right half of colon), age (less than 65 years old vs 65 years old or older) and number of metastases (\<3 vs ≥3) and randomly divided into experimental group (nimotuzumab plus trifluridine/tipiracil) and control group (placebo plus trifluridine/tipiracil) at a ratio of 2:1. Treatment will continue until disease progression or intolerable toxicity or withdrawal of consent. In part B, the primary endpoint is overall survival (OS); the secondary endpoint included: Progression free survival (PFS), time to progress (TTP), overall response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), duration of response (DoR), quality of life (QoL), etc.