Use of Clorhexidine Dressings to Reduce Surgical Site Infections in Breast Cancer Surgery. A Controlled Clinical Trial
Surgical site infection (SSI) after breast and axillary surgery occurs more often than for other clean surgical procedures. Infection in the setting of sick woman could delay the adjuvant therapy and result increase morbidity and mortality. Also this increased costs associated with health care.Surgical drains have been noted as a potential source for surgical site infections. The primary aim of the study is to determine if chlorhexidine occlusive dressings applied to the intervention drain sites effectively decreases rates of bacterial colonization in drain fluid and drain tips compared to standard care.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Antiseptic occlusive dressing group
Number of subjects with drain bulb fluid bacterial colonization at the first and second week postoperative., Bacterial growth was defined as plate growth \>10\*5 colony forming unit (CFU). Drains were removed at variable times across patients, per clinical indication. When clinically indicated, some patients did have their drains removed at the one week visit, in which case they only had one bulb fluid culture., Approximately 1 or 2 weeks after surgery|Number of subjects with drain tip bacterial colonization at removal., Bacterial growth was defined as plate growth \>15 CFU by semiquantitative technique or \>10\*5 CFU by sonication and fluid culture. Drains were removed at variable times across patients, per clinical indication., Approximately at the second and/or third week after surgery
Number of Subjects With Surgical Site Infection Within 30 Days, Surgical site infection was diagnosed according the definitions given by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)., Approximately 30 days after surgery
Following approval by the National Cancer Institute Review Board, eligible subjects will be recruited prospectively from the Breast Cancer Department at National Cancer Institute, México from November 2016 to November 2017. Individuals with confirmed cancer undergoing total mastectomy (TM), modified radical mastectomy (MRM) and/or axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) in which surgical drains are going to be used will be identified through the surgical scheduling sheet. If the subjects are eligible according to the inclusion criteria, the will be interviewed by one of the main researchers. In the initial interview the informed consent will be read and signed. Also the study coordinator will collect the data of interest from the medical records and will register it in a data collection sheet specially created for this project.

Following informed consent, participants will be randomize to either the standard drain care regimen or the drain antisepsis regimen by a computerized randomization program, using dynamic allocation and stratifying by surgical procedure (radical surgery or conservative surgery). Subjects who had bilateral cancer underwent to the same regimen for both sides. The operating surgeon will know the assigned treatment arm at the end of the surgery.

The surgery will consist on placing a chlorhexidine gluconate occlusive adhesive dressing to the drains side at the end of the surgery. The dressing will be changed each 7 (+-1) days until the drain is removed.

All the participants and the principal take-carers, despite of the group of participation, will be personal instructed by a member of the research team in the first hours of the postoperative, before the departure. In addition, they will be given paper based instructions for the general care of the drain and the surgery wound.

For the experimental group, the dressing will be changed each 7(+-1) days; The site of the insertion must be cleaned with 70% concentration isopropyl alcohol towels. The evaluation and quantification of the drained fluid will be done every 12 hours as it is done usually in these patients.

The patients will be followed for 30 days from the surgery until the resolution of the infectious complication, if it occurs. The patients will go at the end of the first postoperative week (POP 7+-1). In each visit, the coordinator of the study will register the information of the patient in the register sheet. In each visit the patient will be evaluated, the characteristics of the surgical wound and the characteristics of drain fluid will be consigned in the protocol register sheet. The investigator will verify that the participants have correctly done the clean-up the drain.

All patients will undergo semiquantitative cultures of the drain bulb at the first and second week postoperative. Also the investigators will take the distal part of the internal segment of each removed drainage tube for semiquantitative culture. All participants will be evaluated for clinical signs of infection and for any adverse reactions to the drain antisepsis at the follow-up visits. In case of a surgical site infection, the patient will receive the right treatment and will remain in surveillance until the resolution.