The Wild Man Programme - a Nature-based Rehabilitation Enhancing Quality of Life for Men on Long-term Sick Leave
The aim of the present study is to examine whether the nature based 'Wild man Programme' can help to increase quality of life among men on sick leave compared to treatment as usual. Additionally, the study examines which natural environments best work as supportive environments in the rehabilitation.
Stress|Anxiety|Depression|Cardiac Disease|Cancer|Diabetes|Copd
OTHER: Nature-Body-Mind-Community|OTHER: Treatment as usual
Level of quality of life - total score, The primary outcome is self-experienced quality of life. The World Health Organization's brief quality of life questionnaire (WHOQOL-BREF) will be used. The questionnaire examines four domains on a five-point Likert scale: Physical health, mental health, social relationships and health-related environments e.g. instant access to medical care. The global quality of life is based on the participants' scores on the four domains and they range from 0-100, with a high score indicating high quality of life., 9 weeks
Level of quality of life - physical health, The WHOQOL-BREF will be used. The domain of physical health is measured on a five-point Likert scale with five questions., 9 weeks|Level of quality of life - mental health, The WHOQOL-BREF will be used. The domain of mental health is measured on a five-point Likert scale with five questions., 9 weeks|Level of quality of life - social relationships, The WHOQOL-BREF will be used. The domain of social relationships is measured on a five-point Likert scale with five questions., 9 weeks|Level of quality of life - health related environments, The WHOQOL-BREF will be used. The domain of health related environments is measured on a five-point Likert scale with five questions., 9 weeks|Level of self-experienced restitution, Self-experienced restitution. The Perceived Restorativeness Scale-11 (PRS-11) will be used., 9 weeks|Level of self perceived stress, Self perceived stress. The Cohen's Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) will be used. The scale consists of 14 items measured on a five-point Likert scale., 9 weeks
Many men in Denmark have poor mental health and need help to recover. However, designing a rehabilitation intervention appealing to men is challenging. The 'Wild man Programme' is a rehabilitation programme for men on long-term sick leave and with clinical or self-reported stress due to prolonged health problems such as stress, anxiety, depression, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cardiovascular disease or diabetes. The programme is a nature-based rehabilitation (NBR) initiative combining nature experiences, attention training, body awareness training and supporting community spirit.

The aim of the present study is to examine whether the 'Wild man Programme' can help to increase quality of life among men on sick leave compared to treatment as usual. Additionally, the study examines which natural environments best work as supportive environments in the rehabilitation.

A matched control study comparing an intervention group (N=38) which receives a nine-week nature-based intervention to a control group (N=38) receiving case management as treatment as usual in the municipalities. Outcomes are measured at baseline (T1), post treatment (T2), and at follow-up 6 months post intervention (T3). The primary outcome is an improvement in quality of life and the secondary outcome is a decrease in stress level.

With the 'Wild man Programme' we investigate whether it is a model that can be implemented in the health system in Denmark to help men with different kinds of health problems improve their quality of life and stress levels. The programme can also deliver valuable information for future nature-based rehabilitation for women (Wild woman) and mixed gender groups. The project will also contribute with information on whether the method and the concept can be a valuable tool for health professionals in the health sector.