Panitumumab-IRDye800 in Detecting Cancer in Participants With Lung Cancer During Surgery
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose and timing of panitumumab-IRDye800 in detecting cancer in participants with lung cancer during the surgery. Panitumumab-IRDye800 is a combination of the antibody drug panitumumab and IRDye800CW, an investigational dye that can be seen using a special camera. Panitumumab-IRDye800 may attach to tumor cells and make them more visible during surgery in patients with lung cancer.
Lung Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Lung|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Near-Infrared Fluorescence Imaging|DRUG: Panitumumab-IRDye800|OTHER: Pharmacokinetic Study|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Tumor to background ratio (TBR), measured in ex vivo tissues, The TBR is defined as the near-infrared fluorescence signal of tumor or lymph node tissue compared to normal adjacent tissue measured in ex vivo tissues. Outcomes will be reported as the TBR (mean) and standard deviation for each dose group and timing group (1-2 days or 3-5 days prior to surgery)., Up to 1 year
Number of Grade 2 or higher AEs determined to be clinically significant and definitely, probably or possibly related to study drug, Up to 30 days|Metastatic lesion detection by Panitumumab-IRDye800 versus standard assessments, Intraoperative near-infrared fluorescence imaging with panitumumab-IRDye800 will be compared to conventional white light visualization and ex vivo histopathology methods to identify metastatic lesions. Outcomes will be reported as the number of metastatic lesions detected by both near-infrared fluorescence imaging and histopathology, and each method alone., Up to 1 year|Tumor-positive lymph node detection by Panitumumab-IRDye800 versus standard assessments, Intraoperative near-infrared fluorescence imaging with panitumumab-IRDye800 will be compared to conventional white light visualization and ex vivo histopathology methods to identify tumor-positive lymph nodes. Outcomes will be reported as the number of tumor-positive lymph nodes detected by both near-infrared fluorescence imaging and histopathology, and each method alone., Up to 1 year|Residual disease detection by Panitumumab-IRDye800 versus standard assessments, Intraoperative near-infrared fluorescence imaging with panitumumab-IRDye800 will be compared to conventional white light visualization and ex vivo histopathology methods to identify residual disease at resection margins. Outcomes will be reported as the number of positive-margins detected by both near-infrared fluorescence imaging and histopathology, and each method alone., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the optimal dose and timing of panitumumab IRDye800 infusion for identifying lung cancer compared to surrounding normal tissue in the ex vivo setting as measured by tumor to background ratio.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of the panitumumab IRDye800 as an imaging agent in subjects undergoing resection of lung cancer.

II. Determine whether the primary lung tumor or positive lymph nodes can be detected by near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence imaging with panitumumab IRDye800 but not by white light imaging.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of panitumumab-IRDye800 followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive panitumumab- IRDye800 intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 0, and then undergo NIR and surgery within 1-5 days.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for up to 30 days.