Organoid-based Functional Precision Therapy for Advanced Breast Cancer
This is a phase II, multicenter, open-label, randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy of organoid-guided treatment (OGT) to treatment of physician's choice (TPC) in previously treated, HER2-negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The study will seek to provide evidence for utilizing patient-derived organoid (PDO) model to personalize treatment strategies and inform clinical care for advanced breast cancer. Subjects randomized to the OGT group will undergo PDO generation and receive treatment dictated by subsequent PDO drug sensitivity screening. Subjects randomized to the TPC group will receive empirical therapy as selected by the treating physician.
HER2-negative Breast Cancer|Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: Organoid-guided treatment|DRUG: Taxane|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Eribulin|DRUG: Anthracycline|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Utidelone|DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan|DRUG: Sacituzumab govitecan
Progression-free survival, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the earliest date of the first objective documentation of radiographic disease progression according to RECIST version 1.1 or death due to any cause. Subjects who are alive with no objective documentation of (radiographic) disease progression by the data cutoff date for PFS analysis will be censored at the date of their last evaluable tumor assessment. Progressive Disease (PD) was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions., Through study completion, with an expected average of 1 year
Overall survival, OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death for any cause. If there is no death reported for a subject before the data cutoff for OS analysis, OS will be censored at the last contact date at which the subject is known to be alive., Through study completion, with an expected average of 2 year|Objective response rate, ORR is defined as the sum of complete response (CR) rate and partial response (PR) rate according to RECIST version 1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Through study completion, with an expected average of 1 year|Disease control rate, DCR is defined as the sum of CR rate, PR rate, and stable disease (SD) rate. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR (taking as reference the sum of diameters at baseline) nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD (taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters while on study)., Through study completion, with an expected average of 1 year|Clinical benefit rate, CBR is defined as the sum of CR rate, PR rate, and more than 6 months' SD rate., Through study completion, with an expected average of 1 year|Duration of response, DoR is defined as the time from the date of the first documentation of objective response (CR or PR) to the date of the first documentation of disease progression, or death. DoR will be measured for responding subjects (PR or CR) only. Subjects who are progression-free at the time of the analyses will be censored at the date of the last evaluable tumor assessment., Through study completion, with an expected average of 1 year|Time to response, TTR is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of objective response (CR or PR). TTR will be measured for responding subjects (CR or PR) only., Through study completion, with an expected average of 1 year|Adverse events, Number of participants with adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Through study completion, with an expected average of 1 year
Treatment for advanced-stage breast cancer has long been challenging. Genomic-based precision medicine was able to facilitate treatment selection in some patients, but there were considerable instances where genomic profiling failed to assign effective interventions or patients exhibited refractoriness to the drugs nominated by genomic alterations. Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) represent a tractable tool that may compensate for the drawbacks of genomic medicine to identify therapeutic opportunities in rare or metastatic cancers. Previous research has demonstrated that PDOs displayed strong biological fidelity to their original tumors and functional precision medicine based on PDO drug screening could confer survival benefits in breast cancer patients.

This multicenter, open-label, randomized phase II trial aims to investigate the safety and efficacy of organoid-guided treatment (OGT) versus treatment of physician's choice (TPC) in previously treated, HER2-negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Randomization will be stratified by hormone receptor status and prior chemotherapy for the advanced or metastatic disease. Subjects in the OGT group will receive treatment predicted to be the most efficacious by the PDO drug sensitivity screening, and subjects in the TPC group will receive treatment selected by the treating physician. Treatments tested in PDO drug screening or chosen by the treating physician will be guided by NCCN guidelines. Treatment that subjects have previously received before randomization is no longer subjected to PDO sensitivity screening. This study will provide valuable evidence on the real-time application of PDOs in the context of clinical care.