Palliative Thoracic Radiotherapy Plus BKM120
This study will test whether a drug called BKM120/buparlisib is a safe and effective treatment when given to lung cancer patients having radiotherapy treatment. The trial will identify which of three possible doses of buparlisib is best to give with lung radiotherapy.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: BKM120
Dose Escalation Analysis: Number of DLTs Observed in Evaluable Patients, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was defined as the highest dose at which no more than 1 of 6 evaluable patients or 0 of 3 evaluable patients experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The study was carried out using a 3+3 dose escalation design.

DLTs were defined per NCI CTCAE v 4.0. The following were considered DLT if they occur at any point whilst the patient is on study: 1) Any ≥ grade 3 non-haematological toxicity (excluding nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea) that requires hospital admission or which does not resolve to ≤ grade 2 within 7 consecutive days of optimal treatment. 2) Any ≥ grade 3 nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea will be considered DLT only if any of them persist for \>48 hours despite maximum supportive care. 3) ≥ Grade 3 pneumonitis 4) Any ≥ Grade 4 haematological toxicity. 5) Mood deterioration from baseline. DLT will be any grade ≥3 mood change if BL score of 2. DLT will be any grade ≥2 mood change if baseline score of ≤ 1., 8 weeks (10 weeks cohort 4 - this cohort was not opened)|Safety and Tolerability Analysis: Patients With Buparlisib Related Adverse Events, Adverse events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) were also analysed for frequency. For further details, please consult the AEs/SAEs section., 8 weeks (10 weeks cohort 4 - this cohort was not opened)
Changes in 18F-Misonidazole Uptake as Detected by PET-CT Scans: Response, 18F-Miso is a radiotracer that selectively accumulates in hypoxic tissues. 18F-Miso PET-CT scans are able to non-invasively image tumour hypoxia. A 18F-Miso PET-CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour hypoxia due to buparlisib treatment. For tumour hypoxia, a patient is classified as a 'responder' if there is evidence of a 10% or greater reduction in retained F-Misonidazole. Hypoxia was measured using TBRmean or TBRvolume (tumour-to-blood ratio)., Days -1 and 8|Blood Flow at Days -1 and 8 as Detected by Perfusion CT, Perfusion CT is a technique used to study the vasculature within tumours and other tissues. It is non-invasive and readily incorporated into existing CT protocols using conventional contrast agents. A perfusion CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour physiology due to buparlisib treatment., Days -1 and 8|Tumour-to-blood Volume Ratio in 18F-Misonidazole Uptake as Detected by Day -1 and Day 8 PET-CT Scans, to Investigate if Buparlisib Alters Hypoxia, 18F-Miso is a radiotracer that selectively accumulates in hypoxic tissues. 18F-Miso PET-CT scans are able to non-invasively image tumour hypoxia. A 18F-Miso PET-CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment.

Tumour to blood volume ratio ("TBR volume") is measured by summing the number of tumour/node/metastases voxels with a value greater than or equal to 1.4., Days -1 and 8|Changes in Blood Flow as Detected by Perfusion CT: Response, Perfusion CT is a technique used to study the vasculature within tumours and other tissues. It is non-invasive and readily incorporated into existing CT protocols using conventional contrast agents. A perfusion CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour physiology due to buparlisib treatment. For tumour perfusion, a patient is classified as 'responder' if blood flow (BF) and/or blood volume (BV) is increased and/or mean transit time (MTT) is reduced from baseline measurements by more than 25%., Days -1 and 8|Percentage Change in Blood Flow as Detected by Perfusion CT at Days -1 and 8, Perfusion CT is a technique used to study the vasculature within tumours and other tissues. It is non-invasive and readily incorporated into existing CT protocols using conventional contrast agents. A perfusion CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour physiology (blood flow) due to buparlisib treatment, and the percentage change between both scans calculated., Days -1 and 8|Tumour-to-blood Mean Ratio in 18F-Misonidazole Uptake as Detected by PET-CT Scans, to Investigate if Buparlisib Alters Hypoxia, 18F-Miso is a radiotracer that selectively accumulates in hypoxic tissues. 18F-Miso PET-CT scans are able to non-invasively image tumour hypoxia. A 18F-Miso PET-CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour hypoxia due to buparlisib treatment.

Hypoxia was measured using TBRmean and TBRvolume (tumour-to-blood ratio mean, tumour-to-blood ratio volume).

TBR mean is measured by dividing all tumour/node/metastases voxels by the mean value of the descending aorta activity concentration., Days -1 and 8|Tumour-to-blood Volume Ratio Percentage Changes Between Day -1 and Day 8 in 18F-Misonidazole Uptake as Detected by PET-CT Scans, to Investigate if Buparlisib Alters Hypoxia, 18F-Miso is a radiotracer that selectively accumulates in hypoxic tissues. 18F-Miso PET-CT scans are able to non-invasively image tumour hypoxia. A 18F-Miso PET-CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour hypoxia due to buparlisib treatment. The percentage change between the TBR volume for the 1st and 2nd scans was calculated.

TBR volume is measured by summing the number of tumour/node/metastases voxels with a value greater than or equal to 1.4.

Hypoxia was measured using TBRmean and TBRvolume (tumour-to-blood ratio mean, tumour-to-blood ratio volume)., Days -1 and 8|Percentage Changes in Blood Volume Between Day -1 and Day 8 as Detected by Perfusion CT, Perfusion CT is a technique used to study the vasculature within tumours and other tissues. It is non-invasive and readily incorporated into existing CT protocols using conventional contrast agents. A perfusion CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour physiology due to buparlisib treatment, and the % change between the 2 scans calculated., Days -1 and 8|Blood Volume at Day -1 and Day 8 as Detected by Perfusion CT, Perfusion CT is a technique used to study the vasculature within tumours and other tissues. It is non-invasive and readily incorporated into existing CT protocols using conventional contrast agents. A perfusion CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour physiology due to buparlisib treatment, Days -1 and 8|Mean Transit Time as Detected by Perfusion CT at Days -1 and 8, Perfusion CT is a technique used to study the vasculature within tumours and other tissues. It is non-invasive and readily incorporated into existing CT protocols using conventional contrast agents. A perfusion CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour physiology (blood flow) due to buparlisib treatment., Days -1 and 8|Percentage Change in Mean Transit Time as Detected by Perfusion CT at Days -1 and 8, Perfusion CT is a technique used to study the vasculature within tumours and other tissues. It is non-invasive and readily incorporated into existing CT protocols using conventional contrast agents. A perfusion CT scan was conducted prior to commencing buparlisib and repeated prior to commencing radiotherapy treatment to identify changes in tumour physiology (blood flow) due to buparlisib treatment, and the % change between the 2 scans was calculated., Days -1 and 8
Determine Phosphorylation Status of Akt in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs), The levels of phospho-Akt expression in normal tissues may reflect the efficacy of BKM120. Changes in phospho-Akt expression will be monitored during the trial using PBMCs taken during the trial.

Reductions in phospho-Akt expression of PBMC's following BKM120 treatment were to be correlated with changes observed with the functional imaging investigations; however it was not possible to draw any meaningful conclusions due to huge inter- and intra- participant variability seen on staining (no scoring was performed)., Baseline, days 8, 14, 28 and 56|Measure Tumour PTEN (Phosphatase and Tensin Homolog Gene) Levels, Exploratory studies aimed to correlate response to buparlisib with activation of specific molecular pathways present in the archived, diagnostic, tumour biopsy sample., Archival sample taken before trial entry|Measure Tumour PRAS40 Levels, Exploratory studies will aim to correlate response to BKM120 with activation of specific molecular pathways present in the archived, diagnostic, tumour biopsy sample., Archival sample taken before trial entry
This study will be a single-centre, open-label, 3+3 cohort, dose escalation phase I study of the use of buparlisib in combination with thoracic radiotherapy. Patients with incurable NSCLC requiring palliative thoracic radiotherapy will be eligible for entry.

The first three cohorts of patients will be treated with escalating doses of BKM120. These patients will be treated with buparlisib for a total of fourteen days. One week after commencing buparlisib, patients will start palliative radiotherapy treatment. Radiotherapy treatment will be delivered as 20Gy in 5 fractions over a one week period. Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be determined and a further 6 patients will be treated at this dose. Response to buparlisib treatment will be based upon changes in tumour hypoxia and perfusion as detected by 18F-Miso PET-CT scans and perfusion CT scans respectively.

In the event that no changes are detected in tumour hypoxia or perfusion in cohorts 1-3, an optional group of patients (cohort 4) will be recruited. These patients will receive buparlisib treatment for a total of 28 days. Three weeks after commencing buparlisib, this cohort will receive palliative radiotherapy with 20Gy in 5 fractions over a one week period.

Samples from the patients will also be analysed:

Phosphorylation Status of Akt in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs) Tumour Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) gene levels Tumour PRAS40 Levels