MFOLFOXIRI Plus PD-1 Inhibitor Vs MFOLFOX6 As Neoadjuvant Therapy for Locally Advanced Colon Cancer
In patients with high-risk stage II and stage III colon cancer, curative surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX or CAPOX regimens has become the standard treatment. However, 20 to 30% of these patients will develop distant metastasis, which ultimately results in death. In contrast to rectal cancer, the role of preoperative therapy in colon cancer is less well established. Relatively few phase III trials of preoperative therapy have been reported, although current NCCN guidelines do recommend neoadjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX or CAPOX regimen as an option for bulky T4b tumors. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is an attractive approach for several reasons. The ability to deliver systemic therapies earlier in the treatment course to eradicate micrometastatic disease is conceptually appealing. In addition, surgery can stimulate tumor proliferation through inflammation and other immune pathways. Preoperative delivery of chemotherapy may also lead to higher rates of R0 resections, and chemotherapy tolerance can be better in the neoadjuvant setting, especially in colorectal surgeries that require prolonged recovery.

In the phase III study of the FOxTROT trial, the pCR rate for 6 weeks of neoadjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy was only 4%, and a moderate or greater tumor regression was reported in 21% of patients in the NAC group. Our team also conducted the phase III OPTICAL trial, which utilized a longer period of NAC (12 weeks) with FOLFOX or CAPOX. In this trial, the pCR rate for the neoadjuvant chemotherapy group was 7%, and the downstaging rate (ypT0-2N0) was 20%. However, for patients with locally advanced colon cancer, particularly those with T4b and bulky nodal disease, the use of oxaliplatin- and fluoropyrimidine-based doublet chemotherapy does not adequately meet the clinical need for tumor shrinkage and downstaging. There is an urgent need to explore drugs with different mechanisms of action in combination with chemotherapy to improve efficacy.
Colon Cancer (stage II &amp;amp; III)
DRUG: cmFOLFOXIRI plus PD-1 inhibitor|DRUG: mFOLFOX6
Pathologic complete response rate, The percentage of subjects with no residual viable tumor in the resected primary tumor specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes after radical surgery (ypT0N0)., 1 year
R0 resection rate, The proportion of patients whose tumors are completely removed without residual cancer cells under the microscope. None of the following conditions can be considered as R0 resection: non-complete resection of the tumor, positive circumferential, proximal, or distal resection margin (resection margin of \>1 mm)., 1 year|Event-free survival (EFS), The time between randomization and one of the following events: locally progressive disease leading to an unresectable tumor, local R2 resection, local recurrence after an R0/1 resection, distant metastases, a new primary colorectal cancer, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years|Disease-free survival (DFS), The time from the date of surgery to the date of locoregional recurrence, distant metastases, a new primary colorectal cancer, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years|Overall survival (OS), The time from randomization to death from any cause. Subjects who are still alive at the time of the analysis will be censored for OS on the latest known survival date., 5 years
This trial is a two-arm, multicenter, open-label, prospective, randomized phase II study. Eligible patients with locally advanced (T4 or N2) colon cancer will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either cmFOLFOXIRI plus a PD-1 inhibitor or mFOLFOX6 as neoadjuvant treatment.