NT-proBNP to Assess Trastuzumab-induced Cardiotoxicity
Trastuzumab-induced cardiotoxicity (TIC) will be monitored in patients with HER2+ breast cancer undergoing trastuzumab treatment before and after breast cancer surgery. At baseline before start of trastuzumab treatment, echocardiography (ECHO)/multigated Acquisition Scan (MUGA) and measurement of plasma NT-proBNP will be performed. NT-proBNP will be measured again at 6 months and at 12 months of trastuzumab treatment. If elevations in NT-proBNP at 6 months and 12 months occur patients will be referred for ECHO/MUGA. The aim is to assess the sensitivity and specificity to detect TIC with NT-proBNP and whether ECHO/MUGA can be safely replaced by assessment of plasma NT-proBNP levels.
Cardiotoxicity|Breast Cancer|Treatment Side Effects
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Plasma NT-proBNP
Sensitivity and specificity of NT-proBNP to detect trastuzumab-induced cardiotoxicity, To determine the sensitivity and specificity of NT-proBNP for identification of patients that develop cardiac toxicity during treatment with HER2 blocking agents for primary breast cancer \[time frame from inclusion to 24 months after base-line investigation\], From inclusion to 24 months after baseline investigation
Prevalence of trastuzumab-induced cardiotoxicity, To determine the proportion of patients that develop cardiac toxicity during treatment with HER2 blocking agents for primary breast cancer, From inclusion to 24 months after baseline investigation|Anthracycline-induced change in NT-proBNP, To investigate the potential change of NT-proBNP during anthracycline-based chemotherapy in patients that receive EC followed by anti-HER2 blockade plus a taxane and whether it is correlated with the development of cardiac toxicity throughout anti-HER2 blockade.

\[time frame from inclusion to 10 weeks after base-line investigation\], From inclusion to 10 weeks after baseline investigation
Sponsor: Swedish Association of Breast Oncologists (SABO), Clinical Trial Unit, Department of Oncology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.

Design:This is an national multicentre single arm phase II trial for patients with primary HER2 positive breast cancer planned for neoadjuvant/adjuvant treatment with HER2 blocking agents.

Purpose: The purpose of this study is to assess the sensitivity and specificity of NT-proBNP for detection of cardiac failure in patients with primary breast cancer that receive neoadjuvant/adjuvant treatment with HER2 blocking compounds.

Background: Patients with HER2 positive breast cancer \> 20 mm and/or with lymph node metastasis receive, according to the national guidelines 4 courses of double antibody blockade with trastuzumab and pertuzumab plus a taxane for 12 weeks followed by EC (epirubicin/cyclophosphamide) every 3rd week times 3 in the neoadjuvant setting followed by continued HER2 blockade with trastuzumab or TDM-1 for a total of 17 courses. Patients with tumours \< 20 mm and node-negative disease start with surgery followed by adjuvant treatment with EC x 4 followed by trastuzumab and a taxane for 12 weeks, thereafter trastuzumab x 13 is given as a single agent. For patients with tumours \< 10 mm and node negative it is considered sufficient to give only a taxane plus trastuzumab for 12 weeks followed by trastuzumab times 13. The latter less toxic regimen has also been used in elderly fragile patients.

The risk of cardiac dysfunction as determined by a reduction in the Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) below 50% has been estimated to approximately 3-4% in the large registration trials.

Cardiac function is followed by repeated echocardiography (ECHO)/ Multigated Acquisition Scan (MUGA) that are performed before start of HER2 blocking treatment, after 6 and 12 months (when the treatment is completed.

Because cardiac toxicity is very low, a labour-intensive method needs to be carried out unnecessarily on a large number of patients. We have shown in a single centre pilot study of 136 patients that NT-proBNP has a high sensitivity and specificity compared with ECHO to correctly diagnose patients with cardiac toxicity during adjuvant/neoadjuvant HER2 treatment.