The European Palliative Care Cancer Symptom Study (EPCCS)
The rising incidence of cancer and the rapidly increasing number of people living longer with incurable disease, accentuates the need for optimal symptom management throughout the disease trajectory. Thanks to the medical and technological development, and the increased interest in palliative care research, palliative medicine has gradually become more evidence based. Patients with advanced cancer experience multiple symptoms at the time with fluctuating intensity and severity. Pain, fatigue, nausea/vomiting, dyspnea, loss of appetite and depression are among the most common and experienced by more than 50%. However, the prevalence rates of these symptoms vary considerably across studies, with a range from 35 to 90 % for pain as an example. These differences may in part be explained by different assessment tools, study methods and design and population characteristics. There is also lack of agreed-upon, common criteria to describe the main characteristics of a palliative care cancer population and few standardized tools for assessment and classification of symptoms exist. These shortcomings limit the possibility to design randomized controlled treatment trials in palliative care; the optimal way to improve clinical symptom management. To do this, a better understanding of how symptoms evolve and how they should be assessed and classified throughout the palliative care disease trajectory is important, supplemented with registrations of the treatment provided. The primary aim of this international research project the European Palliative Care Cancer Symptom study (EPCCS) is to extend the knowledge about and gain new insight in the prevalence and development of the most frequent cancer related symptoms during the course of disease, in a large sample of palliative care cancer patients. The clinical usefulness of the new assessment and classification system developed by the European Palliative Care Research Collaborative (EPCRC) / European Association for Palliative Care Research Network (EAPC RN) will be examined and data on the organization and delivery of palliative care at participating centers will be collected. The project also aims to further develop and consolidate international research collaboration through the European Palliative Care Research Centre (PRC). Taken together, these efforts will increase the understanding of the palliative disease trajectory and provide necessary knowledge and structure for future randomized controlled trials (RCTs)
Cancer
change in cancer symptoms, assessment and classification system developed by the European Palliative Care Research Collaborative (EPCRC) / European Association for Palliative Care Research Network (EAPC RN), up to 6 months
The rising incidence of cancer and the rapidly increasing number of people living longer with incurable disease, accentuates the need for optimal symptom management throughout the disease trajectory. Thanks to the medical and technological development, and the increased interest in palliative care research, palliative medicine has gradually become more evidence based. Patients with advanced cancer experience multiple symptoms at the time with fluctuating intensity and severity. Pain, fatigue, nausea/vomiting, dyspnea, loss of appetite and depression are among the most common and experienced by more than 50%. However, the prevalence rates of these symptoms vary considerably across studies, with a range from 35 to 90 % for pain as an example. These differences may in part be explained by different assessment tools, study methods and design and population characteristics. There is also lack of agreed-upon, common criteria to describe the main characteristics of a palliative care cancer population and few standardized tools for assessment and classification of symptoms exist. These shortcomings limit the possibility to design randomized controlled treatment trials in palliative care; the optimal way to improve clinical symptom management. To do this, a better understanding of how symptoms evolve and how they should be assessed and classified throughout the palliative care disease trajectory is important, supplemented with registrations of the treatment provided. The primary aim of this international research project the European Palliative Care Cancer Symptom study (EPCCS) is to extend the knowledge about and gain new insight in the prevalence and development of the most frequent cancer related symptoms during the course of disease, in a large sample of palliative care cancer patients. The clinical usefulness of the new assessment and classification system developed by the European Palliative Care Research Collaborative (EPCRC) / European Association for Palliative Care Research Network (EAPC RN) will be examined and data on the organization and delivery of palliative care at participating centers will be collected. The project also aims to further develop and consolidate international research collaboration through the European Palliative Care Research Centre (PRC). Taken together, these efforts will increase the understanding of the palliative disease trajectory and provide necessary knowledge and structure for future randomized controlled trials (RCTs)