Ibrutinib in Treating Relapsed or Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Patients With HIV Infection
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ibrutinib in treating B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has returned or does not respond to treatment in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether it is safe for patients with HIV infection to receive ibrutinib while also taking anti-HIV drugs.
Adult B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Cutaneous B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|HIV Infection|Intraocular Lymphoma|Multicentric Angiofollicular Lymphoid Hyperplasia|Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma|Small Intestinal Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Testicular Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Ibrutinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Incidence of toxicities assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 30 days|MTD of ibrutinib defined as the dose level in which no more than 1 out of 6 patients experiences a dose limiting toxicity assessed using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, 28 days
1-year OS, Probabilities of 1-year OS will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and reported with 95% CI., From start of study treatment to death, assessed at 6 months|1-year PFS, Probabilities of 1-year PFS will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and reported with 95% CI., From start of study treatment to relapse, progression, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months|6-month overall survival (OS), Probabilities of 6-month OS will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and reported with 95% CI., From start of study treatment to death, assessed at 6 months|6-month progression free survival (PFS), Probabilities of 6-month PFS will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and reported with 95% CI., From start of study treatment to relapse, progression, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months|Changes in EBV DNA copy numbers in plasma and in PBMCs in relation to ibrutinib therapy, Changes will be analyzed with descriptive statistics. Where there are sufficient data, repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to assess the effect of ibrutinib on these parameters across time. If the data do not meet the assumptions of normality, the data will either be transformed or Friedman's test (i.e. non-parametric analogue to a repeated measures analysis of variance) will be used., Baseline to up to 30 days|Changes in HHV-8 DNA copy numbers in plasma and in PBMCs in relation to ibrutinib therapy, Changes will be analyzed with descriptive statistics. Where there are sufficient data, repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to assess the effect of ibrutinib on these parameters across time. If the data do not meet the assumptions of normality, the data will either be transformed or Friedman's test (i.e. non-parametric analogue to a repeated measures analysis of variance) will be used., Baseline to up to 30 days|Changes in HIV viral load, Changes will be analyzed with descriptive statistics. Where there are sufficient data, repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to assess the effect of ibrutinib on these parameters across time. If the data do not meet the assumptions of normality, the data will either be transformed or Friedman's test (i.e. non-parametric analogue to a repeated measures analysis of variance) will be used., Baseline to up to 30 days|Changes in immunologic parameters, Changes will be analyzed with descriptive statistics. Where there are sufficient data, repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to assess the effect of ibrutinib on these parameters across time. If the data do not meet the assumptions of normality, the data will either be transformed or Friedman's test (i.e. non-parametric analogue to a repeated measures analysis of variance) will be used., Baseline to up to 30 days|Clinical benefit, The proportion of patients achieving clinical benefit and their corresponding 95% CIs will be reported., Up to 30 days|Objective response rate, The proportion of patients achieving objective responses and their corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be reported., Up to 30 days|Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of ibrutinib in relation to ART-CYP3A4 interactions, including half-life (T1/2), oral clearance (CL/F), and area under the curve (AUC), Relevant individual PK parameters will be estimated using non-compartmental or compartmental PK methods. For each stratum, the PK variables will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated for each dose level. Pharmacokinetic parameters (i.e., T1/2, CL/F, and AUC) will be compared across relevant antiretroviral therapies using non-parametric statistical testing techniques., Course 1, day 8: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours|Plasma concentrations of ibrutinib and its main metabolite, Correlations with toxicity will be explored using non-parametric statistical testing techniques., Up to 30 days|Time to tumor progression, Time to tumor progression will be reported descriptively with medians and ranges., Up to 30 days|Time to tumor response, Time to tumor response will be reported descriptively with medians and ranges., From the first study treatment until documentation of first objective response, assessed up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of single-agent ibrutinib in combination with antiretroviral therapy (ART) specifically with respect to ibrutinib metabolism in HIV-infected patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell neoplasms.

II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ibrutinib in this setting.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize ibrutinib pharmacokinetics in relation to ART-cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A, polypeptide 4 (CYP3A4) interactions.

II. To describe toxicity in relation to plasma concentrations of ibrutinib and its main metabolite.

III. To estimate objective response rate, clinical benefit, times to tumor response and progression, and 6-month and 1-year progression-free and overall survival.

IV. To describe changes in HIV viral load, immunologic parameters, and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) copy numbers in plasma and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in relation to ibrutinib therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.