ENDURE - Efficacy and Safety of AOP2014 With CML Patients in Remission
A randomized, open-label assessor blinded, multi-center, controlled phase III Trial to evaluate the efficacy of AOP2014 administered bi-weekly subcutaneously (s.c.) in preventing molecular relapse (loss of MMR) in CML patients, who discontinue ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy (TKI) in deep molecular remission of MR4 or better (MR4.5, or MR5).
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in Remission
DRUG: AOP2014 / Pegylated-Proline-interferon alpha-2b|OTHER: Surveillance
mRFS, The primary efficacy endpoint is molecular relapse free survival (mRFS). Relapse is defined as loss of major molecular remission, MMR, which is any increase of the BCR-ABL ratio to \> 0.1% according to the international scale (IS). Time to relapse is defined as the time from randomization to relapse the BCR-ABL ratio to \> 0.1% according to the international scale (IS). Time to relapse is defined as the time from randomization to relapse., Randomization until time of relapse
mRFS 7, The primary efficacy endpoint is molecular relapse free survival, RFS 7 months after, 7 months after randomization|mRFS 13, The relapse free survival, RFS 13 months after randomization, 13 months after randomization|mRFS 25, The relapse free survival, RFS 25 months after randomization, 25 months after randomization|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.03, Adverse events, serious adverse events (AEs, SAEs)• Safety, tolerability and toxicity based on incidences of adverse events, serious adverse events, Day 0 - Month 15 (Arm B) or Month 16 (additional safety visit one month after last application for Arm A)|Quality of life measured by EORTC QLQ-C30, The QoL assessment in this study is planned to gain information on the QoL of CML patients under stopping conditions. The data will be compared between the treatment groups and to QoL of normal population., Day 0 - Month 25|Quality of life measured by EORTC-QLQ-CML24, The QoL assessment in this study is planned to gain information on the QoL of CML patients under stopping conditions. The data will be compared between the treatment groups and to QoL of normal population. Furthermore, results of the CML24 module should be shared with the EORTC group to complete the validation of this questionnaire, Day 0 - Month 25|OS (overall survival), Overall survival (OS), defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death from any cause., Day 0 - Month 25 (plus annual post study follow up Months 36,48,60)|Kinetics of BCR-ABL transcript level over time after TKI stop, Kinetics of BCR-ABL transcript level over time after TKI stop, Day 0 - Month 25 (plus annual post study follow up Months 36,48,60)|For Germany: Detection of blood parameters 95 CD86+pDC as mRFS predictor, For Germany: To explore the value of 95 CD86+pDC / 105 lymphocytes at baseline in predicting risk of molecular relapse (loss of MMR), Day 0 - Month 25 (plus annual post study follow up Months 36,48,60)|For Germany: Explore immunological and genetic biomarkers and identify predictors, For Germany: Explore immunological and genetic biomarkers to study biology of TFR, and identify predictors IFN response (e.g. mRNA sequencing of whole blood or leukocyte subpopulations, PD-L1-, PD1-, CD62L- measurements by FACS on peripheral blood subsets, T-cell activation and exhaustion marker measurements, PR1-CTL assessment and cytokines). Evaluation of cytokines/chemokines (i.e., IL-6, IFN-α, IL 10, and others)., Day 0 - Month 25 (plus annual post study follow up Months 36,48,60)|For Germany: Evaluation of cytokines/chemokines, For Germany: Evaluation of cytokines/chemokines (i.e., IL-6, IFN-α, IL 10, and others), Day 0 - Month 25 (plus annual post study follow up Months 36,48,60)
Four hypotheses are tested in hierarchical order. To avoid inflation of type 1 error (false rejection of a null hypothesis), further confirmatory testing has to be stopped as soon as a null hypothesis could not be rejected.

All four hypotheses are tested at significance level 0.05. Null hypothesis 1 is the primary endpoint and investigates molecular relapse-free survival as a time-to-event variable; the two arms are compared with the log-rank test. Null hypotheses 2, 3, and 4 deal with probabilities of molecular relapse-free survival 7, 13, and 25 months after randomization, respectively; arms A and B are compared with the uncorrected chi-square test.