An Efficacy and Safety Study With Vandetanib to Treat Inoperable or Relapsed Malignant Mesothelioma
A clinical study to assess if a new investigational drug is effective in treating malignant mesothelioma, compared to a chemotherapy treatment (Navelbine速). In this study the patients will be assigned by chance to receive either the new drug or a chemotherapy treatment (Navelbine速). Treatment will continue as long as the cancer does not worsen and the patient wishes to continue in the study. The study will recruit approximately 66 patients.
Mesothelioma
DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Vandetanib
Number of Participants With Disease Control., Disease control is defined as having a complete response (CR), a partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) according to the modified RECIST criteria for assessment of response in malignant pleural mesothelioma. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions with no evidence of tumour elsewhere and PR is defined as at least a 30% reduction in the total tumour measurement. A confirmed response requires a repeat observation on two occasions 4 weeks apart. PD is defined as an increase of at least 20% in the total tumour measurement over the nadir measurement, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Patients with SD are those who fulfill the criteria for neither PR nor PD., Assessed at 2 months.
Number of Participants With Objective Response., Objective response is defined as having a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) according to the modified RECIST criteria for assessment of response in malignant pleural mesothelioma. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions with no evidence of tumour elsewhere and PR is defined as at least a 30% reduction in the total tumour measurement. A confirmed response requires a repeat observation on two occasions 4 weeks apart., Assessed at 2 months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Time from randomization to date of documented response of progressive disease (PD) as assessed according to the modified RECIST criteria for assessment of response in malignant pleural mesothelioma. PD is defined as an increase of at least 20% in the total tumour measurement over the nadir measurement, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Assessed from baseline to 12 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Assessed from baseline to 12 months.
A clinical study to assess if a new investigational drug is effective in treating malignant mesothelioma, compared to a chemotherapy treatment (Navelbine速). In this study the patients will be assigned by chance to receive either the new drug or a chemotherapy treatment (Navelbine速). Treatment will continue as long as the cancer does not worsen and the patient wishes to continue in the study. The study will recruit approximately 66 patients.