Fucoidan for Preventing Chemotherapy-Related Fatigue in Patients With Gastrointestinal or Gynecological Cancer
This clinical trial tests how well fucoidan works in preventing chemotherapy-related fatigue compared to a placebo in patients with gastrointestinal (GI) or gynecological (GYN) cancer. Fatigue poses a burden in patients with malignancies undergoing systemic chemotherapy. Fucoidan is a dietary supplement made of complex sugar that contain sulfate groups attached to their sugar units (sulfated polysaccharide) which found in brown seaweed. It is thought to have anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, anti-thrombotic, anti-diabetic, and anti-tumor effects in pre-clinical models. Giving fucoidan may be effective in preventing chemotherapy-related fatigue in patients with GI or GYN.
Malignant Digestive System Neoplasm|Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Oligo-fucoidan|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in fatigue, weeks 1-8, Will be assessed using self-reported fatigue over the past week. Fatigue is rated on a scale of 0-10 where 0=no fatigue at all and 10=fatigue as bad as it can be. Fatigue scores will be compared between arms., Baseline to 8 weeks
Change in fatigue, weeks 9-16, Will be assessed using self-reported fatigue over the past week. Fatigue is rated on a scale of 0-10 where 0=no fatigue at all and 10=fatigue as bad as it can be. Fatigue scores will be compared between arms., Baseline to 16 weeks|Change in the symptoms, Will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-F) scores, a 13-item questionnaire assessing fatigue symptoms over the past week. Responses to each item are scored on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much). Scores will be compared between arms., Baseline to 16 weeks|Change in Subjective Global Impression of Change scores, Will be measured using the Subjective Global Impression of Change instrument, which consists of 3 items assessed since beginning study medication: fatigue, emotional state, and overall quality of life. Items are scored on a 7-poin scale ranging from -3 (very much worse) to 3 (very much better). Two additional questions are answered only at the end of week 8: which medication the respondent believes they were on (2 choices) and whether they were satisfied with the effect of treatment on fatigue (yes/no)., Week 8 and Week 16|Incidence of rates of symptoms, Symptoms will be reported by the patient using the Symptom Experience Diary, which consists of 7 items assessing specific symptoms over the past week. Items are answered on a scale of 0 (none at all) to 10 (as bad as it can be). There is also one yes/no question related to exercise and one question for any side effects not addressed in the initial 7 items. Responses will be compared between arms., Up to 16 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of fucoidan versus (vs.) placebo in preventing fatigue as assessed by a single-item measure of fatigue at 8 weeks following the initiation of platinum-based doublet/triplet.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate 1) changes in fatigue via the single item measure of fatigue from baseline to week 16 2) the Global Impression of Change at week 8 and week 16 and 3) the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-F) subscale at week 8 and week 16.

II. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity as reported by the patient on the Symptom Experience Diary.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate if there are differences in inflammatory markers C-reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6 between groups from baseline to week 8.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive fucoidan orally (PO) three times a day (TID) for 8 weeks. After completion of fucoidan, patients then cross over into Arm 2 for 8 weeks. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

ARM 2: Patients receive placebo PO TID for 8 weeks. After completion of placebo, patients then cross over into Arm 1 for 8 weeks. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.