Efficacy of Dendritic Cell Therapy for Myeloid Leukemia and Myeloma
Dendritic cell therapy is a promising strategy for adjuvant cancer therapy in the setting of minimal residual disease (MRD) to fight off cancer relapse and/or progression. The investigators already performed a phase I safety study in leukemia patients that were in complete remission demonstrating the absence of side effects and feasibility of the therapy. Here, the investigators want to extend on this strategy by studying the clinical efficacy of autologous DC vaccination in patients with acute and chronic myeloid leukemia and myeloma patients. Effects of DC therapy on the immune reactivity towards leukemia cells as well as clinical parameters such molecular MRD monitoring, time to relapse (TTR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival(OS) will be studied in vaccinated and non-vaccinated (control) patients. Patients will be vaccinated using their own dendritic cells electroporated with mRNA coding for the full-length Wilms' tumor antigen WT1.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Chronic Myeloid Leukemia|Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: dendritic cell vaccination (active specific immunotherapy)
Immunogenicity of WT1 mRNA-transfected DC vaccination, Upon completion of blood sample collection (before start of the vaccination at week 0 and 8 weeks after start of the vaccination) and skin biopsy collection (8 weeks after start of the vaccination) for all included patients|Induction/maintenance of molecular remission as evidenced by molecular MRD monitoring of WT1 (AML, CML and MM) and BCR/ABL RNA (CML) copies in peripheral blood, Upon follow-up completion for all included patients, i.e. until 24 months after the last vaccination
Time to relapse (TTR), Upon follow-up completion for all included patients, i.e. until 24 months after the last vaccination|progression-free survival, Upon follow-up completion for all included patients, i.e. until 24 months after the last vaccination|overall survival (OS), Upon follow-up completion for all included patients, i.e. until 24 months after the last vaccination
Dendritic cell therapy is a promising strategy for adjuvant cancer therapy in the setting of minimal residual disease (MRD) to fight off cancer relapse and/or progression. The investigators already performed a phase I safety study in leukemia patients that were in complete remission demonstrating the absence of side effects and feasibility of the therapy. Here, the investigators want to extend on this strategy by studying the clinical efficacy of autologous DC vaccination in patients with acute and chronic myeloid leukemia and myeloma patients. Effects of DC therapy on the immune reactivity towards leukemia cells as well as clinical parameters such molecular MRD monitoring, time to relapse (TTR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival(OS) will be studied in vaccinated and non-vaccinated (control) patients. Patients will be vaccinated using their own dendritic cells electroporated with mRNA coding for the full-length Wilms' tumor antigen WT1.