AG-013736 In Combination With Docetaxel Versus Docetaxel Alone For Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
The primary purpose of the study is to determine the time to progression of the combination of study drug (AG-013736) and docetaxel versus docetaxel alone in patients who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. The secondary purpose of the study is to determine the dose of study drug that can be given with docetaxel administered on an every 3 week schedule.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: AG-013736 (axitinib)|DRUG: Docetaxel
Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), Time in days from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to cancer, whichever comes first. TTP was calculated as first event date minus the date of first dose of study medication plus 1. Tumor progression was determined from oncologic assessment data (where data meet the criteria for progressive disease \[PD\])., Phase 2 double-blind baseline until tumor progression or death or discontinuation from study treatment, assessed every 9 weeks up to 129 weeks
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR) for Phase 2 (Double-blind), Percentage of participants with OR based assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Confirmed responses are those that persist on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR are defined as the disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target). PR are those with at least 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions., Phase 2 double- blind baseline until the date of first documented progression or discontinuation from the study treatment due to any cause, assessed every 9 weeks up to 129 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR) for Phase 2 (Open-label), Percentage of participants with OR based assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Confirmed responses are those that persist on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR are defined as the disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target). PR are those with at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions., Phase 2 open-label baseline until the date of first documented progression or discontinuation from the study due to any cause, assessed every 8 weeks up to 58 weeks|Duration of Response (DR) for Phase 2 (Double-blind), Time in days from the first documentation of objective tumor response to objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Duration of tumor response was calculated as the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to cancer minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1. DR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., Phase 2 double-blind baseline until the date of first documented progression or discontinuation from the study due to any cause, assessed every 9 weeks up to 129 weeks|Duration of Response (DR) for Phase 2 (Open-label), Time in days from the first documentation of objective tumor response to objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Duration of tumor response was calculated as the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to cancer minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1. DR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., Phase 2 open-label baseline until the date of first documented progression or discontinuation from the study due to any cause, assessed every 8 weeks up to 58 weeks
Population Pharmacokinetics of Axitinib (AG-013736) for Phase 2 (Double-blind), Data for this Outcome Measure are not reported here because the analysis population includes participants who were not enrolled in this study. ClinicalTrials.gov is designed for reporting results from only those participants who were enrolled in the study and described in the Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics modules., Day 1 (pre-dose), Day 22 and Day 43 and then every 9 weeks up to 129 weeks
The primary purpose of the study is to determine the time to progression of the combination of study drug (AG-013736) and docetaxel versus docetaxel alone in patients who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. The secondary purpose of the study is to determine the dose of study drug that can be given with docetaxel administered on an every 3 week schedule.