Phase II Study With Ga101-DHAP as Induction Therapy in Relapsed/Refractory DLBCL Patients
Aim of this trial is to assess the efficacy of new anti-CD20 antibody (GA101) in association with DHAP as induction therapy before high dose chemotherapy BEAM with ASCT in patients with relapsed/refractory DLBCL.
Diffuse, Large B-Cell, Lymphoma
DRUG: GA101_DHAP
Aim of this trial is to assess the efficacy of new anti-CD20 antibody (GA101) in association with DHAP as induction therapy before high dose chemotherapy BEAM with ASCT in patients with relapsed/refractory DLBCL., Primary objective is to assess whether the treatment achieves an absolute increase of the CR proportion of at least 20% (from 30% to 50%) with respect to the standard treatment.

The complete response rate (CR) evaluated by PET scan after four cycles of GA101-DHAP before ASCT according to Cheson criteria., 4 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR) prior to consolidation with BEAM and ASCT, A patient is defined as a responder if she/he has a complete or partial response, evaluated by PET/TC, after four cycles of GA101-DHAP, 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS) at 6 month after the end of treatment (EOT), Measured from the date of starting salvage therapy to the date of disease progression, relapse or death from any cause. Responding patients and patients who are lost to follow up will be surveyed at their last assessment date., 6 month|Overall Survival (OS) at 2 years after the EOT, Measured from the date of starting salvage therapy to the date of death from any cause. Patients alive at the time of the final analysis will be surveyed at the date of the last contact. For both PFS and OS minimum follow up time required for all patients will be 2 years., 2 years|Toxicity: Severe, life-threatening, fatal (grade 3, 4 and 5) and/or serious adverse events, Severe, life-threatening, fatal (grade 3, 4 and 5) and/or serious adverse events are defined according to "Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events" (CTCAE), version 4.0. and adverse events of special interests (AESI), 2 years|The hematopoietic cell mobilization, Mobilizing potential: amount of CD34 + stem cell collected /Kg, 2 years|Feasibility: the rate of patients actually proceeding to ASCT, Proportion of patients successfully completing ASCT, 2 years
This is a prospective, multicenter, single arm, phase II trial in young patients (18-65 years) affected by relapsed/refractory Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) at diagnosis,eligible to high-dose therapy.

Aim of the study is to assess whether the addition of GA101 to DHAP is more promising than standard R-DHAP, as induction therapy before high dose chemotherapy BEAM with ASCT with respect to response.

The study is designed primarily to evaluate the efficacy of GA101-DHAP in patients with DLBCL who have relapsed or are refractory to one chemotherapy regimen and secondarily to assess safety and capability to mobilize peripheral stem cells The study is designed with two stages and with stopping rules after the first stage. In particular, at the end of the first stage, the study will be stopped if the efficacy is too low or if the toxicity, measured during the drug administration period, is too high with respect to pre-defined thresholds. .