Evaluating Panitumumab (ABX-EGF) Monotherapy in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Following Treatment With Fluoropyrimidine, Irinotecan, and Oxaliplatin Chemotherapy
The purpose of this study is to determine that panitumumab will have clinically meaningful anti-tumor activity in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have developed progressive disease or relapsed while on or after prior fluoropyrimidine, irinotecan and oxaliplatin chemotherapy.
Colorectal Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab
Number of Participants With Objective Tumor Response Through Week 16, Confirmed objective tumor response (complete or partial response) based on modified World Health Organization (WHO) criteria, through week 16. Tumor response was assessed by a central Independent Review Committee (IRC) and confirmation 4 weeks after initial assessment was required. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all index and non-index lesions and no new lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of the longest diameters (SPD) of index lesions taking as reference the Baseline SPD, and no new non-index lesions and no "unequivocal progression" of non-index lesions, or, the disappearance of all index lesions and persistence of one or more non-index lesions not qualifying for either CR or Progressive Disease., 16 weeks|Duration of Response, The time from first objective response to first observed progression of disease or death if the death was due to disease progression (whichever comes first); participants who respond and have not progressed while on study or died for reasons other than disease progression while on study were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date. Response (complete or partial response) was assessed per modified WHO criteria by the central IRC. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all index and non-index lesions and no new lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of the longest diameters (SPD) of index lesions taking as reference the Baseline SPD, and no new non-index lesions and no "unequivocal progression" of non-index lesions, or, the disappearance of all index lesions and persistence of one or more non-index lesions not qualifying for either CR or Progressive Disease., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum time of follow-up was 128 weeks.
Number of Participants With Objective Tumor Response Throughout Study, Confirmed objective tumor response (complete or partial response) based on modified World Health Organization (WHO) criteria, throughout the duration of the study Tumor response was assessed by a central Independent Review Committee (IRC) and confirmation 4 weeks after initial assessment was required. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all index and non-index lesions and no new lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of the longest diameters (SPD) of index lesions taking as reference the Baseline SPD, and no new non-index lesions and no "unequivocal progression" of non-index lesions, or, the disappearance of all index lesions and persistence of one or more non-index lesions not qualifying for either CR or Progressive Disease., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum time of follow-up was 128 weeks.|Time to Response, Median time from enrollment to objective tumor response for participants who responded., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum time of follow-up was 128 weeks.|Progression-free Survival Time, Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time from enrollment to death or first observed disease progression (whichever comes first). Participants who did not progress while on study and did not die while on study were censored at the last evaluable disease assessment date., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum follow-up time was 128 weeks.|Time to Disease Progression, Kaplan-Meier estimate of the median time from enrollment to first observed disease progression or death if death was due to disease progression (whichever comes first). Participants who did not progress while on study or died for reasons other than disease progression while on study were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum follow-up time was 128 weeks.|Time to Treatment Failure, Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time from enrollment to treatment failure, defined as the date the decision was made to end treatment. Participants remaining in the treatment phase at the time of the analysis were censored on their last visit date., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum follow-up time was 128 weeks.|Duration of Stable Disease, Kaplan-Meier estimates of the median time from enrollment to the date of first observed disease progression or death due to disease progression among those participants with a best outcome of stable disease. Stable disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage of Index lesions to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD) taking as reference the nadir sum of the products of the longest diameters (SPD) since the treatment started and the disappearance of or persistence of one or more non-index lesions not qualifying for PD., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum follow-up time was 128 weeks.|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time from enrollment to death from any cause. Deaths were recorded during treatment, safety follow-up and long term follow-up., Until the data cut-off date of 22 December 2006. Maximum follow-up time was 128 weeks.
Panitumumab was administered once every 2 weeks until participants developed progressive disease, were unable to tolerate panitumumab, or discontinued treatment for other reasons (eg, administrative decision). Participants then attended a safety follow-up visit 4 weeks from the last panitumumab infusion. Participants were subsequently contacted every 3 months from the last panitumumab infusion through month 24 to assess disease status and survival.