Lymphoma and T Helper 2 Cytokines Relationship With Prognostic Markers
The investigators hypothesized that Non Hodgkin lymphoma is using T helper 2 pathways. So that the investigators decided to study of cytokines related to T helper 2 pathways. It is well known that parasites and allergic situations also use T helper 2 pathways. Because that the investigators excluded the patients have parasites and allergic situations. All the patients were over 18. The investigators included the patients with non Hodgkin lymphoma which new diagnosed. It is observational study. The investigators took blood before chemotherapy and four months later. The investigators did not interfere with which chemotherapy will be given to patients. This decision was belong to hematologist or oncologist who will treat the patient.
Lymphoma
Interleukin 4 and Interleukin 10 levels as pg/mL in non hodgkin lymphoma, We will measure 31 patients and 27 healthy person's Interleukin 4 and Interleukin 10 levels as pg/mL at the beginning of the study. We determined all of the patients IPI score, LDH (U/L), crp (mg/L), erythrocyte sedimentation rate, hemoglobin (gr/dL), lymphocyte count in per µL, albumin (gr/dL) before the treatment. We wanted to check whether there is any correlation between well known prognostic markers (LDH, crp, albumin, stage, ECOG performance status) and Interleukin-4 and interleukin-10 levels., This study ended within 13 months
survey as months, Our secondary goal was to determine the survey time as month from diagnoses to die from any reason or last evaluation during our study which was 13 months., During study which was 13 months
The investigators hypothesized that Non Hodgkin lymphoma is using T helper 2 pathways. So that the investigators decided to study of cytokines related to T helper 2 pathways. It is well known that parasites and allergic situations also use T helper 2 pathways. Because that the investigators excluded the patients have parasites and allergic situations. All the patients were over 18. The investigators included the patients with non Hodgkin lymphoma which new diagnosed. It is observational study. The investigators took blood before chemotherapy and four months later. The investigators did not interfere with which chemotherapy will be given to patients. This decision was belong to hematologist or oncologist who will treat the patient.