Study of Docetaxel, Cisplatin, and Fluorouracil (Modified DCF) With Bevacizumab in Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma
This study is being done to find out what effects a drug named/called bevacizumab has on patients and patients' tumors when given together with standard chemotherapy drugs. Making new blood vessels seems to be important for many tumors to grow. Bevacizumab is a new type of treatment for cancer that blocks the growth of new tumor blood vessels. In this study, the researchers will combine bevacizumab with chemotherapy drugs that are standard for the patient's disease and include cisplatin, docetaxel, fluorouracil, and leucovorin. The way the original combination of cisplatin, docetaxel, and fluorouracil was given caused many side effects including gastrointestinal symptoms, weakness, and a drop in the blood count of infection fighting cells. For this study, the researchers have modified this combination to give lower doses of the medicines more often, to reduce side effects from the chemotherapy. Patients will receive bevacizumab with this modified combination of docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil. This study is called a phase II study. In this study, everyone will have similar tumors and receive the same treatment.
Stomach Neoplasms|Esophageal Neoplasms
DRUG: Docetaxel, Cisplatin, Fluorouracil, Bevacizumab, Leucovorin
6 Month Progression Free Survival, as measured from the start of the treatment to the date of either documentation of disease progression or death. As we have previously, we will define progression of disease as per RECIST criteria. As per RECIST criteria, any evidence of progression in non-measurable lesions, measurable lesions, or the development of new lesions, would qualify as disease progression .RECIST criteria as defined by CTEP (http://ctep.info.nih.gov/Policies)., 6 months|1-year Survival, 1 year
Patients With Measurable Disease the Confirmed Response Rate, up to 2 years
This study is being done to find out what effects a drug named/called bevacizumab has on patients and patients' tumors when given together with standard chemotherapy drugs. Making new blood vessels seems to be important for many tumors to grow. Bevacizumab is a new type of treatment for cancer that blocks the growth of new tumor blood vessels. In this study, the researchers will combine bevacizumab with chemotherapy drugs that are standard for the patient's disease and include cisplatin, docetaxel, fluorouracil, and leucovorin. The way the original combination of cisplatin, docetaxel, and fluorouracil was given caused many side effects including gastrointestinal symptoms, weakness, and a drop in the blood count of infection fighting cells. For this study, the researchers have modified this combination to give lower doses of the medicines more often, to reduce side effects from the chemotherapy. Patients will receive bevacizumab with this modified combination of docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil. This study is called a phase II study. In this study, everyone will have similar tumors and receive the same treatment.