Monitoring MRI Changes Before and During Radiotherapy Treatment of Brain Tumors
This study aims to evaluate anatomical and functional changes during RT for patients receiving fractionated RT for brain tumors. Anatomical changes during RT will be registered and analyzed and if needed the radiotherapy plan will be modified for the individual patient. This means that the "to be irradiated volume" will be modified according to the shape changes of the tumor. The functional MRI sequences will be used to evaluate what parameters, and at which time point, are important for radiotherapy outcome.
Brain Tumor
RADIATION: Radiotherapy
MRI parameters in the target volume, functional MRI parameters (permeability, perfusion and diffusion) in the target volume before and during fractional radiotherapy treatment, through study completion, an average of 3 years|anatomical variations in position, shape and size in the target volume, The difference is position shape and size in the target volume before and during fractional radiotherapy treatment. In case there is no macroscopic extension beyond the clinical target volume the new target volumes (gross target volume (GTV) and clinical target volume (CTV).) will also (but later) be delineated for analysis of volume changes, center of mass changes and distance measurements between the delineation on planning MRI versus repeated MRI., through study completion, an average of 3 years
the correlation between MRI parameters to the treatment outcome, to make a sample size calculation for a future study of imaging marker discovery., through study completion, an average of 3 years|the correlation between anatomical variations and the treatment outcome, to make a sample size calculation for a future study of imaging marker discovery., through study completion, an average of 3 years
This study aims to evaluate anatomical and functional changes during RT for patients receiving fractionated RT for brain tumors. Anatomical changes during RT will be registered and analyzed and if needed the radiotherapy plan will be modified for the individual patient. This means that the "to be irradiated volume" will be modified according to the shape changes of the tumor. The functional MRI sequences will be used to evaluate what parameters, and at which time point, are important for radiotherapy outcome.