A Safety Study of Lenalidomide in Previously Untreated Adult Multiple Myeloma Patients Who Are Not Eligible for Transplant
This post authorization safety study is designed as prospective non interventional study for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are not eligible for transplant. The objective is to compare the incidence of cardiovascular events between patients treated with a first-line lenalidomide containing regimen and those treated with a first-line non-lenalidomide containing regimen. Treatment in both cohorts will be done according to standard care. The study will gather risk factor information at baseline and throughout follow-up. Any cardiovascular event occurring will be assessed by an independent committee. Other safety endpoints will be collected through standard procedures. Observation period will be 3 years on treatment, with an additional evaluation of cardiovascular events 6 months' post treatment and a follow up period until 5 years after inclusion. During follow up the incidence of second primary malignancies (SPM) and overall survival will be assessed.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Revlimid (lenalidomide)
Incidence of cardiovascular events, Number of participants with cardiovascular adverse events, Approximately 8 years
Incidence of renal impairment in NDMM patients, To document renal function among TNE NDMM patients treated with a first-line regimen, Approximately 8 years|Incidence of infections in NDMM patients, To document the severity of infections among TNE NDMM patients treated with a first-line regimen., Approximately 8 years|Incidence of Second primary malignancy (SPM) in TNE NDMM patients treated with any first line regimen, Secondary primary malignancies will be categorized according to whether they are invasive and non-invasive malignancies., Approximately 8 years
This post authorization safety study is designed as prospective non interventional study for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are not eligible for transplant. The objective is to compare the incidence of cardiovascular events between patients treated with a first-line lenalidomide containing regimen and those treated with a first-line non-lenalidomide containing regimen. Treatment in both cohorts will be done according to standard care. The study will gather risk factor information at baseline and throughout follow-up. Any cardiovascular event occurring will be assessed by an independent committee. Other safety endpoints will be collected through standard procedures. Observation period will be 3 years on treatment, with an additional evaluation of cardiovascular events 6 months' post treatment and a follow up period until 5 years after inclusion. During follow up the incidence of second primary malignancies (SPM) and overall survival will be assessed.