Dihydroartemisinin for the Treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is the most frequent endocrine disorder affecting women of reproductive age, with a prevalence of 10 to 13%. PCOS is characterized by irregular menstrual cylcles/ovulatory dysfunction, hyperandrogenism, and polycystic ovarian morphology. For infertile patients seeking ovulation induction, letrozole is the drug of first choice. For PCOS patients not seeking pregnancy, there exists a variety of treatments to alleviate symptoms. It has been demonstrated that artemisinin derivatives can promote energy expenditures and insulin sensitivity by activating thermogenic adipocytes, thereby protecting against diet-induced obesity and metabolic disorders in rodents. Recently, we showed in a single arm pilot study including 19 PCOS-patients, that dihydroartemisinin ameliorated hyperandrogenemia reduced antral follicle count and normalized menstrual cycles. Based on these findings, we aim to evaluate the efficacy of dihydroartemisinin in women with PCOS in a placebo controlled randomized clinical trial. The primary outcome is return of regular menstrual cycles within 6 months after start of treatment, with antral follicle count and metabolic profile being secondary outcomes. The results will potentially impact the standard of care for patients diagnosed with PCOS.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
DRUG: Dihydroartemisinin|DRUG: Placebo
The occurrence of a regular menstrual cycle, The occurrence of a regular menstrual cycle is defined as at least three consecutive spontaneous vaginal bleedings lasting for 2-7 days, with intervals between the start of each cycle of 21 and 35 days (inclusive), during the 26-week period after initiating treatment., From the start of treatment to the end of follow-up at 26 weeks
The presence of a dominant follicle, This will be verified by transvaginal/transanal ultrasound before predicted ovulation, or testing serum progesterone in the predicted mid-luteal phase (A progesterone level\>16nmol/L or 5ng/ml is suggestive of ovulation) in those with at least two consecutive spontaneous bleedings., From the start of treatment to the end of follow-up at 26 weeks|The number of bilateral antral follicles, This will be measured by transvaginal/transanal ultrasound before and immediately after 90-day treatment. Antral follicles are defined as follicles measuring 2-9 mm in diameter in the ovary., Before and immediately after 90-day treatment|Serum AMH, This will be measured before and immediately after 90-day treatment., Before and immediately after 90-day treatment|Serum total testosterone, This will be measured before and immediately after 90-day treatment., Before and immediately after 90-day treatment|Serum sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), This will be measured before and immediately after 90-day treatment., Before and immediately after 90-day treatment|free androgen index (FAI), This will be calculated before and immediately after 90-day treatment. FAI is calculated from measurable values for total testosterone and SHBG, using the following equation: FAI = (Total testosterone in nmol/L / SHBG in nmol/L) × 100., Before and immediately after 90-day treatment|HOMA-IR, HOMA-IR will be calculated before and immediately after 90-day treatment. HOMA-IR is calculated using the following equation: HOMA-IR = fasting plasma glucose in mmol/L×fasting insulin in μU/ml/22.5., Before and immediately after 90-day treatment
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is the most frequent endocrine disorder affecting women of reproductive age, with a prevalence of 10 to 13%. PCOS is characterized by irregular menstrual cylcles/ovulatory dysfunction, hyperandrogenism, and polycystic ovarian morphology. For infertile patients seeking ovulation induction, letrozole is the drug of first choice. For PCOS patients not seeking pregnancy, there exists a variety of treatments to alleviate symptoms. It has been demonstrated that artemisinin derivatives can promote energy expenditures and insulin sensitivity by activating thermogenic adipocytes, thereby protecting against diet-induced obesity and metabolic disorders in rodents. Recently, we showed in a single arm pilot study including 19 PCOS-patients, that dihydroartemisinin ameliorated hyperandrogenemia reduced antral follicle count and normalized menstrual cycles. Based on these findings, we aim to evaluate the efficacy of dihydroartemisinin in women with PCOS in a placebo controlled randomized clinical trial. The primary outcome is return of regular menstrual cycles within 6 months after start of treatment, with antral follicle count and metabolic profile being secondary outcomes. The results will potentially impact the standard of care for patients diagnosed with PCOS.