A Study of Deferoxamine (DFO) in People With Leptomeningeal Metastasis
The researchers are doing this study to find out whether deferoxamine (DFO) given intrathecally (directly into the CSF) is a safe treatment for people with leptomeningeal metastasis from solid tumor cancer. The researchers will test different doses of DFO to find the highest dose that causes few or mild side effects. When the dose is found, they will test it in future participants to see whether DFO is a safe and effective treatment for people with leptomeningeal metastasis from solid tumor malignancies. They are also doing this study to see how the body absorbs, distributes, gets rid of, and responds to DFO.
Leptomeningeal Metastases
DRUG: Deferoxamine (DFO)
Frequency of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) during Phase Ia (Primary safety endpoint during dose-finding phase), Patients are considered evaluable for the primary safety endpoint of DLT if they receive at least one full cycle (twice weekly dosing for 4 weeks) without a DLT or if they experience a DLT at any time during the first cycle of IT-DFO. Per CTCAE version 5.0, 1 year|Frequency of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) during Phase Ib (RP2D of IT-DFO in patients with LM from NSCLC), Per CTCAE version 5.0, 1 year
objective response rate (ORR), LM objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients with at least one objective response in LM, using a combined approach taking into account radiographic, neurologic and cytologic assessments based on RANO-LM., 1 year
Phase 1a

During the phase 1a arm, the MTD and PK/PD data will be evaluated in patients with LM from any solid tumor malignancy in an accelerated dose escalation fashion, with conversion to a traditional 3 + 3 dose escalation scheme at either dosing cohort 5 or when alternative criteria is met \[either 1 patient experiences a DLT or 2 patients experience any grade 2 or higher nervous system disorder toxicity (except headache)\]. All patients will receive IT-DFO via Ommaya reservoir twice per week during cycle 1, once per week during cycle 2, and once every 2 weeks for subsequent cycles until LM progression, intolerable toxicity, or death. DLTs and new grade 2 or higher nervous system toxicities will be assessed for the first 28 days of each cohort.

The Principal Investigator will consider the MTD determined by the dose escalation, any cumulative or delayed CNS toxicities (if present), and PK/PD data of phase 1a when determining the RP2D of phase 1b.

Phase 1b

The phase 1b dose expansion will be determined by the RP2D of the phase 1a arm. All patients will receive IT-DFO via Ommaya reservoir twice per week during cycle 1, once per week during cycle 2, and once every 2 weeks for subsequent cycles until LM progression, intolerable toxicity, or death.

Patients in phase 1b will also be assessed for early efficacy endpoints.