A Evaluation of the Safety of Oncocort IV Pegylated Liposomal Dexamethasone Phosphate in Patients With Progressive Multiple Myeloma
Oncocort Dexamethasone sodium phosphate encapsulated in so-called 'long-circulating' PEGylated liposomes is in development with the prospect of providing enhanced and prolonged lesion uptake of dexamethasone and therefore increased therapeutic benefit over existing formulations of dexamethasone in Multiple Myeloma. The current trial is a first-in-man study with Oncocort monotherapy with the objective to assess safety, tolerability, efficacy and dose response after short-term treatment with repeated infusions.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Week 8
Response according to IMWG Criteria, 4 and 8 weeks after 1st dose|Percentage change of myeloma-related measures, up to 8 weeks after 1st dose|Quality of life questionnaire, up to 8 weeks after 1st dose|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), during 1st 4 weeks|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), during 1st 4 weeks
This open label multicenter study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of I.V. Oncocort Dexamethasone sodium phosphate given as a short term induction therapy in Multiple Myeloma patients. It consist of a Phase 1 part with a maximum number of 5 ascending dose levels while additional patients will be treated in the Phase 2a part with the recommended phase 2 dose to obtain additional safety data and preliminary efficacy data in multiple myeloma patients. For the dose escalation phase 1 part, 3 patients per dose level will be enrolled. If one patient reaches DLT, another 3 patients will be enrolled in the same dose level. If two or more patients reach DLT in one dose level, maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined at the last dose level beneath DLT. Not more than 5 dose level groups are anticipated for this part of the study. MTD will be the Recommended Phase II Dose (RPTD) for the phase IIa part of the study. For the phase 2a part, 7 additional patients will be enrolled at the RPTD dose level, bringing the total number of patients monitored for responses at this dose level to at least 10.