Decitabine With or Without Valproic Acid in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Valproic acid may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving decitabine together with valproic acid may be an effective treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of decitabine and valproic acid in treating patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: decitabine|DRUG: valproic acid|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MEPD of single agent decitabine defined as the dose where an 80% decrease in DNMT1 protein level and a 100% increase in re-expression of the methylated target genes are noted in 5 of 6 patients, with DLT in less than or equal to 1 patient, 28 days|MTD of valproic acid in combination with the MEPD of decitabine defined as the dose level below that dose at which greater than or equal to 2 DLT are observed and that results in less than or equal to 1 DLT in 6 patients using CTCAE v3.0, 28 days|MEPD of valproic acid and decitabine defined as the dose where an 80% decrease in DNMT1 protein level and a 100% increase in re-expression of the methylated target genes are noted in 5 of 6 patients, with DLT in less than or equal to 1 patient, 28 days|Toxicities of single agent decitabine alone and in combination with valproic acid assessed using CTCAE v3.0, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the minimally effective pharmacological dose (MEPD) of single-agent decitabine in patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of valproic acid when administered with the MEPD of decitabine in these patients.

III. Determine the MEPD of valproic acid when administered with decitabine in these patients.

IV. Determine the toxic effects of decitabine alone and in combination with valproic acid in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate in patients treated with these drugs. II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of these drugs in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment stages.

STAGE 1: Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 or 1-10. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

STAGE 2: Patients receive decitabine as in stage 1 and valproic acid orally (PO) thrice daily (TID) on days 5-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

For both stages, patients who achieve an objective response (complete response \[CR\], unconfirmed CR, or partial response) may discontinue study treatment and undergo stem cell transplantation, if eligible.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 18-42 patients (18 for stage 1 and 24 for stage 2) will be accrued for this study.