The LC Bead Trial; Transarterial Chemoembolization of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)With a Drug-eluting Bead
This study involves the combined use of the FDA approved device, LC Bead and the FDA approved drug, Doxorubicin for the treatment of primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The current indication of the LC Bead is for the embolization of hypervascular tumors and arteriovenous malformations. The study is designed to establish if drug eluting beads are more effective and less toxic than standard chemoembolization treatment.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DEVICE: transarterial chemoembolization using a drug-eluting bead
To Collect Data on Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) Being Treated With Chemoembolization With Doxorubicin Eluting Beads (DEB)., 4-6 weeks after initial treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained. With positive response to treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained every 12 weeks. If a new tumor develops or if local progression of the treated malignancy occurs, the patient may be retreated with LC Beads 4-6 weeks after the first treatment with re-imaging 4-6 weeks following each subsequent treatment., Patients will participate in protocol until date of death, liver transplantation, or withdrawal from study.|Determine Efficacy (Based on Whether the Study is Positive or Negative) of the Embolization With the LC Bead in Treatment of HCC With Imaging Outcomes Using Modified RECIST and EASL Criteria., 4-6 weeks after initial treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained. With positive response to treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained every 12 weeks. If a new tumor develops or if local progression of the treated malignancy occurs, the patient may be retreated with LC Beads 4-6 weeks after the first treatment with re-imaging 4-6 weeks following each subsequent treatment., Patients will participate in protocol until date of death, liver transplantation, or withdrawal from study.|Monitor Safety After Treatment of DEB by Measuring Liver Function Tests and Assessing Performance Status., 4-6 weeks after initial treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained. With positive response to treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained every 12 weeks. If a new tumor develops or if local progression of the treated malignancy occurs, the patient may be retreated with LC Beads 4-6 weeks after the first treatment with re-imaging 4-6 weeks following each subsequent treatment., Patients will participate in protocol until date of death, liver transplantation, or withdrawal from study.
To Track Survival Following Treatment With DEB to Confirm That Any Gains in Response Are Associated With an Increase in Survival., 4-6 weeks after initial treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained. With positive response to treatment, follow-up imaging will be obtained every 12 weeks. If a new tumor develops or if local progression of the treated malignancy occurs, the patient may be retreated with LC Beads 4-6 weeks after the first treatment with re-imaging 4-6 weeks following each subsequent treatment., Patients will participate in protocol until date of death, liver transplantation, or withdrawal from study.
Patients will be given IV fluids and premedication with 500 mg metronidazole, 10 mg dexamethasone, and 8 mg ondansetron to prevent infection, limit pain and nausea. The femoral artery will be accessed and a catheter advanced into the superior mesenteric artery. Positioning of all catheters will be confirmed by injection of radiographic contrast material. Superior mesenteric angiography will be performed with images obtained through the portal venous phase to confirm patency and flow direction of the portal vein and determine the presence of aberrant supply to the right lobe of the liver by the superior mesenteric artery. The catheter will then be advanced into the celiac artery. Celiac angiography will be performed to determine remainder of the hepatic arterial anatomy. Selection of the tumor bearing artery will then be performed with a microcatheter which is advanced through the catheter in the celiac artery origin. Selection will be guided by fluoroscopy and will be at the lobar level or peripherally in all cases. Once the feeding vessel has been selected and confirmed by contrast injection, the physician will initiate embolization with LC Beads. Up to two vials of LC Beads will be administered. One 2 mL vial each of 300-500 and 500-700 um LC Beads with 37.5 mg/mL doxorubicin will be prepared. The LC Beads will be mixed with radiographic contrast to ensure fluoroscopic visibility during injection. Under careful fluoroscopic control, the vial of 300-500 um vial will be infused, followed by the vial of 500-700 um LC Beads. If the artery reaches stasis prior to administration of both vials, the residual volume of LC Beads will be noted on the surgical report form. If after administration of the DEB, there is residual antegrade flow in the feeding artery, it will be treated with bland embolization similar to chemoembolization. After confirming that the artery is appropriately treated, all catheters and guidewires will be removed from the femoral artery and hemostasis obtained.