Biomarkers of Response to Pembrolizumab Combined With Chemotherapy in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (KEYNOTE-782, MK-3475-782)
Participants with Stage IV nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without prior systemic treatment will be treated with standard of care pembrolizumab combined with platinum-doublet chemotherapy for 4 cycles, then pembrolizumab plus pemetrexed maintenance for up to 31 additional cycles. The platinum doublet would be pemetrexed plus the investigator's choice of either cisplatin or carboplatin. The primary objective is to evaluate if total baseline tumor mutation burden (TMB) in cell-free circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) is predictive of objective response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by the investigator by estimating the level of association.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin
Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate is the proportion of participants who have a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Objective response rate is assessed by investigator review according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Participants with missing data are considered non-responders. The percentage of participants with an ORR is presented., Up to ~25 months|Tumor Mutation Burden (TMB) in Cell-free Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA), Cell-free ctDNA allows the exploration of tumor features from blood samples. TMB is a measure of mutational load in tumor cells and expressed as the number of somatic mutations per megabase (mut/MB) of DNA. The mean TMB in cell-free ctDNA of participants is presented., Baseline (Day 1)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by investigator review according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1). The Kaplan-Meier estimate of median PFS using the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data is presented., Up to ~36 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the start of treatment to death due to any cause. The Kaplan-Meier estimate of median PFS using the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data is presented., Up to ~36 months|Percentage of Participants Who Experienced One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who experienced an AE is presented., Up to ~31 months|Percentage of Participants Discontinuing Study Intervention Due to an AE., An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who discontinued the study intervention due to an AE is presented., Up to ~28 months
Participants with Stage IV nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without prior systemic treatment will be treated with standard of care pembrolizumab combined with platinum-doublet chemotherapy for 4 cycles, then pembrolizumab plus pemetrexed maintenance for up to 31 additional cycles. The platinum doublet would be pemetrexed plus the investigator's choice of either cisplatin or carboplatin. The primary objective is to evaluate if total baseline tumor mutation burden (TMB) in cell-free circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) is predictive of objective response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by the investigator by estimating the level of association.