Procalcitonin and Antimicrobial Utilization in Critically Ill Cancer Patients with Sepsis
Studies have demonstrated that the use of a procalcitonin (PCT)-guided algorithm in combination with clinical judgment was associated with reduced antibiotic use without impacting mortality or treatment failure. Though several studies have evaluated the use of PCT in critically ill patients, there are limited studies that evaluated PCT in patients with cancer and many of the currently available studies have excluded immune-compromised patients.

This is a randomized controlled trial that aims to evaluate the impact of a procalcitonin-guided algorithm on antibiotic utilization in critically ill cancer patients with sepsis. In addition, the study aims to evaluate the predictive value of PCT for predicting mortality and positive cultures.
Sepsis|Septic Shock|Neoplasm|Critical Illness
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Procalcitonin Levels|OTHER: Control
Time to antibiotic cessation, Time to antibiotic cessation at 28 days, hospital discharge, or death, whichever comes first after randomization, 28 days|Number of antibiotic-free days, Number of antibiotic-free days at day 28 after randomization, 28 days
Antibiotic utilization, The antibiotic utilization will be evaluated by determining the antibiotic daily defined doses (DDD), as set by the World Health Organization, for each patient over the study period., 28 days
Antibiotic de-escalation, Determined if de-escalation of antimicrobial therapy is performed during the ICU stay. De-escalation will be defined as reducing both the spectrum of antimicrobial therapy and its potential to promote resistance by driving selective pressure on microbiota. Reducing the number of antibiotics will also be considered as de-escalation., 28 days|Predictive value of PCT for both mortality, Determined by constructing a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the area under the ROC curve, as well as the sensitivity, specificity, and cut-off points with the highest predictability., 28 days|Recurrence of infection, Defined as a new infection that develops within 48 hours after stopping or de-escalating antibiotics., 28 days|Compliance with the PCT algorithm, The clinical decision of the medical team will be compared with the management suggested by the algorithm., 5 days|Predictive value of PCT for positive cultures, Determined by constructing a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the area under the ROC curve, as well as the sensitivity, specificity, and cut-off points with the highest predictability., 28 days
Procalcitonin (PCT) has been widely studied to guide antibiotic use in critically ill septic patients. Using an algorithm for antibiotic de-escalation guided by PCT levels in septic patients with respiratory tract infections was associated with lower antibiotics exposure without increasing mortality or treatment failure. Furthermore, the current Surviving Sepsis Guidelines suggest that PCT levels may help clinicians in their decision of empiric antibiotics discontinuation especially in patients with suspected sepsis and low PCT values with no other evidence of infection (low level of evidence, GRADE 2C).

Reducing the use of antibiotics is a global health care priority. Using a PCT-guided algorithm in combination with clinical judgment was associated with reduced antibiotic use without increasing morbidity or mortality. Though PCT has been widely studied as a diagnostic, prognostic, and theragnostic inflammatory marker in patients with sepsis, there are limited studies that evaluated PCT in patients with cancer and many of the currently available studies have excluded immune-compromised patients. Furthermore, studies have reported elevated inflammatory markers, including PCT, in patients with cancer as a result of the malignancy itself or treatment complications. This may suggest that PCT alone may possibly be less useful for differentiating infectious from non-infectious sources of fever in cancer patients. However, serial PCT levels may be more useful in cancer patients, compared to a single level.

Sepsis is common in cancer patients; however, there are limited studies evaluating the clinical impact of obtaining PCT levels in this patient population. Therefore, this study will evaluate the impact of obtaining serial PCT levels on the number of antibiotic days in cancer patients with sepsis. In addition, the study aims to evaluate the predictive value of PCT for predicting mortality and positive cultures.

Study Objectives The main objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of a PCT-guided algorithm on the duration of antimicrobial therapy in critically ill cancer patients with sepsis. The main research question being asked is whether providing the clinical team with daily PCT levels, along with a PCT-based algorithm to guide antimicrobial management, would have an impact on the duration of antibiotic therapy. In addition, the study intends to assess the role of PCT in predicting mortality and positive cultures in the cancer septic patient population.