A First-in-Human Study of CAN04 in Patients With Solid Malignant Tumors
This study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, and preliminary antitumor activity of CAN04 both as a monotherapy and in combination with standard of care treatment in subjects with solid cancer tumors.

Following completion of the first part, the dose escalation cohorts, and determination of maximum tolerated dose or recommended phase 2 dose (MTD/RP2D), safety and tolerability will be further evaluated in an expanded cohort of subjects with pancreatic or lung cancer, as monotherapy or in combination with the standard of care treatment and to identify the RP2D of CAN04 in combination with standard of care. In addition, early signs of efficacy during treatment with CAN04 will be investigated.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: CAN04|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), The incidence of Grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs) related to CAN04 administration and according to the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 4.03)., From the first dose until the last subject has completed their end of trial visit or the last enrolled subject has completed 6 months of treatment, whichever occurs first
Maximum concentration (Cmax), Maximum plasma concentration of CAN04, 5 weeks|Terminal half-life (t1/2), Terminal half-life of CAN04, 5 weeks|Clearance (CL), Plasma clearance of CAN04, 5 weeks|Apparent volume of distribution during the terminal phase (VZ), Apparent volume of distribution of CAN04 during the terminal phase, 5 weeks|Area under the curve from time 0 to infinity (AUC0-∞), Area under the plasma concentration curve from time 0 to infinity, 5 weeks|Anti-drug antibodies (ADA) against CAN04, Immunogenicity of CAN04 after repeated administrations, assessed by ADA titers in serum., Through study completion, an average of 6 months|Preliminary signs of efficacy as assessed by tumor response, Tumor response (irRC Part I Part II Monotherapy arms; iRECIST Part II Combination arms), One year
CAN04 is a first-in-class fully humanized and ADCC enhanced monoclonal antibody, targeting the Interleukin 1 Receptor Accessory Protein (IL1RAP).

The CAN04 strategy is to attack the IL1RAP target molecule using an effective antibody-based cancer treatment. In preclinical (in vitro and in vivo) studies, CAN04 has shown two distinct mechanisms of action:

1. By blocking the intracellular signals from the IL1RAP target molecule, thereby impairing the cancer cells' ability to secrete tumor stimulating cytokines, in turn reducing tumor inflammation and tumor progression.
2. Through antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) against IL1RAP expressing tumor cells where CAN04 stimulates natural killer (NK) cells to attack the tumor cells.

The study is a combined phase 1/2a, open-label, dose-escalation followed by dose expansion, safety and tolerability clinical trial, in patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumors. It consists of two parts.

In Part I (Dose Escalation - DE), the intention is to include patients with any of the four solid tumor types: Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC), Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) or Colorectal Cancer (CRC). In this part of the study safety and tolerability will be documented and the MTD/ RP2D will be determined. Patients will stay on CAN04 treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or discontinuation for any other reason. \[Completed December 2018\]

In Part II (Expansion Cohort - EC), safety and tolerability will be further evaluated in an expanded cohort of subjects with PDAC or NSCLC to identify RP2D of CAN04 in combination with standard of care. In addition, early signs of efficacy during treatment with CAN04 will be investigated, as monotherapy or in combination with the standard of care.

Patients will stay on treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or discontinuation for any other reason. \[Enrollment to all arms completed\]