Surgery and Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Early Cervical Cancer
RATIONALE: Vaccines made from human papillomavirus may make the body build an immune response to and kill cervical cancer cells. Combining vaccine therapy with surgery may be a more effective treatment for cervical cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving vaccine therapy together with surgery works in treating patients with early cervical cancer.
Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: human papillomavirus 16 E7 peptide|BIOLOGICAL: synthetic human papillomavirus 16 E6 peptide|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy|PROCEDURE: surgical procedure|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Immunological response to HPV|Toxicity and safety of TA-HPV
Proliferative capacity of T-cells to the E6 and E7 proteins|Influence of vaccination with TA-HPV on the disease free interval or patterns of recurrence
OBJECTIVES:

* Evaluate the systemic immunological response to the human papilloma virus vaccine (TA-HPV) expressing the proteins 16, 18, E6 and E7 examining the cytolytic T cell and the antibody responses in cervical cancer patients.
* Investigate further the safety and toxic effects of TA-HPV in these patients.
* Assess the proliferative capacity of T cells to the E6 and E7 proteins.
* Observe any influence of vaccination with TA-HPV on the disease free interval or patterns of recurrence in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized study.

Patients receive 2 vaccinations of the human papilloma virus with proteins 16, 18, E6 and E7 at least 4 weeks apart, with the first vaccination at least 2 weeks before surgery and the second 8 weeks after the first one, unless unacceptable toxicity occurs. Patients who require radiotherapy following surgery receive their second vaccination 4-8 weeks after the first vaccination.

Twenty-eight patients are entered initially; if at least 2 patients show an immunologic response, 16 additional patients are entered.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 44 patients will be entered over 1 year.