Development and Relationship Between Resilience and Anxiety and Depression in Elderly Gastric Cancer Survivors
This study will explore the dynamic interaction between mental resilience, anxiety and depression in elderly patients with gastric cancer 1 year after surgery, in order to better understand the role of these two factors in patients' mental health, and provide accurate insights for clinical practice and targeted psychological support strategies.
Resilience|Anxiety|Depression
OTHER: Measurement correlation variable
resilience, The Chinese version of 10-item Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC-10), translated and revised by Chinese scholars, was used in this study. Cronbach's alpha for the Chinese version was 0.855, indicating good internal consistency. It was also applied to cancer patients in China. Each of which was scored on a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from 1 to 5 points, from "Never" to "Almost always", with higher scores representing a higher level of psychological resilience., immediately after surgery (T1), three month post-surgery (T2), six months post-surgery (T3), 12 months post-surgery (T4)|anxiety, Chinese version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) was used in this study to assess the anxiety and depression of elderly cancer patients, which was developed by Zigmond AS et al. The scale consists of 14 items, including anxiety and depression subscales. Each item is rated on a 4 point scale, and the scores of the anxiety and depression scales range from 0 to 21 points. The Cronbach's α coefficient of the HADS for this study was 0.85., immediately after surgery (T1), three month post-surgery (T2), six months post-surgery (T3), 12 months post-surgery (T4)|depression, Chinese version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) was used in this study to assess the anxiety and depression of elderly cancer patients, which was developed by Zigmond AS et al. The scale consists of 14 items, including anxiety and depression subscales. Each item is rated on a 4 point scale, and the scores of the anxiety and depression scales range from 0 to 21 points. The Cronbach's α coefficient of the HADS for this study was 0.85., immediately after surgery (T1), three month post-surgery (T2), six months post-surgery (T3), 12 months post-surgery (T4)
This study will explore the dynamic interaction between mental resilience, anxiety and depression in elderly patients with gastric cancer 1 year after surgery, in order to better understand the role of these two factors in patients' mental health, and provide accurate insights for clinical practice and targeted psychological support strategies.