Impact of Sentinel Lymph Node Mapping on Patient Reported Lower Extremity Limb Dysfunction in Stage I Endometrial Cancer
This phase III trial compares the effect of sentinel lymph node mapping to standard lymph node dissection in reducing the risk of swelling in the legs (lymphedema) in patients undergoing a hysterectomy for stage I endometrial cancer. Standard lymph node dissection removes lymph nodes around the uterus during a hysterectomy to look for spread of cancer from the uterus to nearby lymph nodes. Sentinel lymph node mapping uses a special dye and camera to look for cancer that may have spread to nearby lymph nodes. Comparing the results of the procedures may help doctors predict the risk of long-term swelling in the legs.
Stage I Uterine Corpus Carcinoma or Carcinosarcoma AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Imaging Testing|PROCEDURE: Excisional Biopsy|DRUG: Indocyanine Green Solution|PROCEDURE: Minimally Invasive Surgery|PROCEDURE: Pelvic Lymphadenectomy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Sentinel Lymph Node Mapping
Incidence of patient-reported lower extremity limb dysfunction, The primary endpoint is the incidence of patient-reported lower extremity limb dysfunction at 18 months post-hysterectomy after undergoing lymphatic assessment according to a National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guideline-based sentinel lymph node (SLN) mapping algorithm with or without completion of lymphadenectomy. The primary endpoint will be assessed using the Gynecologic Cancer Lymphedema Questionnaire (GCLQ) questionnaire. Surveys will be performed at enrollment (pre-surgery) and at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months post-surgery. Patient-reported lower extremity limb dysfunction will be defined as an increase in GCLQ symptom score of at least four (4) points from baseline at any time during the 18 months follow-up. The primary null hypothesis will be evaluated with an intent-to-treat chi-squared test, adjusted for stratification factors. Proportional hazards modeling will be used to generate a hazard ratio and 95% confidence limits of Arm 1 versus Arm 2., From 18 months post-hysterectomy after undergoing lymphatic assessment to 39 months
The incidence of lymphedema by quantifiable lower extremity limb changes, Patients will undergo circumferential lower extremity limb measures at three locations along each leg. Change will be estimated as measurement at baseline subtracted from measurement at follow-up. This will be assessed in both legs separately., From enrollment and at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months after surgery|The incidence of lymphedema by bioimpedance assessments (if available), Patients will undergo circumferential lower extremity limb measures at three locations along each leg. Change will be estimated as measurement at baseline subtracted from measurement at follow-up. This will be assessed in both legs separately. The SOZO device by ImpediMed provides an L-Dex score for each leg at each assessment point as each limb is at risk for lower extremity lymphedema., From enrollment and at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months after surgery.|Rate of successful bilateral SLN identification, Will be assessed in both, and only as the time of surgery., At time of surgery|Rate of successful identification of lymph node metastasis, Will be assessed in both, and only as the time of surgery. The rate of lymph node metastasis identification during surgery will be compared between groups, with either t-tests or chi-squared tests where appropriate., At time of surgery|Rate of perioperative complications, Will be assessed in both arms separately, and only as the time of surgery. The rate of perioperative complications during surgery will be compared between groups, with either t-tests or chi-squared tests where appropriate., At time of surgery
Adjuvant therapy decisions, Adjuvant therapy decisions will be compared for patients according to study arm allocation after accounting for tumor characteristics, stage, and patient demographics to determine whether lymph node mapping strategies was associated with a difference in adjuvant therapy choice., Up to 24 months|incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of a SLN mapping algorithm, To determine the ICER of a SLN mapping algorithm with or without full lymphadenectomy for endometrial cancer using the European Quality of Life 5 Dimensions 3 Level Version, medical records (EQ-5D-5L), and questionnaire to gather resource utilization for lymphedema treatment. The visual analog scale and index scores from the EQ-5D-DL will be calculated at baseline and change scores corresponding at each collected follow-up time point then compared between treatment arms using a t-test with a 2-sided significance level of 0.05. At each time point, the EQ-5D-5L is obtained, and quality of life related utility scores will be calculated from the EQ-5D-5L. A mean utility score and confidence intervals will be used for cost-effective modeling. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) are calculated as the weighted sum of survival time and quality of life-based utilities. A Markov model will be used to model cost for this analysis., From enrollment and at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months after surgery|Progression free survival, This endpoint is not expected to be sufficiently powered for a definitive comparison and will therefore be treated as supportive evidence., The duration of time from study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, or date of last contact if neither progression nor death has occurred, assessed at 2 years after enrollment|Overall survival, This endpoint is not expected to be sufficiently powered for a definitive comparison and will therefore be treated as supportive evidence., Duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact, assessed at 2 years after enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the rates of lower extremity limb dysfunction (defined as a \>= 4-point increase in Gynecologic Cancer Lymphedema Questionnaire \[GCLQ\] symptom score from baseline) in patients with apparent uterine confined endometrial cancer randomized to one of two lymphatic assessment strategies at time of hysterectomy:

Ia. Sentinel lymph node mapping and excision followed by side-specific lymphadenectomy on sides without a sentinel lymph node (SLN) identified according to a National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines approved algorithm (Arm 1); Ib. Sentinel lymph node mapping and excision according to an NCCN Guidelines approved algorithm followed by bilateral pelvic +/- para-aortic lymphadenectomy (Arm 2).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare changes in lower extremity limb circumference in patients with apparent uterine confined endometrial cancer randomized to one of two lymphatic assessment strategies at time of hysterectomy.

II. To validate the test characteristics of a SLN mapping algorithm including SLN detection rates, rate of perioperative complications, rate of identifying lymphatic metastases, and detection of micrometastases using pathologic ultra-staging.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare adjuvant therapy decisions in patients with apparent uterine confined endometrial cancer randomized to one of two lymphatic assessment strategies at time of hysterectomy.

II. To explore the impact of patient characteristics (age, body mass index \[BMI\], race), extent of lymph node dissection, and adjuvant therapy decisions (radiation, chemotherapy) on the development of lower extremity limb dysfunction - as well as their interaction with lymph node assessment strategies.

III. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of SLN mapping with or without completion of lymphadenectomy for endometrial cancer.

SAFETY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare progression free and overall survival in patients with apparent uterine confined endometrial cancer randomized to one of two lymphatic assessment strategies at time of hysterectomy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive ICG dye via injection and undergo sentinel lymph node mapping and excision during standard minimally invasive hysterectomy. Lymph nodes around the uterus may be removed if the mapping and excision cannot be completed. Successful mapping requires no additional removal of lymph nodes.

ARM 2: Patients receive ICG dye via injection and undergo sentinel lymph node mapping and excision during standard minimally invasive hysterectomy. Additional lymph nodes around the uterus are removed per standard of care.

Patients in both arms also undergo imaging as clinically indicated and optional blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed every 3 months for one year and at 18 and 24 months.