Construction of a Recurrence Risk Prediction Model for Liver Resection Based on Drug Sensitivity of Patient-derived Hepatocellular Carcinoma Organoid
Liver cancer is the sixth most common malignant tumor worldwide and the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths. China is a high-risk area for liver cancer, accounting for approximately 55% of primary liver cancer worldwide. Liver cancer is highly malignant and easy to recur, which seriously endangers the life and health of our people. Hepatectomy is the preferred treatment for liver cancer, but the 5-year recurrence rate remains as high as 70%, severely limiting the effectiveness of the surgery. Therefore, exploring the risk factors and predictive methods for early tumor recurrence after liver resection in patients has high clinical value. Clinical practice has found that primary liver cancer patients can be treated with postoperative adjuvant transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) to prevent recurrence. However, the effectiveness of TACE varies among patients and may be related to tumor heterogeneity. However, many studies have reported that drug sensitivity testing based on patient derived organoids can indicate the clinical efficacy of drugs, but there is currently no relevant research indicating that organoids can reflect the therapeutic response of TACE. Therefore, the aim of this study is to explore the correlation between patient derived organoid drug sensitivity testing results and TACE treatment responsiveness and tumor recurrence, and further construct a column chart model to predict tumor recurrence after adjuvant TACE.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: in vitro （chemotherapy）|DEVICE: Adjuvant TACE（Adjuvant Transarterial Chemoembolization）
Recurrence free survival, Recurrence within two years post-surgery was classified as early recurrence., Follow-up was performed at least every 2 months during the first 6 months after adjuvant TACE, and every 3 months for the subsequent 18 months. The follow-up period ended in September 2024
Liver cancer is the sixth most common malignant tumor worldwide and the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths. China is a high-risk area for liver cancer, accounting for approximately 55% of primary liver cancer worldwide. Liver cancer is highly malignant and easy to recur, which seriously endangers the life and health of our people. Hepatectomy is the preferred treatment for liver cancer, but the 5-year recurrence rate remains as high as 70%, severely limiting the effectiveness of the surgery. Therefore, exploring the risk factors and predictive methods for early tumor recurrence after liver resection in patients has high clinical value. Clinical practice has found that primary liver cancer patients can be treated with postoperative adjuvant transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) to prevent recurrence. However, the effectiveness of TACE varies among patients and may be related to tumor heterogeneity. However, many studies have reported that drug sensitivity testing based on patient derived organoids can indicate the clinical efficacy of drugs, but there is currently no relevant research indicating that organoids can reflect the therapeutic response of TACE. Therefore, the aim of this study is to explore the correlation between patient derived organoid drug sensitivity testing results and TACE treatment responsiveness and tumor recurrence, and further construct a column chart model to predict tumor recurrence after adjuvant TACE.