Atezolizumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent BCG-Unresponsive Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well atezolizumab works in treating patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer that has come back (recurrent) and has not responded to treatment (refractory) with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Recurrent Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage 0a Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage 0is Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage I Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Complete Response (CR) Rate in the Subset of Patients With Carcinoma in Situ (CIS), To estimate complete response at 25 weeks after registration for those with a CIS component. Complete Response (CR) is defined as negative biopsy for high grade disease at Week 25 (± 7 days) for the subset of patients with a CIS component at study entry, according to local pathology call. In addition, patients with a CIS component who undergo negative biopsy at Week 13 for suspicious cystoscopy and or positive cytology and have cystoscopy not suspicious for cancer and cytology not positive for malignant cells at Week 25 do not require repeat biopsy at Week 25 and will be considered to have a complete response at Week 13 and will also be counted as having a complete response at Week 25., At 25 weeks|Event-free Survival (EFS), To evaluate event-free survival at 18 months in patients with BCG-unresponsive high-risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (Ta/T1/CIS) treated with atezolizumab. Event-Free Survival is defined as time from date of registration to first documentation of event. Participants last known to be alive and not to have recurred are censored at the date of last contact. An event was defined as the first occurrence of any of the following: biopsy-proven high-grade bladder cancer (including persistent CIS at 3 and/or 6 months); high-grade upper tract urothelial carcinoma; high-grade urothelial carcinoma of the prostatic urethra; muscle-invasive disease; clinical evidence of metastatic disease; or death due to any cause., 18 months
Event-free Survival (EFS) in the Ta/T1 Subset, To evaluate event-free survival at 18 months in the subset of participants with papillary cancer (Ta/T1) treated with atezolizumab. Event-Free Survival is defined as time from date of registration to first documentation of event. Participants last known to be alive and not to have recurred are censored at the date of last contact. An event was defined as the first occurrence of any of the following: biopsy-proven high-grade bladder cancer (including persistent CIS at 3 and/or 6 months); high-grade upper tract urothelial carcinoma; high-grade urothelial carcinoma of the prostatic urethra; muscle-invasive disease; clinical evidence of metastatic disease; or death due to any cause., 18 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), To evaluate progression-free survival at 18 months in all eligible and evaluable participants. Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from registration to first evidence of biopsy-proven muscle-invasive bladder cancer (T\>=2), nodal or distant metastasis, or death from any cause. Participants without an event were censored at the date of their last cystoscopy. Estimated using Kaplan-Meier., 18 months|Time to Cystectomy, Time to cystectomy is defined as time from discontinuation of protocol therapy to time of cystectomy., Up to 5 years|Bladder Cancer-Specific Survival, To evaluate bladder cancer-specific survival at 3 years in all eligible and evaluable participants. Bladder cancer-specific survival is defined as the time from registration to death due to bladder cancer. Participants without bladder cancer death are censored at last contact date or date of non-bladder cancer death. Estimated using Kaplan-Meier., 3 years|Three-Year Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from registration to the date of death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive are censored at the date of last contact., 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate complete response at 25 weeks after registration for those with a carcinoma in situ (CIS) component and to evaluate event-free survival at 18 months in patients with BCG-unresponsive high-risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (Ta/T1/CIS) treated with atezolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate event-free survival at 18 months for the subset of patients with papillary cancer (Ta/T1).

II. To estimate progression-free survival, cystectomy-free survival, bladder cancer-specific survival, overall survival in all patients.

ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the level of agreement between local and central pathology review in terms of recurrence (for all patients) and complete response (for the CIS subset).

II. To identify markers that predict response to atezolizumab in the CIS population and that are associated with event-free survival (EFS) in patients with Ta/T1/CIS BCG-unresponsive non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. The following markers will be tested:

IIIa. Expression of PD-L1 and CD8 by immunohistochemistry (IHC). IIIb. Expression of immune signatures by ribonucleic acid (RNA)-sequencing (RNA-seq).

IIIc. Peripheral immune response by mass cytometry (CyTOF) and TruCulture.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 cycles (51 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 2 years and then every 24 weeks for 3 years.