The Association Between Areca-nut Chewing Habit and Metabolic Syndrome
The purpose of this study is going to determine the odds ratio of metabolic syndrome (MS), the habit of areca nut chewing, antioxidant, and inflammatory status in oral and esophageal patients. The current study was designed as a case-control study. Patients proved to be oral and esophageal cancer and had the habit of areca nut chewing are defined as case group. Patients proved to be oral and esophageal cancer and did not have the habit of areca nut chewing are defined as control group. The participants' age, blood pressures, and smoking habits will be recorded. Body weight, height, waist, and hip circumferences will be measured. Fasting venous blood samples will be obtained to determine hematological parameters \[i.e., serum creatinine, total cholesterol, triacylglycerol, low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, high density lipoprotein-cholesterol, malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-6)\]. Logistic regression analyses are going to perform to examine the relationship between areca nut chewing and MS in this population. If we can make sure the relationship between areca nut chewing and MS, the clinicians and nutritionists can teach people to quit areca nut chewing in order to avoid the possibility of developing metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease.
Oral and Esophageal Cancer|Metabolic Syndrome.
Metabolic syndrome, Measure blood pressure, blood lipid profiles, fasting glucose, and waist circumferences., Up to 1 week
Antioxidant activity, Antioxidant ability measurements: lipid peroxidation markers (MDA), antioxidant enzymes activities (catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase)., Up to 1 week|Inflammatory status, Measure inflammatory markers: C-reactive protein, Interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha., Up to 1 week
The purpose of this study is going to determine the odds ratio of metabolic syndrome (MS), the habit of areca nut chewing, antioxidant, and inflammatory status in oral and esophageal patients. The current study was designed as a case-control study. Patients proved to be oral and esophageal cancer and had the habit of areca nut chewing are defined as case group. Patients proved to be oral and esophageal cancer and did not have the habit of areca nut chewing are defined as control group. The participants' age, blood pressures, and smoking habits will be recorded. Body weight, height, waist, and hip circumferences will be measured. Fasting venous blood samples will be obtained to determine hematological parameters \[i.e., serum creatinine, total cholesterol, triacylglycerol, low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, high density lipoprotein-cholesterol, malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-6)\]. Logistic regression analyses are going to perform to examine the relationship between areca nut chewing and MS in this population. If we can make sure the relationship between areca nut chewing and MS, the clinicians and nutritionists can teach people to quit areca nut chewing in order to avoid the possibility of developing metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease.