The Effectiveness of HP and TMZ Synergism on Adult Recurrence GBM
The study of investigators indicated that TMZ can up-regulate dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) expression, and mediates Ferroptosis inhibition and chemoresistance of GBM. The clinical data also proved that the DRD2 expression in recurrent GBM is significantly higher than that in primary GBM. Moreover, the DRD2 antagonist haloperidol can attenuate the above function of DRD2, and increase the sensitivity of GBM to the TMZ by inducing fatal autophagy and ferroptosis. In xenograft mice, the combined usage of haloperidol and Temozolomide (TMZ) can significantly inhibit tumor growth and increase overall survival. The investigators' findings have been published in Clinical cancer research. Haloperidol known as a butylbenzene antipsychotic drug, has been widely used in several kinds of mental illnesses, such as depression, schizophrenia, and Bipolar disorder. And the safe dosage of the haloperidol is clear so far. So in this study, the investigators will recruit the patients who suffered from recurrent GBM, and evaluate the effectiveness of single TMZ chemotherapy or combined with haloperidol.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: Haloperidol Tablets|DRUG: Temozolomide
Percentage of partial relief and complete relief, Detected the percentage of partial relief and complete relief according to RANO criteria., 3 months
Overall survival, Overall survival was evaluated during follow-up period., One year|DRD2 expression, If the recurrent GBM underwent surgery resection, the DRD2 expression was detected., One year
Adverse drug reaction of haloperidol, Detection the adverse drug reaction of haloperidol, One year
The study of investigators indicated that TMZ can up-regulate dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) expression, and mediates Ferroptosis inhibition and chemoresistance of GBM. The clinical data also proved that the DRD2 expression in recurrent GBM is significantly higher than that in primary GBM. Moreover, the DRD2 antagonist haloperidol can attenuate the above function of DRD2, and increase the sensitivity of GBM to the TMZ by inducing fatal autophagy and ferroptosis. In xenograft mice, the combined usage of haloperidol and Temozolomide (TMZ) can significantly inhibit tumor growth and increase overall survival. The investigators' findings have been published in Clinical cancer research. Haloperidol known as a butylbenzene antipsychotic drug, has been widely used in several kinds of mental illnesses, such as depression, schizophrenia, and Bipolar disorder. And the safe dosage of the haloperidol is clear so far. So in this study, the investigators will recruit the patients who suffered from recurrent GBM, and evaluate the effectiveness of single TMZ chemotherapy or combined with haloperidol.