Effectiveness of Bilateral Endoscopic Sphenopalatine Ganglion Block on Postoperative Pain After Septoplasty
The aim of this clinical study will investigate the efficacy of sphenopalatine ganglion block in the treatment of postoperative pain.it will also be learnt whether it reduces the consumption of analgesics in postoperative pain.The main questions it aims to answer are:

Will the participants' need for painkillers decrease after the operation? Can sphenopalatine ganglion block be used for postoperative pain after septoplasty? The researchers will compare 2 groups with and without sphenopalatine ganglion block to see the effectiveness of sphenopalatine ganglion block.

Participants will:

Read the information Participants have been given about the sphenopalatine ganglion block.

In case of any side effects, please contact participant's doctor.
Postoperative Pain
PROCEDURE: Sphenopalatine Ganglion Block
visual analogue scale, Zero is equivalent to no pain and 10 indicates the worst possible pain., 24 hours|total amount of tramadol consumption, Total tramadol consumption will be recorded in the postoperative period by fitting participants with a patient-controlled analgesia device., 24 hours
This randomised controlled study will be conducted in Umraniye Training and Research Hospital operating room between November 2024 and January 2025 after obtaining ethics committee and patient consent. Each patient will be informed about the procedures to be performed during anaesthesia and surgery and signed informed consent will be obtained before the procedure. Patients will undergo septoplasty by the same otolaryngology team.

A total of 50 participants (25 envelopes each with Group 1 and Group 2 written inside) will be kept closed for the patients participating in the study. Upon the patient's fulfilment of the conditions suitable for the study, it will be randomly determined which group he/she will be included in. Thanks to this randomisation, conscious or unconscious manipulations in the selection of patients to the study group will be prevented.