Comparing the New Anti-cancer Drug Eribulin With Chemotherapy Against the Usual Chemotherapy Alone in Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
This phase III trial compares the usual chemotherapy treatment to eribulin plus gemcitabine in treating patients with urothelial cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Chemotherapy drugs, such as eribulin, gemcitabine, docetaxel, paclitaxel, and sacituzumab govitecan work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. This trial aims to see whether adding eribulin to standard of care chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with metastatic urothelial cancer.
Metastatic Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|Refractory Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Refractory Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage IV Bladder Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab Govitecan
Overall survival, From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
Progression free survival, From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall response rate, Up to 3 years|Duration of response, Assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria., Date from initial documentation of partial response or complete response to progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years|Disease control rate, Percentage of patients achieving at least a stable disease as best response on imaging using RECIST 1.1 criteria during treatment., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare overall survival in participants with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) who are randomized to standard treatment versus eribulin plus gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) in the standard treatment arm to the experimental treatment arm in this population.

II. To compare Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 overall response rate (ORR), both confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses (CR and PR), in the standard treatment arm to the experimental treatment arm in the subset of participants with measurable disease in this population.

III. To compare duration of response (DOR) in the standard treatment arm to the experimental treatment arm in the subset of participants with measurable disease in this population.

IV. To compare disease control rate (DCR) in the standard treatment arm to the experimental treatment arm in the subset of participants with measurable disease in this population.

BANKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive 1 of the 4 standard of care chemotherapy regimens based on treating investigator's choice: Choice A: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Choice B: Patients receive gemcitabine IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Choice C: Patients receive paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Choice D: Patients receive sacituzumab govitecan IV on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (EFFECTIVE NOVEMBER 18, 2024: sacituzumab govitecan is no longer included in Arm 1 for newly enrolled patients).

ARM II: Patients receive eribulin IV over 2-5 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL)

ARM III: Patients receive eribulin IV over 2-5 minutes and gemcitabine IV on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial and may undergo bone scan at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients also undergo blood and urine sample collection on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years from the date of registration, then every 12 months until death or 3 years from the date of registration