Study to Test AKR1C3-Activated Prodrug OBI-3424 (OBI-3424) in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory T-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (T-ALL)
This phase II trial studies how well OBI-3424 works in treating patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not response to treatment (refractory). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as OBI-3424, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. OBI-3424 may reduce the amount of leukemia in the body.
Recurrent T Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Refractory T Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: AKR1C3-activated Prodrug OBI-3424
Response rate (complete remission [CR] or CR with incomplete count recovery [CRi]), Up to 5 years
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities will be captured and described. The probability of any particular toxicity can be estimated to within at most +/- 17% (95% confidence interval)., Up to the time of relapse, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the day of registration on study until death from any cause with observations censored on the day of last contact for patients not known to have died, assessed up to 5 years|Event-free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of initial registration on study until the first of the following events: death from any cause, relapse from remission (CR or CRi) or completion of protocol therapy without documentation of CR or CRi, assessed up to 5 years|Relapse-free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date the patient first achieves CR or CRi until relapse from CR/CRi or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Minimal residual disease (MRD) rate, The MRD rate for responders will be reported as a point estimate with an exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 5 years|AKR1C3 expression, A post-hoc analysis of AKR1C3 expression is planned., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the response rate (complete remission \[CR\] or CR with incomplete count recovery \[CRi\]) of AKR1C3-activated prodrug OBI-3424 (OBI-3424) in patients with relapsed/refractory T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of OBI-3424 in this patient population.

II. To estimate event-free survival (EFS), relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) in this patient population.

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate minimal/measurable residual disease (MRD) negativity (among patients who achieve CR or CRi).

II. To assess AKR1C3 expression levels in this patient population. III. c. To evaluate associations between AKR1C3 expression and response to OBI-3423, achievement of MRD-negative remission, and relapse from remission.

IV. To bank specimens for future research.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive AKR1C3-activated prodrug OBI-3424 intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every month for 1 year, every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years from registration.