Trastuzumab Deruxtecan (T-DXd) With Pyrotinib in First-line HER2-positive Unresectable or Metastatic Breast Cancer Trial
This is an exploratory, single-arm, multi-center study to assess the efficacy and safety of T-DXd combined with pyrotinib as the first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.

This study is planned to recruit 3 to 12 patients in safety run-in (Part A) and 39 to 42 patients in dose expansion (Part B) in several investigational sites in China. The total number of patients enrolled in the study will be 45 to 51. Among them, 45 patients will start at the recommended dose. Patients who fulfill all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will receive T-DXd combined with pyrotinib until confirmed progressive disease. Patients will attend a safety follow up visit 40 days after last dose of T-DXd with pyrotinib. There are two main parts to this study; Part A, Combination dose finding and Parts B, Dose expansion.

Tumor assessments will be performed at Screening as baseline with follow-up every 9 weeks(±7 days) from the date of first dosing date of T-DXd with pyrotinib for 54 weeks, and then every 12 weeks (±7 days) until confirmed objective disease progression.

Primary Objective for Part A:

To define the recommended dose of pyrotinib combined with T-DXd Recommended dose

Secondary Objective for Part A:

To investigate the safety and tolerability of T-DXd + pyrotinib as first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.

Primary Objective for Part B :

To determine the efficacy of T-DXd + pyrotinib as first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.

Secondary Objective for Part B :

To further determine the efficacy of T-DXd + pyrotinib as first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer and To further evaluate the safety and tolerability profile of T-DXd + pyrotinib as first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) with pyrotinib
Progression free survival (PFS) based on investigator assessment, PFS is defined as the time from first dose of T-DXd + Pyrotinib until progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as assessed by the investigator or death due to any cause prior to disease progression（PD）., Up to 49 months (data cut-off)
Progression free survival rate at 12 months (PFS12), PFS12 is the proportion of subjects alive and didn't have progressed disease at 12 months, which is defined as the Kaplan-Meier estimate of PFS at 12 months. PFS12 from first dose of treatment will be calculated., Up to 12 months.|Progression free survival rate at 24 months (PFS24), PFS24 is the proportion of subjects alive and didn't have progressed disease at 24 months, which is defined as the Kaplan-Meier estimate of PFS at 24 months. PFS24 from first dose of treatment will be calculated., Up to 24 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with at least 1 assessment result of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on subjects with evaluable disease per RECIST 1.1., Up to 49 months (data cut-off)|Duration of response (DoR), DoR is defined as the time from the date of first detection of objective response until date of documented objective radiological disease progression according to investigator assessment (using RECIST 1.1) or death in the absence of disease progression., Up to 49 months (data cut-off)|Overall survival rate at 12 months (OS12), OS12 is the proportion of subjects alive at 12 months, which is defined as the Kaplan-Meier estimate of OS at 12 months. OS12 from first dose of treatment will be calculated., Up to 12 months|Overall survival rate at 24 months (OS24), OS24 is the proportion of subjects alive at 24 months, which is defined as the Kaplan-Meier estimate of OS at 24 months. OS24 from first dose of treatment will be calculated., Up to 24 months|Safety for the subjects, Number of participants with Serious Adverse Events（SAEs）, adverse events of special interest（AESIs）, adverse events （AEs）(as determined by abnormal laboratory, physical examination, vital signs and electrocardiogram findings.), Up to 49 months (data cut-off)
Combination of HER2-antibody-drug conjugate and tyrosine kinase inhibitors demonstrated additive or synergistic anti-tumour effects in HER2-positive cell lines or metastatic breast cancer in in vitro or in vivo studies .It is expected that the efficacy will be further improved in early-line patients with the combination of HER2-antibody-drug conjugate and tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Given the efficacy of T-DXd monotherapy and the widely used of pyrotinib in second-line metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer, and no major overlapping toxicities between T-DXd and pyrotinib, it may be a promising combination regimen to explore in first-line HER2+ metastatic breast cancer in China.