Dinaciclib in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Melanoma
This is a phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of dinaciclib and to see how well it works in treating patients with advanced melanoma. Dinaciclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: dinaciclib|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Recommended Phase-2 Dose of SCH727965, Due to difficult accrual to the trial, enrollment was ended early without determination of an MTD., 14 days|Percentage of Patients Alive (Phase II), Due to difficult accrual to the trial, enrollment was ended early without entering into Phase II, Up to 1 year
Progression-free Survival, Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose of SCH727965 administered as a 4-hour infusion every other week in patients with advanced malignant melanoma. (Phase I) II. To determine the 1-year overall survival of patients with malignant melanoma treated with SCH727965 at the dose and schedule derived in the phase 1 part of the study. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the safety profile and toxicities of SCH727965 administered as a 4-hour infusion every other week.

II. To determine the pharmacokinetics of SCH727965 administered as a 4-hour infusion every other week.

III. To determine the proportion of patients with malignant melanoma who are alive without progression of disease 6 months after beginning treatment with SCH727965 at the dose and schedule derived in the phase 1 part of the study.

IV. To determine the objective response rate to SCH727965 of patients with malignant melanoma enrolled to part 2 of the study.

V. To document cdk2, combined cdk2/1 and cdk9 inhibition in surrogate tissues and tumor.

VI. To correlate the degree of change of pharmacodynamic parameters in post-treatment compared to pre-treatment samples with clinical outcome.

VII. To correlate the degree of change of parameters defining cdk2, cdk2/1 and cdk9 inhibition with pharmacokinetic parameters.

VIII. To correlate pre-treatment cdk2 levels with the degree of change of parameters measuring cdk2 inhibition.

IX. To correlate pre-treatment cdk2 levels with clinical outcome. X. To correlate tumor p53 status with clinical outcome.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive dinaciclib IV over 4 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.