The Safety and Efficacy of "3-Hole" Subxiphorid Approach in the Treatment of Anterior Mediastinal Tumor
Surgery plays an important role in the treatment of anterior mediastinum disease. The major surgical approaches include: cervical approach, mid-sternal approach, cervical combined mid-sternal approach and video-assisted thoracoscopic approach. The cervical approach is rarely adopted because of its restricted visual field. The cervical combined mid-sternal approach have a broader field of vision, given this advantage, the surgeon can remove the thymus and its surrounding fat tissue more thoroughly. But the trauma of this approach is much larger, and the postoperative complication is also a serious problem. The video-assisted thoracoscope is often adopted by left or right approach, this minimally invasive procedure can not remove anterior mediastinum fat thoroughly. In clinical practice, the investigators designed a new method named "3-Hole" subxiphoid approach. This study is designed to compare the safety and validity between this new method and others.
Thymectomy|Myasthenia Gravis
PROCEDURE: "3-Hole" subxiphorid and subcostal approach|PROCEDURE: Trans sternal approach|PROCEDURE: VATS approach
Amount of bleeding, Measured by the difference between the wet weight and dry weight of surgical gauze, Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 5 days|Rate of conversions to thoracotomy, Only in "3-Hole" subxiphorid group and VATS group, Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 5 days|Duration of operation, Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 5 days|Mortality rate, Death caused by operation or complications, up to 10 years|Overall survival, From randomization to any cause of death, up to 10 years|Quality of life, Measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3) scale, up to 10 years after operation|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, up to 8weekss afte operation
Surgery plays an important role in the treatment of anterior mediastinum disease. The major surgical approaches include: cervical approach, mid-sternal approach, cervical combined mid-sternal approach and video-assisted thoracoscopic approach. The cervical approach is rarely adopted because of its restricted visual field. The cervical combined mid-sternal approach have a broader field of vision, given this advantage, the surgeon can remove the thymus and its surrounding fat tissue more thoroughly. But the trauma of this approach is much larger, and the postoperative complication is also a serious problem. The video-assisted thoracoscope is often adopted by left or right approach, this minimally invasive procedure can not remove anterior mediastinum fat thoroughly. In clinical practice, the investigators designed a new method named "3-Hole" subxiphoid approach. This study is designed to compare the safety and validity between this new method and others.