A 12-week Extension of the Phase III Study (D3820C00004) to Assess the Effect and Safety of NKTR-118 in Patients With Non-cancer-related Pain and Opioid-induced Constipation
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect and safety of NKTR-118 treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients with non-cancer-related pain over a 6-month period.
Opioid-Induced Constipation (OIC)
DRUG: NKTR-118|DRUG: NKTR-118|DRUG: Placebo
Incidence of Patients Experiencing at Least One Adverse Event (AE), The incidence of patients experiencing at least one AE during the randomized treatment and follow-up periods was calculated., Baseline (Week 0) to end of the follow-up period (Week 14)|Incidence of Patients Experiencing AEs That Resulted in Discontinuation of Investigational Product (IP), The incidence of patients experiencing AEs that resulted in discontinuation of IP during the randomized treatment or follow-up periods was calculated., Baseline (Week 0) to end of the follow-up period (Week 14)|Incidence of Patients Experiencing Severe Adverse Events (SAEs), The incidence of patients experiencing SAEs during the randomized treatment and follow-up periods was calculated., Baseline (Week 0) to end of the follow-up period (Week 14)
Change From Baseline in Patient Assessment of Constipation Symptoms Questionnaire (PAC-SYM), The PAC-SYM questionnaire is a 12-item questionnaire that evaluates the severity of symptoms of constipation in 3 domains (stool, rectal, and abdominal symptoms) on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (absent) to 4 (very severe) in the 2 weeks (14 days) prior to assessment. Each domain score is the mean of the non-missing items for that domain. The total score is the mean of all non-missing items (ie, symptoms). The range of the domain or total score is 0 (response is 'absent' for each item) to 4 (response is 'very severe' for each item). A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (prior to treatment) to last on-treatment assessment (up to Week 12)|Change From Baseline in Patient Assessment of Constipation Quality of Life (PAC-QOL), The PAC-QOL scale is a 28-item self-report instrument designed to evaluate the burden of constipation on patients' everyday functioning and well-being in the 2 weeks (14 days) prior to assessment. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely). The instrument can be used to generate an overall score, but is also reported to assess 4 specific constipation-related domains including: 1) Worries and concerns (11 items), 2) Physical discomfort (4 items), 3) Psychosocial discomfort (8 items), and 4) Satisfaction (5 items). Each domain score is the mean of the non-missing items for that domain. The total score is the mean of all non-missing items. The range of the domain or total score is 0 (response is 'not at all' for each item) to 4 (response is 'extremely' for each item). A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (prior to treatment) to last on-treatment assessment (up to Week 12)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect and safety of NKTR-118 treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients with non-cancer-related pain over a 6-month period.