R-MTX-zanbrutinib in Secondary CNS Lymphoma
Secondary central nervous system lymphoma (SCNSL) occurred in about 5% of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The prognosis of SCNSL is very poor. A number of retrospective studies have shown that the median overall survival (mOS) since the diagnosis of CNSL is only 2.5-3.5 months, and the 2-year OS rate is only 20%. At present, there is no consensus on the treatment of SCNSL, and new therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. Zanubrutinib is a new second-generation BTK inhibitor, which has showed good efficacy and safety in a variety of B-NHL. Zanubrutinib has showed good blood-brain barrier permeability in preclinical studies. This study attempts to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib combined with rituximab and high-dose methotrexate in the treatment of SCNSL in patients with DLBCL.
Secondary Central Nervous System Lymphoma
DRUG: Zanubrutinib, high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX), rituximab
progression free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of treatment start to the date of the first documented PD or death due to any cause, 1-year
Overall response rate (ORR), at the end of 6 cycles of induction therapy (each cycle is 14 days)|Complete response (CR), at the end of 6 cycles of induction therapy|Partial response (PR), at the end of 6 cycles of induction therapy (each cycle is 14 days)|Overall survival (OS), 1-year|safety/tolerability by assessing the frequency and severity of adverse events, at the end of 6 cycles of induction therapy (each cycle is 14 days), 1 year and 2 year maintenance therapy
Secondary central nervous system lymphoma (SCNSL) occurred in about 5% of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The prognosis of SCNSL is very poor. A number of retrospective studies have shown that the median overall survival (mOS) since the diagnosis of CNSL is only 2.5-3.5 months, and the 2-year OS rate is only 20%. At present, there is no consensus on the treatment of SCNSL, and new therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. Zanubrutinib is a new second-generation BTK inhibitor, which has showed good efficacy and safety in a variety of B-NHL. Zanubrutinib has showed good blood-brain barrier permeability in preclinical studies. This study attempts to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib combined with rituximab and high-dose methotrexate in the treatment of SCNSL in patients with DLBCL.