Efficacy and Optimal Dose Selection of Intranasal Dexmedetomidine During Breast Lumpectomy Under Local Anaesthesia
This trial is going to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of intranasal DEX(dexmedetomidine) in breast lumpectomy under local anaesthesia,and to investigate the optimal dose of intranasal DEX in breast lumpectomy.
Intranasal Dexmedetomidine Breast Cancer Local Anaesthesia
DRUG: 0.9% saline|DRUG: dexmedetomidine 1µg.kg-1|DRUG: dexmedetomidine 1.5µg.kg-1|DRUG: Dexmedetomidine 2µg.kg-1
Sedation changes using the modified Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation (OAA/S) scale, before surgery,during surgery and after surgery for sedation changes，assessed up to 2 hours|pain scores changes by pain NRS scores, before surgery,during surgery and after surgery for pain scores，assessed up to 2 hours
Adverse event that is related to treatment:severe sinus bradycardia, bradycardia (defined as HR \< 50 bpm), perioperative period|Adverse event that is related to treatment:hypotension, hypotension (defined as SBP \< 90 mmHg), perioperative period|Adverse event that is related to treatment:nausea and vomiting, perioperative period
Breast lumpectomy associated with a high level of anxiety, fear and pain requires fast and effective anaesthesia techniques. Presently, this procedure is usually performed under general or local anaesthesia. General anaesthesia provides an effective sedation; however, for minor procedures, general anaesthesia is resource-intensive and postoperative complications, such as nausea, vomiting or extended time to ambulation, are more likely. Local anaesthesia alone may be uncomfortable or uncooperative for patients. Therefore, an efficient drug regimen is required that reduces analgesic consumption, minimises opioid-related side effects and shortens post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU) stay following surgery.

Dexmedetomidine (DEX) is a highly selective α2 adrenoreceptor agonist that provides sedation without respiratory depression. Its sedative, anxiolytic, analgesic and haemodynamic effects have made it a useful adjunct to anaesthesia and sedation. DEX may provide a conscious sedation under monitored anaesthesia care (MAC) that is a logical middle ground between general anaesthesia and local anaesthesia. Intranasal DEX was recently shown to provide satisfactory anaesthesia and premedication sedation in healthy volunteers and paediatric patients. The intranasal route is not only effective, but also well-tolerated and convenient This trial is going to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of intranasal DEX(dexmedetomidine) in breast lumpectomy under local anaesthesia, and to investigate the optimal dose of intranasal DEX in breast lumpectomy.