Anti-BCMA CAR-NK Therapy in Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
Immunotherapy has shown promise in the treatment of hematological malignancies, including multiple myeloma. One approach is CAR-NK cell therapy, which involves genetically modifying natural killer (NK) cells to target specific cancer antigens. While CAR-NK therapy offers advantages over CAR-T therapy, such as reduced immune system reactions and lower production time and cost, challenges remain in terms of antitumor efficacy and the tumor microenvironment. Preclinical and early clinical studies have targeted various antigens, including BCMA, with CAR-NK cells in multiple myeloma. To further investigate the potential of BCMA-targeted CAR-NK cell therapy, this study aims to evaluate its safety and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in patients who have not responded to standard therapy.
Multiple Myeloma, Refractory
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-BCMA CAR-NK
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLTs), Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLTs) within 4 weeks after infusion, characterized by \>= Grade 3 signs/symptoms according to CTCAE v4.03, to assess safety and tolerability., 4 weeks|Assessment of Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), 4 weeks|Overall Remission Rate (ORR), Overall Remission Rate (ORR) two months after infusion, assessed using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria., 8 weeks
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) for up to 12 months, assessed using IMWG criteria., 48 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of Response (DOR) for up to 12 months, assessed using IMWG criteria., 48 weeks
Immunotherapy has shown promise in the treatment of hematological malignancies, including multiple myeloma. One approach is CAR-NK cell therapy, which involves genetically modifying natural killer (NK) cells to target specific cancer antigens. While CAR-NK therapy offers advantages over CAR-T therapy, such as reduced immune system reactions and lower production time and cost, challenges remain in terms of antitumor efficacy and the tumor microenvironment. Preclinical and early clinical studies have targeted various antigens, including BCMA, with CAR-NK cells in multiple myeloma. To further investigate the potential of BCMA-targeted CAR-NK cell therapy, this study aims to evaluate its safety and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in patients who have not responded to standard therapy.