Efficacy of Aquatic Physiotherapy in the Treatment of Upper Limb Lymphedema in Women With Breast Cancer.
This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of Aquatic Therapeutic Exercise by providing a set of exercises in the reduction and / or control the volume of secondary lymphedema treatment of breast cancer in patients who are in the maintenance phase of conventional treatment. It is an experimental, randomized, unifactorial, and intersubjective study. The intervention group will be treated by guided underwater exercises while the control group will receive the same set of exercises out-of-water. The research will be based on comparing the difference on the volume of lymphedema obtained by the exercises provided aquatic environment and out-of-water exercises. The study population will be obtained from rehabilitation service Bellvitge Hospital. The goal is to evaluate the volume of lymphedema and the quality of life related to the health of patients will be evaluated before starting the treatment, at the end of the 20 sessions, when the treatment reaches 3 months and when patient is discharged.
Breast Cancer Lymphedema
OTHER: Exercise guideline
Volume of the affected limb., The investigators assessed changes in the volume of the affected limb over a specified period of time and possible long-term improvements. The independent variable studied was the effect of exercise in water compared with exercise out of water.

The expected outcome (dependent variable) was a reduction or maintenance of the volume of the lymphedema-affected limb. A measuring tape was used to take serial circumferential measurements of both limbs using anatomical reference points on both sides., 3 days before the start of the program, at 30 days, and at 3 months after completing the sessions.
Quality of life health related., FACT-B+4 scale: general physical wellbeing, family/social wellbeing, emotional wellbeing, functional wellbeing and additional patient concerns., 3 days before the start of the program, at 30 days and at 3 months after completing the sessions.|Adherence, Rate of adherence to treatment. Adherence to treatment questionnaire: YES / NO, At 3 months after completing the sessions.|Age., Possible influence of age and confounding factors., 3 days before the start of the program.|Severity of lymphedema, Volume of limb. Possible influence and confounding factors., 3 days before the start of the program, at 30 days and at 3 months after completing the sessions.
A randomized controlled experimental study has been carried out where two work groups were compared, experimental N: 43 that carried out an exercise regimen designed in the aquatic environment and control N: 47 that carried out the same regimen of exercises in a physiotherapy room. Both groups did 20 treatment sessions of 45 minutes duration with a frequency of 2 or 3 days per week. Lymphedema changes, quality of life and adherence to treatment were evaluated. The evaluations were 3 days prior to the start of the program, at the end of the 20 sessions, and at 3 months.