Evaluation of a Social-networking Intervention to Reduce Cancer-related Distress
It is hypothesized that the treatment group will show greater improvements in quality of life and mood disturbance compared to the control group and that greater levels of engagement with the intervention materials will be associated with greater improvements in mood and quality of life.
Cancer Survivors With Clinically Significant Distress
BEHAVIORAL: online social-networking intervention
Change in -Overall Psychological Functioning (OQ-45), The OQ-45 measures the global functioning of a client and is composed of 3 subscales that measure subjective discomfort (intrapsychic functioning), interpersonal relationships, and social role performance. The OQ-45 has adequate internal consistency (a = .93) and reliability (r = .84) (Lambert, et al., 2004)., 3-month change|Change in-Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depress (CES-D) scale, The CES-D is a self-report measure that consists of 20 items rated on a 4-point Likert scale to assess depressive symptoms experienced in the previous week. The CES-D has demonstrated excellent reliability and validity (Radloff, 1977). The standard cutoff score of 16 will be used to identify depression., 3-month change|Anxiety, Anxiety subscale of the brief Profile of Mood States (b-POMS; Shacham, 1983), which utilizes 37 descriptive mood adjectives to describe how a participant felt during the past week on a 5-point Likert scale. Specifically look at anxiety (anx subscale of POMS), vigor (subscale of POMS), and fatigue (subscale of POMS)., 3-month change
Fatigue, Fatigue subscale of the Profile of Mood States questionnaire, 3-month change|Vigor, Vigor subscale of the Profile of Mood States questionnaire., 3-month change
Individuals with cancer face an array of psychosocial needs, and it has been estimated that up to 35% of cancer survivors experience clinically-significant levels of distress. Psychosocial interventions may be effective for improving quality of life and reducing levels of mood disturbance in these patients. Unfortunately, barriers to accessing psychosocial intervention are common, and many are unable to access those services. Internet- based psychosocial interventions improve accessibility of care and offer additional methodological advantages, including the ability to easily collect self-report data, track exposure to the intervention, and evaluate effects of specific intervention components. The proposed study will evaluate whether a website developed specifically for providing psychological treatment and enhancing communication between cancer survivors can improve distress among cancer survivors who indicate that they have high levels of distress. If successful, the study will also provide valuable information needed to improve the treatment and to adequately conduct a larger trial comparing internet-based and face-to-face treatments.