Study of Sildenafil Citrate During and After Radiotherapy/Hormone Therapy for Erectile Function Versus Radiotherapy/Hormone Therapy for Prostate Cancer
Radiation sometimes affects the ability for a person to have a normal erection. Complete loss of erections after radiation treatment can happen in 40-50% of treated patients. There are medications, like sildenafil (also known as Viagra), that can help the ability to get back erections in almost 70% of such patients.

The purpose of this study is to see if taking Viagra every day starting right before, during and for about 6 months after treatment, could reduce the risk of long-term erectile dysfunction.
Prostate Cancer|Erectile Dysfunction
DRUG: sildenafil citrate and questionaires|DRUG: placebo tablets and questionaires
Assessment of Erectile Dysfunction, The International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) is used for the evaluation of male sexual function and diagnostic evaluation of Erectile Dysfunction (ED) severity. There are 5 domains of the IIEF: erectile function, orgasmic function, sexual desire, intercourse satisfaction, and overall satisfaction. A score of 0-5 is awarded to each question of the IIEF. Total IIEF scores range from 0-75. Lower scores indicate severe erectile dysfunction (0=severe erectile dysfunction), while higher scores indicate less erectile dysfunction (75=no erectile dysfunction)., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months, 24 months
This protocol is a randomized prospective study comparing prophylactic and on demand Sildenafil Citrate usage administered during and after radiotherapy in combination with or without hormone therapy versus radiotherapy alone for the preservation of erectile function in potent patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. The primary objectives of this protocol are to determine if prophylactic and on demand usage of Sildenafil Citrate can preserve spontaneous erectile function as well as diminish the time to restoration of erectile function in potent men receiving radiotherapy with or without hormone therapy for localized prostate cancer. Secondary objectives of this study are: to determine whether prophylactic and on demand use of Sildenafil Citrate during therapy may improve the long-term response to the drug following treatment; to determine whether prophylactic and on demand use of Sildenafil Citrate during therapy will reduce acute and late urinary effects of radiotherapy; to determine the impact of dosimetry and radiation exposure to both the neurovascular bundle and bulb of the penis on erectile function preservation in the study population undergoing brachytherapy and hormone therapy; to asses the impact on quality of life following prophylactic and on demand Sildenafil Citrate usage in the study population; to determine the relationship between testosterone levels, erectile function and efficacy of prophylactic and on demand Sildenafil Citrate usage in the study population.