Evaluate the Effect of ReSpace™ Hydrogel on Reducing Rectal Radiation Dose in Radiotherapy for Cervical Cancer
This phase II clinical study plan to recruit 100 subjects, 1:1 divide them into experimental group and control group, and the cumulative D2cc dose for rectum during brachytherapy will be recorded and compared.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms
DEVICE: ReSpace™|DEVICE: gauze packing
The cumulative D2cc dose for rectum during brachytherapy, The mean of the cumulative rectum D2cc dose during brachytherapy will be calculated for subjects and be compared between the groups., during procedure
The cumulative D0.1cc, D5cc dose for rectum, and D0.1cc, D2cc, D5cc for sigmoid colon/small bowel during brachytherapy, The mean of the cumulative D0.1cc, D5cc dose for rectum, and D0.1cc, D2cc, D5cc for sigmoid colon/small bowel during brachytherapy will be calculated for subjects and be compared between the groups., during procedure|The implantation success rate of hydrogel., A successful injection means the hydrogel is placed between the cervical and rectum, during procedure|The stability of ReSpace™ Hydrogel, The maximum distance of cervical to rectum of different time during the procedure will be compared to assess the stability of hydrogel., during procedure|QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionaire will assessed among the subjects during the procedure, and comparioson will be made between the groups and inside the groups of different time. Scores range from 0 to 100, higher scores menas a better outcome., during procedure|QLQ-CX24, The EORTC QLQ-CX24 questionaire will assessed among the subjects during the procedure, and comparioson will be made between the groups and inside the groups of different time. Scores range from 0 to 100, higher scores menas a better outcome., during procedure|Evaluation of device performance of hydrogel spacer, The ease of use of the test device will be evaluated by the investigator on the day of Operation. The evaluation items are as follows#

1. Whether the device is easy to assemble.
2. Whether the process of positioning the needle is smooth and whether it is easy to position the needle.
3. Whether the device is easy to inject and whether the injection process is smooth, during procedure
This phase II prospective, multicenter, randomized, parallel-controlled, superiority clinical study will select more than three hospitals with national clinical trial institution qualifications as clinical trial centers, plan to recruit 100 subjects, 50 in experimental group and 50 in control. The patients in expermental group will receive brachytherapy after the hydrogel injection while patients in control group will receive brachytherapy without hydrogel. The aim of the study was to evaluate whether the use of ReSpace™ hydrogel results in a reduction of radiation exposure to the anterior rectum, and to assess its safety.