Testing GSK2636771 as a Potential Targeted Treatment in Cancers With PTEN Genetic Changes (MATCH-Subprotocol N)
This phase II MATCH treatment trial identifies the effects of GSK2636771 in patients whose cancer has a genetic change called PTEN mutation or deletion. GSK2636771 may block a protein called PI3K-beta, which may be needed for growth of cancer cells that express PTEN mutations. Researchers hope to learn if GSK2636771 will shrink this type of cancer or stop its growth.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: PI3K-beta Inhibitor GSK2636771
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients whose tumors have a complete or partial response to treatment among eligible and treated patients. Objective response rate is defined consistent with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. For each treatment arm, 90% two-sided binomial exact confidence interval will be calculated for ORR., Tumor assessments occurred at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as time from treatment start date to date of death from any cause. Patients alive at the time of analysis are censored at last contact date. OS w ill be evaluated specifically for each drug (or step) using the Kaplan-Meier method., Assessed every 3 months for =< 2 years and every 6 months for year 3|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival is defined as time from treatment start date to date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Assessed at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. III. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

IV. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive PI3K-beta inhibitor GSK2636771 (GSK2636771) orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if less than 2 years from study entry, and then every 6 months for year 3 from study entry.