Bortezomib With Melphalan and Prednisone for Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of bortezomib in combination with melphalan and prednisone to achieve complete responses for patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma compared to an historical control group. This trial will also evaluate the safety and toxicity of this regimen as well as evaluate the duration of response of this regimen.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Prednisone
Response, Overall response rate equals complete response and partial response per Southwest Oncology Group Criteria. Measurable, quantifiable protein criteria must be present. Acceptable protein criteria are quantitative immunoglobulin IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE or IgM and/or urine M-component (Bence-Jones protein). If both are present, the quantitative immunoglobulin will be followed for response. Complete Remission: The absence of bone marrow or blood findings of multiple myeloma. This includes disappearance of all evidence of serum and urine M-components on electrophoresis as by immunofixation studies. There must also be no evidence of increasing anemia. Partial Remission: A 50-74% reduction in the quantitative immunoglobulin, and if present, a 50-89% reduction in the urine M-component (Bence-Jones protein). Stable/No Remission): A \<50% reduction I nthe quantitative immunoglobulin, or if the patient has light-chain disease only, a \<50% reduction in the urine M-component (Bence-Jones protein., 6 weeks following completion of treatment
Number of Patients With Any Grade or Severe Adverse Event, Number of patients with any grade or severe, defined as ≥ grade 3 by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0, adverse events as a measure of safety, At any time during the study and up to 30 days after stopping the study drug|Median Duration of Response, Duration of response is measured from date of first confirmed response until date of disease progression., up to 4 years
Based on the need to improve front-line therapy for patients less likely to undergo transplant, the promising recent in vitro and clinical work on melphalan and bortezomib, we propose a prospective trial with bortezomib added to standard melphalan and prednisone therapy for previously untreated patients with multiple myeloma. Bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 will be given twice weekly for two weeks and will be added to standard melphalan and prednisone on a 4-week cycle. This three-drug combination will be compared to historical data. We have treated 2 patients with relapsed disease following \>2 prior regimens including high-dose therapy with autologous stem cell support. Each patient received melphalan, prednisone, and bortezomib as described below and both had marked declines in M-protein within 2 cycles. These responses have been sustained for at least 3 months and treatment was well tolerated.

Eligible patients will have histologically confirmed Multiple Myeloma (MM) having not received prior systemic therapy given with the intent to induce remission, be adults, have life expectancy greater than 3 months, adequate performance status, organ and marrow function as described in the protocol, not be pregnant, HIV positive, or taking any investigational agents. Patients must not have history of allergic reactions to study drugs or similar compounds or have uncontrolled intercurrent illness or social situation that would limit compliance with study requirements. Patients must also have the ability to give informed consent.

Study drugs will be administered on an inpatient or outpatient basis. Bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 is administered intravenously in a 3-5 second bolus on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of a 28 day cycle. Six cycles are planned. On days when both melphalan and bortezomib are given, melphalan is given at least one hour prior to bortezomib. Melphalan 6 mg/m2 is administered orally on an empty stomach daily on days 1-7 of each cycle. Prednisone 60 mg/m2 is administered orally daily on days 1-7 of each cycle. Supportive care measures such as antiemetics and growth factors may be given.