Previvors Recharge: A Resilience Program for Cancer Previvors
It is estimated that 1 in 279 people may be carriers of a Hereditary Cancer Syndromes (HCS), a cancer risk that is associated with germline mutations (inherited genetic mutations passed directly from a parent to a child that create a genetic predisposition to certain types of cancer). Individuals with an HCS who have never been diagnosed with cancer (Previvors) have up to an 80% lifetime risk of developing cancer and are at an increased risk of developing multiple primary cancers during their lifetime, often with onset at an early age. Previvors face multiple forms of adversity, including a multitude of annual cancer screenings and the uncertainty of not only their own health but the health of affected family members. This study will examine the acceptability and preliminary effects of PreCharge, a resilience-boosting solution specifically designed for Previvors and delivered primarily via bi-directional text messaging. PreCharge uses proven approaches to behavior change tailoring to increase resilience by promoting a positive mindset, strong social connections, and a deep sense of meaning and purpose while also proactively addressing scanxiety. Up to 150 Hereditary Cancer Previvors will be recruited for a 30-day pilot test. Participants will complete a baseline assessment, and then be provided with 30 days of access to the PreCharge program. At the end of the 30 days, they will be prompted to complete a follow-up assessment. Outcomes to be examined will include pre-post changes on the Connor Davidson Resilience Scale.
Hereditary Cancer|Mental Health Issue
BEHAVIORAL: PreCharge
Connor Davidson Resilience Scale (CDRISC), This 10-item scale assesses five factors related to resilience. Each item is rated on a 5-point scale with higher scores reflecting greater resilience. Scores range from 0-40. There are well-established norms across a variety of populations and the scale has been used as an outcome measure to evaluate a variety of different intervention programs., Baseline and 1 Month
Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (AAQII), The Acceptance and Action Questionnaire - version 2 (AAQII), is the most widely used measure of psychological flexibility. Higher total scores on the 7-item scale indicate higher psychological inflexibility, experiential avoidance, and more potential psychological distress. Lower total scores mean more psychological flexibility and normative values are available. Scores range from 7 to 49., Baseline and 1 Month
Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2), The PHQ-2 inquires about the frequency of depressed mood, with a score ranging from 0 to 6 and with greater scores indicating higher likelihood of Major Depressive Disorder. The authors identify a cut-off score of 3 as the optimal cut point for screening purposes, and stated that a cut point of 2 would enhance sensitivity. A score of 3 or greater on the PHQ-2 indicates that Major Depressive Disorder is likely and further evaluation is needed to assess for depression.

The PHQ-2, comprising the first 2 items of the PHQ-9, inquires about the degree to which an individual has experienced depressed mood and anhedonia over the past two weeks., Baseline and 1 Month|Generalized Anxiety Disorder-2 (GAD-2), The Generalized Anxiety Disorder two questions scale (GAD-2) is an ultra brief and easy to perform initial screening tool for Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD). The two questions are rated on a zero to three scale for a total score of zero to six with greater scores indicating higher likelihood of Generalized Anxiety Disorder. A score of 3 points is the preferred cut-off for identifying possible cases and in which further diagnostic evaluation for generalized anxiety disorder is warranted., Baseline and 1 Month|Cancer Behavior Inventory (CBI-B V2.0-12), The short version of the Cancer Behavior Inventory (CBI-B: 12 items) measures self-efficacy for coping which has been shown to have a positive impact on wellbeing, quality of life, anxiety, and depression in cancer patients, even after treatment. Each item is rated on a 1 to 9 scale for a total score range of 12-108 with higher scores indicating higher levels of confidence., Baseline and 1 Month
It is estimated that 1 in 279 people may be carriers of a Hereditary Cancer Syndromes (HCS), a cancer risk that is associated with germline mutations (inherited genetic mutations passed directly from a parent to a child that create a genetic predisposition to certain types of cancer). Individuals with an HCS who have never been diagnosed with cancer (Previvors) have up to an 80% lifetime risk of developing cancer and are at an increased risk of developing multiple primary cancers during their lifetime, often with onset at an early age. Previvors face multiple forms of adversity, including a multitude of annual cancer screenings and the uncertainty of not only their own health but the health of affected family members. This study will examine the acceptability and preliminary effects of PreCharge, a resilience-boosting solution specifically designed for Previvors and delivered primarily via bi-directional text messaging. PreCharge uses proven approaches to behavior change tailoring to increase resilience by promoting a positive mindset, strong social connections, and a deep sense of meaning and purpose while also proactively addressing scanxiety. Up to 150 Hereditary Cancer Previvors will be recruited for a 30-day pilot test. Participants will complete a baseline assessment, and then be provided with 30 days of access to the PreCharge program. At the end of the 30 days, they will be prompted to complete a follow-up assessment. Outcomes to be examined will include pre-post changes on the Connor Davidson Resilience Scale.