Bevacizumab Plus Somatostatin Analogue and Metronomic Capecitabine in Patients With Advanced Neuroendocrine Tumors
Well differentiated neuroendocrine (NE) carcinomas have low proliferative activity and conventional chemotherapy is not recommended. Metronomic chemotherapy, i.e. the frequent administration of cytotoxic drugs at low doses, has demonstrated antiangiogenetic properties. Since well differentiated NE carcinomas are highly vascular, there is a rationale for testing metronomic chemotherapy and antiangiogenetic drugs. This is a national, multicenter, phase II study.
Neuroendocrine Carcinomas
DRUG: bevacizumab + octreotide LAR + capecitabine
time to progression, 36 months
Toxicity, All adverse events encountered during the clinical study will be reported. The intensity of clinical adverse events will be graded according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 3.0 grading system., two years|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF is the time from first day of treatment to the first occurrence of any adverse events with withdrew prematurely the treatment., two years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be computed as the time between the first day of treatment and the date of death or the last date the patient was known to be alive., 48 months
Metastatic or locally advanced well differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma will be treated with a combination of bevacizumab (5 mg/kg) plus octreotide LAR (long- acting release) 20/30 mg plus capecitabine administered on a metronomic schedule (2000 mg/day).

Patients with stable disease, complete or partial response will continue treatment until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity.

Primary endpoint: the response to treatment, evaluated according to the RECIST criteria.

Secondary endpoint: - toxicity, graded according to the NCI-CTG criteria;

* symptomatic response: evaluated according to the changes in both the frequency and intensity of symptoms;
* biochemical response: evaluated considering the changes in the tumor marker levels (circulating Chromogranin A);
* relationship between vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) polymorphisms and response to treatment;
* time to progression and survival: measured from the date of treatment start to the date of progression and the date of last follow-up or death, respectively.