A Phase Ⅲ Clinical Study of HLX22 in Combination With Trastuzumab and Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Gastroesophageal Junction and Gastric Cancer
This is a double-blind, randomized, multiregion, comparative phase Ⅲ clinical study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of HLX22 in combination with trastuzumab and chemotherapy as first-line treatment in patients with HER2-positive locally advanced/metastatic adenocarcinoma of the gastric and/or gastroesophageal junction (G/GEJ).Eligible subjects will be randomized to the two groups based on a 1:1 ratio. Enrolled subjects shall be treated with the study drug until the loss of clinical benefit, death, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, or other reasons specified by the protocol (whichever occurs first).
Gastroesophageal-junction Cancer|Monoclonal Antibody|Gastric Cancer|HER2-positive Gastric Cancer
DRUG: HLX22|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine
Progression-Free Survival (PFS)per RECIST 1.1 assessed by IRRC(Independent Radiology Review Committee), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be determined for each treatment arm, Up to 5 years|Overall Survival （OS）, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS will be determined for each treatment arm., Up to 5 years
PFS per RECIST 1.1 assessed by investigator, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be determined for each treatment arm, Up to 5 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR) assessed by IRRC and investigator per RECIST v1.1, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a Complete Response (\[CR\], disappearance of all evidence of disease) or Partial Response (\[PR\], regression of measurable disease and no new sites) per RECIST 1.1. ORR will be determined for each treatment arm., Up to 5 years|Adverse events (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant that is temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study treatment. The number of participants who experience an AE will be reported for each treatment arm., Up to 5 years
In experimental group: HLX22 (15 mg/kg) + trastuzumab + chemotherapy (XELOX) ± placebo (for pembrolizumab), once every 3 weeks (Q3W).

In control group: Placebo (for HLX22) + trastuzumab + chemotherapy (XELOX) ± pembrolizumab, Q3W.