Nedaplatin in Treatment for Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
To evaluate the efficacy of induction chemotherapy with nedaplatin, docetaxel and 5-Fluorouracil followed by concurrent nedaplatin combined with radical radiotherapy in locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Docetaxel, nedaplatin, fluorouracil|RADIATION: IMRT|DRUG: Nedaplatin
objective response rate (ORR), CR+PR, at the end of radiotherapy(±1week）
Overall Survival(OS), The OS was defined as the duration from the date of beginning of treatment to the date of death from any cause or censored at the date of the last follow-up., 3 years|Progress-Free Survival (PFS), Progress-free survival is calculated from the date of beginning of treatment to the date of locoregional failure, distant failure, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years|Locoregional Relapse-Free Survival(LRRFS), Relapse-free survival was defined as the time from beginning of treatment to local or regional relapse, or death from any cause., 3 years|Distant metastasis-Free Survival(DMFS), Distant metastasis-free survival was defined as the time from beginning of treatment to distant metastasis, or death from any cause., 3 years|Quality of life (QoL), Quality of life (QoL) was assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire module for head and neck (EORTC QLQ-H\&N35). The EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 scale employs a 4-point response format ("not at all" to "very much"). Scale scores are transformed to a scale from 0 to 100 according to the EORTC scoring algorithm. For the functioning and the global QoL scale, a higher score indicates better health. For the symptom scales, a higher score indicates a higher level of symptom burden. Either English or Chinese version will be used according to patient's language habits., 3 years
This is a prospective, phase II clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of induction chemotherapy with nedaplatin, docetaxel and 5-Fluorouracil followed by concurrent nedaplatin combined with radical radiotherapy in locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients. This is a multicenter study. All patients will be enrolled in endemic area. All patients will receive radical intense modulate radiation therapy (IMRT). The primary endpoint is objective response rate (ORR).