Nivolumab and Stereotactic Ablative Radiation Therapy (SAbR) for Metastatic Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
Nivolumab (brand name Opdivo): IV, administered per standard of care according to institutional guidelines at the discretion of the treating medical oncologist, until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity; SABR, dose variable, in 1-3 fractions.
Metastatic Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|RADIATION: SAbR
Response Rate (RR), The primary objective of the randomized phase II trial will be to increase the RR (response rate) of treatment with Nivolumab by the concurrent administration of SAbR. The assessment of RR will be based on the evaluation of ir-RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria and radiated lesions will be excluded from target lesions. Treatment response will be measured using both the RECIST and immune related RECIST criteria (ir-RECIST), a minor modification of RECIST 1.1 for immunotherapy. Radiated lesions will be excluded from target lesions., 3 years
Overall Survival, To evaluate the overall survival (OS), which is defined as the time between date of registration and the date of death due to any cause. In analyzing OS, we will take into account the MSKCC (Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center) prognostic criteria for mRCC (Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma) and compare our data to historical controls in the appropriate risk category., 3 years|Progression Free Survival, To evaluate progression free survival (PFS), which is defined as the time between date of registration and the first date of documented disease progression or date of death due to any cause. Progression will be defined according to the ir-RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria and verified by a second set of imaging at least 6 weeks apart., 3 years|Complete Response Rate, To evaluate and compare complete response rate in each arm, which is defined as the percentage of patients who show complete response as per ir-RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours) criteria. Treatment response will be measured using both the RECIST and immune related RECIST criteria (ir-RECIST), a minor modification of RECIST 1.1 for immunotherapy. Radiated lesions will be excluded from target lesions., 3 years|Time to Progression, To evaluate and compare time to progression (TTP), which is defined as time between date of registration and date of documented progression, between the experimental and control arms. Progression will be defined according to the ir-RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria and verified by a second set of imaging at least 6 weeks apart., 3 years|Median Response Duration, To evaluate median response duration, which is defined as the time between the date of PR (partial response) was first seen until date of progression., 3 years|Median Response Duration to CR (Complete Response), To evaluate median duration, which is defined as the time between the date of CR (complete response) was first seen until date of progression., 3 years|Adverse Events, To evaluate the tolerability and toxicity as measured according to CTCAE v4.0. Adverse events will be graded by a numerical score according to the defined NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) and version number 4.0. Adverse events not specifically defined in the NCI CTCAE will be scored on the Adverse Event log according to the general guidelines provided by the NCI CTCAE and as outlined below.

Grade 1: Mild Grade 2: Moderate Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life threatening Grade 4: Life threatening consequences Grade 5: Death related to the adverse event, 3 years|Health-related Quality of Life Using FACT-G Questionnaire (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General), FACT-G is a measure that sums the functional well being (FWB), physical well being (PWB), the social/family well-being (S/FWB), and emotional well being (EMB) using a 5-point Likert-type response choices (0 = not at all; 1 = a little bit; 2 =somewhat; 3 = quite a bit; 4 = very much). Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored. Scoring the FACT-G is performed through a simple sum of item scores with a total possible score of 105., Baseline and 6 months|Health-related Quality of Life Using EQ-5D (European Quality of Life Five Dimension) Questionnaire With VAS (Visual Analogue Scale), EQ-5D is a standardized participant completed questionnaire consisted of 2 components: a health state profile and VAS. EQ-5D health state profile had 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: 1= no problems, 2= slight problems, 3= moderate problems, 4= severe problems, and 5= extreme problems. Responses to 5 dimensions comprised a health state/a single utility index value. Every health state (coded as combination of responses on each of 5 dimensions) had a unique predefined utility index value assigned to it, by EuroQol. US value sets (with all possible health states) was used for adults in the study, range from 1 to -0.109. Higher (positive) scores = better health state. VAS was used to record a participant's rating for his/her current health-related quality of life state and captured on a vertical VAS (0-100), where 0 = worst imaginable health state and 100 = best imaginable health state., Baseline and 6 months|Health-related Quality of Life Using FKSI (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Kidney Symptom Index) Questionnaire, The FKSI is a 15 question validated symptom index for kidney cancer patients. This scale focuses on symptoms predominantly related to kidney cancer such as energy, fatigue, pain, bone pain, weight loss, shortness of breath, cough, fever, hematuria. Each item was scored on a 5-point scale (0=not at all to 4=very much). FKSI total score ranged from 0 (most severe symptoms) to 60 (no symptoms) with a higher score indicating a better outcome., Baseline and 6 months
Immunological Biomarkers, To identify immunological biomarkers as predictors of treatment response or resistance. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Cost-effectiveness, To evaluate the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of the addition of SAbR to Nivolumab in patients with mRCC. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years|Immunogenicity, To measure and compare treatment-related tumor-specific immune response (immunogenicity) in each arm. This is an exploratory outcome and was added as a secondary outcome in error., 3 years
A single institution, safety lead-in phase II trial with SAbR to multiple metastatic sites concurrently administered with Nivolumab for patients with metastatic clear cell renal cell cancer who have failed at least one anti-angiogenic therapy.