Radiotherapy With Cisplatin vs. Docetaxel-cetuximab in HNSCC: ERCC1 Biomarker Enrichment and Interaction Design
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn which chemotherapy combination may be more effective in treating locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The side effects of these combinations will also be studied.

This study treatment consists of intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and concurrent chemotherapy. For study chemotherapy, patients will be randomized between cisplatin or the combination of docetaxel and cetuximab. Subjects will be stratified depending on HPV status and the presence of ERCC-1 \[4F9\] in the tumor prior to randomization. The study will evaluate cisplatin vs. docetaxel-cetuximab in the overall population, and test which radiation and chemotherapy combination works best in relationship to how much ERCC-1 \[4F9\] is expressed in a tumor.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: IMRT|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Cetuximab
Time To Progression (TTP), Time To Progression is the duration of time from date of study entry until the first appearance of new metastatic lesions or objective tumor progression in patients with increased tumoral ERCC1 expression. Progression is defined per RECIST v1.1 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 5 years
Time to progression (TTP), Time To Progression is the duration of time from date of study entry until the appearance of new metastatic lesions or objective tumor progression in patients with decreased tumoral ERCC1 expression. Progression is defined per RECIST v1.1 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 5 years|Local Control Rate (LRC), Proportions of patients with a tumor volume equal to or less than the tumor volume at start of radiotherapy., Up to 5 years|Rate of distant metastases, Proportion of patients with new metastatic lesions or objective tumor progression in patients with increased tumoral ERCC1 expression. Progression is defined per RECIST v1.1 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 5 years|Validation candidate cutpoint, Validation candidate cutpoint for decreased/normal vs. increased ERCC1 \[4F9\] expression in patients treated with cisplatin-IMRT. ERCC1 \[4F9\] expression is measured., Up to 5 years|Response per RECIST 1.1, Proportion of patients that experience response to treatment per RECIST v1.1 Per RECIST v1.1: Complete Response(CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target)must have reduction in short axis to \<10mm. Partial Response(PR): Atleasta30%decreaseinthesumof diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 5 years|2-year (Time to Progression) TTP, Proportion of patients with new metastatic lesions or objective tumor progression in patients with increased tumoral ERCC1 expression. Progression is defined per RECIST v1.1 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., At 2 years|FACT-H&N FACT - Head & Neck, The FACT-H\&N (version 4) consists of a cancer-specific questionnaire, FACT-G, in addition to 12 H\&N cancer-specific items (the HN subscale). FACT-G is a 27-item measure that assesses general cancer quality of life. The FACT-G contains 4 subscales: physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being. Individuals are asked to indicate how true 27 statements are for them, using the past 7 days as the timeframe. Responses range from not at all (0), to very much (4) on a 5-point scale. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., Up to 2 years|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-Cog), The FACT-Cog consists of 37 questions exploring four different subscales of the cognitive function: perceived cognitive impairments (CogPCI: 20 items); perceived cognitive abilities (CogPCA: 9 items); comments from others (CogOth: 4 items); and the impact of perceived cognitive impairments on quality of life (CogQOL: 4 items). The patient must answer the questions by referring to the last seven days, expressing how many times a given situation has occurred during this period.The total FACT-Cog score is the sum of the four subscales and ranges from 0-148. The higher the total score, the better the cognitive function, and the lower the impact on patients' quality of life., Up to 2 years|Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), The PHQ-9 is a 9-question, self-administered instrument used to screen for the presence and severity of depression. Patients score how frequently they have been bothered by symptoms over the past 2 weeks. Scores range from 0-27 with 0 being least depressed and 27 most depressed. Scores are also monitored for change in values from visit to visit. Any value above 5 is an indication of the necessity of treatment intervention., Up to 2 years|General Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7), GAD-7 is a self-administered questionnaire of seven items which measures the frequency of GAD symptoms. Patients are monitored for change in values from visit to visit.Scores range from 0-21; severity of anxiety increases in each escalation of 5 points. Higher scores indicate increased severity of depression., Up to 2 years|Modified Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (MESAS), MESAS asks cancer patients or caregivers to score 9 common cancer symptoms (along with a 10th symptom of "other") on a scale of 0-10. The scores are transferred to a ESAS Graph, thereby allowing the practitioner to identify severity of each symptom at time of assessment. Each symptom is rated from 0-10 on a numerical scale with 0 indicating an absence of the symptom and 10 indicating the worst possible severity of the symptom., Up to 2 years|Impact of Events Scale - Intrusion (IES-I), A self-administered, 7-item test used to evaluate the level of distress caused in patients by a traumatic event. The patient is asked to consider their experience with cancer during the past week and then rate how much they were bothered by the experience, from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely). This yields a score between 0 and 28. Higher scores indicate a greater intrusion or impact of distress in the patient's life due to cancer., Up to 2 years|Disease Related Blame Scale (DBS), A self-administered 2-item quiz used to evaluate the level of blame patients are experiencing regarding their cancer. Asked to consider the extent to which they contributed to contracting cancer on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 5 (completely), patients answer the questions to generate a number between 2 and 10. The lower the number, the less self-incrimination the patient is enduring., Up to 2 years|Perceived Threat Scale (PTS), PTS is used to measure the patient's belief regarding the level of threat cancer poses to his/her life. Three questions are asked and the patient answers on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 5 (extremely). A final score between 3 and 15 is generated; the higher the number, the more threatened the subject is by the cancer diagnosis., Up to 2 years|The Brief Pain Inventory, The Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form is a 9 item self-administered questionnaire to measure the severity of a person' pain in musculoskeletal conditions and its impact on the patient's daily function. Patients are to consider their pain over the past 24 hours and rate it on a 0 (no pain) to 10 (most severe pain) scale for each of the following points: its most severe, its least sever, its average and its appearance right now. Patients are also to provide a score between 0 (no relief) and 10 (complete relief) regarding the effectiveness of treatments or medicines in the past 24 hours. Finally, patients rate the amount of interference pain has in 7 basic life functions on a scale of 0-10 with 0 being "no effect" and 10 being "complete interference"., Up to 2 years
If randomized to the cisplatin arm, patients receive cisplatin, 40 mg/m2, administered intravenously (IV) once a week (+/- 2 days) for 7 weeks. Per investigator discretion, if radiation continues beyond 7 weeks due to technical factors (not toxicity delays), an 8th dose of concurrent cisplatin may be added.

Cisplatin can be given either before or after the radiation therapy fraction that is given on the same day. If a dose of cisplatin is omitted when radiotherapy is ongoing, it will not be made up or added to the end of treatment. The omitted dose and the reason for the omission should be recorded in the site's source documentation. If radiotherapy is held, cisplatin should be held during the treatment break and resumed when radiation restarts.

Patients randomized to Cetuximab arm receive cetuximab, 250 mg/m2, IV over 60 minutes on a weekly schedule (+/- 2 days). . Cetuximab may be administered either before or after the radiation fraction that is given on the same day. Docetaxel will be administered at least 30 minutes following cetuximab. It is not permitted to make up missed doses of cetuximab or docetaxel. If a radiation therapy treatment break occurs, cetuximab should be held. When radiation restarts, cetuximab should resume.

Cetuximab will be given once a week (+/- 2 days) for a total of 7 doses concurrent with radiation therapy and docetaxel.