Phase 2 Study Evaluating Autologous CD30.CAR-T Cells in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma (CHARIOT)
This is a two-part, Phase 2, multicenter, open-label, single arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of autologous CD30.CAR-T in adult and pediatric subjects with relapsed or refractory CD30+ classical Hodgkin Lymphoma.
Hodgkin Lymphoma, Adult|Hodgkin Disease Recurrent|Hodgkin Disease Refractory|Hodgkin Disease, Pediatric
DRUG: CD30.CAR-T|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Bendamustine
Pilot: Safety of autologous CD30.CAR-T, Adverse events, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pivotal: Anti-tumor effect of autologous CD30.CAR-T using objective response rate (ORR) as assessed by an Independent Radiology Review Committee (IRRC) per the Revised Criteria for Response Assessment: The Lugano Classification (Cheson, 2014), ORR, As early as 6 weeks after CD30.CAR-T treatment
Pilot: Antitumor efficacy of autologous CD30.CAR-T using objective response rate (ORR) as assessed by an Independent Radiology Review Committee (IRRC) per the Revised Criteria for Response Assessment: The Lugano Classification (Cheson et al., 2014), ORR, As early as 6 weeks after CD30.CAR-T treatment|Pilot: Duration of Response, DOR, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pilot: Progression Free Survival, PFS, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pilot: Overall Survival, OS, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pilot: Health Related quality of life (HRQoL) questionnaire, QoL, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pivotal: Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability of CD30.CART cells, Adverse events, As early as 6 weeks after CD30.CAR-T treatment|Pivotal: Objective response rate (ORR as assessed by IRRC) per the Revised Criteria for Response Assessment: The Lugano Classification (Cheson, 2014), ORR, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pivotal: Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pivotal: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pivotal: Overall Survival, OS, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion|Pivotal: Health Related quality of life (HRQoL) questionnaire, HRQoL, Minimum 24 months post-CD30.CAR-T infusion
The Pilot part of the study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, and preliminary antitumor efficacy of CD30.CAR-T. The Pivotal part of the study will evaluate antitumor efficacy and further evaluate safety and tolerability. All study eligibility requirements, assessments, procedures, and follow-up are the same for patients in both Pilot and Pivotal parts of the study.

Subjects who meet eligibility criteria will have their blood drawn by leukapheresis for manufacture the CD30.CAR-T cells. Subjects are allowed bridging chemotherapy, as per Investigator choice, while waiting for production of CD30.CAR-T. Lymphodepletion (LD) with fludarabine and bendamustine will be administered for 3 consecutive days starting on Day -5 to Day -3, prior to CD30.CAR-T infusion, which will be administered on Day 0 as a single IV infusion. Depending on disease status, eligible subjects may receive up to a total of two CD30.CAR-T infusions at the same dose, each with preceding LD chemotherapy.

Subjects will be closely monitored for safety and efficacy throughout the Treatment Period until the end of study (EOS) visit at Month 24. Subjects will be followed for survival, withdrawal of consent or study closure, whichever occurs first. Health Related Quality of Life assessments will also be collected throughout the study. After the EOS visit, subjects will enter the long-term follow-up phase (LTFU) which will include survival follow-up, additional safety, efficacy and biomarker assessments, as clinically indicated.