CONTIGO - Informing Latinas About HBOC Risk
This is a mixed-methods Hybrid Type 1 research design (efficacy study) in which we aim to conduct a two-arm randomized controlled trial and an Implementation Focused Process Evaluation of a culturally-targeted video and referral screening tool.

In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of a culturally targeted video previously developed by the research team vs. a Spanish-language fact sheet from an established group on enhancing genetic counseling and testing uptake and psychosocial outcomes in Latina women at risk for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer.

The investigators will test the video's efficacy while also gathering data on the implementation and future sustainability of using the Risk Screening Tool (RST) and video in community clinics.
Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Culturally Targeted Narrative Video: "Is My Cancer Hereditary? Rosa Visits a Genetic Counselor."|BEHAVIORAL: FORCE Fact Sheet
Uptake of Genetic Counseling, Participants will self report whether they attended a genetic counseling session in the four months following their baseline survey. The study team will also have direct access to the genetic counseling company's records., Change from the baseline survey to four months after baseline|Uptake of Genetic Testing, Participants will self report whether they completed a genetic test for hereditary cancer in the four months following their baseline survey. The study team will also have direct access to the genetic counseling company's records., Change from the baseline survey to four months after baseline
Knowledge about HBOC, 9-item Scale from Kasting et al, 2019. The scale has statements to which participants respond True, False, or I don't Know. The scale is scored based on the accuracy of responses. A higher score indicates higher knowledge. Scores range from 0-9., Change from the baseline to two-week after baseline, and change from two-week follow up survey to four months after baseline|Self-efficacy about attending genetic cancer risk assessment, Change in self-efficacy about genetic counseling and testing will be measured by specific items from the Theory of Planned Behavior scale (Ajzen, 2002) on a scale from 1-7 -Not at all to 7- Extremely), Change from the baseline to two-week after baseline|Beliefs and Attitudes about genetic cancer risk assessment, Changes in beliefs and attitudes about genetic counseling and genetic testing. The outcome will be assessed by 22 items from a scale developed by Sussner, Jandorf, Thompson et al., 2012 in which participants respond to a Likert-type scale from 1 (completely disagree) to 7 (completely agree)., Change from the baseline to two-week after baseline|Subjective norms about genetic cancer risk assessment, Change in subjective norms about genetic counseling and testing will be measured by specific items from the Theory of Planned Behavior scale (Ajzen, 2002) on a scale from 1-Not at all to 7- Extremely), Change from the baseline to two-week after baseline|Anticipatory emotions about genetic cancer risk assessment, Scale items on a 7-point Likert-type response (from 1-strongly disagree to 7-strongly agree)., Change from the baseline to two-week after baseline|Acceptability of the intervention, Overall acceptability is measured on a 4-item self-reported scale ranging from 1 to 10, where 1 = not at all to 10 = highly, At two weeks after baseline|Feasibility of the intervention, Proportion of women who have watched/read the video or fact sheet at the two week follow up, At two weeks after baseline
Feasibility of the Referral Screening Tool, Qualitative measure captured through semi-structured interviews using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research. (e.g., What barriers and facilitators did you experience while implementing the RST?), Change from the pre-implementation focus groups with community clinics to post implementation focus groups with community clinics (48 months)|Acceptability of the Referral Screening Tool, Qualitative measure captured through semi-structured interviews using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research., Change from the pre-implementation focus groups with community clinics to post implementation focus groups with community clinics (48 months)|Adoption of the Referral Screening Tool, Qualitative measure captured through semi-structured interviews using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research., At the post implementation focus groups with community clinics adoption over the previous 48 months will be assessed|Sustainability of the Referral Screening Tool, Qualitative measure captured through semi-structured interviews using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research., At the post implementation focus groups with community clinics sustainability of the screener based on their experience during the previous 48 months will be assessed
The investigators previously developed and piloted a culturally targeted narrative video in Spanish to provide HBOC and GCT education to at-risk Latinas. The investigators expanded traditional approaches to address psychosocial barriers through risk messages designed to elicit emotional responses; emotions are often stronger predictors of behavior than cognition. Our video is responsive to Latinas' preferences, targets motivators, and addresses psychosocial barriers identified in our formative research.

In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of our video vs. a fact sheet from an established group on enhancing GCT uptake and psychosocial outcomes on a two-arm randomized controlled trial. The investigators will test the video's efficacy while also gathering data on the implementation and future sustainability of using an adapted Risk Screening Tool (RST) and video in community clinics.

The investigators will partner with community clinics and implement a Risk Screening Tool (RST) at their practice to identify women at risk of HBOC. Community clinic staff (N\~32) will be asked to participate in a pre-implementation and a post-implementation focus group to assess implementation outcomes of integrating HBOC screening practices in their clinic. Through the community clinics, the investigators aim to recruit N\~300 Latina women at risk for HBOC based on their personal or family history of cancer. Latina women at risk for HBOC will be randomized to a Video arm or Fact Sheet Arm. All participants in the randomized controlled trial will be offered genetic counseling and testing.