DEBOXA for Inoperable NET Liver Metastases
A prospective clinical trial to study the safety and effectiveness of Transcatheter Artery Chemotherapy and Embolization (TACE) using CalliSpheres Drug-Eluting Beads with oxaliplatin (DEBOXA) in treating patients who have inoperable neuroendocrine neoplasm (NEN) liver metastases.
Neuroendocrine Tumors|Neoplasm Metastasis|Liver
DRUG: D-TACE
Disease control rate (DCR) of intrahepatic lesions, Assess the Disease control rate (DCR) of intrahepatic lesions by enhanced CT or MRI scan according to RECIST criteria., 2 years
Overall survival (OS), From the date of first D-TACE to the date of death from any cause or to completion of trial, whichever comes first, up to 30 months., 30 month|Progression Free Survival (PFS), From the date of first D-TACE to the date of documented disease progression, including progression of intrahepatic lesions and progression of extrahepatic lesions, or to completion of trial, whichever comes first, up to 30 months., 30 months|Quality of life (QOL), Assessed according to EORTC QLQ-C30(V3.0), 30 months|Side effects and adverse events, To determine the safety and tolerability of DEBOXA for NEN liver metastases, 30 months
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and effectiveness of Transcatheter Artery Chemotherapy and Embolization (TACE) using CalliSpheres Drug-Eluting Beads with oxaliplatin (DEBOXA) in patients with inoperable neuroendocrine neoplasm (NEN) liver metastases.

II. Determine the response rate (RR) of intrahepatic lesions in patients treated with this regimen.

III. Determine the overall survival (OS), progression-free survival time (DFS), time to hepatic progression (THP), and quality of life (QOL) in patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Safety assessment: adverse events (AEs) and severe adverse events(SAEs)

OUTLINE: This is a single-arm, multi-center, prospective study.

Patients receive D-TACE. Embolization agent: CalliSpheres Drug-Eluting Beads. Chemotherapy agent: oxaliplatin. Treatment repeats every 5 weeks in the absence of progression of hepatic lesions, or unacceptable toxicity.