Phase II Study of Cobimetinib in Combination With Vemurafenib in Active Melanoma Brain Metastases
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the combination of vemurafenib with cobimetinib in patients with active melanoma brain metastases.
Active Melanoma Brain Metastases
DRUG: Cobimetinib|DRUG: Vemurafenib
Objective Intracranial Response (OIRR), Change in overall size of the sum of diameters from baseline of up to 5 intracranial target lesions in response to study treatment, achieved by individual patients., Until disease progression, less than or equal to 5 years.
Overall Response, Response to study treatment achieved by individual patients as indicated by an overall change in size of the sum of diameters from baseline of up to 5 intracranial target lesions and up to 5 extracranial target lesions., Until disease progression, less than or equal to 5 years.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Time (number of months) from first documented evidence of overall Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) until time of first documented disease progression or death due to any cause (for individual patients). Progression as defined by RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) is a ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started (e.g. percent change from nadir, where nadir is defined as the smallest sum of diameters recorded since treatment start). In addition, the sum must have an absolute increase from nadir of 5mm., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Number of months of survival for individual patients., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response, Change in relative apparent diffusion coefficient (rADC) as measured by MRI as early predictor of response value/result for each patient, Until disease progression, less than or equal to 5 years.|Immune Modulation in Peripheral Blood, Up to 5 years|Early Markers of Progression in Peripheral Blood, Up to 5 years|Health-related Quality of Life as Measured by The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) - Brain (FACT-Br), The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br) is used to measure general quality of life (QOL) that reflects symptoms or problems associated with brain malignancies across 5 scales. The brain subscale is usually used along with the core (general) questionnaire that includes 27 items. The measure yields information about total QOL, as well as information about the dimensions of physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well being, functional well-being, and disease-specific concerns. Patients rate all 5 items using a five-point Likert scale ranging from 0 "not at all" to 4 "very much." Overall, higher ratings suggest higher QOL. Items are totaled to produce the following subscales, along with an overall QOL score: physical well-being (7 items); social/family well-being (7 items); emotional well-being (6 items); functional well-being (7 items); and concerns relevant to patients with brain tumors (23 items). Scoring range is 0-200., Up to 5 years
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the combination of vemurafenib with cobimetinib in patients with active melanoma brain metastases.