Active Living After Cancer: Implementation Within Be Well Acres Homes
The goal of this research study is to learn more about a physical activity program adapted for cancer survivors.
Cancer|Fatigue
BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity/Physical Functioning|BEHAVIORAL: Quality of Life
Re-AIM Framework, 1. Physical functioning change from baseline to 12 weeks, as measured by the 30-second sit-to-stand test, Through study completion; an average of 1 year.
Primary Objectives:

Evaluate the effectiveness of ALAC adapted for delivery in Acres Homes, using a randomized wait- list-control group design. The primary outcome will be physical functioning as measured by the 30- second sit-to-stand test at 12 weeks. Secondary outcomes will include physical functioning measured by the six-minute walk, objective and self-reported physical activity, social connectedness, and quality of life. The investigators will also investigate whether program effects are maintained at 6 months. Hypothesis: Cancer survivors in the adapted ALAC program will increase their physical activity and improve their physical functioning from baseline to the end-of-intervention assessment, compared to a wait-list-control group.

Compare the reach of the ALAC program in Acres Homes to ALAC in other persistent poverty neighborhoods in Houston. Hypothesis: The Acres Homes adaptation of ALAC will have a greater reach (percent of cancer survivors enrolling in ALAC in a specific neighborhood) than in other persistent poverty neighborhoods in Houston.

Explore the moderating effects of social and environmental variables on program effectiveness. Hypothesis 3A:Participants' financial distress, experiences of discrimination, health literacy, and social connectedness will influence the effect of the ALAC intervention on participants' physical activity, physical functioning, and program engagement. Hypothesis 3B: Neighborhood characteristics, like walkability, crime rate, air quality, access to green space, and neighborhood social vulnerability, will be related to the effectiveness of the ALAC program in terms of enrollment and health outcomes.