Chemotherapy for Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Who Are Non-Smokers
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of chemotherapy followed sequentially by gefitinib versus chemotherapy alone in the first line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This study will be conducted in Asian patients who are classified as 'never smoker' since it is suggested that these patients are more likely to respond favorably to treatment with gefitinib.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gefitinib
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from randomization to the first observation of disease progression, or death due to any cause., Baseline to first observation of disease progression or death, 12 weeks up to 31 months
Number of Participants With Tumor Response, Response using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Complete Response=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease=20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes not meeting above criteria. Responder is a participant exhibiting a best overall study response of CR or PR., Baseline to measured response or death, 12 weeks up to 31 months|Duration of Response for Responders, The duration of a complete response (CR; the disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions) was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of progression or death as a result of any cause. A responder is a patient exhibiting a best overall study response of CR or PR., Time of response to progressive disease or death, 12 weeks up to 31 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival is the duration from enrollment to death. For patients who are alive, overall survival is censored at the last contact. Median overall survival could not be estimated as most participants were living at the end of the study. 25 participants from each treatment group were censored. In place of this outcome measure, the percentage of participants who died during the study are provided in the Post-Hoc Analysis Outcome Measure: Percentage of Participants Who Died During the Study., Baseline to date of death from any cause, 12 weeks up to 31 months
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of chemotherapy followed sequentially by gefitinib versus chemotherapy alone in the first line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This study will be conducted in Asian patients who are classified as 'never smoker' since it is suggested that these patients are more likely to respond favorably to treatment with gefitinib.