Multivalent HPV (Human Papillomavirus) Vaccine Study in 16- to 26-Year Old Men and Women (V503-003)
This study is designed to evaluate the immunogenicity and tolerability of 9vHPV (9-valent HPV vaccine, V503) in 16- to 26-year old men and women. The overall goal is to bridge 9vHPV efficacy findings in young women to young men based on the demonstration of similar immunogenicity and safety profiles. The primary hypothesis is that 9vHPV induces antibody responses at 4 weeks postdose 3 in heterosexual males that are non-inferior to antibody responses in young women.
Genital Warts|Anal Cancer|Anal Intraepithelial Neoplasia
BIOLOGICAL: 9vHPV Vaccine
Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) to the HPV Types Contained in the 9vHPV Vaccine, Serum antibodies to HPV types 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58 were measured with a Competitive Luminex Immunoassay. Titers are reported in milli Merck Units/mL, Four weeks post vaccination 3 (Month 7)|Percentage of Participants With One or More Injection-site Adverse Experiences Prompted on the Vaccination Report Card, An adverse experience (AE) is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine is also an AE. Injection-site AEs prompted on the Vaccination Report Card (VRC) were erythema, pain, and swelling. Participants were instructed to use the Vaccination Report Card to record AEs daily after each study vaccination., Up to 5 days after any vaccination|Percentage of Participants With Elevated Oral Body Temperature (>=37.8° C, >=100° F), Participants were instructed by the investigator to use the Vaccination Report Card to document evening oral temperature daily after each study vaccination, Up to 5 days after any vaccination|Percentage of Participants With an Adverse Event, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine is also an AE., Up to Month 12|Percentage of Participants Who Had Study Vaccine Discontinued Due to an Adverse Event, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Any worsening of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the study vaccine is also an AE., Up to Month 12
Percentage of Participants With Seroconversion to the HPV Types Contained in the 9vHPV Vaccine, Serum antibodies to HPV types were measured with a Competitive Luminex Immunoassay. The serostatus cutoffs (milli Merck U/mL) for HPV types were as follows: HPV Type 6: ≥30; HPV Type 11: ≥16; HPV Type 16: ≥20; HPV Type 18: ≥24; HPV Type 31: ≥10; HPV Types 33, 45, 52, and 58: ≥8., Four weeks post vaccination 3 (Month 7)
Study participants will be administered a 3-dose regimen of 9vHPV. They will be assessed for immunogenicity 1 month following completion of vaccination. All participants will be followed for safety for a total of 12 months.