NY-ESO-1 Plasmid DNA (pPJV7611) Cancer Vaccine
To evaluate the safety of NY-ESO-1 Plasmid DNA (pPJV7611) Cancer Vaccine given by particle-mediated epidermal delivery (PMED) in patients with tumor types known to express NY-ESO-1 or LAGE-1.
Prostate Cancer|Bladder Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Esophageal Cancer|Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: NY-ESO-1 Plasmid DNA Cancer Vaccine
Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) and Number of Patients With Adverse Events, All adverse events were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) Scale (Version 3.0, published June 10, 2003).

DLT was defined as

* ≥ Grade 2 autoimmune phenomena
* Asymptomatic bronchospasm or generalized urticaria
* Grade ≥ non hematological toxicities (including injection site reactions)
* Grade ≥ 3 hematological toxicities

A dose-limiting adverse event must be definitely, probably, or possibly related to the administration of the investigational agent and must occur between first dose and 4 weeks after the last dose., up to 13 weeks
Number of Patients With Tumor Response According to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)., Tumor response was assessed in patients with measurable tumors according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).

Computed tomography (CT) scans were performed at screening and at week 13. Response was assessed using RECIST version 1.0 (Therasse et al, J Natl Cancer Inst 2000; 92:205-16). Per RECIST, target lesions are categorized as follows: complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions (no evaluable disease); partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; progressive disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; stable disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria; no evidence of disease (NED): no new lesions in patients who did not have target lesions at baseline., 13 weeks|Number of Patients With NY-ESO-1-Specific Humoral Immunity as Determined by an Increase in Antibody Titer From Baseline., Blood samples were obtained at baseline (prior to the first dose), and in weeks 3, 5, 7, 9, 11 and 13 for the assessment of NY-ESO-1-specific antibodies by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). A positive response was a readable optical density at 280 nm., up to 13 weeks|Number of Patients With NY-ESO-1-Specific Cellular Immunity as Measured by an Increase in NY-ESO-1-Specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-Cells Following Treatment., Blood samples were obtained at baseline (prior to the first dose), and in weeks 3, 5, 7, 9, 11 and 13 for the assessment of NY-ESO-1-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses by ELISPOT., up to 13 weeks|Number of Patients With Delayed-Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Skin Reactions to NY-ESO-1 Protein, Delayed-Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) testing was conducted at baseline and on days 15 and 72 of the study. A positive DTH reaction to NY-ESO-1 protein at baseline was absent in all patients. The presence of redness and induration was considered necessary for a positive DTH reaction., Up to 11 weeks
NY-ESO-1 Plasmid DNA (pPJV7611) Cancer Vaccine was administered by particle-mediated epidermal delivery (PMED) at a pressure of 500 psi using the XR-1 Powderject® delivery device. The 4 microgram dosage of NY-ESO-1 was administered as 4 X 1 microgram PMEDs in close proximity. Similarly, the 8 microgram dosage was administered as 8 X 1 microgram PMEDs. The third cohort of patients received the 8 microgram dosage as a cluster dosage of 4 doses (day 1, 3, 5, 8) as 2 X 1 microgram PMEDs per day.

Blood samples were to be obtained at baseline, 2 weeks after each vaccination, prior to the second and third vaccination, and 4 weeks after the third vaccination for the assessment of clinical hematology, biochemistry measurements and immunology responses. Patients were to be evaluated for toxicity throughout the study.

Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) testing was to be performed at baseline and at the 2-week visit following the first and third vaccinations.

NY-ESO-1 and/or LAGE-1 specific antibodies were to be assessed in all patients by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). NY-ESO-1 specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells were to be assessed in all patients by tetramer and/or ELISPOT assays.

Disease status was to be assessed at baseline and 4 weeks after the third vaccination in patients with measurable disease.