Pembrolizumab and Standard Therapy in Treating Patients With Glioblastoma
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well pembrolizumab works in combination with standard therapy in treating patients with glioblastoma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in the chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy beams to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving pembrolizumab and standard therapy comprising of temozolomide and radiation therapy may kill tumor cells.
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma|Supratentorial Glioblastoma
RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Temozolomide|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLT) (Group 1), A DLT will be defined as an adverse event attributed (definitely, probably, or possibly) to pembrolizumab per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 189 days (3 cycles of treatment)|Overall survival (OS) (Group 2), Defined as the time from beginning study therapy to death due to any cause. Will be assessed by the number of patients who are alive up to 18 months after beginning study therapy., 18 months
Incidence of adverse events, The number and severity of all adverse events will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. Specifically, the overall toxicity percentages for Grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment will be calculated and reported. All other adverse event analysis will be exploratory and hypothesis generating., Up to 5 years|Time until any treatment related adverse event, Will be summarized descriptively., Up to 5 years|Time until treatment related grade 3+ adverse event, Will be summarized descriptively., Up to 5 years|Time until hematologic nadirs, Will assess the time until hematologic nadirs (white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil count, platelets) and will be summarized descriptively., Up to 5 years|Time to progression (Group 2), Defined as the time from start of study treatment to disease progression. Will be assessed using the immunotherapy response assessment for neuro-oncology (iRANO) criteria., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (Group 2), Defined as the time from starting study treatment to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first. Will be assessed according to iRANO criteria., Up to 5 years|Time to treatment failure (Group 2), Defined as the time from beginning study therapy to documentation of disease progression, unacceptable adverse event(s), or refusal to continue participation by the patient., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in combination with standard therapy (surgery, external beam radiation therapy and temozolomide \[TMZ\] chemotherapy) in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). (Neoadjuvant \[Group 1\]) II. To assess the 18 month overall survival rate of pembrolizumab in combination with standard therapy (surgery, external beam radiation therapy and TMZ chemotherapy) in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). (Adjuvant \[Group 2\])

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess adverse events (AE) and toxicity profile of pembrolizumab in combination with standard therapy in patients with newly diagnosed GBM.

II. To assess time to progression in patients treated with pembrolizumab in combination with standard therapy in patients with newly diagnosed GBM. (Adjuvant only) III. To assess progression-free survival in patients treated with pembrolizumab in combination with standard therapy in patients with newly diagnosed GBM. (Adjuvant only) IV. To assess time to treatment failure in patients treated with pembrolizumab in combination with standard therapy in patients with newly diagnosed GBM. (Adjuvant only)

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the tumor PD-1/PD-L1 expression and inflammatory microenvironment profile by comparing PD-1/PD-L1 expression and T lymphocyte/monocytic infiltrates before and after administration of pembrolizumab treatment. (Neoadjuvant only) II. To assess the peripheral immunophenotype profile and GBM-associated antigen-specific T cell responses before and after receiving pembrolizumab treatment in combination with standard therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP 1:

NEOADJUVANT (CYCLE 1): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.

SURGERY (CYCLE 2): Patients undergo standard of care surgery within days 4-7.

CONCURRENT (CYCLE 3): Starting 21-35 days after surgery, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 22, and 43 and temozolomide orally (PO) daily on days 8-54. Patients also undergo external beam radiation therapy every 5 days per week on days 8-54.

ADJUVANT (CYCLE 4-8): Within 3-5 weeks after completing radiation therapy, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 22, and 43 and temozolomide PO daily on days 1-5 every 28 days. Treatment repeats every 63 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

GROUP 2:

CONCURRENT (CYCLE 1): Starting 21-35 days after surgery, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 22, and 43 and temozolomide PO daily on days 8-54. Patients also undergo external beam radiation therapy every 5 days per week on days 8-54.

ADJUVANT (CYCLES 2-6): Within 3-5 weeks after completing radiation therapy, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 22, and 43 of cycles 2-5 and 1 and 22 of cycle 6 (up to a total of 17 doses). Patients also receive temozolomide PO daily on days 1-5, 29-33, and 57-61 of cycles 2 and 6, days 22-26 and 50-54 of cycle 3, days 15-19 and 43-47 of cycle 4, days 8-12 and 36-40 of cycle 5. Treatment repeats every 63 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months until progressive disease, then every 6 months for up to 5 years.