Nurse AMIE (Addressing Malignancies in Individuals Everyday)
Nurse AMIE 3.0 is testing the effectiveness of an electronic symptom management system on overall survival in people with stage 3 and 4 cancer who live in rural areas.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Nurse AMIE|BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care
Survival, Survival of each participant will be monitored through the electronic medical records throughout the course of the study. After the study is completed, we will monitor survival using the National Death Index from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)., through study completion, an average of two years
Change in Health-Related Quality of Life measured using the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), The SF-36 measures quality of life in the following domains: physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health, role limitations due to emotional problems, energy/fatigue, emotional well being, social functioning, pain, and general health. All items are scored from 0 to 100, with 100 being the highest level of functioning possible. Items are averaged to give ratings on each of 8 dimensions., baseline, month 6, month 12, month 18, month 24|Change in Physical Function measured using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), The SPPB is an accumulation of balance tests, 4-meter gait speed, and 5-chair stands. Based on the time needed to complete the chair stands, a score is given. A summation of scores from all tests is taken, ranging from 0 -12. A higher score = Higher physical function., baseline, month 6, month 12, month 18, month 24|Change in Symptoms measured using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System: The PROMIS ®-Preference (PROPr), The PROMIS PROPr uses 14-items to measure 7 patient symptom domains (two items for each domain). The domains are as follows: cognition, depression, fatigue, pain, physical function, sleep disturbance, and social roles. Scores for each domain range from 1 to 5 on each item, with high scores indicative of full health., baseline, month 1, month 3, month 6, month 9, month 12, month 18, month 24|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., baseline|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., month1|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., month 3|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., month 6|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., month 9|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., month 12|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., month 18|Cost-Effectiveness measured using a self-report survey of Healthcare Utilization, This 14-item Healthcare Utilization survey asks participants to account for the healthcare services they used since a key date (provided to the participant). The services include primary care, surgical oncology, medical oncology, other specialists, infusion therapy, radiation therapy, imaging, lab tests, nursing home or rehab stays, hospice, home health care, or other specialty medical care. A high score indicates greater amount of health care services sought., month 24
After being informed about the details of the study, including risks and potential benefits, participants who give their informed consent will do baseline measurements. After these measures are collected, participants will be randomly assigned to either receive the computer tablet Nurse AMIE program or a supportive care book. Participants will be asked to complete measurements throughout the course of their active participation, which will last for 2 years.