Sorafenib and Temsirolimus in Treating Patients With Metastatic, Recurrent, or Unresectable Melanoma
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of temsirolimus when given together with sorafenib and to see how well they work in treating patients with metastatic, recurrent, or unresectable melanoma. Sorafenib and temsirolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Sorafenib may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving sorafenib together with temosirolimus may kill more tumor cells.
Melanoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage III Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|DRUG: temsirolimus
Maximum tolerated dose of CCI-779 in combination with BAY43-9006 (Phase I) determined by DLT assessed by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (Phase I), 28 days|Objective response rate (complete response and partial response) CCI-779 in combination with BAY43-9006 (Phase II), Up to 5 years
Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier life table methods and Cox proportional hazards regression modeling will be utilized to analyze progression-free survival and overall survival., The duration of time from start of treatment to date of first evidence of progression or the date of last follow-up for patients who do not progress, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier life table methods and Cox proportional hazards regression modeling will be utilized to analyze progression-free survival and overall survival., 5 years|Noncompartmental pharmacokinetic parameters of BAY43-9006 and CCI-779 estimated using a validated commercial software, Maximum concentration (Cmax) and time to Cmax (tmax) will be the observed values. Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to last observable time (AUClast)., Week 1 and 3
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of temsirolimus when administered with sorafenib in patients with metastatic, recurrent, or unresectable melanoma.

II. To determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To Determine the population pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

II. To correlate tumor and blood biomarkers with clinical outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II, open-label study (2005-0215).

Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oral sorafenib once or twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment course repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-6 months.