BeatMG: Phase II Trial of Rituximab In Myasthenia Gravis
The specific primary objective of this study is to determine whether rituximab is a safe and beneficial therapeutic for Myasthenia Gravis (MG) that warrants further study in a phase III efficacy trial.
Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Placebo
Steroid Sparing Effect, Percent of subjects that achieve a ≥ 75% reduction in mean daily prednisone dose in the 4 weeks prior to week 52 and have clinical improvement or no significant worsening of symptoms (≤ 2 point increase in MGC score) as compared to 4-week period prior to randomization and initiation of treatment., 4 weeks prior baseline and 4 weeks prior to week 52|Safety:Percentage of Study Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Experiences, Evaluate treatment-Related Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), 52 weeks
Change in Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC) Scores From Baseline to Week 52, Evaluate whether there is a trend towards clinical benefit at end of 52 week treatment period, as measured by mean change in the MGC score, an MG-specific clinical outcomes scale used as endpoint in prior MG clinical trials. The Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC) scale consists of test items from the MG-ADL (Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living) scale and the QMG (Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Scale) that measure symptoms and signs of MG, with weighted response options. The minimum score is 0, and the maximum score is 50. Higher scores correlate with clinical worsening of the disease., baseline and 52 weeks|Change in Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis(QMG) Scores From Baseline to Week 52, Evaluate whether there is a trend towards clinical benefit at end of 52 week treatment period, as measured by the mean change in the QMG score - a specific clinical outcome scale used as endpoint in prior MG clinical trials. The Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Score (QMG) is a commonly used objective outcome measure in myasthenia gravis (MG) comprising 13 items, each with a possible score from 0 to 3, and a maximum possible of 39 points, where a higher score indicates more severe disease., baseline and 52 weeks
Investigators plan on conducting a multicenter randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled Phase II clinical trial utilizing a futility design. The study would include acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody positive generalized MG subjects. This study also presents a unique opportunity to study both drug and disease mechanisms because unlike many other autoimmune diseases in which rituximab has been used, MG affords the investigation of antigen-specific components that participate in the immunopathology of the disease, namely autoantibodies, autoantibody-producing B cells, and antigen-specific T cells. This work will further our understanding of MG immunopathology and it represents the first step toward gaining a more complete understanding of the immune mechanisms underlying treatment of MG with rituximab leading to new ways to treat the disease.

The specific aim of this study is to determine whether rituximab is a safe and effective treatment for subjects with MG.

The SNOMED code for MG is 31839002.