(3D) Ultrasound Imaging Liver and Kidney
This study is to assess the addition of 3D ultrasound guidance during standard care ablation or biopsies of liver or kidney tumours. 3D ultrasound only differs from conventional 2D ultrasound in that the ultrasound transducer is mounted on a special assembly that moves the transducer in precise, stepped movements while a succession of 2D images are collected by the computer. Special software written specifically for 3D ultrasound precisely aligns these 2D images into a 3-demensional volume , allowing area in question to be viewed in many different planes. 3D ultrasound is a safe, fast, non-invasive imaging procedure. Ultrasound images will be checked against the pre- and post- procedure CT images to make sure the tumours were completely removed or properly targeted during biopsy.
Liver Cancer|Kidney Cancer
DEVICE: Ablation|DEVICE: Biopsy
Needle Guidance Intervention, The objective of this study is to use 3D ultrasound in addition to standard care ultrasound to guide the ablation needles in destroying focal tumours within the diseased organ, April 2020
Images will be acquired by a physician on patients who are undergoing a liver or kidney ablation or biopsy procedure who are well enough to provide consent. Patients will be imaged during the ablation procedure according to the standard of care, and subsequent analysis will commence following the acquisition. The devices being used are all property of the LHSC health network that have been licensed for clinical use through Health Canada. In addition, 3D ultrasound only differs from conventional 2D ultrasound in that the ultrasound transducer is mounted on a special assembly that moves the transducer in precise, stepped movements while a succession of 2D images are collected by the computer. Special software written specifically for 3D ultrasound precisely aligns these 2D images into a 3-dimensional volume, allowing the area in question to be viewed in different planes. The clinical 2D an d3D ultrasound images will be checked against the pre- and post- procedure CT images to make sure the tumours were completely removed.