Dose Dense Doxorubucin and Cyclophosphamide Followed by Eribulin Mesylate for the Adjuvant Treatment of Early Stage Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility of dose-dense doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by eribulin mesylate for adjuvant treatment of early stage breast cancer.
HER2-normal
DRUG: eribulin mesylate
Percentage of Participants With Feasibility, The regimen was considered feasible if the participant was able to complete the eribulin portion without dose delay or reduction. Dose delay was defined as a delay due to eribulin-related adverse event (AE) for more than 2 days for subsequent doses (cycles after the initiation of full dose of eribulin, except holidays, scheduling difficulties and nonclinical logistical issues). If a participant had more than 1 dose omission, delay or reduction due to eribulin-related AE, these events were collectively counted as one entity in the same participant. Participants were followed for approximately 3 years after the last dose of the study treatment. Feasibility rates were calculated with or without growth factor support. In both cohorts, the percentage of participants who completed the eribulin portion of the regimen without a dose omission, delay or reduction due to eribulin-related AE was estimated via the observed completion rate and an exact 90% confidence interval (CI) was constructed., From date of first dose, up to 3 years after the last dose of study treatment, or up to approximately 4 years 2 months
Number of Participants With Non-serious Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Safety assessments consisted of monitoring and recording all AEs and SAEs, clinical laboratory results, vital signs, physical examinations, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, electrocardiograms (ECGs), and left-ventricular ejection fracture (LVEF) by multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) or echocardiogram. An AE was considered a treatment emergent adverse event (TEAE) if the AE onset date was on or after the first dose of study drug and up to 30 days after receiving the last dose of study drug. Treatment-related TEAEs included TEAEs that were considered by the Investigator to be possibly or probably related to eribulin mesylate and/or doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide, or missing causality. Standardized Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities Queries (SMQ)., From date of first dose up to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment, or up to approximately 4 years 2 months
This is a multicenter, single-arm Phase II trial to assess the feasibility of dose-dense adjuvant chemotherapy in subjects with early stage (I-III), HER-2 normal breast cancer. A total of 80 adult subjects will be enrolled in order to have 73 subjects who start the eribulin portion of the adjuvant study regimen. After completion of 4 cycles of AC, each subject will begin 4 cycles of eribulin mesylate 1.4 mg/m2 intravenously over 2 to 5 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of every 21 day cycle.