The Families Addressing Cancer Together Intervention for Parents With Cancer
The proposed pilot randomized controlled trial will test the FACT (Families Addressing Cancer Together) intervention designed to improve parents' confidence and ability to talk about their cancer with their minor children. We will enroll 40 patients with cancer who have a minor child to participate in this single site, 6-week study. The primary hypothesis being tested is that an intervention that assists parents with their communication needs with their children can be feasible and acceptable when compared with a wait-list control condition.
Neoplasms|Cancer|Parenting|Communication|Parents|Parent-Child Relations
BEHAVIORAL: FACT
Families Addressing Cancer Together (FACT) Satisfaction Scale, Acceptability was measured by the FACT satisfaction scale in the intervention group using the study-specific, 6-item FACT satisfaction scale. The total score range is 0-18 with higher scores indicating more satisfaction., 3 weeks|Acceptability as Measured by FACT Satisfaction Scale, Satisfaction with FACT will be measured in the intervention group using the study-specific, 6-item FACT satisfaction scale. Total score range is 0-18 with higher scores indicating more satisfaction., 6 weeks|Acceptability as Assessed by a Semi-structured, Post-intervention Interview, Satisfaction with FACT will be assessed via semi-structured, post-intervention interviews.

Regarding n's, these interviews were offered as an optional part of participation among those randomized to the intervention (FACT). 12 participants agreed to participate in the interviews., 6 weeks
Recruitment Feasibility as Measured by Rate of Eligible Patients Who Consent to Study Participation, Percentage of approached patients who meet study eligibility criteria who enroll (provide informed consent) in the study., 6 weeks|Feasibility of Participant Retention as Measured by Percentage of Participants Who Complete Survey, Feasibility of participant retention as measured by the percentage of participants who complete at least one study survey, at the 3-week time point., 3 weeks|Feasibility of Participant Retention as Measured by Percentage of Participants Who Complete Survey Assessments at 6 Weeks., Percentage of enrolled participants who complete at least one study survey (any) at the 6-week time point.The number of participants who completed the assessment,, 6 weeks|Change From Baseline Communication Self-efficacy Using the CSES, Change in parental communication self-efficacy will be measured using an adapted version of the Communication Self-Efficacy Scale (CSES). The 9-item CSES measures parental communication self-efficacy on a visual analogue scale, with a total score range of 0 to 100, with higher scores meaning more self-efficacy., Baseline, 3 weeks|Change From Baseline Communication Self-efficacy Using the CSES, Change in parental communication self-efficacy will be measured using an adapted version of the Communication Self-Efficacy Scale (CSES). The 9-item CSES measures parental communication self-efficacy on a visual analogue scale, with a total score range of 0 to 100, with higher scores meaning more self-efficacy., Baseline, 6 weeks
Parents with cancer are encouraged to be "honest and open" with their minor children about their illness. However, many lack access to professional support for their communication needs. Without this support, parents with cancer and their children experience avoidable psychosocial distress. In order to better support parental communication needs in cancer, psychosocial interventions that can be implemented across clinical practice settings are needed. To address this gap, we developed and pilot-tested FACT (Families Addressing Cancer Together) - a theory-guided, web-based psycho-educational intervention to help parents with cancer talk about their illness with their children in a developmentally appropriate way.

The proposed pilot randomized controlled trial will test the feasibility and acceptability of the FACT intervention. We will enroll 40 patients with cancer who have a minor child to participate in this single site, 6-week study. The primary hypothesis being tested is that an intervention that assists parents with their communication needs with their children can be feasible and acceptable when compared with a wait-list control condition. We will also explore preliminary effects of the intervention on parental communication and psychological outcomes.