Bevacizumab and Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Liposome in Treating Women With Locally Recurrent or Metastatic Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab also may stop the growth of breast cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bevacizumab together with doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well giving bevacizumab together with doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome works in treating women with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: bevacizumab + doxorubin hydrochloride liposme|DRUG: Bevacizumab
bevacizumab and doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome, Determine the safety and tolerability of bevacizumab and doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome., Until treatment ends
Determine the efficacy of this regimen, Determine the efficacy of this regimen in these patients., Until treament ends|Identify surrogate markers of angiogenesis, Identify surrogate markers of angiogenesis, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGF receptor 1, and matrix metalloproteinase 9, in patients treated with this regimen., Until treatment ends|Overall (complete and partial) response as measured by RECIST criteria, Periodically|Time to treatment failure, Until treatment ends|Progression-free survival, Periodically|Overall survival, Life-long
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the safety and tolerability of bevacizumab and doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome in women with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.

Secondary

* Determine the efficacy of this regimen in these patients.
* Identify surrogate markers of angiogenesis, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGF receptor 1, and matrix metalloproteinase 9, in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes and doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses\*. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses with bevacizumab repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*Patients may receive additional courses of doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome at the discretion of the primary investigator.

Blood samples are collected at baseline, on day 1 of course 3 and then once every 3 months during study treatment, and after completion of study treatment. Samples are analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to determine the level of circulating angiogenesis-related molecules, including serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGF receptor 1, and matrix metalloproteinase 9.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 43 patients will be accrued for this study.