LOL: It's All Improv After Cancer! The Impact of Improvisational Comedy on Well-Being Among Patients With Cancer
Managing distress and improving well-being is critically important for optimal survivorship care. Treatment of distress leads to better adherence to treatment, better communication, fewer calls and visits to the oncologist's office, and avoidance of development of severe anxiety or depression. Based on national guidelines, distress is typically managed with pharmacologic options (i.e. benzodiazepines), support groups, individual counseling, or chaplaincy services. To our knowledge, the role of a structured improvisational comedy (improv) program in reducing distress and improving well-being has never been evaluated in the oncology setting.
Distress|Breast Neoplasms|Quality of Life
BEHAVIORAL: Improvisational Comedy
Feasibility, We will define feasibility by our attrition rate. We will assess the rate of accrual and the number of patients who complete the intervention, Baseline to 6 weeks after baseline
Symptoms, We will assess the impact of a 6-week improv program on patient reported symptoms using the PROMIS-29 scale., Baseline to 6 weeks after baseline (t1); one month after t1|Well Being, We will assess the impact of a 6-week improv program on well being. Well-being will be assessed using the FACT-G scale., Baseline to 6 weeks after baseline (t1); one month after t1|Loneliness, We will assess the impact of a 6-week improv program on loneliness. Loneliness will be assessed using the UCLA Loneliness Scale., Baseline to 6 weeks after baseline (t1); one month after t1
With over 14 million cancer survivors today in the United States comes a unique constellation of challenges and opportunities for health care providers trying to optimize health at a time when many patients are struggling and open to learning new skills for strengthening their own resiliency and ability to cope. Not only does a significant subset of patients with cancer experience an increase in negative emotions, such as distress, anxiety and depression, but they often also experience a lack of positive emotions (Hart 2010). Managing distress and improving well-being is critically important for optimal survivorship care. Treatment of distress leads to better adherence to treatment, better communication, fewer calls and visits to the oncologist's office, and avoidance of development of severe anxiety or depression (Partridge, Wang et al. 2003; Carlson and Bultz 2004; 2014). Based on national guidelines, distress is typically managed with pharmacologic options (i.e. benzodiazepines), support groups, individual counseling, or chaplaincy services. To our knowledge, the role of a structured improvisational comedy (improv) program in reducing distress and improving well-being has never been evaluated in the oncology setting.