Acalabrutinib Safety Study in Untreated and Relapsed or Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Patients
This is a global, Phase IIIb, multicenter, open-label, single-arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of acalabrutinib 100 mg twice daily (bid) in approximately 540 participants with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Participants will be enrolled into 3 following cohorts: treatment-naive (TN), relapsed/refractory (R/R), and prior ibrutinib therapy. For this study, participants in the UK will be enrolled ONLY into the R/R cohort or the prior ibrutinib cohort. Participants in the US will be enrolled ONLY into the TN or R/R cohort. Participants will remain on study intervention until completion of 48 cycles (28 days per cycle), or until study intervention discontinuation due to, for example disease progression, or toxicity, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, death, or study termination by the sponsor whichever occurs first. The duration of the study will be approximately 72 months from the first participant enrolled. This duration includes an estimated 24-month recruitment time and an assumed 48 cycles of study intervention (28 days per cycle); additional study time will be accrued during the Disease Follow up period for those participants remaining on study intervention after completion of 48 cycles prior to the final data cutoff (DCO) (the amount of time will vary by participant).
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Acalabrutinib
Number of participants with adverse events, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of acalabrutinib monotherapy in participants with treatment-naïve or relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia., From screening to safety follow-up period (approximately 30 days from last dose)
Overall response (OR), To evaluate the investigator-assessed OR in participants receiving acalabrutinib monotherapy., 1 year after initial dose of study drug|Duration of response (DOR), To evaluate the investigator-assessed DOR in participants receiving acalabrutinib monotherapy., The time from the first objective response to the time of documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first within the time period to complete up to 48 cycles of treatment (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression-free survival (PFS), To evaluate the investigator-assessed PFS in participants receiving acalabrutinib monotherapy., The interval from the start of study treatment to completion of 48 cycles (each cycle is 28 days) or the earlier of the first documentation of disease progression or death from any cause
Plasma concentrations of acalabrutinib and ACP 5862, To characterize the pharmacokinetics of acalabrutinib and its metabolite (ACP-5862)., At Day 1 of Cycle 3 and Day 1 of Cycle 15|European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30), To evaluate participant-reported symptoms and health-related quality of life following treatment with acalabrutinib monotherapy. EORTC QLQ-C30 scale scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., Up to 48 cycles (each cycle is 28 days)|Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), To evaluate participant-reported symptoms following treatment with acalabrutinib monotherapy using PRO-CTCAE. Patient-reported outcomes (PROs), an umbrella term referring to all outcomes and symptoms, are directly reported by the participant. Around 81 symptoms of the CTCAE v4 have been identified to be amenable to participant reporting. These symptoms have been converted to participant terms (e.g., CTCAE term "myalgia" converted to "aching muscles"). For several symptoms, like fatigue and pain, additional questions are asked about symptom frequency (never to almost constantly), severity (none to very severe, and interference with usual activities (not at all to very much). For this study, the following items are considered relevant and will be assessed: headache, diarrhea, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, rash, muscle pain, nose bleed, heart palpitations, bruising, joint pain, and constipation., Up to 48 cycles (each cycle is 28 days)
This is a Global, Phase IIIb, multicenter, open-label, single-arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of acalabrutinib 100 mg bid in approximately 540 participants with CLL. Participants will be enrolled into one of the 3 following cohorts:

* Treatment-naive (TN): participants who have had no prior treatment for CLL and who have either a score \> 6 on the cumulative illness rating scale and/or have a creatinine clearance of 30 to 69 mL/min using the Cockcroft-Gault equation (minimum of 300 participants). This cohort will not be enrolled in the UK.
* Relapsed/refractory (R/R): participants who have received prior treatment for CLL and who have either relapsed or refractory CLL (approximately 200 participants).
* Prior ibrutinib therapy cohort: participants who have received prior ibrutinib for CLL and who discontinued the medication for any reason prior to disease progression (up to 40 participants). This cohort will not be enrolled in the US.

Overall response and progression assessments will be conducted by the investigator in accordance with the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL) 2018 criteria. Overall response assessments will be based on physical examinations, recording of symptoms, radiologic evaluations, and hematologic evaluations.

Treatment period consists of 48 cycles \[each cycle is 28 days). Study medication (acalabrutinib 100 mg bid) will be administered until disease progression, toxicity requiring discontinuation, completion of 48 cycles of study medication, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, death, or study termination by the sponsor, whichever comes first.

48 Cycles: From Cycle 1 to Cycle 6, in-clinic visits will occur every cycle and during each visit, in-clinic assessments will be carried out. From Cycle 7 to Cycle 12, in-clinic visits will occur every 3 cycles and during each visit, in-clinic assessments will be carried out. From Cycle 13 to Cycle 48, in-clinic visits will occur every 3 cycles and in-clinic assessments will be carried out every 6 cycles.

Safety follow up visits will occur approximately 30 days from the last dose of study treatment.

If a participant continues to derive benefit from treatment at the end of 48 cycles prior to the final DCO, they will continue to be provided with study intervention and will be followed in the Disease Follow-up period every 24 weeks (q24w) until study intervention discontinuation due to, for example, disease progression or toxicity, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, death, or study termination by the sponsor, whichever occurs first. Alternatively, at the end of 48 cycles, a participant can decide to switch to commercial off-study acalabrutinib, if available and permitted by local regulations. Post final DCO, 2 options will be considered: participants may be transitioned to another study or may shift to a commercial supply of acalabrutinib/off-study acalabrutinib as permitted by local regulations. Participants who switch to off-study acalabrutinib will be considered as having completed the study and therefore will not have any additional study assessments, including the safety follow-up visit and disease Follow-up period.

The duration of the study will be approximately 72 months from the first participant enrolled. This duration includes an estimated 24-month recruitment time and an assumed 48 cycles of study intervention (28 days per cycle); additional study time will be accrued during the Follow-up period for those participants remaining on study intervention after completion of 48 cycles prior to the final DCO (the amount of time will vary by participant).