Niraparib Maintenance Treatment in mCRC With a Partial o Complete Response After Oxaliplatin-based Induction Therapy
Colorectal Cancer ranks third among the most frequent malignancies representing a leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. The constant improvement in the "continuum of care" of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients led to a median overall survival of about 30-36 months.

Due to the cumulative toxicities of first-line combinations of chemotherapy and biological agents, discontinuation or intermittent chemotherapy or maintenance strategies have been investigated in clinical trials. After a 4 to 6-month induction treatment with bevacizumab plus doublet or triplet regimens, a fluoropyrimidine plus bevacizumab is regarded as the optimal maintenance regimen. Little evidence is available on the role of maintenance with anti-EGFR agents.

A recent systematic review and network meta-analysis of 12 relevant randomized clinical trials comprising 5540 patients with mCRC showed that a maintenance strategy with a fluoropyrimidine, with or without the addition of bevacizumab, is preferred. However, given the lack of a clear overall survival benefit, shared decision-making should include observation as an acceptable alternative.

Poly(ADP)-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors are now approved for breast, ovarian and pancreatic cancers. Evidence suggests that PARP inhibitors are more effective in tumors harboring homologous recombination DNA damage repair (HRR) deficiency and platinum sensitivity may be used a surrogate marker of HRD and therefore of PARP-inhibitors efficacy. An extensive Next Generation Sequencing analysis revealed that 15% of mCRC samples harbors mutations in genes involved in the HRR pathway. Several clinical trials are ongoing to test PARP inhibitors either alone or in combination in mCRC patients. The originality of this trial is to investigate PARPi in the maintenance setting.

Pre-clinical evidence showed that PARP blockade after initial oxaliplatin response delayed disease progression in mCRC carrying Kirsten Rat Sarcoma and BRAF mutations, suggesting that maintenance treatment with PARP inhibitors warrants further clinical investigation in mCRC patients who respond to oxaliplatin-containing induction treatment.

The main objective of this trial is to investigate the efficacy of anti-PARP inhibition as maintenance treatment in mCRC patients who obtained a complete or partial response after 4-month induction treatment with oxaliplatin-based double or triplet plus biologic agents.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib
Progression-Free Survival 1, Progression-Free Survival 1 is defined as the time from the patient registration to the date of first radiographic progression by RECIST guidelines (version 1.1), or death from any cause in the absence of progression, whichever occurs first., 36 months
Progression-Free Survival (2) after re-introduction of first-line treatment combination, Progression-Free Survival (2) is defined as the patient registration to progression or death from any cause in the absence of progression, whichever comes first on anticancer treatment following maintenance therapy., 36 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as time from patient registration until death from any cause. If no event (death) has been observed, the patient is censored at the date of last follow up, 36 months|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate is defined as the percentage of patients with Complete Response or Partial Response, as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v.1.1 criteria using an independent review., 36 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Toxicity / adverse events classified according to NCI-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., 36 months
Translational objectives for evaluated Association between DNA damage responseprotein expression with Progression-free survival of Niraparib maintenance, Association between DNA damage responseprotein expression with Progression-free survival of Niraparib maintenance, 36 months|Translational objectives 2 for evaluated association of Colorectal Cancer-optimized mutational signatures, including HRDetect, with Progression-free survival of Niraparib maintenance, Association of Colorectal Cancer-optimized mutational signatures, including HRDetect, with Progression-free survival of Niraparib maintenance, 36 months|Translational objectives 3 for evaluated association between in vitro drug screening sensitivity on Patient-derived organoids and clinical outcome, Association between in vitro drug screening sensitivity on Patient-derived organoids and clinical outcome, 36 months
Multicenter phase II no profit study investigating the disease-free survival efficacy of niraparib as maintenance treatment in 46 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer with partial or complete response after oxaliplatin-based induction therapy.

The study also includes translational research objectives.