Phase Ib/IIa Trial to Evaluate Oregovomab and Nivolumab in Epithelial Cancer of Ovarian, Tubal or Peritoneal Origin
The purpose of this study is to characterize the safety and tolerability, identify a recommended dose for expansion (RDE) / recommended phase II dose (RP2D), pharmacodynamics, and antitumor activity of Oregovomab vaccination in combination with Nivolumab as a novel combinatorial immunotherapeutic strategy in in female patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) who progressed after two or more prior lines of cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Oregovomab
Number of incidences and severity of Adverse Events (AE) and Serious AEs that are treatment-related, graded based on the CTCAE v4.03, 4 weeks from the start of treatment|Overall response rate (ORR) as per Gynecological Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) criteria, The proportion of patients with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), Time from date of start of treatment until best overall response of CR or PR, up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) as per GCIG criteria, Time from date of start of treatment to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause, up to 3 years
ORR as per immune-related response criteria (irRC), The proportion of patients with best overall response of CR or PR, Time from date of start of treatment until best overall response of CR or PR, up to 3 years|Disease control rate (DCR) as per GCIG criteria and irRC, The proportion of patients with best overall response of CR, PR or Stable Disease (SD), Time from date of start of treatment until best overall response of CR, PR or SD, up to 3 years|ORR in EOC subtypes, High Grade Serous, Clear Cell, Endometrioid, Mucinous, Mixed, Others and BRCA1/2 tumors, Time from date of start of treatment until best overall response of CR or PR, up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS) as per GCIG criteria, Time from date of start of treatment to date of death due to any cause, up to 3 years
This study tests the hypothesis that the combination of Oregovomab and Nivolumab will improve intracellular Cancer Antigen (CA) 125 antigen processing and elicit a stronger systemic CA 125-specific T cell response; in a manner that is synergistic, safe, and clinically efficacious in patients with relapsed EOC.

This is an open-label, single-arm, phase Ib/IIa, single-center study with dose finding and dose expansion parts.

In the phase Ib part, clinically recommended doses as monotherapy for Oregovomab (IV 2 mg Q4W, dose level 1) and Nivolumab (IV 240 mg Q2W) will be the starting doses for their combined use.

A modified "3+3" dose finding design will be employed, with 2 lower dosages of Oregovomab (dose level -1 at 1 mg Q4W; level -2 at 0.5 mg Q4W) specified in case of excessive toxicity (defined as ≥ 2 dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) out of first 3 patients, or all 6 patients) encountered at dose level 1. Three patients will be initially enrolled into dose level 1. If 0 or 1 DLT is observed, another 3 patients will be enrolled into the same dose level; otherwise de-escalate and enroll 3 patients at dose level -1. If ≤ 1 DLT is observed among the 6 patients, dose level 1 will be the RDE/RP2D of Oregovomab to be combined with Nivolumab. Likewise, in the event of de-escalation, if 0 or 1 DLT is observed at a lower dose level, a further 3 patients will be enrolled for that level; if ≤ 1 DLT is observed out of the 6 patients, that dose level will be the RDE/RP2D.

A minimum of 6 and a maximum of 18 patients will be enrolled in the dose finding part.

Approximately 14 patients are to enroll in the dose expansion part wherein they will receive Oregovomab at RDE/RP2D, combined with Nivolumab. In total, 20 patients from the dose finding and dose expansion cohorts will be treated at RDE/RP2D, and be included in the phase IIa study population.

Patients will be followed up for survival and post-progression treatment(s) over a duration of up to 36 months from the time of treatment initiation (i.e., Week 0 until up to 36 months).