Personalized Autologous Transplant for Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the best dose and side effects of mephalan in treating patients with multiple myeloma who are undergoing stem cell transplant. Chemotherapy drugs, such as mephalan, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. This trial uses a new method of dosing that is based on analysis of each individual's blood levels of melphalan after receiving a part of the dose, termed pharmacokinetic analysis. This may help to learn more about how to dose melphalan correctly and which patients are likely to benefit from a personalized dose.
Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Melphalan|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Predicted versus observed total melphalan area under the curve (AUC), Will be measured using pharmacokinetic data from the day -3 and day -1 dose., At Days -3 and -1|Incidence of exposure limiting toxicity, Will measure proportion of patients with clinically significant mucositis, tachyarrhythmia, and delayed engraftment. Toxicity will be evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) guidelines., During the first 30-days of treatment|Minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity post-transplant, MRD status will be determined per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria using next generation sequencing in patients with suspected complete response (CR)., Up to 90 days post-transplant
Overall response rate, The number and percentage of subjects experiencing objective response will be descriptively summarized overall and by cohort. Responders will be defined as those that achieve best response of partial response (PR) or better defined according to the IMWG Uniform response criterion. CR rate will be calculated with an exact 95% confidence interval, both within cohorts but not between cohorts., Up to 90 days post transplantation|Incidence of selected grade 3/4 toxicities at the recommended AUC range, The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. Adverse events will be summarized and described within each cohort. They will initially be reviewed regardless of attribution, but also whether they are possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment. In addition, will review all adverse event data that are graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The incidence of severe adverse events or toxicities will be described. Will assess the proportion of patients who experience grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity. To assess tolerability, will also capture the proportion of patients who go off treatment due to adverse events., Up to 60 days post transplantation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Measure achievement of target melphalan systemic exposure in the first 20 patients.

II. Identify safety and preliminary efficacy within each systemic exposure range of melphalan using a 5+5 design.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe International Myeloma Working Group response levels and selected grade 3/4 toxicities in an expansion set of patients at the recommended phase 2 area under the curve (AUC) range.

II. Measure deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair score from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded diagnostic bone marrow sample (FFPE) and from pretransplant marrow aspirate sample.

III. Assess melphalan-induced DNA damage in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from melphalan-treated patients.

IV. To correlate peripheral blood CMMCs numbers obtained with CELLSEARCH with MRD assessment at day+90.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive standard of care high dose melphalan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day -3 and PK-directed melphalan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on day -1. Patients then undergo autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 7, 14, 30, 60, and 90 days.