FMISO-PET in Brain Tumors and SCS Effect
The aim of this study is to assess, with 18F-FMISO PET, hypoxia in high grade gliomas and changes by spinal cord stimulation in a subset of patients. Additionally, the potential correlation with pathological, imaging and clinical parameters will be analyzed.
Malignant Glioma
DRUG: 18F-FMISO|PROCEDURE: PET without SCS|DEVICE: SCS|PROCEDURE: PET without/with SCS|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Temozolomide
Tumor hypoxia measurement using 18F-FMISO-PET (hypoxic volume and tumor/muscle ratio). Baseline measurement., Tumor hypoxia will be measured in 20 patients with HGG using 18F-FMISO-PET: after biopsy or surgery and before the commencement of radio-chemotherapy. It will be assessed the prevalence and extent of significant hypoxia in HGG., 18F-FMISO-PET between 1 and 3 weeks before the commencement of radio-chemotherapy|Change from baseline tumor hypoxia using 18F-FMISO-PET (hypoxic volume and tumor/muscle ratio) during SCS., A subset of 10 patients will undergo a second 18F-FMISO-PET study during spinal cord stimulation to evaluate changes by SCS between 1 and 7 days after the first 18F-FMISO-PET study (and before the commencement of radio-chemotherapy)., 2nd 18F-FMISO-PET between 1 and 7 days after the 1st 18F-FMISO-PET
Correlation between 18F-FMISO-PET values and pathological tumor parameters, To analyze the correlation of 18F-FMISO-PET with histological parameters and tumor expression of: CD31 (vascular density), VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) and VEGFR (angiogenesis), EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor), Ki-67 (proliferation index) and hypoxic markers, Week 0 (at the commencement of radio-chemotherapy).|Correlation with Karnofsky scale., To analyze the correlation with performance status using the Karnofsky scale., At 0, 2 and 9 months after the commencement of the radio-chemotherapy.|Correlation with the ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status scale, To analyze the correlation with performance status using the ECOG (WHO) scale., At 0, 2 and 9 months after the commencement of the radio-chemotherapy|Correlation with the Quality of Life Questionnaire QLQ-C30 (EORTC), To analyze the correlation with quality of life using the QLQ-C30 (EORTC) questionnaire., At 0, 2 and 9 months after the commencement of the radio-chemotherapy.|Overall survival., To analyze the correlation with overall survival., At 9 months after the commencement of the radio-chemotherapy.|Radiological response to treatment, To analyze the correlation between 18F-FMISO-PET values and radiological response to treatment, 9 months after the commencement of radio-chemotherapy|Radiological location of tumor relapse or progression, To analyze the correlation between 18F-FMISO-PET values and the radiological location of tumor relapse or progression, 9 months after the commencement of radio-chemotherapy
Blood flow in carotid and middle cerebral arteries, To analyze the correlation between 18F-FMISO-PET values and blood flow in carotid and middle cerebral arteries (assessed before the commencement of radio-chemotherapy) using Doppler measurements., Between 1 and 3 weeks before the commencement of radio-chemotherapy|Facial and supraciliar infrared emission, To analyze the correlation between 18F-FMISO-PET values and facial and supraciliar infrared emission (assessed by digital thermography), Between 1 and 3 weeks before the commencement of radio-chemotherapy
Tumour ischaemia-hypoxia decreases the efficacy of radio-chemotherapy. Polarographic probe (and some 18F-FMISO-PET) studies have demonstrated prognostic value. Additionally hypoxia modification may increase survival. However, in high grade gliomas (HGG) there are not well established methods to evaluate and modify tumor hypoxia. We have previously described how spinal cord stimulation (SCS) can modify oxygenation, blood flow and metabolism in malignant gliomas. The aim of this study is to assess with 18F-FMISO PET: hypoxia in HGG and changes by spinal cord stimulation in a subset of patients. Additionally, the potential correlation with pathological, imaging and clinical parameters will be analyzed.

18F-FMISO PET will be performed in 20 patients with diagnosis of HGG: after surgery/biopsy and before radical treatment with 3D radiotherapy and temozolomide. A subset of 10 patients undergo two studies with 18F- FMISO-PET (one with SCS "off" and one with SCS "on"). In these patients, SCS will be connected from 1 hour before to 1 hour after each radiotherapy session, and in the day-time during the days of adjuvant temozolomide.

18F-FMISO PET results will not be taking into account for patient management. Patients will be followed at least until the end of adjuvant temozolomide (6 months after the end of concurrent radiochemotherapy).