Effectiveness of Pelvic Floor Exercise to Prevent LARS (Low Anterior Resection Syndrome)
The main aim of this randomized study will be to determine the effectiveness of pelvic floor exercises on the incidence or severity of LAR syndrome in patients after mini-invasive rectal resection.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does pelvic floor exercise after low anterior resection prevent LARS (low anterior resection syndrome)?
* What is the adherence of patients to prescribed home exercise after surgery?
* Quality of life after LAR

Researchers will compare the group of patients with pelvic floor exercises to those without and determine the occurrence and severity of LARS.

Participants will:

* under the professional guidance of a physiotherapist, the day before surgery and in the first 4 postoperative days be educated to exercise the pelvic floor
* continue exercise at home for a month (according to the instructions together with the infographic)
Prevention|LARS - Low Anterior Resection Syndrome|Pelvic Floor Disorders|Rectal Cancer|Low Anterior Resection
PROCEDURE: Pelvic floor exercise
The number of participants who develop (or what degree) LAR syndrome with or without pelvic floor exercises after LAR, ascertained by LARS questionnaire., Patients may develop varying degrees of functional impairment - defecation urgency, fecal incontinence, increased frequency of stool, fragmentation and numerous bowel movements in a short period, problems with emptying or incomplete stool evacuation, increased intestinal flatulence, diarrhea, constipation or change in stool consistency. Participants will exercise at home. 1,6,12 months after surgery, the Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) questionnaire will be sent to patients. LARS questionnaire contains 5 questions about bowel functions. It is officially translated into the Slovak language. Final score range between 0-42. 0-20: NO LARS, 21-29: minor LARS, 30 - 42: major LARS., 4 weeks
Adherence of patients to prescribed home exercise after surgery, determined by the Exercise Adherence Rating Scale (EARS), The results can be significantly limited by the patient's actual exercise at home. One month after surgery a 16-item EARS questionnaire using a 5-point Likert scale will be sent to patients. 0 = completely agree to 4 = completely disagree. Summed score range from 0 to 64. Positively phrased items are reversed scored so that a higher overall adherence score indicates better adherence to exercise., 4 weeks
Quality of life after LAR measured by WHOQOL - BREF, Low anterior resection syndrome is a significant factor reducing the quality of life. 1,6,12 months after surgery the WHO Quality of Life Questionnaire - BREF will be sent to patients. It is a 0-100 scale. Domain scores are scaled in a positive direction (i.e. higher scores denote higher quality of life)., 1 - 12 months after LAR
Advances in the surgical treatment of rectal diseases lead to better oncological results, a higher chance of preserving the sphincters, and thus a lower number of permanent stomas. However, the preserved anus does not always have to perform its original function fully. All patients after a low anterior resection of the rectum are at risk of developing functional disorders, the so-called LARS (low anterior resection syndrome). Patients may develop varying degrees of functional anorectal disorder, from urgency, stool incontinence to constipation. The prevalence of LARS ranges from 41-80% and is a significant factor in reducing the quality of life.

The therapy of LAR syndrome, depending on the severity, consists of medication, transanal irrigation, pelvic floor rehabilitation, neurostimulation or surgery. The most effective is a combination of treatment modalities. Given the lack of high-quality evidence in this area, recommendations are generally based on retrospective studies or extrapolated from studies of non-surgical patients with similar gastrointestinal disorders. Suppose the disease is present 1-2 years after the surgery and all treatment modalities are exhausted. In that case, the patient is offered a permanent removal of the stoma, which has a lifelong impact on the patient.

According to the available data, it is possible to prevent the occurrence of LARS through postoperative pelvic floor exercises, however, relevant studies are missing The pelvic floor is a ligament-muscle system that provides dynamic support for the organ systems located in the small pelvis - the urinary system, the genitals, and the intestinal organs.

Exercise of the pelvic floor muscles plays an important role in patients suffering from incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, or rectal prolapse. Strengthening the muscles can serve as a follow-up treatment after surgical procedures including prevention of LARS.

The resulting knowledge of the possibility of preventing LARS will have a fundamental impact on clinical practice and patient management.