Aerobic Capacity and Physical Fitness Level of Adolescents With PCOS
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is associated with hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance starting in the perimenarchal period. Insulin resistance also increases the risk of developing glucose intolerance, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and cardiovascular disorders. Studies on adult women with PCOS show that their aerobic capacity is affected. Therefore, in this study; it was aimed to compare the physical and cardiovascular fitness levels of adolescent PCOS patients with healthy adolescents.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Aerobic Exercise Capacity, PACER running test, which is included in the fitnessgram test protocol, will be used to evaluate aerobic capacity., 1 day|Physical Fitness, The Fitnessgram Test Protocol will be used for physical fitness assessment., 1 day
Peripheral Muscle Strength, With the Lafayette Manual Muscle Test System Model01165, knee extensor muscle strength will be measured in individuals in sitting position and knee extension. 3 repetitions will be applied for the right and left sides and the results will be recorded in kilograms., 1 day|Physical Activity Level, Adolescent Physical Activity Questionnaire (PAQ-A) will be administered to both groups. This questionnaire is designed to assess physical activity in the last 7 days. It consists of 8 questions in which the answers given are scored between 1 and 5, and 9 questions questioning the existence of a situation that prevents physical activity in the last week., 1 day|Life quality, The quality of life of individuals with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome will be evaluated with the Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Quality of Life-50 Scale. This scale consists of six parameters including psychosocial and status, fertility, sexual function, obesity and menstrual irregularity, hair growth and coping with the disease, and includes 50 questions. When calculating the total score and sub-dimension scores of the scale, it is scored as 5 never, rarely 4, sometimes 3, often 4, always 1., 1 day|Body composition analysis, Body fat percentage (%), body muscle percentage (%), body water percentage (%), body fat weight (kg), body muscle weight (kg) will be recorded according to Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis., 1 day
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is associated with hyperandrogenism, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance starting in the perimenarchal period. Insulin resistance also increases the risk of developing glucose intolerance, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and cardiovascular disorders. Studies on adult women with PCOS show that their aerobic capacity is affected. Therefore, in this study; it was aimed to compare the physical and cardiovascular fitness levels of adolescent PCOS patients with healthy adolescents.Total fat and muscle ratios will be measured with the bioelectrical impedance test (BIA) instrument for body composition evaluation of individuals in both groups. Body mass index (BMI), waist/hip and waist/height ratios will be recorded. The level of cardiovascular fitness will be evaluated with the PACER test, which is among the Fitness Gram Test Protocol. For physical fitness level, muscular strength parameter will be evaluated with hand dynamometer and knee extensor muscle strength, and muscular endurance parameter will be evaluated with sit-up and push-up tests. Participants' physical activities will be evaluated with the Adolescent Physical Activity Questionnaire (PAQ-A).The quality of life of individuals with PCOS will be evaluated with the Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Quality of Life-50 Scale.