Trial of Ultrahypofractionated Focal Salvage Radiotherapy for Isolated Prostate Bed Recurrence After Radical Prostatectomy
The main objective of the trial is to explore the efficacy and safety of combining short-term androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) over 6 months to focal ultrahypofractionated salvage radiotherapy (SRT) delivered in 5 fractions to the site of local recurrence within the prostate bed after radical prostatectomy where multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) and prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) PET/CT are used to precisely identify the local recurrence and compare it to previously published literature.
Recurrent Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Ultrahypofractionated salvage radiotherapy to a local recurrence after radical prostatectomy|DRUG: Androgen deprivation therapy
Biochemical relapsefree survival, The initial prostate specific antigen (PSA) at time of registration will be the starting point. Freedom from biochemical progression is counted from the day of registration to the day of either first recorded biochemical progression as defined below, clinical progression or death due to clinical progression.

Biochemical relapsefree survival measured with PSA (prostate specific antigen) lab testing at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after radiotherapy. The duration of biochemical relapsefree survival is measured and documented in months for each patient.

A biochemical recurrence is defined by any confirmed PSA rise above 0.20 ng/mL with a confirmatory rise at least 2 weeks later. For those patients whose PSA does not drop below 0.20 ng/mL at time of first response assessment at 3 months are considered as non-responders to treatment and are considered to have a biochemical recurrence in case a second measurement at least 2 weeks later confirms a rising PSA above this level., 2 years
Acute side effects of grade 3 or higher, Standard acquisition of therapy related acute side effects of grade 3 or higher according to NCI CTCAE v5.0 at radiotherapy end and at 1 and 3 months after radiotherapy will be assessed. The side effects are recorded with the corresponding grade according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0 scale at the measured points of time.

Special attention shall be given to diarrhea, fecal incontinence, proctitis, rectal hemorrhage, rectal pain, hematuria, urinary frequency, urinary urgency, urinary retention, urinary incontinence, cystitis non-infective and erectile dysfunction., 90 days|Clinical progression-free survival, Clinical progression-free survival is defined as time between registration and the appearance of a new recurrence (any N1 or M1) as suggested by PET-CT, symptoms related to progressive prostate cancer (PC), or death due to any cause.

The duration of clinical progression-free survival is measured and documented in months for each patient.

Definition of recurrence:

* A local recurrence is defined as the appearance of evidence of a recurrence within the prostate bed. Confirmation of the recurrence by biopsy is recommended, whenever possible.
* A regional nodal recurrence is defined as a radiographic (PET-CT) evidence of a lymphadenopathy in the pelvis in a patient without the diagnosis of hematologic/lymphatic disorder
* Distant recurrence is defined as the appearance of distant metastases (M1a, M1b, M1c) outside the pelvis., 2 years|Metastasis-free survival, Metastasis-free survival is defined as time between registration and the appearance of a metastatic recurrence (any M1) as suggested by PET-CT or death due to any cause. The duration of metastasis-free survival is measured and documented in months for each patient.

Patients without any of the events of interest (including those with biochemical relapse only) are censored at the date of the last follow-up. Second cancers are not considered events in terms of this endpoint. In case of biochemical progression, re-staging will be made with PET-CT imaging preferably with the same tracer used before registration. In case of negative PET findings at biochemical relapse, a new PET imaging should be repeated on a 6-monthly basis or earlier in case clinically indicated., 2 years|Late side effects, Standard acquisition of therapy related late side effects according to NCI CTCAE v5.0 at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after radiotherapy. The side effects are recorded with the corresponding grade according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0 scale at the measured points of time.

Special attention shall be given to diarrhea, fecal incontinence, proctitis, rectal hemorrhage, rectal pain, hematuria, urinary frequency, urinary urgency, urinary retention, urinary incontinence, cystitis non-infective and erectile dysfunction., After 90 days up to 2 years (after acute side effects, see outcome 2)|Quality of life (EORTC Quality of life questionnaire C-30 version 3), All patients registered into this trial are to complete QoL questionnaires at registration and at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24 months after radiotherapy. A longitudinal design is used. Patients are asked to complete the EORTC Quality of life questionnaire C-30 version 3. The resulting score will be documented at each point of time., 2 years|Quality of life ( EORTC Quality of life PR25), All patients registered into this trial are to complete QoL questionnaires at registration and at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24 months after radiotherapy. A longitudinal design is used. Patients are asked to complete the EORTC Quality of life questionnaire PR25 prostate cancer module. The resulting score will be documented at each point of time., 2 years
The main objective of the trial is to explore the efficacy and safety of combining short-term androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) over 6 months to focal ultrahypofractionated salvage radiotherapy (SRT) delivered in 5 fractions to the site of local recurrence within the prostate bed after radical prostatectomy where multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) and prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) PET/CT are used to precisely identify the local recurrence and compare it to previously published literature.