Phase I Study LJM716 Combined With Trastuzumab in Patients With HER2 Overexpressing Metastatic Breast or Gastric Cancer
This is a multicenter, open-label, dose escalation, phase I study to estimate the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) or a lower Recommended Dose for Expansion (RDE) of LJM716 in combination with trastuzumab in patients with Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2 (HER2) overexpressing Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) or gastric cancer (MGC). The study consists of a dose escalation part and a dose expansion part. LJM716 will be administered intravenously once weekly unless a less frequent dosing regimen such as every 2 weeks or once every 4 weeks is introduced. Patients will continue on their trastuzumab dosing, administered intravenously once weekly at 2mg/kg. During dose escalation, a minimum of 15 patients are anticipated to be treated in successive cohorts. The dose escalation will continue until the MTD/RDE is declared. The RDE dose selected will either be the MTD or a dose below the MTD based on safety and Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) considerations. Following the MTD/RDE declaration, approximately 20 MBC and 20 MGC patients will be enrolled in separate arms in the dose expansion part and treated at the MTD/RDE to further assess the safety, tolerability, and anti-tumor activity of the combination.
Advanced HER2-positive Breast Cancer or Gastric Cancer
DRUG: LJM716|DRUG: Trastuzumab
Incidence rate of Dose Limiting Toxicities, Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), 4 weeks
Number of adverse events, Safety assessment, 4 months|Number of serious adverse events, Safety assessment, 4 months|Pharmacodynamic response to LJM716 in tumor tissue, Post-treatment change from baseline in pHER3 levels in the tumor, 3 months|Progression-free survival, Efficacy assessment, 18 months|Duration of response, Efficacy assessment, 18 months|Serum concentration of anti-LJM716 antibodies, Incidence of antibodies against LJM716, 4 months|Serum concentration of LJM716 when administered in combination with trastuzumab, PK profile, 4 months|Frequency of partial responses according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), Efficacy assessment, every 2 months up to 18 months|Frequency of complete responses according to RECIST, Efficacy assessment, every 2 months up to 18 months|Frequency of stable disease according to RECIST, Efficacy assessment, every 2 months up to 18 months
This is a multicenter, open-label, dose escalation, phase I study to estimate the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) or a lower Recommended Dose for Expansion (RDE) of LJM716 in combination with trastuzumab in patients with Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2 (HER2) overexpressing Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) or gastric cancer (MGC). The study consists of a dose escalation part and a dose expansion part. LJM716 will be administered intravenously once weekly unless a less frequent dosing regimen such as every 2 weeks or once every 4 weeks is introduced. Patients will continue on their trastuzumab dosing, administered intravenously once weekly at 2mg/kg. During dose escalation, a minimum of 15 patients are anticipated to be treated in successive cohorts. The dose escalation will continue until the MTD/RDE is declared. The RDE dose selected will either be the MTD or a dose below the MTD based on safety and Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) considerations. Following the MTD/RDE declaration, approximately 20 MBC and 20 MGC patients will be enrolled in separate arms in the dose expansion part and treated at the MTD/RDE to further assess the safety, tolerability, and anti-tumor activity of the combination.