ZN-c3 for the Treatment of Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer and Advanced Ovarian Cancer
This early phase I trial tests the safety and side effects of ZN-c3 in treating patients with triple-negative breast cancer or ovarian cancer that have spread to other parts of the body (metastatic or advanced). ZN-c3 is an enzyme inhibitor that may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Advanced Ovarian Carcinoma|Advanced Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Stage III Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Wee1 Inhibitor ZN-c3
Percent decrease of phosphorylated CDK1 and/or Ki67, or p-HH3, or p-CHK1 in tumor cells, The point estimate of percentage decrease of either phosphorylated CDK1, or Ki67, or p-HH3, or p-CHK1, or combinations thereof in tumor cells (from baseline) after receiving ZN-c3 will be provided., Baseline to completion of on-treatment biopsy, up to 21 days|Incidence of adverse events, Incidence of grade \>= 3 toxicities will be assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0., Day 1 to 30 days after last dose of study intervention
Clinical benefit rate (CBR), CBR is the proportion of all participants that achieve a complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) \>= 6 months without evidence of radiologic progression to this point (i.e., CR + PR + SD)(per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] v 1.1)., Day 1 to end of treatment, approximately 12 months|CBR for ovarian cancer, CBR (i.e., CR + PR + SD) in the ovarian cancer cohort will also be assessed using the Gynecological Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) criteria., Day 1 to end of treatment, approximately 12 months|Time to disease progression, Measure of the length of time from date of study treatment start until the date of cancer progression., Day 1 to date of progression, assessed up to 1 year after discontinuing study drug|Progression free survival, Measure of the proportion of participants without disease progression starting from the time from cycle 1 day 1 dose administration to the time of documented disease progression or death from any cause., Day 1 to date of progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year after discontinuing study drug|Overall survival, Measure of the proportion of participants that are alive starting from the time from cycle 1 day 1 dose administration to the time of death from any cause., Day 1 to death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year after discontinuing study drug
ZN-c3 tumor and plasma concentrations, Measure of tumor and plasma concentrations of ZN-c3., Baseline to completion of on-treatment biopsy, up to 21 days|Cellular and molecular characteristics, Descriptive measure of molecular characteristics of patients' tumor, Baseline to end of study, up to 1 year after discontinuing study drug.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the primary pharmacodynamic effect of wee1 inhibitor ZN-c3 (ZN-c3) in tumor biopsies from patients with advanced triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) and ovarian cancer.

II. To assess safety and tolerability of the proposed therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess clinical benefit of TNBC and ovarian cancer patient from the proposed therapy.

II. To determine time to disease progression. III. To assess participant survival on study.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate ZN-c3 pharmacokinetics (PK). II. To identify predictive biomarkers of sensitivity to therapy. III. To identify emerging mechanisms of resistance to therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Wee1 inhibitor ZN-c3 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for to 1 year.