Stereotactic Radiosurgery in Treating Patients With Large Brain Metastases
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and the best dose of stereotactic radiosurgery and to see how well it works in treating patients with large brain metastases. Radiosurgery can send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Tumors Metastatic to Brain|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor
RADIATION: stereotactic radiosurgery|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|PROCEDURE: cognitive assessment
Maximum-tolerated dose based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) defined as any grade III or IV toxicity as assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (Phase I), Up to 4 months|Response associated with increased dose of SRS as assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Phase II), Up to 2 years
Incidence of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE version 4.0 (Phase II), Toxicity will be summarized as frequencies and percentages with a corresponding exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years|Quality of life (QOL) as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-BR) and the European Organization for Research and Treatment (EORTC)- Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ30), Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the incidence of acute and long-term toxicities with increasing dose of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). (Phase I) II. To determine if local control may be improved with increasing doses of SRS. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the risk of acute and long-term toxicity with increasing dose of SRS. (Phase II) II. To determine if there is increased neurocognitive toxicity with increased dose of SRS.

III. To determine the rate of radiation necrosis/steroid dependency. IV. To determine if quality of life is affected more by tumor recurrence versus radiation necrosis. This includes assessment of progression free survival, overall survival, local failure, and number of patients who receive bevacizumab, laser interstitial thermal therapy, or surgery for presumed radiation necrosis.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients undergo SRS guided by computer tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

After completion of treatment, patients are followed up at 1-2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 4 months thereafter.