Sapanisertib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Bladder Cancer With TSC1 and/or TSC2 Mutations
This pilot phase II trial studies how well sapanisertib works in treating patients with bladder cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or other places in the body (metastatic) with tuberous sclerosis (TSC)1 and/or TSC2 mutations (changes in deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\]). Sapanisertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Locally Advanced Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Metastatic Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|Recurrent Bladder Carcinoma|Stage III Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Sapanisertib
Overall Response Rate (TSC1 Patients), Overall Response Rate is the proportion of the patients with either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) version 1.1. Complete Response (CR) is defined as disappearance of all target lesions and partial response (PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Overall Response Rate is the proportion of the patients with either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by Response Evaluation Criteria. In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) version 1.1. Complete Response (CR) is defined as disappearance of all target lesions and partial response (PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of study treatment (approximately 19 weeks)
Incidence of Toxicity (TSC1 Patients), Presented are the most frequently occurring adverse events (25% of patients or greater), Up to 4 weeks after last dose of study treatment (approximately 19 weeks)|Progression-free Survival (PFS) (TSC1 Patients), The censored PFS distributions will each be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) survivorship function. Point estimates and 90% (2-sided) CIs will be computed for all estimable summary statistics, e.g., the median, 6-month rate, 12-month rate, etc. Upon results entry, no patients had reached 6 or 12 months PFS and the outcome and timeframe have been updated. Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to date of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression by RECIST v1.1 criteria is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Time from start of treatment to date of progression or death- (approximately 19 weeks)|Overall Survival (OS) (TSC1 Patients), The censored OS distributions will each be estimated by the K-M survivorship function. Point estimates and 90% (2-sided) CIs will be computed for all estimable summary statistics, e.g., the median, 6-month rate, 12-month rate, etc., Time from start of treatment to time of death from any cause, up to approximately 9 months
Overall Response Rate (TSC2 Patients), Up to 4 weeks after last dose of study treatment (approximately 19 weeks)|Incidence of Toxicity (TSC2 Patients), The occurrence rate of each specific type of toxicity at a certain severity grade will be described by point estimates and Wilson type 90% (2-sided) CIs., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of study treatment|Progression-free Survival (TSC2 Patients), The censored PFS distributions will each be estimated by the K-M survivorship function. Point estimates and 90% (2-sided) CIs will be computed for all estimable summary statistics, e.g., the median, 6-month rate, 12-month rate, etc., Time from start of treatment to date of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Overall Survival (TSC2 Patients), The censored OS distributions will each be estimated by the K-M survivorship function. Point estimates and 90% (2-sided) CIs will be computed for all estimable summary statistics, e.g., the median, 6-month rate, 12-month rate, etc., Time from start of treatment to time of death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) defined as complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) harboring a TSC1 mutation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of sapanisertib (MLN0128) (TAK-228) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic TCC harboring a TSC1 or TSC2 mutation.

II. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the ORR in patients with locally advanced or metastatic TCC harboring a TSC2 mutation.

II. To evaluate toxicity, PFS, and OS in TSC2 mutation patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sapanisertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and every 6 months thereafter.