Study of BEBT-109 in Subjects With EGFR Exon 20 Insertion Mutations Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This study is an open-label, multicenter Phase II trial, planning to enroll 200 subjects, using BEBT-109 capsules as monotherapy, aimed at evaluating the efficacy and safety of BEBT-109 capsules in subjects with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) exon 20 insertion mutations in locally advanced or metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer （NSCLC）.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|EGFR Exon 20 Insertion Mutation
DRUG: BEBT-109 Capsule
ORR, Objective Response Rate, Every 8 weeks,assessed up to 24 months.|PFS, Progression-Free Survival, Every 8 weeks,assessed up to 24 months.
DOR, Duration of Response, Every 8 weeks,assessed up to 24 months.|DCR, Disease Control Rate, Every 8 weeks,assessed up to 24 months.|TTR, Time to Response, Every 8 weeks,assessed up to 24 months.|OS, Overall Survival, From date of administration until date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months.|Adverse Events, Safety and tolerability are assessed through imaging examinations, systemic adverse events, and laboratory abnormalities., From the first dose of medication to 30 days after the last dose in subjects.
This study is designed with two cohorts, each comprising approximately 100 subjects. Cohort 1 includes subjects with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in NSCLC who have failed or are intolerant to at least one systemic chemotherapy and have not received third-generation EGFR (Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor) TKI therapy. Cohort 2 includes subjects with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in NSCLC who have failed or are intolerant to at least one systemic chemotherapy and have experienced Progressive Disease after receiving standard-dose third-generation EGFR TKI therapy.Subjects receive BEBT-109 capsules treatment with a dosage of 120mg bid (twice a day), and each 28-day period constitutes a cycle. In case of intolerance during the treatment, dose adjustments can be made according to the adjustment plan.

Each subject's study process includes three phases: the screening period, the treatment period, and the post-treatment follow-up period. The screening period can last up to 28 days.During the treatment period, tumor assessments are conducted every 8 weeks (±7 days). If the initial response is Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR ), a confirmation assessment for efficacy is required between 4-6 weeks. Subjects can continue to receive study medication until Progressive Disease (PD), death, intolerable toxicity occurs, or the subject withdraws informed consent (whichever comes first). After discontinuing treatment, subjects will enter the post-treatment follow-up period, receiving efficacy follow-ups every 8 weeks (±7 days) (until tumor progression or other anti-tumor treatments are administered) and survival follow-ups every 3 months (±7 days).

When a subject experiences the first instance of Progressive Disease, if the investigator believes that continued use of the study medication may still be beneficial, the subject is allowed to continue receiving study medication until imaging indicates no clinical benefit.