Reducing Distress and Depressive-symptoms in Rural Women
Approximately 30% of U.S. breast cancer survivors experience significant cancer-related distress ranging from adjustment disorders, depression-symptoms and major depression up to 20 years after diagnosis. For rural cancer survivors, lack of access to care, support and stigma associated with cancer and mental health, challenge rural women's ability to prevent cancer-related distress and its deleterious outcomes. However, these barriers may be overcome by a new Internet-based psychoeducational program designed for newly diagnosed women; CaringGuidance™- After Breast Cancer Diagnosis. This self-guided program provides information, cognitive-behavioral and supportive coping strategies in a text/audio/visual format accessed via Internet/mobile devices to increase understanding and provide supportive tools to prevent/manage distress and depressive-symptoms. This pilot study will determine preliminary efficacy of the CaringGuidance™ program on distress and depressive-symptoms monthly and over 3 months, for rural women newly diagnosed with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Psychological Adjustment
BEHAVIORAL: CaringGuidance After Breast Cancer Diagnosis
change from baseline in distress at 1, 2, and 3 months, self-report of psychological distress, at baseline and months 1, 2, and 3|change from baseline in depressive-symptoms at 1, 2, and 3 months, self-report of depressive-symptoms, at baseline and months 1, 2, and 3
Of the 3.1 million U.S. breast cancer survivors, approximately 30% experience significant cancer-related distress ranging from sub-threshold to diagnosable adjustment disorders, depression-symptoms and major depression up to 20 years after diagnosis. Rural cancer survivors report poorer mental health than urban survivors. Lack of access to care, support and stigma associated with cancer and mental health, challenge rural women's ability to prevent cancer-related distress and its deleterious outcomes. These barriers may be overcome by a new Internet-based, psychoeducational program designed for newly diagnosed women; CaringGuidance™- After Breast Cancer Diagnosis. This self-guided program provides information, cognitive-behavioral and supportive coping strategies in a text/audio/visual format accessed via Internet/mobile devices to increase understanding, and provide supportive tools to prevent/manage distress and depressive-symptoms.

The aims of this pilot study are to determine preliminary efficacy of the CaringGuidance™ program on distress and depressive-symptoms monthly and over 3 months, for rural women newly diagnosed with breast cancer, and trial measures and methods, prior to a fully powered randomized controlled clinical trial.

Sixty rural women, will be randomized to 3 months of self-guided CaringGuidance™ program access with usual care or usual care alone. Both groups complete monthly standard psychosocial measures, daily activity/symptom logs and receive a monthly call. Program engagement/dose will be measured by the CaringGuidance™ internal data system. Descriptive and inferential statistics will characterize the sample and determine differences between groups at monthly intervals and overall. Variability of outcome variables will also be assessed to determine usefulness.