Abemaciclib + Pembrolizumab In Glioblastoma
This research study is studying a combination therapy as a possible treatment for recurrent glioblastoma (GBM), a brain tumor that is growing or progressing despite earlier treatment.

This study will involve participants with recurrent glioblastoma at their first relapse enrolled in two arms including patients who require reoperation and patients not requiring surgery.

This research study involves a combination of two drugs:

* Pembrolizumab (MK3475)
* Abemaciclib (LY2835219)
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Abemaciclib
TIL density in tumor tissue (surgery), One-sided Wilcoxon test, Day 1-Post Surgery|Progression Free Survival 6 months (non surgery), Kaplan Meier curves, 6 months|Radiographic response rate (non surgery), RANO Criteria, 2 years|Median progression free survival, 2 Years|Overall survival, calculated using standard statistical methods, From date of first dose (date of first post-surgery treatment for participants in Cohort 1) to date of death due to any causeup to 100 months|Tumor cell death (Surgery), Effects of abemaciclib and pembrolizumab on tumor cell proliferation and tumor cell death will be measured using immunohistochemistry for pRB1, Ki-67 and Cleaved Caspase 3, 2 years|tumor cell proliferation (surgery), Effects of abemaciclib and pembrolizumab on tumor cell proliferation and tumor cell death will be measured using immunohistochemistry for pRB1, Ki-67 and Cleaved Caspase 3, 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease.

"Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

Many brain cancers show over expression of a protein called cyclin D1. That means that the body makes too much cyclin D1, which affects enzymes called CDK 4 and CDK 6. Enzymes are substances in the body that help reactions between cells happen. Too much cyclin D1 triggers CDK 4 and CDK 6 to make more cells than normal. This extra cell production leads to the growth of tumors.

In laboratory studies, abemaciclib was able to enter the brain, stop CDK 4 and CDK 6 from making cells, and slow growth of glioblastoma in mice.

Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) has been studied in lab experiments and in other types of cancer. Information from these studies suggests that Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) may be beneficial inrecurrent glioblastoma (GBM). Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is a humanized monoclonal antibody. An antibody is a common type of protein made in the body in response to a foreign substance. Antibodies attack foreign substances and protect against infection. Antibodies can also be produced in the laboratory for use in treating patients; an antibody that is made in the lab is also known as a humanized monoclonal antibody that is designed to block the action of the receptor, PD-1. PD-1 works to help tumor cells continue to grow and multiply. There are now several approved antibodies for the therapy of cancer and other diseases.

.