The iCat2, GAIN (Genomic Assessment Informs Novel Therapy) Consortium Study
This research study is evaluating the use of specialized testing of solid tumors including sequencing. The process of performing these specialized tests is called tumor profiling. The tumor profiling may result in identifying changes in genes of the tumor that indicate that a particular therapy may have activity. This is called an individualized cancer therapy (iCat) recommendation. The results of the tumor profiling and, if applicable, the iCat recommendation will be returned.
Pediatric Solid Tumor
GENETIC: Genetic testing and GAIN report
Overall Survival, In pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory solid tumors who undergo successful molecular profiling, a) to describe the overall survival of patients by treatment group (iCatM, iCatUM and UM); b) to identify demographic, clinical, and genomic factors associated with overall survival from the time of relapse/progression (OSr); and c)to store tumor material, derived cell lines / xenografts, and blood samples for general sample banking and potential future research., 18 months
Identification of the patient, clinical, and medication access factors associated with a) having an iCat recommendation and b) with receipt of matched targeted therapy., 2 Years|Determination of factors associated with response and progression-free survival time by treatment group for patients with recurrent/refractory disease and measurable/evaluable disease., 2 Years|Description of the frequency and range of molecular alterations in pediatric solid tumors at diagnosis and at relapse including a comparison of potentially targetable variants in paired tumor samples obtained from relapse and at initial diagnosis., 2 Years|Determination of whether participation in a genomics study provides psychological well-being and whether that is associated with level of genomic comprehension and with receipt of an iCat recommendation., 2 Years
Patients with extra-cranial (not in the brain) solid tumors that are either difficult to diagnose or more difficult to treat are eligible to participate in this study. All enrolled patients will have targeted sequencing of tumor performed. Sequencing results will be reviewed for clinically significant findings including determination of whether any mutations exist that suggest potential for activity of a targeted therapy (iCat recommendation). Results will be returned to the patient's oncologist and follow-up data will be collected.

In this prospective multi-center cohort study, the primary objective is to describe the outcomes of pediatric patients with advanced solid tumors according to whether or not they received of targeted therapy matched to an iCat recommendation. The primary clinical outcome of interest is the endpoint of overall survival (OS), with progression-free survival and response rate (RR) as key secondary clinical outcome measures. To address this hypothesis, 825 patients will enroll from an anticipated 11 participating institutions over 3 years.