Novel Esophago-Jejunal Anastomosis Method During Totally Laparoscopic Total Gastrectomy
Laparoscopic gastrectomy became a good option for early gastric cancer. Surgical trend is gradually changed to totally laparoscopic gastrectomy from laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy requiring mini-laparotomy. Various types of intracorporeal anastomosis have been introduced for esophagojejunostomy during total gastrectomy. We invented a novel anastomosis method using linear stapler for total gastrectomy. Three procedures (Jejunal resection, esophageal resection and closure of common entry hole after anastomosis) was performed with only one stapler. Therefore, the novel method is simple and fast. Also, this new technique is better economically than previously introduced anastomosis using linear stapler because lesser number of stapler is required. We want to demonstrate the feasibility of novel intracorporeal anastomosis method during laparoscopic total gastrectomy.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Intracorporeal esophagojejunostomy
Anastomosis related complication rate, Anastomotic leakage, intraluminal bleeding, or stenosis were considered as anastomosis related complication, During 30 days after operation
Laparoscopic gastrectomy became a good option for early gastric cancer. Surgical trend is gradually changed to totally laparoscopic gastrectomy from laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy requiring mini-laparotomy. Various types of intracorporeal anastomosis have been introduced for esophagojejunostomy during total gastrectomy. We invented a novel anastomosis method using linear stapler for total gastrectomy. Three procedures (Jejunal resection, esophageal resection and closure of common entry hole after anastomosis) was performed with only one stapler. Therefore, the novel method is simple and fast. Also, this new technique is better economically than previously introduced anastomosis using linear stapler because lesser number of stapler is required. We want to demonstrate the feasibility of novel intracorporeal anastomosis method during laparoscopic total gastrectomy.