Pilot Study Of Unrelated UCB Transplant for Non-Malignant Hematologic Conditions
RATIONALE: Umbilical cord blood transplantation may allow doctors to give higher doses of chemotherapy or radiation therapy and kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well umbilical cord blood transplantation works in treating patients with severe aplastic anemia, malignant thymoma, or myelodysplasia.
Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Diseases
BIOLOGICAL: anti-thymocyte globulin|DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: methylprednisolone|PROCEDURE: bone marrow ablation with stem cell support|PROCEDURE: umbilical cord blood transplantation|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Event-free survival by disease assessment, at 100 days and at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months
Umbilical cord blood donor engraftment by chimerism and complete blood count (CBC) at time of myeloid recovery., 100 days and at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the rates of durable engraftment in patients with severe aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, inborn errors of metabolism, or inherited hematopoietic disorders, refractory to medical management, who are undergoing high-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by unrelated cord blood (UCB) transplantation.
* Evaluate the rate and quality of immunologic reconstitution in this patient population.

OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to weight (under 45 kg vs over 45 kg).

Patients receive high-dose chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy as a conditioning regimen beginning 6-9 days before the umbilical cord blood transplant (UCBT). The regimen varies according to the underlying cause of the anemia, but could include busulfan, cyclophosphamide or melphalan, anti-thymocyte globulin or methylprednisolone, and/or radiation therapy. One day after the conditioning regimen is completed, patients receive the UCBT.

Patients are followed weekly for 3 months, at 6 months, then every 6 months for 2.5 years, then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4-90 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.