Increasing Uptake of Evidence-Based Screening Services Through CHW-led Multi-modality Intervention
The purpose of this research study is to determine the best way to increase screening for cervical cancer, colorectal cancer, HIV, and Hepatitis C among under screened Hispanic, Haitian and African-American individuals in Hialeah, South Dade, and Little Haiti. The investigator will compare home testing led by a community health worker (CHW) versus clinic testing guided by a CHW. Community Health Workers are people who have undergone several weeks of community outreach and health education training. During the study period the participant will continue to receive all of their regular medical care from their regular health care providers. If the participant does not have a health care provider, the Community Health Workers would be able to help in referring the participant for care at a local health care clinic located in their community.
Human Papillomavirus|Human Immunodeficiency Virus|Hepatitis C|ColoRectal Cancer
DEVICE: OraQuick Swab|DEVICE: Fecal Immunochemical Test|DEVICE: OraQuick Fingerstick|OTHER: Standard Screening Tests|DEVICE: HPV Self-Sampling Test|OTHER: Home Based Screening Tests
Percentage of Participants Who Are Screened for All Conditions, As evaluated by participant self report and completed sampling kits. Female participants are to be screened on 4 conditions: HIV, HCV, Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) and Fecal Immunochemical Testing (FIT). Male participants are to be screened on 3 conditions: HIV, Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) and FIT., Baseline
Change in Percentage of Participants Completing Screening Test From Baseline to 6 Months, As evaluated by participant self report and completed sampling kits. Female participants are to be screened on 4 conditions: HIV, HCV, HPV and FIT. Male participants are to be screened on 3 conditions: HIV, HCV and FIT., Baseline, Up to 6 months|Median Number of Screenings Completed, As evaluated by participant self report and completed sampling kits. Female participants are to be screened on 4 conditions: HIV, HCV, HPV and FIT. Male participants are to be screened on 3 conditions: HIV, HCV and FIT., At baseline and at 6 months
The purpose of this research study is to determine the best way to increase screening for cervical cancer, colorectal cancer, HIV, and Hepatitis C among under screened Hispanic, Haitian and African-American individuals in Hialeah, South Dade, and Little Haiti. The investigator will compare home testing led by a community health worker (CHW) versus clinic testing guided by a CHW. Community Health Workers are people who have undergone several weeks of community outreach and health education training. During the study period the participant will continue to receive all of their regular medical care from their regular health care providers. If the participant does not have a health care provider, the Community Health Workers would be able to help in referring the participant for care at a local health care clinic located in their community.