Clinical Effect and Safety of PDT and RFA for Unresectable EHCC
The prognosis of patients with advanced unresectable EHCC is very poor with a median survival of 3 to 6 months. Active control of tumor growth is the key to extending stent patency and survival for patients with unresectable locally advanced EHCC. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is by far the only modality that has shown to improve stent patency as well as over survival (OS) in patients with cholangiocarcinoma. In recent years, many studies have shown that endoscopic radiofrequency ablation (RFA) extends stent patency and possibly the survival of patients with malignant biliary obstruction. However, there are few reports comparing the clinical efficacy and advers event of these two endoscopic treatment.
Cholangiocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Photodynamic therapy|PROCEDURE: radiofrequency ablation
Overall survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from initial RFA to death or the end of the study., two years
Adverse events, Number of patients with adverse events, two years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS was measured from randomization until the date of disease progression or death, two years
Extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (EHCC) originates from the hepatic hilar region to the lower common bile duct. The prognosis of patients with advanced unresectable EHCC is very poor with a median survival of 3 to 6 months. Active control of tumor growth is the key to extending stent patency and survival for patients with unresectable locally advanced EHCC. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is by far the only modality that has shown to improve stent patency as well as over survival (OS) in patients with cholangiocarcinoma. In an attempt to improve stent patency placed for malignant biliary obstruction, enthusiasm for endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography (ERCP)-guided radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been increasing in recent years. The HABIBTM EndoHBP catheter is an endoscopic bipolar RFA catheter with proven safety and effectiveness for biliary RFA of cholangiocarcinoma. Many studies have shown that endoscopic RFA extends stent patency and possibly the survival of patients with malignant biliary obstruction. However, there are few reports comparing the clinical efficacy and advers event of these two endoscopic treatment.