Stepped Palliative Care Versus Early Integrated Palliative Care in Patients With Advanced Lung Cancer
This research study is evaluating ways to provide palliative care to patients who have recently been diagnosed with lung cancer
Lung Cancer
OTHER: Stepped PC|OTHER: Early Integrated PC
Patient-reported Quality of Life, Quality of life as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung Range 0-136 with higher scores indicating better quality of life, 24 Weeks
Proportion of Patients Who Self-report Discussing Their End of Life Care Preferences With Their Clinicians, Compare the proportion of patients who report that they discussed their end-of-life care preferences with their clinicians based on a single item from the perceptions of prognosis and treatment questionnaire (PTPQ). The PTPQ includes an item that measures patient report of communication about their wishes if they were dying (yes vs. no)., 48 weeks (or last assessment prior to death if before 48 weeks)|Length of Stay in Hospice, Length of stay in hospice as collected per medical record review, From hospice enrollment until death during study period (i.e. 12-month follow up)|Palliative Care Resource Utilization, Mean number of palliative care visits, week 24
Cost-effectiveness, Cost effectiveness as assessed by data collection from the medical record, hospital cost accounting systems, and patient report as per the EuroQOL, up to 5 years|Patients' Prognostic Understanding, Perception of Treatment and Prognosis Questionnaire (PTPQ), last assessment collected during study or prior to death|Health Care Utilization, Healthcare utilization as measured the means and proportion of patients who experience emergency department visits, hospital admission, and chemotherapy administration at the end of life between the two groups., prior to death or end of study period
Patients with serious cancers, like advanced lung cancer, often experience physical symptoms, such as pain or shortness of breath. In addition, both patients and their loved ones (family and friends) often feel worried or sad about their cancer diagnosis.

Research has shown that early involvement of a team of clinicians that specialize in lessening (or "palliating") many of these distressing physical and emotional symptoms and in helping patients and their family cope with a serious illness improves patients' and their loved ones' experience with their cancer. This team is called "palliative care," and consists of physicians and advanced practice nurses (or "nurse practitioners") who work closely and collaboratively with your oncology team to care for the participant and the participant's loved ones. Research shows that when the palliative care team works closely with the oncology team to care for patients with advanced cancer, they may have better symptom control, quality of life, and mood and their loved ones feel less distressed.

This study will compare two different strategies for scheduling participant's visits with the palliative care clinician. The first strategy is to schedule the participant to meet with the palliative care clinician regularly each month. The investigators call this strategy "early integrated palliative care".

The second strategy is to schedule the participant to meet with the palliative care clinician after the participant is admitted to the hospital or if the participant's oncology team needs to change the participant cancer treatment, as these are times when the participant is likely to have health issues that the palliative care clinician can help with. The investigators will also monitor the participant's quality of life regularly. If the study team determines that the participant quality of life worsens, the investigators will increase the frequency of the participant's visits with the palliative care clinician to monthly appointments. The investigators call this strategy "stepped palliative care" because the investigators step up the frequency of the participant palliative care visits if the participant's quality of life worsens during the participant cancer treatment.

No matter which strategy the participant is taking part in, the participant will still be able to request additional palliative care visits outside of the study schedule if the participant feel they need them.