Alternate Dosing of PROCRIT (Epoetin Alfa) in Patients With Cancer and Chemotherapy Induced Anemia
The purpose of this study was to test the effectiveness and safety of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) at a higher starting dose (60,000 Units) once per week, followed by a less frequent dose (60,000 Units every two weeks) in patients with cancer and chemotherapy induced anemia.
Anemia|Chemotherapy
DRUG: Epoetin alfa
Proportion of patients with a >= 1 g/dL increase in Hb above baseline in Phase A independent of transfusion within 4 weeks
Phase B: Maintain or increase the absolute Hb level achieved in Phase A (up to 0.9 g/dL higher) or maintain or increase the Hb level above that achieved in Phase A independent of transfusion within 4 weeks
This was an open-label, non-randomized, multicenter pilot study where patients who were receiving chemotherapy for non-myeloid malignancy (cancer) with a baseline hemoglobin (Hb) \<= 11 g/dL were enrolled. The primary objective of this pilot study was to estimate the hematologic responses for the dosing regimen of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa), starting at a dose of 60,000 Units (U) administered subcutaneously (sc, under the skin) once per week (qw) for four weeks ("Phase A"), followed by a dose of 60,000 U every two weeks (q2w) ("Phase B") in patients with cancer and chemotherapy induced anemia. If, at any time during the study the Hb level rose to \>13 g/dL, PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) therapy was held until the Hb reached \<=12 g/dL, then resumed at a reduced dose in both Phase A and Phase B. The dose was also reduced if a very rapid Hb response occurred (i.e. an increase of more than 1.3 g/dL in a 2-week period). The secondary objective of the study was to determine the incidence of anti-erythropoietin antibodies (anti-EPO Ab), at baseline and at end of study/early withdrawal in patients who had received a minimum of one dose of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa). Rarely, anti-erythropoietin antibodies may form in patients who have some types of diseases (e.g., autoimmune diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, anemia of chronic disease), or in response to exposure to erythropoietin products such as Epoetin alfa necessitating discontinuation of the erythropoietin agent and medical treatment that may include blood transfusions.

Safety evaluations included clinical laboratory tests (hemoglobin and hematocrit), vital signs measurements (blood pressure), and incidence and severity of adverse events.

This study determined if higher initial weekly doses resulted in a higher initial response rate and/or a more brisk hemoglobin rise. Patients received PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) 60,000 Units (U) once a week for 4 weeks. At Week 5 if hemoglobin increased by \>= 1 g/dL above baseline, the PROCRIT dose was changed to 60,000 U every 2 weeks for \<= 12 weeks. An additional PROCRIT dose was given if chemotherapy completed before Week 16.