Daratumumab and Donor Lymphocyte Infusion in Treating Participants With Relapsed Acute Myeloid Leukemia After Stem Cell Transplant
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of donor lymphocyte infusions when given together with daratumumab and to see how well they work in treating participants with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back after a stem cell transplant. A donor lymphocyte infusion is a type of therapy in which lymphocytes (white blood cells) from the blood of a donor are given to a participant who has already received a stem cell transplant from the same donor. The donor lymphocytes may kill remaining cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as daratumumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving daratumumab and donor white blood cells may work better in treating participants with acute myeloid leukemia.
Minimal Residual Disease|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Myelodysplasia-Related Changes|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|PROCEDURE: Donor Lymphocyte Infusion|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Safety and Feasibility Defined as the Establishment of the Appropriate Dose Level of Donor Lymphocyte Infusion When Given With a Fixed Dose of Daratumumab, Up to 6 months
Rates of Complete Remission, Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival and relapse will be made. Response will be measured using standard criteria. For pre/post-treatment comparisons in the correlative part of the study, a paired t-test will be applied. Two-tailed p values \<0.05 will be considered statistically significant in all analyses., Up to 6 months|Post-relapse Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival and relapse will be made. Response will be measured using standard criteria. For pre/post-treatment comparisons in the correlative part of the study, a paired t-test will be applied. Two-tailed p values \<0.05 will be considered statistically significant in all analyses., At 6 months|Post-relapse Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival and relapse will be made. Response will be measured using standard criteria. For pre/post-treatment comparisons in the correlative part of the study, a paired t-test will be applied. Two-tailed p values \<0.05 will be considered statistically significant in all analyses., Up to 6 months|Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Conversion Rates, Up to 6 months
Expression of CD38 on Bone Marrow, CD38 expression on bone marrow is checked prior to transplant. Most patients are in remission prior to transplant. Patients who were initially treated at Ohio State University (OSU) will have banked leukemia samples at the time of diagnosis. Expression of CD38 on samples at diagnosis and prior to transplant by immunohistochemical staining will be performed., Up to 6 months|Expression of CD38 in Lymphocytes in Bone Marrow, Percentage of lymphocytes in bone marrow pre- and post-treatment with daratumumab will be studied. In addition to percentage, expression of CD38 on lymphocytes will be evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC)., Baseline to 6 months|Phenotypic Studies to Evaluate T Cell Exhaustion/Function, This will be performed on bone marrow samples pre-and post-treatment with Daratumumab at the specified time points., Baseline to 6 months|Phenotypic Studies to Evaluate Activation Status of Natural Killer (NK) Cells, This will be performed on bone marrow samples pre-and post-treatment with daratumumab., Up to 6 months|T-cell, NK Cell, B-cell, and Myeloid-derived Suppressor Cells (MDSC) Infiltration in Bone Marrow, This will be evaluated on bone marrow samples pre-and post-treatment with daratumumab., Baseline to 6 months|Exosomes From Bone Marrow, This will be examined for both number and also content (protein, messenger ribonucleic acid \[mRNA\], and micro RNAs \[mIRs\])., Up to 6 months|Serial Assessment of Microenvironment, Will be assessed with with stromal cell cultures., Up to 6 months|Chimerism Analysis, Using single-nucleotide polymorphisms, relative contributions from donor vs. recipient in sorted CD3+ and CD33+ cells will be measured and expressed as a percentage., Up to 6 months|Immune Reconstitution, Dr.Gerard Lozanski has developed a panel called the Immunome to study reconstitution of T cells, NK cells and B cells post-transplant. Specific information regarding stages of activation of T cells is also available from this panel., Up to 6 months|Immune Response Post Daratumumab, Up to 6 months|Phenotypic Studies to Evaluate T Cell Exhaustion, This will be performed on bone marrow samples pre-and post-treatment with daratumumab., Baseline to 6 months|Phenotypic Studies to Evaluate Activation Status of NK Cells, This will be performed on bone marrow samples pre-and post-treatment with daratumumab., Baseline to 6 months|Measurements of Cytokines Including But Not Limited to Interferon Gamma (IFN-y), This will be measured at relapse, pre and post daratumumab treatment. Exosomes from bone marrow will be examined at these serial times for both number and also content (protein, messenger ribonucleic acid \[mRNA\], and micro RNA \[mIRs\])., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate safety and tolerability of daratumumab and escalating doses of donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI) in post-hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) patients with relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) transformed to AML (phase I).

II. To evaluate overall response rate to daratumumab and DLI in patients with post-HCT relapsed AML and MDS (phase II).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess overall response rates in minimal residual disease (MRD) positive patients and in patients with overt morphological relapse.

II. To assess MRD conversion rates from MRD positive to MRD negative. III. To determine the post-relapse 6-month overall response (OS) rates of patients with relapsed AML and MDS following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) who are treated with daratumumab.

IV. To determine the rates of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) (both grades II-IV and III-IV) and autoimmune side effects of daratumumab.

V. To determine the post-relapse 6-month progression-free survival (PFS) rates of patients with relapsed AML and MDS following allo-HSCT who are treated with daratumumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare CD38 expression levels in myeloid blasts and interferon gamma (IFN-y) levels in plasma at the time of relapse before starting daratumumab and at progression or relapse after daratumumab.

II. To compare peripheral blood T cell number and subsets (CD3, CD4, CD8, (CD38 expression on regulatory T cells \[T-regs\], CD4 and CD8), T regs, B-regulatory cells, natural killer (NK) cell numbers and bone marrow T cell subsets at the time of relapse before starting daratumumab, at the time of partial/complete response to daratumumab, and at the time of progression or relapse after daratumumab.

III. To evaluate whether daratumumab has (i) direct anti-leukemia effects (ii) antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) and (III) immune modulation of autologous immune system (NK cells, T cells, T-regs, B-regulatory cells \[B-regs\], and myeloid-derived suppressor cells \[MDSCS\]) in AML.

IV. To evaluate the effect of daratumumab on exosome content and clearance along with other soluble factors in AML.

V. To evaluate serum interferon (IFN) levels pre-daratumumab, during and post-daratumumab.

VI. To evaluate whether fratricide occurs in patients treated with daratumumab.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of donor lymphocyte infusions followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive daratumumab intravenously once a week for 8 weeks and donor lymphocyte infusion in weeks 3 or 4 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants found to be in complete response (CR) at the end of 8 weeks may receive daratumumab IV once every 2 weeks for 8 weeks, and then once monthly for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 1 year.