Sorafenib and Anastrozole in Treating Postmenopausal Women With Metastatic Breast Cancer
Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor and by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Estradiol can cause the growth of breast cancer. Hormone therapy using anastrozole may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estradiol by the tumor cells. Sometimes when hormone therapy is given, it does not stop the growth of tumor cells. The tumor is said to be resistant to hormone therapy. Giving sorafenib together with anastrozole may reduce drug resistance and allow the tumor cells to be killed. This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of sorafenib when given in combination with anastrozole and to see how well they work in treating postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer.
Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|DRUG: anastrozole
Complete Response + Partial Response + Stable Disease > 24 Weeks, Clinical Outcome measured using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST,)V1.0, and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), a tumor that is neither growing nor shrinking.

A patient has clinical benefit from treatment if CR + PR + SD \> 24 weeks., 24 weeks
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Number of patients treated with the sorafenib / anastrozole combination who experienced Grade 1-4 adverse events according to NCI common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 3.0, 1 year|Tumor Marker Analysis, Number of participants with significant change in the following circulating tumor biomarkers, measured by flow cytometry: cluster designation (CD)146, CD133. Values were normalized by CD45 values(ie CD146+/CD45- and CD133+/CD45-)., 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the clinical benefit rate of sorafenib in combination with anastrazole in women with estrogen receptor- and/or progesterone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer.

II. Determine the recommended phase II dose of sorafenib when administered with anastrozole in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine the changes in Raf-MAPK and VEGF-signaling pathways in tumor tissue and stroma before and after treatment with this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of sorafenib.

PHASE I: Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily and oral anastrozole once daily on days 1-28.

Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sorafenib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. A minimum of 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

PHASE II: Patients receive sorafenib at the MTD and anastrozole as in phase I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 4-8 weeks.