Conversational Agents to Improve HPV Vaccine Acceptance in Primary Care (ECA-HPV)- Clinical Trial
The objective of this study is to assess the use of and satisfaction with the ECA-HPV intervention over a 16-month period, its ability to increase HPV vaccination, and the comparative effectiveness of clinic notification and adolescent ECA components on these factors.
Human Papilloma Virus
BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care|BEHAVIORAL: ECA-HPV App with Clinic Notification and Adolescent Functions Disabled|BEHAVIORAL: ECA-HPV App with Clinic Notification Function Enabled|BEHAVIORAL: ECA-HPV App with Adolescent Function Enabled|BEHAVIORAL: ECA-HPV App with Clinic Notification and Adolescent Functions Enabled
HPV vaccination series completion comparing the control group to the intervention groups, HPV vaccination series completion for the control group will be compared to the collective rate for the intervention groups. A review of medical records at the T2 timepoint will be done for vaccination series completion., 16 months|HPV vaccination series completion comparing the intervention groups, HPV vaccination series completion will be assessed between participants randomized to the full ECA-HPV versus people randomized to the ECA-HPV with no adolescent app function and no clinic notification function. A review of medical records at the T2 timepoint will be done for vaccination series completion., 16 months
HPV Knowledge, The parent/guardian participants will be asked questions about their HPV knowledge in all three surveys: at baseline (T0), post-first well child visit (T1), and post-second well child visit (T2). Participants will fill out the surveys in REDCap. The outcomes for this measure at T1 and T2 will be compared to the outcome at T0., 16 months|HPV Attitudes, Both the parent/guardian and adolescent participants will be asked questions about their attitudes towards HPV in all three surveys: at baseline (T0), post-first well child visit (T1), and post-second well child visit (T2). Participants will fill out these surveys in REDCap. The outcomes for this measure at T1 and T2 will be compared to the outcome at T0., 16 months|General Vaccine Attitudes, The parent/guardian participants will be asked questions about their attitudes towards vaccines in general in all three surveys: at baseline (T0), post-first well child visit (T1), and post-second well child visit (T2). Participants will fill out these surveys in REDCap. The outcomes for this measure at T1 and T2 will be compared to the outcome at T0., 16 months|ECA-HPV App Satisfaction, If participants are in an intervention group with the ECA-HPV app, their post-first well child visit survey will include questions about use and satisfaction of the app. Participants will fill out these surveys in REDCap., 16 months|Clinic Notification Feature Satisfaction, If participants are in an intervention group with the ECA-HPV app and the clinic notification function enabled, their post-first well child visit survey will include questions about use and satisfaction of this feature. Participants will fill out these surveys in REDCap, 16 months
In the US, universal Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination has the potential to decrease overall burdens of certain cancers. However, HPV vaccination rates for US adolescents of all races, ethnicities, and income levels remain below national targets. Embodied Conversational Agents (ECAs) are animated computer agents that simulate face-to-face conversation between a patient and a caregiver, to provide a natural and intuitive computer interface that is accessible to patients of all levels of health and computer literacy. In this project, we produced smartphone ECAs for HPV vaccination to provide vaccine recommendations and motivational interviewing to parents/guardians and vaccine-eligible adolescents and facilitate communication with clinic staff.

In this study, we will be using the ECA-HPV system to administer interactive information to parents and adolescents in the form of a smartphone app. We will obtain data from participants by asking subjects to fill out surveys on REDCap and electronically from use of the ECA system. The parent/guardian and adolescent participants will each complete 3 surveys over a 16-month period occurring at baseline, after the first well child visit, and after the second well child visit (anticipated to be \~1 year after their initial well child visit). Additionally, a randomly selected subset of adolescent and parent/guardian participant dyads who were in an intervention group where adolescents also had the ECA-HPV adolescent app will be interviewed after their first well child visit about their experience. Lastly, for healthcare providers who have interacted with at least 5 study participants in any of the intervention groups, they will be recruited to participate in qualitative interviews.

For this RCT, the participant dyads (parent/guardian and adolescent) will be randomly assigned into one of five groups (N = 875 dyads). The control group will receive usual standard care (n = 175 dyads). The other four groups are intervention groups in which all will get the ECA-HPV app for the parent/guardian. Additionally, these four groups will receive either (1) the complete ECA-HPV, including the ECA-HPV adolescent app and the clinic notification feature (on both the parent/guardian and adolescent apps) (n = 175 dyads), (2) the ECA-HPV app and adolescent ECA-HPV app with the clinic communication function disabled (n = 175 dyads), (3) the ECA-HPV app with clinic notification with no adolescent ECA-HPV app (n = 175 dyads), or (4) the ECA-HPV app with no clinic communication feature and no adolescent ECA-HPV app (n = 175 dyads).

For this study, we will evaluate whether (1) adolescents who receive the ECA-HPV intervention will have a higher rate of HPV vaccine series completion, (2) participating parents/guardians will have higher vaccine knowledge and greater intention to vaccinate, and (3) vaccine series completion rates will be higher for those receiving the full ECA-HPV intervention, compared to those who get ECA-HPV without the adolescent or clinic notification components.