Docetaxel or Pemetrexed With or Without Cetuximab in Patients With Recurrent or Progressive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This trial is a multicenter, open-label, randomized, Phase III study in patients with recurrent or progressive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) after failure of an initial platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients will receive either Docetaxel or Pemetrexed as chemotherapy at the investigator's choice. Within each chemotherapy group, patients will be randomized to receive Cetuximab plus chemotherapy or chemotherapy alone (Cetuximab \& Pemetrexed or Pemetrexed alone; Cetuximab \& Docetaxel or Docetaxel alone).
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|DRUG: Docetaxel
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization until the date of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause. Participants who were alive and without progression were censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. PFS was assessed by the independent review committee (IRC) in the Pemetrexed group (Cetuximab \& Pemetrexed versus Pemetrexed) and by the investigator in the Docetaxel group (Cetuximab \& Docetaxel versus Docetaxel)., Randomization to progression of disease or death due to any cause up to 59.6 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death. Participants without a date of death were censored on the last date participants were known to be alive, or lost to follow-up., Randomization to the date of death from any cause up to 72.8 months|Proportion of Randomized Participants With the Best Overall Response (OR) of Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR) (Overall Response Rate [ORR]), The best overall response rate (ORR) was the proportion of randomized participants with a best OR of CR or PR, according to modified World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. It was calculated as the total number of participants with CR or PR divided by the total number of participants treated in that arm. Participants with no post-baseline evaluation were considered as non-responders. The tumor response was assessed by the independent review committee (IRC) in the Pemetrexed group and by the investigator in the Docetaxel group., Randomization until progression of disease or death from any cause up to 59.6 months|Proportion of Randomized Participants With Best Overall Response (OR) of Partial Response (PR), Complete Response (CR), or Stable Disease (SD), The disease control rate (DCR) was the proportion of randomized participants with a best OR of CR, PR or SD according to modified World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. It was calculated as the total number of participants with CR, PR or SD divided by the total number of participants randomized in that arm. The tumor response was assessed by the independent review committee (IRC) in the Pemetrexed group and by the investigator in the Docetaxel group., Randomization to progression of disease or death due to any cause up to 59.6 months|Percentage of Participants With Symptomatic Response (Symptom Response Rates) Using the Lung Cancer Subscale (LCS) Scores of Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for Participants With Lung Cancer (FACT-L), The FACT-LCS is a set of 7 questions to inventory problems specific to lung cancer symptoms. Participants rate each item on a 5-point Likert-type scale from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Scores range from 0-28 and higher score indicates fewer symptoms. Symptom response (improvement) was defined as ≥2 point increase from baseline in the 7-item LCS score that was maintained for 2 consecutive assessments at least 3 weeks, and not \>5 weeks apart for participants, whose baseline LCS score was ≤26. Symptom response rate was the percentage of participants with symptomatic response., At baseline, every 3 weeks and 30 days after end of therapy up to 50 months|Time to Symptomatic Progression, The FACT-LCS (see description in Outcome measure 5) inventories problems specific to lung cancer symptoms. Using this Scale, Symptom progression = a ≥ 2 point decrease from baseline in LCS score maintained for 2 consecutive assessments ≥3 weeks, and \<5 weeks, apart. The symptom progression date = the first of 2 consecutive assessments with a ≥2 point decline. Time to symptomatic progression = the time from randomization to the symptom progression date. For participants with no symptom progression, time to symptomatic progression was censored the date of last symptom assessment., Randomization until symptomatic progression up to 48.3 months|Duration of Overall Response (OR), The duration of response, in participants with best OR of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), was measured from the date criteria are met for CR/PR (not confirmation date, whichever was first recorded), until the first occurrence date that the criteria of progressive disease (PD) was met, or death. Participants who were alive and without progression were censored at the date of their last independent review committee (IRC) tumor assessment. The tumor response and progression were assessed by the IRC in the Pemetrexed group and by the investigator in the Docetaxel group., Time of first occurrence of either (PR) or (CR) to the first date of progressive disease or death up to 32.5 months|Number of Participants With Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) Grade 3 or 4 Toxicities, National Cancer Institutes-Common Toxicity Criteria version 3.0 was used by investigators to assess participant toxicities. Mapping of investigator verbatim terms to CTCAE terms was done by the sponsor/designee using CTCAE v4.0. Participants reported had grade 3 or 4 toxicities (or both potentially). Grade 3 AEs: severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening;hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care activities of daily living. Grade 4 AEs: life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated., Time from first dose to 30 days after last dose of study therapy up to 28.3 months for Cetuximab & Pemetrexed (versus Pemetrexed alone) and up to 54.3 months for Cetuximab + Docetaxel (versus Docetaxel alone)
This trial is a multicenter, open-label, randomized, Phase III study in patients with recurrent or progressive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) after failure of an initial platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients will receive either Docetaxel or Pemetrexed as chemotherapy at the investigator's choice. Within each chemotherapy group, patients will be randomized to receive Cetuximab plus chemotherapy or chemotherapy alone (Cetuximab \& Pemetrexed or Pemetrexed alone; Cetuximab \& Docetaxel or Docetaxel alone).