TAS-102 in Treating Advanced Biliary Tract Cancers
This phase II trial studies how well trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 (TAS-102) works in treating participants with biliary tract cancers that have spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in the chemotherapy, such as trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Cholangiocarcinoma|Stage III Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Trifluridine/Tipiracil Hydrochloride Combination Agent TAS-102
16-Week Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate, 16-Week Progression-free survival (PFS) rate is defined as the percentage of patients who are progression-free (stable disease, partial response, or complete response as defined by RECIST v1.1 criteria) at 16 weeks post registration., 16 weeks
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined as the percentage of patients who experience either a partial response or complete response by the given time point. Complete Response (CR):All of the following must be true: a. Disappearance of all target lesions. b. Each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0 cm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the BSD., Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, where disease progression will be determined based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Patients will be censored at the last disease assessment date. The median PFS and 95% confidence interval will be reported., Time from study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. OS is defined as the time from study entry to death from any cause. Patients will be censored at the date patient was last known to be alive. The median OS and 95% confidence interval will be reported., Time from study entry to death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Toxicity Rates (Percentages) for Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events Considered at Least Possibly Related to Treatment, Assessed Using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0 (v4), The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns within patient groups. In addition, we will review all adverse event data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The overall toxicity rates (percentages) for grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment are reported below., Up to 3 years
Change in Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) or Cell-free Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) (cfDNA), Will correlate with efficacy endpoints., Baseline up to 3 years|Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) or Cell-free Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) (cfDNA) Analysis at Baseline, Will determine if CTCs or cfDNA at baseline will correlate with prognosis or response to therapy., Baseline|Mutation Status of the Tumor, Will determine if different mutations status of the tumor will affect efficacy endpoints., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 (FTD/TPI \[TAS-102\]) in patients with refractory cholangiocarcinoma using progression-free survival at 16 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of FTD/TPI (TAS-102) in patients with refractory cholangiocarcinoma through adverse event monitoring.

II. Further explore the efficacy of FTD/TPI (TAS-102) in patients with refractory cholangiocarcinoma by overall response rates, progression-free survival, and overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if circulating tumor cells (CTCs) or cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) at baseline correlates with prognosis or response to therapy.

II. Determine if change in CTCs or cfDNA correlates with efficacy endpoints. III. Determine if different mutational status of the tumor will affect efficacy endpoints.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5 and 8-12. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.