Study to Evaluate VT3989 in Patients with Metastatic Solid Tumors
This is an open-label, dose escalation and expansion study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, and biological activity of VT3989 administered, alone or in combination, once daily in 3- or 4-week cycles in patients with mesothelioma and/or metastatic solid tumors that are resistant or refractory to standard therapy or for which no effective standard therapy is available.
Solid Tumor, Adult|Mesothelioma|NSCLC
DRUG: VT3989|DRUG: Nivolumab & Ipilimumab|DRUG: Osimertinib
Occurrence of Dose Limiting Toxicity, Incidence of Adverse and Serious Adverse Events, over the first 21 days of dosing|Occurrence of General Toxicity, Incidence of Adverse and Serious Adverse Events, Discontinuations due to Adverse Events and general safety Evaluations, through study completion, an average of 30 months
Tumor Response, Determined by RECIST v1.1 or modified RECIST v1.1, through study completion, an average of 30 months|Pharmacokinetic Evaluation - Cmax, Peak plasma concentration of VT3989, for first 6 cycles|Pharmacokinetic Evaluation - Tmax, Time to reach peak plasma concentration of VT3989, for first 6 cycles|Pharmacokinetic Evaluation - Half-life, Time required for the plasma concentration of VT3989 to reduce by half after reaching peak, for first 6 cycles|Overall survival (Part 2, expansion cohort 3 only), The overall survival of the enrolled patients from starting VT3989 treatment, Through study completion, an average of 30 months|Progression free survival (Part 2, expansion cohort 3 only), The progression free survival of the enrolled patients from starting VT3989 treatment, Through study completion, an average of 30 months|Quality of life assessment (Part 2, expansion cohort 3 only), Assessing the Quality of life changes via patient reported outcomes, Through study completion, an average of 30 months
Dose escalation (Part 1) will employ a traditional 3 + 3 design to assess safety of VT3989 in patients with refractory metastatic solid tumors or mesothelioma. The 3 + 3 design will be implemented until the MTD or recommended phase 2 dose(s) and schedule(s) are determined. The MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which \< 33% of patients experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first cycle of the study (Cycle 1).

Dose Expansion (Part 2) will further evaluate the safety and assess preliminary antitumor activity at the recommended phase 2 dose(s) and schedule(s) with up to 6 cohorts. Expansion cohorts 1 and 2 will enroll patients with mesothelioma of any site origin with or without NF2 mutations. Expansion cohort 3 will enroll non-pleural mesothelioma patients. Expansion cohort 4 will enroll solid tumor patients with clearly inactivating NF2 mutations/alterations or YAP/TAZ gene rearrangements. Cohort 5 will enroll pleural mesothelioma patients.

Combination part (Part 3) includes two cohorts. Cohort A will enroll mesothelioma patients who will receive VT3989 in combination with immunotherapy (nivolumab plus ipilimumab). Cohort B will enroll NSCLC patients whose tumors have exon 19 deletion or exon 21 L858R mutation and will receive VT3989 in combination with targeted therapy (Osimertinib).