S0437 Long-Term Follow-Up of Patients Who Were Diagnosed With Prostate Cancer on PCPT
RATIONALE: Learning about the long-term effects of chemoprevention drugs, such as finasteride, in patients with prostate cancer may help doctors plan better treatment and follow-up care.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is following patients who were diagnosed with prostate cancer while undergoing treatment with either finasteride or a placebo on the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT).
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Follow-up
Time to metastases, Up to 8 years post registration
Time to secondary therapy after definitive therapy, Definitive therapy is defined as radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy., Up to 8 years post registration|Time to PSA recurrence after definitive therapy, Definitive therapy is defined as radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy., Up to 8 years post registration|All cause and prostate cancer-specific mortality, Measured in a time-to-event analysis, Up to 8 years post registration
Predictive value of prognostic biomarkers, To enhance the follow-up for the evaluation of the prognostic biomarkers, which are measured outside the scope of this protocol, on the risk of metastatic disease., Up to 8 years post registration
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the time to metastases in patients who were diagnosed with high grade or low grade prostate cancer on or before December 31, 2003 and were treated with finasteride or placebo while enrolled on the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (SWOG-9217).
* Compare the difference in time to secondary therapy after definitive therapy with radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy in these patients.
* Compare the difference in time to prostate-specific antigen recurrence after definitive therapy with radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy in these patients.
* Compare the difference in all-cause and prostate cancer mortality in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to survival status (alive vs deceased).

Patients provide information about their general health, prostate cancer treatment history, prostate cancer status (i.e., disease progression and metastases data), and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test results at baseline and then every 6 months for up to 8 years. Next of kin of deceased patients are asked to release the patients' medical records in order to obtain information about the patients' prostate cancer treatment history, prostate cancer progression and metastases, PSA test results, and cause of death.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 75% of the 2,401 patients (n=1800) diagnosed with prostate cancer on PCPT are needed to have minimal power to evaluate the objectives.