Effect of Lateral Positioning on Bronchial Cuff Pressure of Left-sided Double-lumen Endotracheal Tube During Thoracic Surgery
The investigators evaluate the effect of postural change on the bronchial cuff pressure (BCP) of double-lumen endotracheal tube (DLT) in patients undergoing thoracic surgery, by observing the pressure of the bronchial cuff before and after lateral decubitus positioning.
Lung Cancer|Pneumothorax
BEHAVIORAL: Lateral decubitus positioning|DEVICE: Cuff-manometer
Change of the maximum bronchial cuff pressure (BCP) which does not exceed 40 cmH2O with no air leak from supine to lateral decubitus position, A cuff-manometer will be connected to the valve of the pilot balloon of bronchial cuff via a three-way stopcock. And then, the BCP will be assessed, while inflating the cuff with air in 0.5 ml increments from 0 to 3.0 ml. If the BCP exceeds 40 cmH2O during expansion by increasing 0.5 ml from 0 to 3.0 ml, we will stop inflating the bronchial cuff with air and record the bronchial cuff volume (BCV) and BCP up to the last numerical value. During the pressure measurement, air leak or seal around the bronchial cuff will be assessed at each time point when inflating the cuff in 0.5 ml increments., 1. In supine position, 2 minutes after the completion of confirming the double-lumen endotracheal tube (DLT) position via fiberoptic bronchoscope (FOB) 2. In lateral position, 2 minutes after the completion of confirming the DLT position via FOB
The incidence of the patients whose maximum BCP exceed 40 cmH2O after lateral positioning, 1. In supine position, 2 minutes after the completion of confirming the DLT position via FOB 2. In lateral position, 2 minutes after the completion of confirming the DLT position via FOB|The minimum BCV that is the smallest bronchial cuff volume without air leakage, 1. In supine position, 2 minutes after the completion of confirming the DLT position via FOB 2. In lateral position, 2 minutes after the completion of confirming the DLT position via FOB
It is essential to maintain proper cuff pressure in the endotracheal tube (ETT) when placing the ETT in the trachea in patients undergoing general anesthesia. Most of the literature recommend maintaining a pressure of 20-30 cmH2O to prevent cuff-related complications such as micro-aspiration or airway trauma. Proper pressure is also important for DLTs used in thoracic surgery. Furthermore, the cuff pressure of the ETT can change during the patient's positional changes. All things considered, we hypothesized that the change from supine to lateral decubitus position, which is essential for thoracic surgery would affect the BCP of the DLT.