Testing the Effects of Novel Therapeutics for Newly Diagnosed, Untreated Patients With High-Risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia (A MyeloMATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II MyeloMATCH treatment trial tests whether the standard approach of cytarabine and daunorubicin in comparison to the following experimental regimens works to shrink cancer in patients with high risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML): 1) daunorubicin and cytarabine liposome alone; 2) cytarabine and daunorubicin with venetoclax; 3) azacitidine and venetoclax; 4) daunorubicin and cytarabine liposome and venetoclax. "High-risk" refers to traits that have been known to make the AML harder to treat. Cytarabine is in a class of medications called antimetabolites. It works by slowing or stopping the growth of cancer cells in the body. Daunorubicin is in a class of medications called anthracyclines. It also works by slowing or stopping the growth of cancer cells in the body. Azacitidine is in a class of medications called demethylation agents. It works by helping the bone marrow to produce normal blood cells and by killing abnormal cells. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. There is evidence that these newer experimental treatment regimens may work better in getting rid of more AML compared to the standard approach of cytarabine and daunorubicin.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Post Cytotoxic Therapy|Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Myelodysplasia-Related
DRUG: Azacitidine|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Venetoclax
Minimal residual disease (MRD) response (Arm 1, 2, 4 and 5), Will be analyzed using intent-to-treat (ITT) principles., After induction (28 days) or re-induction (56 days)|Minimal residual disease (MRD) response (Arm 3), Will be analyzed using intent-to-treat (ITT) principles., After two cycles of therapy (56 days)
Early mortality, Will be assessed by death due to any cause between experimental arms and the 7+3 arm will be reported for each arm every DSMC cycle. Fisher's exact will be used to compare observed rates. A one-sided p-value \< 0.05 indicating increased early mortality rates in an experimental arm will be a threshold for termination of accrual to an arm due to increased early mortality., On or before day 28|Time to count recovery, Will be reported every DSMC cycle for the 7+3+venetoclax, (daunorubicin and cytarabine) liposome+venetoclax, and 7+3 arms. Median time to count recovery more than 7 days longer on either of the 7+3+venetoclax and (daunorubicin and cytarabine liposome+venetoclax arms compared to the 7+3 arm will be used a threshold to terminate accrual to an arm due to increased toxicity., After cycle 1 and cycle 2|Event-free survival (EFS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization to the first of: primary refractory disease; progressive disease; off protocol therapy without complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi); relapse from CR or CRi, or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Relapse-free survival (RFS), Defined for only patients achieving complete remission (CR), or CR with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi). Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of achievement of a remission until the date of relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From day of randomization on study until death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to relapse, Will be estimated with cumulative incidence curves with death without relapse analyzed a competing event. Response per 2017 European LeukemiaNet (ELN) guidelines will be tabulated and exact 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 5 years|MRD negative complete remission (MRDneg CR), MRDneg CR rates will be tabulated by genomic subgroups within randomized arms and pooling arms. Rates across arms will be compared using Fisher's exact test. All p-values reported will be nominal., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be analyzed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version (v) 5.0, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare measurable residual disease (MRD) negative complete remission (CR) rates between each of the experimental regimens and cytarabine + daunorubicin (7+3).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities with each of the regimens.

II. To estimate complete remission (CR) rates, complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi, with and without MRD) rates, event-free survival (EFS), time to relapse, relapse-free survival (RFS), and overall survival (OS) with each of the regimens.

III. To describe and compare MRD negative CR rates by genomic subgroups within and across randomized arms.

BAKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 5 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-7 and daunorubicin IV on days 1-3 per standard approach of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 1 cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive an additional cycle of cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5 and daunorubicin IV on days 1-2. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan during screening. Patients also undergo a bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive cytarabine IV continuously on days 2-8 and daunorubicin IV on days 2-4 with venetoclax orally (PO) on days 1-11 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 1 cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive an additional cycle of cytarabine IV continuously on days 2-6 and daunorubicin IV on days 2-3 with venetoclax PO on days 1-8. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA scan during screening. Patients also undergo a bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood throughout the trial.

ARM III: Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or IV on days 1-7 and venetoclax PO on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA scan during screening. Patients also undergo a bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood throughout the trial.

ARM IV: Patients receive daunorubicin and cytarabine liposome IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 1 cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive an additional cycle of daunorubicin and cytarabine liposome IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA scan during screening. Patients also undergo a bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood throughout the trial.

ARM V: Patients receive daunorubicin and cytarabine liposome IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 and venetoclax PO on days 1-14 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 1 cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive an additional cycle of daunorubicin and cytarabine liposome IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3 and venetoclax PO on days 1-7. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA scan during screening. Patients also undergo a bone marrow aspiration and collection of blood throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients follow up every month for first year, every 2 months for the second year, every 3 months for the third year and every 6 months to year 5.