Treatment of Non-resectable Bile Duct Cancer with Radiofrequency Ablation or Photodynamic Therapy
Bile duct cancer is often diagnosed after curative options are no longer available. Stent therapy is used to keep the ducts open and can be combined with photodynamic therapy (PDT) to extend life expectancy. PDT requires an injection of photosensitizer after which light of a particular wavelength is applied endoscopically to kill the cancer cells. Drawbacks include not only high costs and poor availability, but foremost that patients have to avoid direct sunlight for a period of weeks. Radio frequency ablation (RFA) together with stent implantation constitutes an alternative by which the cancer cells are killed through heat, also applied endoscopically. The RFA technology is more widely available and easier to deploy. However, it has not been studied extensively and no randomized trials exist comparing the two methods. This trial will compare survival in patients with a particular bile duct cancer depending on whether they receive PDT or RFA. Moreover, data will be collected on side-effects and quality of life.
Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Photosensitizer|PROCEDURE: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA)
Overall survival, Hazard ratio from a Cox regression model will be used to compare randomization arms. Covariates will be stratification variables, classification of local inoperability, use of prophylactic antibiotics, Bismuth type and time between diagnosis and beginning RFA/PDT., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Overall survival (complementary perspective: median survival time), Estimates of the difference in median survival time between the groups will be based on the method of Chen and Zhang (PMID: 26983640)., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Overall survival (complementary perspective: two-year overall survival), Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used., up to two years|Overall survival (complementary perspective: restricted mean survival on a time horizon of two-years), Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used (see e.g. PMID: 15690989), through study completion, an average of 1 year|Days alive and out of hospital up to two years, This constitutes a basic and easy to understand measure of quality of life. Only in-hospital stays will be included in this endpoint and the day of arrival and dismissal will each be counted. The source of data will be the hospital records, epicrisis and patient disclosure., up to two years|Quality of Life (QoL) measured using QLQ-C30 at various points in time after randomization (V2 (14 days), V3 (ca. 3 months), as a function of time after 6 months, adjusting for the baseline value), Prolonging life is especially worthwhile if QoL is sufficiently good. The established cancer-specific Core Quality of Life questionnaire QLQ-C30 from the EORTC (European Organisation for Research will be used. Shortly after the index therapy (V2, V3), the difference between arms will be assessed. The requirement to stay indoors may affect QoL. At later points in time, a description per arm is of interest and will be based on a weighted mean of all available questionnaires, weighting according to calendar time., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Quality of Life (QoL) measured using FACT-Hep at various points in time after randomization (V2 (14 days), V3 (ca. 3 months), as a function of time after 6 months, adjusting for the baseline value), Prolonging life is especially worthwhile if QoL is sufficiently good. The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Hepatobiliary (FACT-Hep) questionnaire, containing the hepatobiliary-specific cancer subscale, will be used as a second instrument for assessing QoL. Shortly after the index therapy (V2, V3), the difference between arms will be assessed. The requirement to stay indoors may affect QoL. At later points in time, a description per arm is of interest and will be based on a weighted mean of all available questionnaires, weighting according to calendar time., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), Using QALYs, a weighted measure of survival will be compared between RFA and PDT that takes QoL into account. The details will be provided in a Statistical Analysis Plan., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Stent patency based on clinician's assessment (e.g. cholangitis, cholestasis, ultrasound), Stent patency provides one measure of the burden of the disease and efficacy of the treatment. Mean time to stent closure/replacement/death after last stent replacement will be analysed., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (leucocytes), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (haematocrit), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (haemoglobin), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (bilirubin), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (albumin), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (CA 19-9), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (CRP), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (ALT), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Laboratory parameter (GGT), Changes in laboratory parameters after index treatment (V3) and as a function of time will be analysed and compared between randomization arms., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Pruritus as reported by patients on a scale from 0 ("no itching") to 10 ("worst imaginable itching")., Pruritus will be analysed as a function of time., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Klatskin tumours are a form of bile duct cancer. They are generally not diagnosed until quite late and a curative operation is rarely a possibility. Their anatomic location usually results in bile duct obstruction and the aim of therapy is thus to keep the ducts open. This is accomplished through endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) by implanting stents. Stent therapy combined with photodynamic therapy (PDT) extends life expectancy. PDT requires an injection of photosensitizer that is absorbed primarily by the cancer cells. Light of a particular wavelength is then applied with ERCP to kill the cancer cells. Drawbacks include not only high costs and poor availability, but foremost that patients have to avoid direct sunlight for a period of weeks. Radio frequency ablation (RFA) together with stent implantation constitutes an alternative by which the cancer cells are killed through heat applied during ERCP. The RFA technology is more widely available and easier to deploy. However, it has not been studied extensively and no randomized trials exist comparing the two methods. This trial will compare survival in patients with Klatskin tumours depending on whether they receive PDT or RFA. Moreover, data will be collected on side-effects and quality of life.