Optimal Peripheral Nerve Block After Minimally Invasive Colon Surgery
The purpose of the trial is to identify the "most simple non-inferior of three different methods", placebo, laparoscopic assisted transverse abdominal plane block (L-TAP) and ultrasound guided TAP block (US-TAP), using postoperative opioid consumption as a measure of efficacy in patients undergoing elective minimally invasive colon surgery in an ERAS setting. Postoperative pain scores and length of stay (LOS) will also be measured. The simplicity of the three methods is ranked as: 1) placebo, 2) L-TAP and 3) US-TAP.
Pain, Postoperative|Pain, Abdominal|Analgesia|Surgery|Colon Cancer|Injection Site
DRUG: Active drug|DRUG: Placebo|PROCEDURE: Injection of Ropivacaine - Ultrasound-guided transverse abdominal plane block|PROCEDURE: Injection of Ropivacaine - Laparoscopic assisted transverse abdominal plane block|PROCEDURE: Injection of placebo - Ultrasound-guided transverse abdominal plane block|PROCEDURE: Injection of placebo - Laparoscopic assisted transverse abdominal plane block
Total morphine dose equivalents administered., Intravenously in milligrams., The first 24 hours from the end of anesthesia.
Total morphine dose equivalents administered in the operation theater., Intravenously in milligrams., Up to 12 hours.|Total morphine dose equivalents administered in the post anesthesia care unit., Intravenously in milligrams., The first 24 hours from the end of anesthesia.|Postoperative pain at rest - 8:00-10:00 AM (ante meridiem) Postoperative Day 1., 11-point Numeric Rating Scale. 0-10 (higher score - worse outcome)., Postoperative Day 1.|Postoperative pain when coughing - 8:00-10:00 AM Postoperative Day 1, 11-point Numeric Rating Scale. 0-10 (higher score means worse outcome), Postoperative Day 1.|Postoperative length of stay., Days - Measured from the end of anesthesia., Up to 30 days.|Incidence of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting - 8:00-10:00 AM Postoperative Day 1., 4-point Numeric Rating Scale. 0-3 (higher score means worse outcome)., Postoperative Day 1.|Total dose of antiemetic medication administered., Intravenously in milligrams., In the first 24 hours from the end of anesthesia.|Total dose of antiemetic medication administered in the operating theater., Intravenously in milligrams., Up to 12 hours.|Time spent in the post anesthesia care unit., From the end of anesthesia to discharge to ward. Measured in hours and minutes., Up to 30 hours.|Postoperative mobilisation., 4-point Verbal Rating Scale. 1-4 (higher score means worse outcome)., Postoperative Day 1.|Quality of Recovery 15., The Quality of Recovery 15 is a 15-item questionnaire that measures the patient's quality of recovery. Each item is answered on an 11-point Numerical Rating Scale. The score ranges from 0 to 150 with a higher score indicating a better quality of recovery. It measures in the domains of pain, physical comfort, physical independence, psychological support, and emotional state., Postoperative Day 1.|Postoperative complications., According to the Clavien-Dindo classification of surgical complications., Postoperative Day 30.|Need for rescue TAP-block or epidural analgesia., Epidural or TAP-block administered post surgery., Postoperative Day 30.
Introducing laparoscopy in colorectal surgery and optimizing the postoperative care using the standardized protocols of enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) have significantly improved patient outcomes and LOS. Better pain management has the potential to further improve these outcomes. Since the introduction of ultrasound-guided abdominal wall blocks, much research has been done in that field, but no consensus has been reached concerning the optimal block technique; where to and when to inject the block, or which drug to use. Newly published randomized controlled trials show interesting results regarding the L-TAP which has several advantages to the US-TAP, including the ease of performance, less dependency on specialized skills or equipment and avoidance of intraperitoneal infiltration. but these results need to be solidified with multicentre trials. Besides optimizing postoperative pain management, better block techniques could potentially decrease LOS in patients after minimally invasive colorectal surgery.