Effect of Different Acupuncture Schemes for Postoperative Urinary Retention in Cervical Cancer Patients
This is a retrospective cohort study using a paired control design. We will review the patients of PUR after cervical cancer surgery who went to the acupuncture department and the urinary retention department in Zhejiang Cancer Hospital from October 2020 to August 2024, and 73 patients met the screening criteria. All patients provided written informed consent. The purpose of the study is to compare the effect of acupuncture at different combinations of acupoints for postoperative urinary retention (PUR) after radical hysterectomy of cervical cancer. All outcome-measures data were obtained from past medical records. It is an observational study rather than an intervention study. 73 patients met the screening criteria. They will be assigned into two groups according to the treatment scheme of acupoints combination for acupuncture: Group A (37 cases) and Group B (36 cases).
Postoperative Urinary Retention (POUR)
OTHER: Acupuncture|OTHER: Acupuncture
The change value in residual urine volume, Residual urine volume was assessed before the first treatment and after the final treatment by a trained outpatient nurse using a direct measurement method involving catheter insertion for urine drainage and measurement. Calculate the difference value in residual urine volume before and after treatment., baseline and 2 weeks
The patient's abdominal distension sensation by the visual analog scale (VAS) method, Patients were asked to mark their level of abdominal distension sensation on the line, with 0 indicating no abdominal distension and 10 indicating extremely severe abdominal distension., baseline and 2 weeks|The occurrence of urinary tract infections, Count the number of urinary tract infections and calculate the incidence rate, baseline and 2 weeks|The total effective rate, Clinical efficacy was assessed based on the change in residual urine volume before and after treatment. Cured: the residual urine volume was significantly decreased and less than 100 ml after treatment, and the catheter was removed with no recurrence during follow-up; Improved: the residual urine volume remained over 100 ml, but decreased by more than 100 ml compared to before treatment; Unimproved: the residual urine volume did not significantly decreased (less than 100 ml) or worsened. The total effective rate was calculated as the number of cured and improved patients divided by the total number of patients×100%., 2 weeks
This is a retrospective cohort study using a paired control design. We will review the patients of PUR after cervical cancer surgery who went to the acupuncture department and the urinary retention department in Zhejiang Cancer Hospital from October 2020 to August 2024, and 73 patients met the screening criteria. All patients provided written informed consent. The purpose of the study is to compare the effect of acupuncture at different combinations of acupoints for postoperative urinary retention (PUR) after radical hysterectomy of cervical cancer. All outcome-measures data were obtained from past medical records. It is an observational study rather than an intervention study. 73 patients met the screening criteria. They will be assigned into two groups according to the treatment scheme of acupoints combination for acupuncture: Group A (37 cases) and Group B (36 cases).