Pilot Trial on Efficacy of Single Dose Perioperative Intravenous Dexamethasone for Pain Relief After Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection
Besides major ESD-related complications, minor adverse events after ESD are also commonly noticed. Pain is one of minor ESD-related complications. . The causes of pain associated with ESD or gastric polypectomy are thought to be associated with transmural burn or transmural air leak. How control localized pain for patients who suffered from pain after ESD is appearing as new medical interests. There are few studies about management strategy for pain after ESD. Glucocorticoids are used to reduce inflammation and tissue damage in various clinical settings including inflammatory disease, rheumatic disease, and so on. The efficacy of glucocorticoids for reducing pain after surgery has recently been investigated. Glucocorticoids are thought to locally inhibit collagen deposition and fibrosis and finally reduce scar-tissue formation. Especially systemic steroids are easy to achieve a continuous effect through stable serum concentrations. If pain was partially associated with acute inflammation, we assumed intravenous dexamethasone could be helpful to relieve pain after ESD based on previous studies. we aimed to assess the efficacy of single dose postoperative intravenous dexamethasone for pain relief after ESD.
Early Gastric Cancer or Gastric Adenoma
DRUG: intravenous dexamethasone|DRUG: intravenous normal saline
present pain intensity (PPI), The primary outcomes of this study was present pain intensity (PPI) measured at 6 hours after ESD. The reason for adopting 6- hour PPI as primary endpoint was due to maximized pain at 6 hours after ESD in our pilot study., at 6 hours after ESD
Besides major ESD-related complications, minor adverse events after ESD are also commonly noticed. Pain is one of minor ESD-related complications. . The causes of pain associated with ESD or gastric polypectomy are thought to be associated with transmural burn or transmural air leak. How control localized pain for patients who suffered from pain after ESD is appearing as new medical interests. There are few studies about management strategy for pain after ESD. Glucocorticoids are used to reduce inflammation and tissue damage in various clinical settings including inflammatory disease, rheumatic disease, and so on. The efficacy of glucocorticoids for reducing pain after surgery has recently been investigated. Glucocorticoids are thought to locally inhibit collagen deposition and fibrosis and finally reduce scar-tissue formation. Especially systemic steroids are easy to achieve a continuous effect through stable serum concentrations. If pain was partially associated with acute inflammation, we assumed intravenous dexamethasone could be helpful to relieve pain after ESD based on previous studies. we aimed to assess the efficacy of single dose postoperative intravenous dexamethasone for pain relief after ESD.