Using Massage of Maxillofacial and Oral Cavity to Prevent Radioactive Oral Mucositis
A total of 160 cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients who met the inclusion criteria were randomly assigned to two groups. The experimental group was given massage of maxillofacial and oral cavity plus routine oral care and functional exercise. The control group was given routine oral care and functional exercise. Analyze the difference of incidence of severe acute radioactive oral mucositis in these two groups.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
OTHER: Massage of Maxillofacial and Oral Cavity
Incidence of severe radioactive oral mucositis, the status of oral mucosa was evaluated daily during radiotherapy. According to the grading standard of RTOG acute radiation injury, statistical analysis was made on whether there was a difference and statistical significance in the incidence rate of oral mucositis with radiation above grade 3 between the two groups., 3 months
the time at which the radioactive oral mucosa occurred; Difficulty in opening your mouth., the time at which the radioactive oral mucosa occurred; Difficulty in opening your mouth., 3 months
160 nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to two groups in a 1:1 ratio. The experimental group was given massage of maxillofacial and oral cavity plus routine oral care and functional exercise, the control group was only given routine oral care and functional exercise. Assess the condition of oral mucosa, according to the grading standard of RTOG acute radiation injury, everyday during radiotherapy. After radiotherapy, follow up the condition of oral mucosa one time per month for a total three times. Then analyze the incidence difference between two groups.

massage method：The duration of the massage lasts from the first day of radiotherapy to three months after the end of radiotherapy，5 times a day（After getting up, before breakfast, lunch, dinner and going to bed). massage of maxillofacial includes the left and right cheeks, the upper jaw, the lower jaw, and around the mouth. Oral Massage includes the tongue, hard palate, the gums, and the bucca. Each part lasts 1-2min，repeating 3 cycles each time. Patients who could finished at least 75% are included in the statistical analysis.