Cisplatin+Pembrolizumab+RT in Vulvar Cancer
This research is being done to see how well the combination of a standard of care drug, investigational drug, and radiation therapy work against unresectable vulvar squamous cell carcinoma.

This research study involves the following:

* Cisplatin (standard of care drug)
* Pembrolizumab (investigational drug)
* Radiation Therapy (standard of care intervention)
Vulvar Cancer|Vulvar Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Overall response rate (ORR), To determine the Overall response rate (ORR) in patients undergoing combination therapy with pembrolizumab and cisplatin-sensitized external beam radiation therapy by RECIST 1.1 criteria.

This sample size calculation is based on an ORR of greater than or equal to 60%. For recurrent metastatic disease, there are is no standard of care.The ORR estimation is informed by data showing an ORR of 40% in patients with advanced or recurrent metastatic vulvar cancer treated with platinum-based combination therapy. Single agent chemotherapy has an ORR of about 12% (5). Patients with primary disease who are not candidates for upfront surgery have a reported response rates from 55% to 64%., Up to 36 weeks
Recurrence Free Survival (RFS)-6 months, To determine the 6-month Recurrence Free Survival (RFS) in patients with locally advanced, unresectable, or recurrent metastatic vulvar cancer treated with concurrent cisplatin-sensitized radiation therapy and pembrolizumab. A point estimate with exact 95% CI and Kaplan-Meier estimate will be used for the RFS distribution., 6 months
This is a single-arm phase 2 clinical trial involving women with unresectable, incompletely resected, recurrent, or metastatic vulva squamous cell carcinoma. This study combines cisplatin, pembrolizumab, and radiation therapy to see if this combination further increases participants' immune system's efficiency in killing their tumor, and if the combination decreases the chances of participants' cancer coming back.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

This research study involves the following:

* Cisplatin (standard of care drug)
* Pembrolizumab (investigational drug)
* Radiation Therapy (standard of care intervention)

Participants will receive study treatment for up to 36 weeks and will be followed for up to 3 years.

It is expected that about 24 people will take part in this research study.

Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved cisplatin as a treatment option for vulva squamous cell carcinoma. The FDA has not approved pembrolizumab for vulva squamous cell carcinoma, but it has been approved for other uses. Cisplatin is a chemotherapy drug and will be given to participants per standard of care.

Radiation therapy will be given to you per standard of care. Pembrolizumab is a drug that may target participants immune systems to increase its efficiency in targeting and killing illnesses and diseases, such as unresectable vulvar squamous cell carcinoma.