MRX-2843 and Osimertinib for the Treatment of Advanced EGFR Mutant Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase Ib trial evaluates the best dose and side effects of MRX-2843 when given in combination with osimertinib in treating patients with EGFR gene mutant non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced). MRX-2843 and osimertinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Flt3/MerTK Inhibitor MRX-2843|DRUG: Osimertinib
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The computation of the dose to be administered to each patient and the 95% highest posterior density credible interval estimate of the MTD will be carried out using computer program escalation with overdose control (EWOC) version 3.1 and R. Upon completion of the trial, the MTD will be estimated as the median of the marginal posterior distribution of the MTD., Up to 3.5 years after study start|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the tested combination (dose escalation), The highest dose level of the combination that is under-toxic and safely tolerated would be considered the RP2D., Up to 3.5 years after study start
Predictive Protein Biomarkers, Change in the level of expression of biomarkers of interest (phosphorylated and total EGFR), Up to 3.5 years after study start|Predictive Protein Biomarkers, Change in the level of expression of biomarkers of interest (phosphorylated and total MERTK), Up to 3.5 years after study start|Overall response rate (ORR) (dose expansion), All patients included in the study will be assessed for response to treatment, even if there are major protocol treatment deviations or if they are ineligible.One sample exact binomial test, and logistics regression will be used to test the ORR in the osimertinib resistant cohort., Baseline up to the time measurement criteria are met for complete response or partial response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 3.5 years|1-year progression free survival rate (dose expansion), Will be assessed using Kaplan Meier method, log-rank test, and Cox model in the osimertinib naive cohort., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of MRX-2843 (MRX-2843) when administered along with osimertinib.

II. Establish the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the tested combinations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To perform biomarker profiling in order to identify potential predictive biomarker to optimize treatment efficacy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of MRX-2843.

Patients receive osimertinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and MRX-2843 PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for minimum of 30 days, or until resolution of treatment-related toxicity to =\< grade 1, whichever is longer after removal from study.