Phase III Study of Two Different Schedules (Weekly and Tri-weekly) of Combination of Gemcitabine and Two Taxanes in MBC
Multi-center, randomized Phase III study. 4 arms. 360 Patient to enroll. Purpose is evaluate time to progression disease (PD).
Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC)
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Time to Progressive Disease (TTPD) by Treatment Schedule, TTPD is defined as the time from the day of treatment to first observation of documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first. TTPD was censored at the time of last follow-up for patients who were still alive without progression. Tumor response was assessed in cancer patients by using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), which define when cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. Progressive Disease is a ≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions., Baseline up to 49.84 months|Time to Progressive Disease (TTPD) by Treatment Drug, TTPD is defined as the time from the day of treatment to first observation of documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first. TTPD was censored at the time of last follow-up for patients who were still alive without progression. Tumor response was assessed in cancer patients by using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), which define when cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. Progressive Disease is a ≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions., Baseline up to 49.84 months
Overall Survival (OS) by Treatment Schedule, OS is the duration from enrollment to time of death as a result of any cause. For participants who are alive, OS is censored at the last contact (date of the last follow-up visit)., Baseline up to 51.64 months|Overall Survival (OS) by Treatment Drug, OS is the duration from enrollment to time of death as a result of any cause. For participants who are alive, OS is censored at the last contact (date of the last follow-up visit)., Baseline up to 51.64 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Treatment Schedule, Response using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Complete Response=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria. Not Available=participants assessed whose data were not available. Not Assessed=participants who did not participate in assessments. The ORR=sum of complete and partial tumor responses observed, divided by the total number of evaluable participants., Baseline up to 49.84 months|Overall Response Rate(ORR) by Treatment Drug, Response using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Complete Response=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria. Not Available=participants assessed whose data were not available. Not Assessed=participants who did not participate in assessments. The ORR=sum of complete and partial tumor responses observed, divided by the total number of evaluable participants., Baseline up to 49.84 months|Number of Participants With Serious and Nonserious Adverse Events (AEs), Summary tables of serious adverse events (SAEs) and all other nonserious AEs are located in the Reported Adverse Event Module., Baseline up to 51.64 months|Quality of Life (QOL) Using the Rotterdam Symptom Scale Checklist (RSSC) at Beginning of 3-Week or 4-Week Cycle, RSSC is a valid and reliable measure of psychological and physical distress of cancer patients. Overall QOL is assessed on a 7-point scale (1=Excellent to 7=Extremely Poor). Categories include Excellent, Good, Moderately Good, Neither Good nor Bad, Rather Poor, Poor, and Extremely Poor. Number of responses to the overall QOL by treatment arm are provided. Arms A (Docetaxel and Gemcitabine 3 Weekly) and B (Paclitaxel and Gemcitabine 3 Weekly) were assessed every 3 weeks. Arms C (Docetaxel and Gemcitabine Weekly) and D (Paclitaxel and Gemcitabine Weekly) were assessed every 4 weeks., Baseline up to 51.64 months|Quality of Life (QOL) Using the Rotterdam Symptom Scale Checklist (RSSC) at 30-Day Post-therapy Visit, RSSC is a valid and reliable measure of psychological and physical distress of cancer patients. Overall QOL is assessed on a 7-point scale (1=Excellent to 7=Extremely Poor). Categories include Excellent, Good, Moderately Good, Neither Good nor Bad, Rather Poor, Poor, and Extremely Poor. Number of responses to the overall QOL (using the 7-point scale) by treatment arm are provided., Baseline up to 51.64 months
Multi-center, randomized Phase III study. 4 arms. 360 Patient to enroll. Purpose is evaluate time to progression disease (PD).