Denosumab in Subjects With Giant Cell Rich Tumors of Bone
An open-label, multi-center, phase 2 study of the efficacy of denosumab in subjects with giant cell rich tumors of bone. The population will consist of subjects with the following tumor types: aneurysmal bone cysts (ABC), giant cell granuloma (GCG) and other giant cell rich lesions (primary bone, non-malignant).
Aneurysmal Bone Cysts|Giant Cell Granuloma|Osteoblastoma|Chondroblastoma|Chondromyxoid Fibroma
DRUG: Denosumab
Efficacy (proportion of subjects who do not require surgery during the study), (For subgroup of subjects with salvageable tumors):The proportion of subjects who do not require surgery during the study., Continuous monitoring until surgery of max treatment duration of 3 years.|Efficacy (proportion of subjects undergoing the planned versus performed type of surgery during the study), (For subgroup of subjects with salvageable tumors): The proportion of subjects undergoing the planned versus performed type of surgery during the study., Continuous monitoring until surgery of max treatment duration of 3 years.|Efficacy (Radiological response), (For subgroup of subjects with UNsalvageable tumors) Combined endpoint: 1. Disease control:

o Radiological response assessed by combined RECIST, PET, inverse Choi criteria when available, Imaging to be performed every 3 months. Up to maximum duration of treatment of 3 years.|Efficacy (disease progression based on clinical disease assessment), (For subgroup of subjects with UNsalvageable tumors) Combined endpoint: 2. Disease control:

o No progression at 1 year (based on clinical disease assessment), Clinical disease assessment performed every 4 weeks. Up to maximum duration of treatment of 3 years.|Efficacy (combined pain scores), (For subgroup of subjects with UNsalvageable tumors) Combined endpoint: 3. Stable pain score, defined as ≤ 1 point increase on 'worst pain' question in Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF, measures pain severity on a scale of 0 to 10 \[10 being worse pain\], and pain interference on a scale of 0 to 10 \[10 being complete interference\], scores are averaged in total test score)., Questionnaires on pain to be performed every 4 weeks. Up to maximum duration of treatment of 3 years.
Toxicity according to CTCAE v 4.03, - Frequency of adverse events (AEs), as determined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 4.03 criteria, Assessed every 4 weeks up to 3 years.|Disease recurrence after denosumab followed by surgery., The proportion of subjects with disease recurrence after denosumab followed by surgery during the study., Follow-up every 6-12 months after end of treatment, up to 5 years max.|Symptomatic improvement., Symptomatic improvement in the Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF, measures pain severity on a scale of 0 to 10 \[10 being worse pain\], and pain interference on a scale of 0 to 10 \[10 being complete interference\], scores are averaged in total test score)., Questionnaires to be performed every 4 weeks during first 6 months on treatment, after 6 months assessment is every 12 weeks. Up to 3 years.|Symptomatic improvement., Symptomatic improvement in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 (EORTC QLC-30, 28 questions regarding interference of disease with QoL ranging from 1 'not at all' to 4 'very much', 2 questions regarding QoL raging from 1 'very poor' to 7 'excellent', scores are averaged in total test score), Questionnaires to be performed every 4 weeks during first 6 months on treatment, after 6 months assessment is every 12 weeks. Up to 3 years.|Time to surgery, Time in months, Continuous monitoring, clinical assessment every 4 weeks during treatment and every 6-12 months after end of treatment up to max of 5 years.|Time to recurrence after surgery (for patients with salvageable disease), Time in months, Continuous monitoring, clinical assessment every 4 weeks during treatment and every 6-12 months after end of treatment up to max of 5 years|Progression free survival, Time in months, Continuous monitoring, clinical assessment every 4 weeks during treatment and every 6-12 months after end of treatment up to max of 5 years|Overall survival., Time in months, Continuous monitoring, clinical assessment every 4 weeks during treatment and every 6-12 months after end of treatment up to max of 5 years
Translational research., Translational research on tumor material, including proportion of subjects with pathological response for subjects undergoing surgery., Pathology samples once during study or at end of treatment (surgery), max duration of 3 years.
In this phase 2 single arm trial subjects with giant cell rich tumors that would require morbid surgery OR with tumors that have recurred after previous surgery will be treated with denosumab. The primary objectives of the study are to evaluate avoidance of surgery and performance of less morbid surgical procedure compared with the planned surgical procedure at baseline in subjects with salvageable giant cell rich tumors during the study. For subjects with unsalvageable tumors the objective is to evaluate disease control (radiological response assessed by combined RECIST, PET, inverse Choi when available and/or no progression at 1 year (based on disease assessment) in combination with stable pain score defined as ≤ 1 point increase on 'worst pain' question in BPI-SF).

Surgical resection may occur at any time during the study based on the clinical judgement of the Investigator. For subjects that undergo surgical tumor resection, denosumab treatment will be discontinued after surgery. In all other cases, denosumab treatment continues for a maximum of up to 3 years, or until confirmation of disease progression, the Investigator's or Sponsor's recommendation of discontinuation, the subject's decision to discontinue for any reason or administration of any of the prohibited therapies listed in the study protocol. For subjects that continue to show clinical benefit after 3 years of treatment with denosumab, ongoing treatment outside of study protocol is optional after discussion with Amgen.

For assessment of histopathological response and for translational research purposes a tumor sample will be requested either during study or at the EOT (surgical sample only for the subject group that has undergone surgery).

During the time the study is still open, re-treatment may be allowed for subjects who demonstrated a response to denosumab and are currently not receiving denosumab treatment (e.g., in the case of recurrent disease while subject is in the safety follow-up phase or subjects that have completed the study and have later experienced disease progression). The re-treatment decision including the use of the loading dose and discontinuation of therapy will be handled on a case-by-case basis; prior authorization from the Sponsor is required. Subjects must meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria prior to being considered for re-treatment, with the exception of the exclusion criterium of previous denosumab treatment. The same subject number will be assigned to avoid bias.

Overall in total approximately 60 subjects with giant cell rich tumors that would require morbid surgery or with tumors that have recurred after previous surgery will be included. The investigators expect 50% of subjects will have salvageable giant cell rich tumors and the remaining 50% of subjects to have unsalvageable giant cell rich tumors.

The population will consist of subjects with the following cohorts according to tumor type:

* Aneurysmal bone cysts (ABC), \~ approximately 40 subjects
* Giant Cell Granuloma (GCG) and other giant cell rich lesions (primary bone, non-malignant), \~ approximately 20 subjects