Study of Antitumor Immune Response After cCRT and IO Treatment in Non-resectable III Stage NSCLC Patients
Observational, multicenter, one-arm, non-comparative study. Data will be recorded in a retrospectively manner. The study will be based on secondary data collected from patient clinical chart completed by the doctor during routine visits. The primary objective is describe the antitumor immune response generated in the context of IO (immunotherapy) treatment after cCRT in patients with unresectable NSCLC treated in real world.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage III|PDL1 Gene Mutation
DRUG: Durvalumab
Overall survival (OS), Defined from the date of diagnosis to death from any cause. Patients alive at the end of follow-up or lost to follow-up are censored at the last contact time. The probability of remaining free of events at specific timepoints, To evaluate the Overall Survival at 12, 18, 24 and 36 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Defined from the diagnosis date to the date of investigator-determined disease relapse or death, whichever occurs first. The probability of remaining free of events at specific timepoints, To evaluate the Progression-free survival at 12, 18, 24 and 36 months
Association between ctDNA clearance (no detection of ctDNA) after IO treatment and Progression free survival (PFS) or Overall survival (OS)., Association between the baseline ctDNA and ctDNA clearance with each one of the OS or PFS, From date of end of treatment until the date of last follow up, assessed up to 36 months
The study is based on the collection of blood samples and tumor sample analysis, in real world NSCLC stage IIIA/B and IIIC; PD-L1\>1%; non-resectable patients on treatment with IO after cCRT without progression. The patients participating in this study will not receive treatment in relation to the study, no drugs will be provided. Patients will be treated as per standard clinical practice. All data collected for this study will be collected retrospectively from patient clinical chart. Only secondary data collected will be analyzed together will samples analysis information.The duration of the study is expected to be 3 years.