Clinical Study of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ in Relapsed, Refractory B Cell Lymphoma
This study is to determine the safety, including potential dose limiting toxicities, of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells and the duration of in vivo survival of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells in patients with relasped/refractory B-cell lymphoma. For patients with detectable disease, the study will also measure anti-tumor responses after ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ cell infusions.
Lymphoma, B-Cell
BIOLOGICAL: ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Determine the safety, including potential dose limiting toxicities, of the ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells. A dose limiting toxicity is defined as any toxicity that is considered to be primarily related to the ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T-cells, which is irreversible or life threatening or CTCAE Grade 3-5. Assessed at all visits., 28 days up to 24 months|Toxicity profile of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T-cell treatment, Frequency of treatment-related adverse events that occurred at any time from the first day of infusion that are "possibly", "likely", or "definitely" related to the study, including infusion related toxicity and ET190L1 ARTEMIS™-cell T cells related toxicity. Include but not limited to: Fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, jaundice and other gastrointestinal symptoms; Fatigue, hypotension, respiratory distress; Tumor lysis syndrome; Cytokine release syndrome; Neutropenia, thrombocytopenia; Liver and kidney dysfunction. Assessed at all visits., 28 days up to 24 months|Tmax of serum cytokine levels, Increases or decreases in the amount of cytokine produced compared to baseline at time points measured up to 24 weeks since dosing. Cytokines as measured by Bio-Plex Multiplex Immuoassays will be presented as time to peak level., 24 weeks|Time to baseline for serum cytokine levels, Increases or decreases in the amount of cytokine produced compared to baseline at time points measured up to 24 weeks since dosing. Cytokines as measured by Bio-Plex Multiplex Immuoassays will be presented as Time to baseline., 24 weeks|AUC of serum cytokine levels, Increases or decreases in the amount of cytokine produced compared to baseline at time points measured up to 24 weeks since dosing. Cytokines as measured by Bio-Plex Multiplex Immuoassays will be presented as area under curve (AUC)., 24 weeks|Duration of in vivo engraftment of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells, Number and % of ET190L1 ARTEMIS™ T cells in peripheral blood will be presented as Time to peak, Time to baseline level and the overall exposure will be presented as area under curve (AUC)., 24 months
Rate of disease response, Rate of disease response assessed by Lugano (Chason) classification. Response rates will be estimated as the percent of patients with complete remission (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), progression disease (PD), overall survival (OS)., 28 days to 24 months|Anti-tumor responses, Progression free survival (PFS) and Median survival (MS) at 4 months, 1 year, 2 years, 4 months, 1 year, 2 years|B cell depletion, Number and % of B cells in peripheral blood will be presented as Time to baseline level and time to recover for up to 2 years., 2 years
ET190L ARTEMIS™ is a novel chimeric T-cell therapy platform that in preclinical studies, functionally matches the efficacy of CAR T cells, but dramatically reduces the release of cytokines upon killing of target-positive tumors.