Dose Evaluation of MK-1966 in Combination With SD-101 in Participants With Advanced Malignancies (MK-1966-001)
This was a non-randomized, open-label study of MK-1966 used in combination with SD-101 in the treatment of advanced malignancies. The study included an initial Dose Evaluation phase (Part A) to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/maximum administered dose (MAD) by evaluating Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) of four dose combinations of MK-1966 and SD-101. Following determination of the MTD/MAD, approximately 20 participants each were to be enrolled in two expansion cohorts (Parts B or C) to confirm/refine the MTD/MAD. The study was terminated by the Sponsor before enrollment into Part A concluded and before enrollment into Parts B and C began.
Neoplasms, Advanced
BIOLOGICAL: MK-1966|DRUG: SD-101
Percentage of Participants With a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), The occurrence of any of the following toxicities during Cycle 1 (Days 1-21), if assessed by the Investigator to be possibly, probably or definitely related to MK-1966 or SD-101, was considered a DLT:

1. Grade (Gr) 4 non-hematologic toxicity;
2. Gr 4 hematologic toxicity lasting \>7 days, except thrombocytopenia: \*Gr 4 thrombocytopenia of any duration; \*Gr 3 thrombocytopenia if associated with bleeding;
3. Gr 3 non-hematologic toxicity lasting \>3 days despite optimal supportive care;
4. Any Gr 3 or Gr 4 non-hematologic laboratory abnormality, if: medical intervention is required OR abnormality leads to hospitalization OR abnormality persists for \>1 week;
5. Febrile neutropenia Gr 3 or Gr 4;
6. Any drug-related AE which caused participant to discontinue study drug during Cycle 1
7. Gr 5 toxicity; or
8. Delay in initiation of Cycle 2 for \>2 weeks due to study drug-related toxicity. The percentage of participants who experienced a DLT during Cycle 1 is presented., From time of first dose of study drug to the end of Cycle 1. Each cycle was 21 days. (Up to 21 days)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered study drug and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the study drug or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of study drug, was also an AE. The number of participants who experienced as AE is presented., From first dose of study drug through 90 days after last dose of study drug (Up to approximately 22 weeks)|Number of Participants Discontinuing Study Drug Due to AEs, The number of participants who discontinued study drug due to an AE is presented., From first dose of study drug up to last dose of study drug (Up to approximately 9 weeks)
This was a non-randomized, open-label study of MK-1966 used in combination with SD-101 in the treatment of advanced malignancies. The study included an initial Dose Evaluation phase (Part A) to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/maximum administered dose (MAD) by evaluating Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) of four dose combinations of MK-1966 and SD-101. Following determination of the MTD/MAD, approximately 20 participants each were to be enrolled in two expansion cohorts (Parts B or C) to confirm/refine the MTD/MAD. The study was terminated by the Sponsor before enrollment into Part A concluded and before enrollment into Parts B and C began.