Study to Estimate Efficacy of Combining Dostarlimab and Niraparib in Relapsed EOC After Treatment With PARPi
This is a multicenter, open-label, non-randomized pilot study (Phase II). The aim is to obtain evidence of efficacy of niraparib and dostarlimab (TSR-042) in patients with relapsed ovarian cancer in two experimental cohorts and to generate data on PARPi (Poly(ADP-ribose)-Polymerase inhibitor) resistance and predictive biomarkers for IO (Immuno-Oncology) and PARPi.
Recurrent Ovarian Cancer|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Dostarlimab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as Complete Response rate (CR) plus Partial Response Rate (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 assessments, At week 16 of treatment
Response Rate, Defined as number of patients with Complete Response rate (CR) and Partial Response Rate (PR) according to iRECIST assessments., At week 16 of treatment|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from randomization to first Progressive Disease (PD) or death, whichever occurs earlier. PD is based on investigators assessment using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST)., At 6 months|6 months Progression Free Survival (PFS) rate, Defined as the time from randomization to first progressive disease (PD) or death, whichever occurs earlier. PD is based on investigators assessment using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST)., At 6 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as sum of Stable Disease (SD), Partial Response (PR) and Complete Response (CR), At 16 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), Defined as time from start of treatment to death, At 12 months|Time from registration to start of first subsequent therapy (TFST), Time from registration to start of first subsequent therapy or death, whichever occurs earlier, Up to approximately 40 months
In total, 100 patients are planned to be enrolled in 2 cohorts (60 patients cohort A and 40 patients cohort B).

Cohort A: Recurrent ovarian-, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer with relapse after more than 6 months of PARPi maintenance therapy.

Cohort B: Recurrent ovarian-, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer with relapse within 6 months of PARPi maintenance therapy.

All patients must have a known status for BRCA1 and BRCA2 and one or two prior lines of chemotherapy. The last line of chemotherapy should have included platinum.

Both cohorts will receive the selective PARP 1/2 inhibitor niraparib in combination with the anti-PD-1 checkpoint inhibitor dostarlimab (TSR-042) for a maximum treatment duration of 2 years.

The overall objective of this study is to reveal insights in mechanisms of PARPi resistance in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) and to obtain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of sequential and/or simultaneous combined immuno-PARPi therapy.