MTX110 by Convection-Enhanced Delivery in Treating Participants With Newly-Diagnosed Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of panobinostat nanoparticle formulation MTX110 (MTX110) in treating participants with newly-diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma. Panobinostat nanoparticle formulation MTX110 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma
DRUG: Panobinostat Nanoparticle Formulation MTX110|DRUG: Convection-Enhanced Delivery (CED)
Proportion of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher, Treatment-related, Adverse Events, Adverse events and clinically significant laboratory abnormalities which meet Grade 3, 4, or 5 criteria according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) classified by investigators and treating physicians as related to study treatment (probable, possible, and definite) will be summarized by maximum intensity/grade. Adverse events will be graded according to CTCAE version 4.0., Up to 12 Months
Overall Survival Rate (OS) at 12 Months, Overall survival is defined as the percentage of participants alive from time of diagnosis up to 12 months., Up to 12 Months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of repeated administration of MTX110 co-infused with gadoteridol given by intratumoral convection enhanced delivery in children with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical efficacy of repeated administration of MTX110 given by intratumoral convection-enhanced delivery (CED) in children with newly diagnosed DIPG in the confines of a phase I and early efficacy study.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive panobinostat nanoparticle formulation MTX110 intratumorally (IT) by CED infusion on day 1 or days 1 and 2 as determined by dose level. Courses repeat every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment participants are followed up at 30 days and then every 2 months.