Anal HSIL Screening Algorithm
This the propose to use the Multiphase Optimization Strategy Trial (MOST) design to identify an anal HSIL screening algorithm which is most suitable in terms of effectiveness, efficiency, and economy. Specifically, The Investigators will use a factorial design as the main strategy in the MOST, as this allows the evaluation of multiple intervention components that are candidates for ultimate inclusion in the algorithm. The Investigators will then implement the most suitable anal HSIL screening algorithm in the clinic, using the RE-AIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance) framework to guide its design, implementation, and evaluation. An interrupted time series will be used to compare anal HSIL screening uptake among men who have sex with men clients in the clinic, prior to and after the implementation of the new anal HSIL screening algorithm, and mixed-methods approaches will be used to evaluate components of the RE-AIM framework.
Anal High-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion
PROCEDURE: OPTIMIZATION PHASE
Identify new cases of anal HSIL by Anal HSIL screening algorithm, identify anal HSIL in at least 20% of HIV-positive MSM/TGW and 10% of HIV-negative MSM/TGW within visit schedule., 18 months|Compare anal HSIL screening method to new anal HSIL screening method algorithm, Evaluate anal HSIL screening method uptake among MSM/TGW clients in the clinic compare to the implementation of the new anal HSIL screening method algorithm., 24 months
I. PREPARATION PHASE Purpose To lay groundwork for optimization of anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion screening algorithm for MSM, and identify which test and component(s) should be included in the anal HSIL screening algorithm.

II. OPTIMIZATION PHASE Purpose To form an anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion screening algorithm that meets the optimization criteria.

III. EVALUATION PHASE Purpose To establish whether the optimized anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion screening algorithm has a statistically significant effect on service uptake among MSM compared to the standard of care.