177Lutetium-DOTATATE in Children With Primary Refractory or Relapsed High-risk Neuroblastoma
The LuDO-N Trial is a multi-centre phase II clinical trial on 177Lu-DOTATATE treatment of recurrent or relapsed high-risk neuroblastoma in children. The LuDO-N Trial builds on the experience from the previous LuDO Trial and utilises an intensified dosing schedule to deliver 2 doses over a 2-week period, in order to achieve a maximal effect on the often rapidly progressing disease. This strategy requires a readiness for autologous stem cell transplantation in all patients, but is not anticipated to increase the risk of long-term sequelae, since the cumulative radiation dose remains unchanged. The primary aim of the study is to assess the response to 177Lu-DOTATATE treatment at 1 and 4 months after ende of treatment. Secondary aims are to assess survival and treatment-related toxicity. Additional aim are to correlate tumour dosimetry with response, correlate SSTR-2 expression with 68Ga-DOTATATE uptake and to correlate the uptake with the treatment response.
Neuroblastoma Recurrent|Neuroblastoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: 177Lu-DOTATATE
Treatment response assessed in accordance with the Revised International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC) - 1 months after End of Treatment, Treatment response assessed in accordance with the Revised International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC), 1 months following end of treatment
Number and severity of treatment-related adverse events, Number and severity of treatment-related adverse events, Up to 5 years after end of treatment|Treatment response assessed in accordance with the Revised International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC) - 4 months after End of Treatment, Treatment response assessed in accordance with the Revised International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC), 4 months following end of treatment|Progression-free survival, Time to progress or death, whichever occurs first, Time from registration to progression or death, up to 5 years following end of treatment|Overall survival - up to 5 years after End of Treatment, Overall survival, Time from registration to the the date of death, up to 5 years following end of treatment
Tumour dosimetry: absorbed dose per administration of 177Lu-DOTATATE, Measured by SPECT/CT, At every administered dose of 177Lu-DOTATATE throughout the trial treatment phase (5 years)|Correlation of expression of Somatostatin Receptor-2 (SSTR-2) to uptake on 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT, SSTR-2 expression in the histology samples from primary surgery measured by immunohistochemistry., Throughout the trial treatment phase (5 years)|Uptake on 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT, Measured by SUVmax (maximum standardized uptake value), At end of treatment, and 1 and 4 months after end of treatment.
The LuDO-N Trial is a multi-centre phase II clinical trial on 177Lu-DOTATATE treatment of recurrent or relapsed high-risk neuroblastoma in children. The LuDO-N Trial builds on the experience from the previous LuDO Trial and utilises an intensified dosing schedule to deliver 2 doses over a 2-week period, in order to achieve a maximal effect on the often rapidly progressing disease. This strategy requires a readiness for autologous stem cell transplantation in all patients, but is not anticipated to increase the risk of long-term sequelae, since the cumulative radiation dose remains unchanged. The primary aim of the study is to assess the response to 177Lu-DOTATATE treatment at 1 and 4 months after ende of treatment. Secondary aims are to assess survival and treatment-related toxicity. Additional aim are to correlate tumour dosimetry with response, correlate SSTR-2 expression with 68Ga-DOTATATE uptake and to correlate the uptake with the treatment response.