Sensory Nerve Coaptation in DIEP Flap Breast Reconstruction
Restoring the sensation of the breast becomes increasingly recognized as a critical part of autologous breast reconstruction. A prospective study was conducted of all patients who underwent either innervated or non-innervated deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap breast reconstruction in Maastricht University Medical Center between August 2016 and August 2018 and who returned between for a follow-up visit between the start of the study and August 2019. Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments were used for sensory testing of the breast.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Sensory nerve coaptation
Mean monofilament value as a measure for the sensory recovery of the reconstructed breast, The sensory recovery of the breast to touch was tested at different follow-up moments after the initial surgery. Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments were used for sensory testing. Nine areas of the breast, indicating native skin and flap skin, were tested. Mean monofilament values were calculated for each area and compared between groups., Through study completion up to 36 months postoperatively
Mean monofilament value as a measure for the sensory recovery of the reconstructed breast, The sensory recovery of the donor site to touch was tested at different follow-up moments after the initial surgery. Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments were used for sensory testing. Four areas of the donor site were tested, two areas above and two areas below the scar. Mean monofilament values were calculated for the total donor site and compared between groups., Through study completion up to 36 months postoperatively
Restoring the sensation of the breast becomes increasingly recognized as a critical part of autologous breast reconstruction. A prospective study was conducted of all patients who underwent either innervated or non-innervated deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap breast reconstruction in Maastricht University Medical Center between August 2016 and August 2018 and who returned between for a follow-up visit between the start of the study and August 2019. Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments were used for sensory testing of the breast.