Doxorubicin Eluting Intra-arterial Embolization for Aggressive Desmoid Fibromatosis
In this study Drug-eluting microbeads (DEB) loaded with Doxorubicin will be delivered into the target Desmoid Fibromatoses (DF) tissue via selective arterial embolization by angiographic technique. The objective of the study is to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of this treatment.
Desmoid|Desmoid Fibromatosis of Skin|Desmoid Neoplasm of Chest Wall|Desmoid Tumor Caused by Somatic Mutation|Aggressive Fibromatoses|Fibromatosis Desmoid|Desmoid Fibromatosis
PROCEDURE: Drug Eluting Bead Embolization (DEB) for Desmoid Fibromatosis
Objective response rate of tumor size., Response to treatment. Measured by change in tumor size according to RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) version 1.1 criteria., At baseline ; 6-10 weeks after each treatment|Objective response rate of tumor biological activity., Response to treatment. Tumor biological activity measured by change in MRI T2 signal intensity., At baseline ; 6-10 weeks after each treatment|Patient reported outcomes., Change in clinical symptoms measured by standard clinical patient questionnaires - EORTC QLQ-C30. (Quality of Life Questionnaire).

All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level. Thus a high score for a functional scale represents a high level of functioning, a high score for the global health status / QoL represents a high QoL. Similarly, a high score for a symptom scale represents a high level of symptomatology., At baseline ; 6-10 weeks after each treatment
Adverse event profile (safety), Treatment safety measured by standard patient questionnaires and clinical evaluation using CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) version 5.0., At baseline ; 6-10 weeks
Pharmacokinetics of Doxorubicin, Measurements of blood Doxorubicin concentration (mg/ml) over time, after treatment., 5 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 12 hours, 24 hours after treatment procedure|Exploratory biomarkers, Immunohistochemistry assay assessing the staining pattern (marked as negative to mildly or strongly positive) for: beta-catenin, keratin, SMA (smooth muscle actin). Ki-67 staining will be scored by percentage., At baseline ; 6-10 weeks
Desmoid Fibromatoses (DF) are locally aggressive lesions associated with substantial morbidity and potentially mortality, due to invasion of adjacent neurovascular structures and vital organs. They have no potential for metastasis. Histologically, they are characterised by mature fibroblasts within a matrix of abundant fibrous stroma. While 5-15% of cases are seen in patients with Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP) syndrome, the vast majority arise sporadically.

The etiology of Desmoids remains poorly understood and the therapeutic approaches in their management remain very diverse. For resectable lesions, surgery is recommended but reported cure rates range broadly from 12-80%. Systemic treatments range from non-steroidal anti-inflammatories and anti-estrogenic therapy to targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors and cytotoxic chemotherapy, most commonly methotrexate, vinblastine and doxorubicin.

Doxorubicin is an anthracycline with demonstrated efficacy in treating desmoids at systemic IV doses of 50- 75mg/m2 over 3-4 week cycles. Extended use is limited by dose - dependent cardiotoxicity which can be seen in up to 36% of patients receiving doses in excess of 550mg/m2. Delayed cardiotoxicity is particularly common and less predictable among pediatric cancer survivors.

Selective trans-arterial chemo-embolization (TACE) is a method to achieve high tissue drug concentration with minimal systemic toxicity. Historically, this has been achieved by mixing doxorubicin with embolic agents such as lipiodol or gelatin sponge in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

Drug-eluting microbeads (DEB) ionically loaded with doxorubicin have shown sustained release in TACE target tissues with substantially lower serum drug concentrations when compared to lipiodol TACE.

The present study utilizes DEB's loaded with Doxorubicin delivered into the target DF tissue via selective arterial embolization by angiographic technique. This study follows a successful feasibility study.