A Phase II Trial of Tebentafusp in HLA-A*02:01 Positive Patients With Advanced Clear Cell Sarcoma
This is a multi-center, open label, phase II study of tebentafusp in patients with unresectable or metastatic clear cell sarcoma (CCS).
HLA-A*0201 Positive Cells Present|Clear Cell Sarcoma (CCS)
DRUG: Physician's Choice|DRUG: Tebentafusp
Measure Disease Response, To estimate the population of HLA-A\*02:01-positive patients with metastatic or unresectable clear cell sarcoma and treated with tebentafusp who are progression free at 24 weeks. PFS (progression-free survival) will be determined using iRECIST., Approximately 5.5 months
Progression-Free Survival, To determine the PFS, in this population at months 3 and 5. Progression-free survival (PFS) defined as the time from study entry to disease relapse, disease progression, or death from any cause, using iRECIST. Patients without an event will be censored at the time of last disease follow-up., Approximately 5 years|Estimate Overall Survival, To estimate the overall survival (OS) in patients who are HLA-A\*02:01-positive with metastatic or unresectable clear cell sarcoma and treated with tebentafusp. Overall survival, defined as the time from study entry to death from any cause. Patients who are alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of last follow-up., Approximately 5 years|Objective Response Rate, To estimate the objective response rate (ORR) in patients who are HLA-A\*02:01-positive with metastatic or unresectable clear cell sarcoma and treated with tebentafusp, according to iRECIST. Objective tumor response, defined as achievement of nadir response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by iRECIST without prior progression any time during protocol therapy., Approximately 5 years|Duration of Response, To estimate the duration of response (DoR) in this population. DoR can be defined as the measurement of time from the start of treatment response to disease progression or death, Approximately 5 years
Progression-Free Survival and Objective Response Rate, To compare the 5-month PFS rate and ORR for patients who are HLA-A\*02:01-positive with metastatic or unresectable clear cell sarcoma and treated with tebentafusp against patients who are HLA-A\*02:01-negative with metastatic or unresectable clear cell sarcoma, according to RECIST 1.1. Duration of response is defined as the time from a nadir tumor response of CR/PR to disease progression., Approximately 5 years
This will be a multi-center, open label, phase II study of tebentafusp in patients with unresectable or metastatic CCS. Patients who screen positive for HLA-A\*02:01 and meet the eligibility requirements will be treated with weekly tebentafusp. Radiographic assessment via CT or MR (where CT is not feasible or per the investigator's discretion) will occur at baseline and every subsequent 6 weeks through 48 weeks, and then every 9 weeks thereafter. Patients will be treated until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity. All patients treated with tebentafusp will undergo mandatory research biopsies at baseline and on-treatment (week 6), if it is safe and feasible to do so. Serial peripheral blood samples for correlative analysis will be collected at baseline and at various time points on treatment.

Patients who are HLA-A\*02:01-negative and ineligible to receive tebentafusp will be prospectively enrolled onto a separate study arm and treated with physicians' choice of treatment. They will also be radiographically assessed at the same schedule as patients treated with tebentafusp, if feasible, and kept on this treatment arm until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity on the physicians' choice regimen.