Support for Cancer Patients Awaiting News
This is a behavioral trial study to pilot test a stress management intervention for people with cancer who are undergoing routine cancer scans. The study will involve two pilot testing phases. Initial feasibility will be determined in an Open Trial phase, to inform any needed revisions to the intervention and/or protocol prior to a Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial phase. The Open Trial phase is an unblinded, single-site, single-arm open trial (n=10). The Pilot randomized clinical trial (RCT) phase is an unblinded, single-site, feasibility pilot randomized controlled trial (n=50).
Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Adapted Stress Management Program|BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced Usual Care
Feasibility - Retention, Percentage of intervention arm participants who completed 2 out of 3 intervention sessions/calls. The program includes 3 sessions, including those at baseline/orientation, 1-week pre-scan, and 1-week post-scan., 1-week post-scan|Feasibility - Web module engagement, Percentage of intervention arm participants who completed at least 70% of the web modules., 1-week pre-scan and 1-week post-scan|Acceptability of Intervention - Overall, Percentage of intervention arm participants with mean ratings ≥4 on the validated Acceptability of Intervention Measure (AIM). Higher scores indicate greater acceptability.

Acceptability will be assessed via participant ratings (Likert scales ranging 1 to 5)., 1-week Pre-scan, 1-week post-scan, and 1-month follow-up|Acceptability - Perceived helpfulness, Percentage of intervention arm participants with ratings ≥4 on a 1-5 Likert item assessing perceived helpfulness of the intervention. Higher scores indicate greater perceived helpfulness., 1-week Pre-scan, 1-week post-scan, and 1-month follow-up|Acceptability - Usability, Percentage of participants with ratings ≥4 on a 1-5 Likert item assessing usability of the intervention. Higher scores indicate greater usability., 1-week Pre-scan, 1-week post-scan, and 1-month follow-up
Intervention engagement - Daily stress management skill practice, Percentage of days in which intervention arm participants self-report practicing stress management skills on a daily log., 1-week Pre-scan, 1-week post-scan, and 1-month follow-up|Anxiety, Anxiety will be measured via the validated PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Emotional Distress-Anxiety Short Form 8a survey. T-scores range from 31.7 to 83.1, with higher scores indicating greater anxiety., 1-week Pre-scan, 1-week post-scan, and 1-month follow-up|Cancer-related intrusive thoughts, Cancer-related intrusive thoughts will be measured via validated the Impact of Events 6 item short form survey. Scores range from 0 to 24, with higher scores indicating higher levels of cancer-related intrusive thoughts., 1-week Pre-scan, 1-week post-scan, and 1-month follow-up
Advanced cancer patients repeatedly undergo routine scans that inform their disease status and treatment. While awaiting the results, anxiety and uncertainty are elevated, which can negatively impact quality of life. Evidence-based stress management strategies have the potential to be useful during this unique time period, but require tailoring for this population and context.

The goal of this study is to pilot test an adapted stress management program to help patients manage their anxiety while awaiting scan results. The program is a behavioral intervention that includes psychoeducation and stress management activities, delivered via a web platform to promote dissemination. In the Open Trial phase, the program will be field tested in a single-arm trial, using feedback to refine materials and procedures as needed before formal piloting. In the Pilot RCT phase, a small RCT will be conducted to test the intervention's feasibility and acceptability and to examine preliminary effects on anxiety and cancer-related intrusive thoughts.