Effects of Preoperative Frailty on Postoperative Recovery
This study aims to evaluate frailty using Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) before surgery and find out how frailty affects short-term postoperative recovery after surgery using Quality of Recovery-15 (QOR-15) questionnaire in patients undergoing minimally invasive distal gastrectomy for early gastric cancer.
Frailty
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: SPPB
Poor postoperative outcome (the Korean version of Quality of Recovery-15 [QoR-15K] < 122), The minimum and maximum values of QoR-15K are 0 and 150, respectively. Higher scores mean better outcomes., on postoperative day 3
Poor postoperative outcome (the Korean version of Quality of Recovery-15 [QoR-15K] < 122), The minimum and maximum values of QoR-15K are 0 and 150, respectively. Higher scores mean better outcomes., on postoperative day 1|Poor postoperative outcome (the Korean version of Quality of Recovery-15 [QoR-15K] < 122), The minimum and maximum values of QoR-15K are 0 and 150, respectively. Higher scores mean better outcomes., on postoperative day 2
Postoperative QoR-15K score, The minimum and maximum values of QoR-15K are 0 and 150, respectively. Higher scores mean better outcomes., postoperative day 1, 2, 3|Pain score at rest / during ambulation, Measuring with 11-pointed numeric rating scale (NRS). The minimum and maximum values of NRS are 0 and 11, respectively. Higher score means a more severe pain., postoperative day 1, 2, 3|Ambulation distance, Total ambulation distance for a day. Measured by pedometer, postoperative day 1, 2, 3|First gas out time, Measurement of the time until the first gas out after surgery, up to 1 week after surgery|Postoperative complication, Based on Clavien-Dindo classification, Grade I-V, up to 1 month after surgery|Hospital length of stay, Measurement of the time until discharge after surgery, at the day of discharge (up to 1 month after admission)
As the elderly population increases, the evaluation and management of preoperative frailty is becoming important. In patients with frailty, exposure to external stress, such as surgery, can reduce physical function, increase postoperative complication, and raise the risk of death. This study aims to evaluate frailty using an automated device performing SPPB (Andantefit) and find out how frailty affects postoperative recovery.