Practical Application of Indocyanine Green Camera in Laparoscopic Liver Surgery
"Indocyanine Green (ICG) is a dye used as an indicator of hepatic function considering its capacity to be eliminated only by the bile. Thus, ICG tend to remain in liver tumors.

The hypothesis of CAMVIC study is that the use of fluorescence imaging during laparoscopic hepatic surgery will allow to detect small subcapsular superficial lesions undetected by other diagnostic methods, which will improve the results of the oncologic treatment."
Liver Tumor
DEVICE: exploration of abdominal cavity and liver using a NIR/ICG camera
number of superficial nodules detected with the device during peroperative examination compared to the number of superficial nodules detected during preoperative imaging and new surface nodules detected at 6 month postoperative imaging, sensitivity will be assessed by the number of superficial nodules detected with the device during peroperative examination compared to the number of superficial nodules detected during preoperative imaging and new surface nodules detected at 6 month postoperative imaging, through study completion, an average of 6 months|Histological analysis of explanted liver parts, histological analysis will indicate the nature of the explanted part: tumoral tissue or healthy tissues. Results will be obtained during the month following the hepatectomy, 1 month
bilirubin and prothrombin levels, predictive value of the fluorescence dynamic on postoperative hepatic function will be assessed with bilirubin and prothrombin levels at day 1, day 3 and day 5 visits, at Day 1, day 3 and day 5 visits
"Thanks to the property of ICG to release a fluorescent signal when excited by a Near Infra Red (NIR) light source, ICG fluorescence has been widely used during several clinical situations (angiography, lymphography,..). Few years ago it has been shown that hepatic tumors could be seen with a NIR camera able to view ICG fluorescence thanks to the depot in or around the tumor of the dye injected during preop.Since, this fluorescence imaging technique potential has been underlined to identify tumors undiagnosed before surgery. Pre-operative examination of hepatic lesions is based on 3 points:

* visual examination
* two-hand palpation
* intra-operative ultrasound.

During laparoscopic hepatic surgery it is not possible to palpate the liver thus peroperative examination of the liver surface is harder than during open surgery. Moreover per-operative ultrasound is not a reliable tool in order to explore liver surface. However the latest development of NIR cameras able to view ICG fluorescence could add a benefit in laparoscopic surgery in view of its capacity to detect superficial lesions, even those of small dimension."