Colorectal Cancer Screening With Improved Shared Decision Making
The purpose of this study is to increase colorectal cancer screening by implementing a community-wide shared decision-making (SDM) intervention, which embeds shared decision making within clinical practice and also uses an extensive community engagement campaign. The investigators hypothesize that colorectal cancer screening adherence will be higher in the intervention group (participating communities) compared to the usual care control group (non-participating comparison communities).
Colorectal Cancer Screening|Shared Decision Making
BEHAVIORAL: Shared Decision Making for Colorectal Cancer Screening
Change in colorectal cancer screening adherence, Colorectal cancer screening adherence will be defined as having screening according to the recommendations of the United States Preventive Services Task Force. Participants will be classified as screened per recommendations if they have had fecal occult blood testing in the last year, flexible sigmoidoscopy in the last five years, or colonoscopy in the last ten years. Participants will be classified as non-adherent if they have not had any of the modalities within the recommended timeframe., Baseline up to 24 months post intervention initiation
Decisional conflict, A previously validated decisional conflict scale, will be used, which includes 16 items all measured on a 5-point Likert-type scale. (e.g. difficulty in decision making, certainty with a decision, demonstrated feeling of understanding about risks and benefits of a decision, and satisfaction with a decision). Responses will be coded so that higher responses represent greater decisional conflict., Baseline up to 24 months post intervention initiation|Modality-specific colorectal cancer screening barriers, A previously validated modality-specific colorectal cancer screening barrier instrument will be used. The FOBT-specific scale includes 19 questions relating to barriers for fecal occult blood test and the colonoscopy-specific scale includes 21 questions relating barriers to colonoscopy. All items are measured on a 5-point Likert-type scale, with 5 representing greater barrier endorsement., Baseline up to 24 months post intervention initiation|Colorectal cancer screening-related confusion, Colorectal cancer-related confusion will be measured using 9 items which will be coded on a scale from 1 to 5 where 5 represents greater confusion endorsement., Baseline up to 24 months post intervention initiation|Patients' shared decision-making experience, Patients will answer multiple questions relating to their experience with the implementation of shared decision-making and their interactions with clinical staff. Items will be measured on Likert-like scales and will be coded so that higher scale numbers reflect more endorsement of positive opinions and experiences., Baseline up to 12 months post intervention initiation|Providers'/staff shared decision-making experience, Providers and staff will answer multiple questions relating to their experience with the implementation of shared decision-making with their patients in clinical practice. Items will be measured on Likert-like scales and will be coded so that higher scale numbers reflect more endorsement of positive opinions and experiences., Baseline up to 24 months post intervention initiation
Clinical practice: All patients 50-75 years seen in the participating primary care clinics during the study period who are non-adherent to CRCS recommendation. This sample is anticipated to be N\~50,000 patients.

Community engagement: Includes mailed questionnaires to age-eligible adults residing in intervention and comparison (control) communities (N=2150).