Pilot Trial of Clofarabine Added to Standard Busulfan and Fludarabine for Conditioning Prior to Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, the addition of clofarabine, a new chemotherapy agent, to a standard busulfan and fludarabine conditioning treatment has. The study will also look at what causes some people to have high drug levels of these medications in their body compared to other people that may have low drug levels even if they all receive the same dose of medication.
Myeloid Malignancy|Bone Marrow Failure Syndrome|Transfusion-dependent Red Blood Cell (RBC) Defect|Congenital Immunodeficiency|Metabolic Disease|Severe Immune Dysregulation
DRUG: Alemtuzumab|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Clofarabine
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Severe Toxicity will be defined as death or Grade IV by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 pulmonary or hepatic failure (including moderate veno-occlusive disease(VOD) related to the transplant conditioning regimen within 100 days post-HCT. VOD will be defined by standard criteria. Patients must have Bilirubin \>2.0 plus Hepatomegaly and/or Right upper quadrant (RUQ) pain plus Weight gain \>5%., Up to 5 years on average
Engraftment Rate of Patients With Non-malignant Diseases (Stratum A), Engraftment will be defined as the development of an Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) \>500 for 3 consecutive days plus donor CD14/15 cells \>70%. The engraftment rate in the population used for historical control is 40%. If 3 patients in Stratum A experience graft rejection, this stratum will close early for failing to achieve superior engraftment compared to standard-of-care., Participants will have engraftment blood studies starting approximately Day 30 post hematopoietic stem cell transplant and then monthly until stable. Average study participation is approximately 5 years.|Mixed-donor Chimerism Rate of Patients With High-risk Myeloid Malignancies (Stratum B), Full-donor chimerism will be defined by as ≥99% donor cells by Short Tandem Repeat (STR) analysis in all cell lines (CD3, CD14/15, and CD19) in peripheral blood. The historic control for Stratum B was determined using the 20 patients who were transplanted from 2005 - 2010 with Busulfan (BU)-based regimens and who retrospectively would have been eligible for the current trial. Of these 20 patients, at 100 days post-HCT, only 8 (40%) patients had full-donor chimerism. If 5 patients in Stratum B experienced mixed-donor chimerism at Day 100, we will close this stratum early for failing to achieve superior donor cell engraftment compared to standard-of-care., Participants will have peripheral blood chimerism assessed at Day 100 post hematopoietic stem cell transplant and then monthly until stable.|Serum Concentrations and Potential for Drug-drug Interaction of Fludarabine and Clofarabine, Fludarabine and clofarabine drug levels and potential covariates influencing drug exposure such as renal function and genetic variants involved in drug metabolism, distribution, and activation will be analyzed using standard population pharmacokinetic methods using non-linear mixed effects modeling (NONMEM) software, Pharmacokinetics (PK) blood sampling Days -5 to -2 pre-hematopoietic stem cell transplant.
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, the addition of clofarabine, a new chemotherapy agent, to a standard busulfan and fludarabine conditioning treatment has. The study will also look at what causes some people to have high drug levels of these medications in their body compared to other people that may have low drug levels even if they all receive the same dose of medication.