Study of IMC-1121B (Ramucirumab) in Participants With Liver Cancer Who Have Not Previously Been Treated With Chemotherapy
A study to determine how long ramucirumab (IMC-1121B) will stop cancer from growing in participants with liver cancer that cannot be treated with surgery.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab (IMC-1121B)
Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Participants With Unresectable Hepatocellular Cancer Treated With the Monoclonal Antibody Ramucirumab, PFS was defined as the time from the first day of therapy to the first evidence of disease progression or death from any cause. As classified according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, disease progression was having at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and/or unequivocal progression of a non-target lesion and/or detection of a new lesion. Participants who were alive and without disease progression and participants who did not progress and were subsequently lost to follow-up were censored at the last objective tumor assessment., First dose to date of progressive disease or death due to any cause [every 3 cycles up to 18 months (1 cycle=2 weeks)]
Time to Progression, The time from first day of therapy to the first date of objective evidence of progressive disease (PD) by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. PD was defined as having at least a 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions and/or unequivocal progression of a non-target lesion and/or detection of new lesion. Time to PD was censored at the date of death or study discontinuation., First dose to date of PD [every 3 cycles up to 18 months (1 cycle=2 weeks)]|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was the duration from first dose to death due to any cause. OS was censored at last contact date for participants who were alive at the end of follow-up period or lost to follow-up., First dose to death due to any cause up to 37.5 months|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response or Partial Response (Objective Response Rate), Objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). As classified according to Response using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, CR was the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm) and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions. PR was having at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions., First dose to date of objective progressive disease (PD) or death up to 18 months|Duration of Response, Duration of response was the interval from the date of initial documented response \[complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)\] to the first documented date of disease progression, initiation of other (or additional) antitumor therapy was first reported, or death due to any cause. As classified according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, CR was the disappearance of all target lesions, PR was having at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, and disease progression was having at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and/or unequivocal progression of a non-target lesion and/or detection of a new lesion. Data were censored for participants who did not progress or die., Time of first response (CR or PR) to disease progression, or death due to any cause [every 3 cycles up to 18 months (1 cycle=2 weeks)]|Number of Participants With Serum Anti-Ramucirumab Antibodies, Prior to dosing at baseline, Cycles 4 and 7, and 30 days after end of therapy (1 cycle=2 weeks)|Number of Participants With Drug-Related Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Data presented are the number of participants who experienced treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), Grade 3 or higher TEAEs, or adverse events (AEs) leading to discontinuation of treatment that were considered by the investigator to be related to ramucirumab. A summary of SAEs and other nonserious AEs, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Events section., First dose to 37.5 months
Inhibition of angiogenesis is considered a promising approach to the treatment of cancer. Members of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family and the VEGF receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) are important mediators of angiogenesis and are likely important therapeutic targets in advanced hepatocellular cancer (HCC).

Angiogenesis appears integral to HCC development and pathogenesis. Angiogenesis inhibition has been efficacious in both in vitro and in vivo HCC models and results of clinical studies also suggest potential to inhibit disease growth.

Ramucirumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody (MAb) that specifically binds to the extracellular domain of VEGFR-2 with high affinity. Phase 1 studies currently nearing completion have demonstrated safety and tolerability at clinically relevant doses, with preliminary evidence of clinical efficacy in a variety of human cancers.