Efficacy of Medical Treatment With SOM230 LAR in Patients With Primary Inoperable Thymoma and/or With Local Recurrent Thymoma to Reduce Tumor Size
This is a monocenter, single-arm, open label phase II trial evaluating the effect of SOM230 LAR in adult patients with inoperable primary thymoma and thymoma metastasis (Masaoka II-IVa). SOM230 LAR in a dosage of 60 mg is administered i.m. once every 4 weeks. The purpose of this trial is a proof of concept.
Primary Inoperable Thymoma|Local Recurrent Thymoma
DRUG: SOM230 LAR
Percent Change in Tumor Volume From Baseline to EOS, To evaluate whether SOM230 LAR is effective in patients with inoperable thymoma with respect to shrinkage of tumor volume. Response is defined as the decrease in tumor volume of 20 % at EOS as compared to baseline. Tumor shrinkage is assessed by CT or MRI., at least 6 months
Tumor Resection Status, To evaluate the resection status based on the categories R0, R1 and ≥ R2 at EOS using CT or MRI imaging.

R0 resection means no residual tumor tissue (best status); R1 indicates microscopic residual tumor tissue and R2 indicates macroscopic residual tumor tissue (worst status)., at least 6 months|Assessment of Tumor Operability, Assessment if patients reaching operability at the EOS., at least 6 months
Safety: Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE), at least 6 months|Assessment of Myasthenia Gravis (MG) Status by Determining Titin-antibody Status, MG severity status is assessed by determining Titin-antibody status at Baseline and EOS., at least 6 months|Assessment of Myasthenia Gravis (MG) Status by Measuring ACHR-antibody Concentrations, MG severity status is assessed by measuring ACHR-antibody concentrations at Baseline and EOS., at least 6 months|Health Related Quality of Life, Health related quality of life information was collected at Baseline and EOS using SF-36 questionnaire. Questionnaires had to be completed by the patients. All questions are scored on a scale from 0 to 100, with 100 representing the highest level of functioning possible.

Patient reported answers were transformed into domain scores according to the guidelines provided by RAND/MOS. Statistical significance of the result was tested with a paired Wilcoxon rang sum test with a significance level of 0.05 considering only paired values (n=11) using PSPP Version 0.10.1., at least 6 months
This is a monocenter, single-arm, open label phase II trial evaluating the effect of SOM230 LAR in adult patients with inoperable primary thymoma and thymoma metastasis (Masaoka II-IVa). SOM230 LAR in a dosage of 60 mg is administered i.m. once every 4 weeks. The purpose of this trial is a proof of concept.