MRE for Diagnosis of Pancreatic Masses
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) accounts for 85-95% of pancreatic cancer and is one of the deadliest tumors in the world, with a survival rate of less than 8%, and identifying key prognostic or predictive factors facilitates risk stratification and prospective assessment in clinical trials. The extracellular matrix (ECM) surrounding PDAC often exhibits a large number of interstitial fibrosis, which is closely related to the formation, development and metastasis of PDAC. High order three-dimensional MR elastography (3D-MRE) allows non-invasive measurements of sheer stiffness in normal pancreas and pancreatic lesions. However, there are no reports about the application of MRE imaging biomarkers to predict the prognosis of PDAC at home and abroad.
Pancreatic Neoplasm|Magnetic Resonance Imaging
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: magnetic resonance imaging
Analyzing the measurement accuracy of MRE., The hardness was measured by a hardness tester during the operation, and the mechanical parameters were measured by atomic force microscopy of the in vitro specimen. The measurement accuracy of MRE was analyzed by comparing the hardness tester and atomic force microscope results., 9 months|Radiological assessment of tumor stiffness., A self-written script program in MATLAB is used to read and analyze mechanical group diagrams and waveform diagrams in three directions of x, y, and z, and a region of interest (ROI) delineation function is embedded.After drawing the ROI, an Excel file containing the corresponding values is automatically generated, and the average values of various mechanical parameters are calculated, including shear modulus (\|G\*\|, SS), storage modulus (G', SM), loss modulus (G'', LM) and damping ratio (ӡ, DR)., 9 months|Evaluation of tumor response to chemotherapy., RECIST criteria (version 1.1) were used to objectively evaluate the response to chemotherapy., 12 months
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) accounts for 85-95% of pancreatic cancer and is one of the deadliest tumors in the world, with a survival rate of less than 8%, and identifying key prognostic or predictive factors facilitates risk stratification and prospective assessment in clinical trials.

The extracellular matrix (ECM) surrounding PDAC often exhibits a large number of interstitial fibrosis, which is closely related to the formation, development and metastasis of PDAC. Although interstitial composition is considered a double-edged sword, influencing cancer biological progression and modification in multiple complex ways, experimental studies consistently demonstrate that hardening of ECM in PDAC accelerates PDAC progression and is significantly associated with shorter survival. If investigators can noninvasively detect the mechanical properties (hardness) of human PDAC before treatment, it will be helpful to describe the biological characteristics of tumors, predict the prognosis of patients, and choose the right clinical treatment decision.

High order three-dimensional MR elastography (3D-MRE) allows non-invasive measurements of sheer stiffness in normal pancreas and pancreatic lesions. However, there are no reports about the application of MRE imaging biomarkers to predict the prognosis of PDAC at home and abroad.