Impact of 2 Transfusion Strategies on Quality of Life of Multitransfused Patients With Low-risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are heterogeneous malignant bone marrow disorders characterized by ineffective haematopoiesis, peripheral blood cytopenias and variable risk of leukaemia transformation.

Anemia is the most common manifestation of bone marrow failure in MDS. After failure with first-line treatment by Erythropoietin, patients survive in average 5 years under long term blood transfusion. Modalities of blood transfusion are not clearly defined.

Then, the objective of this randomized comparative multicentric study is to compare two modalities of threshold for transfusion:

* Restrictive group: Hb \< 80g/L and Hb maintain between 80 and 100g/L
* Liberal group: Hb \< 100g/L and Hb maintain between 100 and 120g/L
Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Transfusion-dependent Anemia
OTHER: Transfusion
Quality of Life by Myelodysplasia Scale (QUALMS) score, Quality of Life assessed by a specific validated and adapted disease scale :Quality of Life by Myelodysplasia Scale (QUALMS) score at six months post-randomization. The QUALMS consists of 38 items, and takes less than 10 minutes to complete. Scored on a scale of 0 to 100 higher score is correlated with better MDS-specific quality of life., six months post-randomization
Quality of Life by Myelodysplasia Scale (QUALMS) score over the twelve months of follow-up, Evolution of the QUALMS score over the twelve months of follow-up. Scored on a scale of 0 to 100 higher score is correlated with better MDS-specific quality of life., 3, 6, 12 Months|Timed up and go test over the twelve months of follow-up, Evolution of physical performance (the time required for the Timed up and go test) at six months post-randomization and over the twelve months of follow-up, 3, 6, 12 Months|Transfusion incidents rate over the twelve months of follow-up, Transfusion incidents rate during the twelve months of follow-up among allo-immunization, hospitalization for pulmonary overload, iron overload (ferritin, transferrin saturation), TRALI (Transfusion-Related Acute Lung Injury), 3, 6, 12 Months|Transfusion costs over the twelve months of follow-up, Transfusion costs (number of Packed red blood cells (PRBC) used) during the twelve months of follow-up, 3, 6, 12 Months|Time of occurrence of diagnosis of heart and liver damage due to transfusional iron overload over twelve months of follow-up, Time of occurrence of diagnosis of heart and liver damage due to transfusional iron overload over twelve months of follow-up. The diagnosis will be established according to the standard procedure based on annual MRI, in particular by measuring the LIC (liver iron concentration), the MIC (myocardial iron concentration) and the cardiac T2\* value., 3, 6, 12 Months
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are heterogeneous malignant bone marrow disorders characterized by ineffective haematopoiesis, peripheral blood cytopenias and variable risk of leukaemia transformation. The median age at diagnosis is 75 years. The incidence is about 30 per 100,000, over 70 years. Etiology is unknown in more than 85% of cases, chemo-induced causes and family cases are well individualized.

Diagnosis, prognosis, and classification (WHO) are based on joint cytologic analysis of peripheral blood, bone marrow, and spinal cytogenetic analysis. The main therapeutic objectives in low-risk MDS are to correct cytopenias, improve quality of life and prevent aggravation of co-morbidities.

Anemia is the most common manifestation of bone marrow failure in MDS. It is encountered in 80% of cases at diagnosis and almost always occurs in the progression of the disease. Its presence and importance have a pejorative prognostic value, but it is not clear whether this anemia is indicative of a more serious clonal disease or whether it is the repercussions of anemia that lead to a more severe prognosis. After failure with first-line treatment by Erythropoietin (EPO), patients survive in average 5 years under long term blood transfusion. Modalities of blood transfusion are not clearly defined.

Studies in the general geriatric population and in cases of acute anemia are in favor of a restrictive transfusion regimen (threshold around 70 g/L), while experience during MDS with EPO suggest that maintaining a higher hemoglobin count could have a favorable impact on quality of life, physical performance, or even survival of patients with MDS.

Then, the objective of this randomized comparative multicentric study is to compare two modalities of threshold for transfusion:

* Restrictive group: Hb \< 80g/L and Hb maintain between 80 and 100g/L
* Liberal group: Hb \< 100g/L and Hb maintain between 100 and 120g/L