Trastuzumab Deruxtecan Alone or in Combination with Anastrozole for the Treatment of Early Stage HER2 Low, Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Cancer
This phase II trial investigates how well trastuzumab deruxtecan works alone or in combination with anastrozole in treating patients with HER2 low, hormone receptor positive breast cancer. Trastuzumab deruxtecan is a monoclonal antibody, called trastuzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug called deruxtecan. Trastuzumab attaches to HER2 expressed at low levels on cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers deruxtecan to kill them. Anastrozole works by decreasing estrogen production and suppressing the growth of tumors that need estrogen to grow. This study is evaluating how effective trastuzumab deruxtecan is at treating hormone receptor positive cancer cells that have low levels of HER2 expressed on them when given alone or in combination with anastrozole.
Early-stage Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage III Breast Cancer
DRUG: Anastrozole|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan
Pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, pCR is defined as the absence of invasive cancer in the breast and sampled regional lymph nodes. pCR will be calculated along with the corresponding exact 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence interval (CI)., Baseline to surgery
Incidence of adverse events, Overall exposure to study drug, the numbers of participants completing each cycle, and the dose intensity will be summarized using descriptive statistics. The number of participants with any dose adjustment will be presented for entire treatment period as well as for each cycle. The number of participants with dose reductions, dose delays, or dose omissions will also be summarized, as will the reasons for dose adjustments. Adverse events and serious adverse events will be reported using a Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 terminology and severity., Starting cycle 1 day 1 (each cycle is 21 days), through study completion, an average of 6 months.|Molecular changes in tumor biomarkers including Ki67 expression, Percent change in Ki67 expression from baseline to the core biopsy obtained between cycle 1 day 17 and cycle 1 day 21, and surgery., Baseline to surgery|Clinical objective response, Clinical objective response rate will be estimated and 95% exact Clopper-Pearson CIs will be provided., Baseline to surgery|Biomarker analyses, Gene expression and biomarker assay results are exploratory and will be summarized (e.g. mean change in from baseline to during treatment and to prior to surgery) and correlated with clinical outcomes as appropriate., Baseline to surgery
Quality of life assessment: questionnaire, Will assess quality of life by evaluating toxicity burden using a quality of life/patient reported outcome questionnaire- the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Questionnaire-Core 30 instrument., Baseline, day 1 of each cycle (each cycle is 21 days) , at study completion, an average of 6 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To identify treatment arm with strongest signal of efficacy, based on pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, between two neoadjuvant systemic therapy regimens in participants with early stage, HER2 low, hormone receptor positive (HR+) breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety profile of the two novel neoadjuvant experimental arms. II. To assess the molecular changes in tumor biomarkers including Ki67 after 1 cycle of targeted therapy.

III. Pathological Assessment According to Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) Index at surgery.

IV. To investigate potential serum and tumor predictive biomarkers to predict response to experimental therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate potential serum and tumor predictive biomarkers to predict response to experimental therapy.

II. To assess quality of life by evaluating toxicity burden using a quality of life (QOL)/patient reported outcomes (PRO) questionnaire- the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) instrument.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on cycle 1 day 1 and 30 minutes on day 1 of each subsequent cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo surgery.

ARM B: Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan IV over 90 minutes on cycle 1 day 1 and 30 minutes on day 1 of each subsequent cycle and anastrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 21-28 days.