Erlotinib Plus Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced, Metastatic, or Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer
Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining erlotinib with docetaxel in treating patients who have locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic head and neck cancer. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining erlotinib with docetaxel may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IV Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|DRUG: docetaxel|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib and docetaxel, based on incidence of DLT graded according to NCI CTC version 2.0 (Phase I), Up to 28 days|Proportion of patients with an objective response (Phase II), Up to 6 years
Response rate as measured by RECIST criteria (Phase II), Up to 6 years|Time to tumor progression (Phase II), Up to 6 years|Median survival (Phase II), Up to 6 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of erlotinib when administered in combination with docetaxel in patients with locally advanced, metastatic, or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

II. Determine the response rate, duration of response, time to progression, and survival of patients treated with this regimen.

III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. IV. Correlate the presence of PTEN, RB, P-Akt, p15, p16, cyclin D1, p27, and p53 genes in tumor tissue with response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of erlotinib followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive oral erlotinib once daily on days 1-28 and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, an additional cohort of 6 patients receives erlotinib at the MTD.

PHASE II: Patients receive erlotinib at the MTD and docetaxel as in phase I.