Epidemiology and Risk Factors of Uterine Fibroids in China
Uterine fibroids are the most common form of benign uterine tumors in the uterine muscle layer, which had a certain rate of malignancy, but it is rare. The prevalence of uterine fibroids estimates range from 4.5% to 68.6% depending on study population and diagnostic methodology. The prevalence of fibroids has been historically underestimated by epidemiologic studies which focused mainly on symptomatic women, leaving behind a large population of asymptomatic women and women who underreport their symptoms. What investigators don't know was which women who have fibroids will develop clinical symptoms and which women who have an operation of myomectomy will relapse. The purpose of this study is to investigate the prevalence, incidence and risk factors for the development of uterine fibroids in Chinese women.
Uterine Fibroid
Prevalence of uterine fibroids in China, Prevalence of uterine fibroids in China, Baseline
Incidence of uterine fibroids in China, Incidence of uterine fibroids in China, Two follow-ups over a three-year period|Risk factors of development of uterine fibroids in China, Associated risk factors for recurrence, infertility and malignancy of uterine fibroids in China, Two follow-ups over a three-year period
Uterine fibroids are the most common form of benign uterine tumors in the uterine muscle layer, which had a certain rate of malignancy, but it is rare. The prevalence of uterine fibroids estimates range from 4.5% to 68.6% depending on study population and diagnostic methodology. The prevalence of fibroids has been historically underestimated by epidemiologic studies which focused mainly on symptomatic women, leaving behind a large population of asymptomatic women and women who underreport their symptoms. What investigators don't know was which women who have fibroids will develop clinical symptoms and which women who have an operation of myomectomy will relapse. The purpose of this study is to investigate the prevalence, incidence and risk factors for the development of uterine fibroids in Chinese women.