Carboplatin-Paclitaxel Adjuvant Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer
This is a mutlicentric, open-label non-randomized, national, 2-stage phase II trial to assess efficacy and safety of a weekly Carboplatin-Paclitaxel adjuvant chemotherapy after intensity modulated extended-field chemoradiation in patient suffering from of locally advanced cervical cancer with para-aortic positive nodes.
Locally Advanced Cancer|Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin-Paclitaxel adjuvant chemotherapy
Progression Free Survival with adjuvant chemotherapy, To evaluate the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy with Carboplatin-Paclitaxel administrated in adjuvant situation after concomitant radio-chemotherapy in terms of Progression Free Survival (PFS) in patients treated for a locally advanced cervical cancer presenting positive lombo-aortic lymph nodes.

Progression will be based on a MRI scan, done during the usual oncologic follow-up: every 3 months during the 2 first years after radio-chemotherapy, and then every 6 months during 3 years.

Progression will be evaluated with RECIST criteria v1.1. The main analysis of this phase II trial will focus on the 2-year PFS rate from inclusion in the Part 2, but the whole curve will be estimated., From the date of inclusion in the Part 2 of the study until the date of first progression or relapse (local, lymph nodes or metastatic) or death whatever the cause. Assessed up to 64 months.
Overall Survival with adjuvant chemotherapy, To evaluate efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy with Carboplatin-Paclitaxel in terms of Overall Survival (OS) in patients treated for a locally advanced cervical cancer presenting positive lombo-aortic lymph nodes.

OS will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of inclusion in the Part 2 of the study until the date of death whatever the cause. Assessed up to 64 months.|Metastasis Free Survival with adjuvant chemotherapy, To evaluate efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy with Carboplatin-Paclitaxel in terms of Metastasis Free Survival (MFS) in patients treated for a locally advanced cervical cancer presenting positive lombo-aortic lymph nodes.

Metastatic progressions will be evaluated with the RECIST criteria., From the date of inclusion in the Part 2 of the study until the date of first metastatic progression or death whatever the cause. Assessed up to 64 months.|Number of Cycles Received of adjuvant chemotherapy, To describe feasibility of adjuvant chemotherapy in terms of number of cycles received, separately for each molecule Carboplatin and Paclitaxel.

The number of cycles will be recorded in the data base with the date and doses of injections, allowing the calculation of the Relative Dose Intensity.

Reasons of treatment stop or dose modification will also be recorded., From the date of inclusion in the Part 2 of the study until the date of adjuvant chemotherapy ending or patient study output or death whatever the cause. Up to 4 months.|Progression Free Survival with concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy, To evaluate the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy with concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy in terms of Progression Free Survival (PFS) in patients treated for a locally advanced cervical cancer presenting positive lombo-aortic lymph nodes.

Progression will be based on a MRI scan, done during the usual oncologic follow-up: every 3 months during the 2 first years after radio-chemotherapy, and then every 6 months during 3 years.

Progression will be evaluated with RECIST criteria v1.1., From the date of inclusion in the Part 1 of the study until the date of first progression or relapse (local, lymph nodes or metastatic) or death whatever the cause. Assessed up to 67 months.|Overall Survival with concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy, To evaluate efficacy of concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy in terms of Overall Survival (OS) in patients treated for a locally advanced cervical cancer presenting positive lombo-aortic lymph nodes.

OS will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of inclusion in the Part 1 of the study until the date of death whatever the cause. Assessed up to 67 months.|Metastasis Free Survival with concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy, To evaluate efficacy of concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy in terms of Metastasis Free Survival (MFS) in patients treated for a locally advanced cervical cancer presenting positive lombo-aortic lymph nodes.

Metastatic progressions will be evaluated with the RECIST criteria., From the date of inclusion in the Part 1 of the study until the date of first metastatic progression or death whatever the cause. Assessed up to 67 months.|Number of Cycles Received of concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy, To describe feasibility of the concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy (Part 1 of the study) in terms of number of cycles received.

The number of cycles will be recorded in the data base with the date and doses of injections, allowing the calculation of the Relative Dose Intensity.

Reasons of treatment stop or dose modification will also be recorded., From the date of inclusion in the Part 1 of the study until the date of concomitant chemo-radiotherapy associated to brachytherapy ending or patient study output or death whatever the cause. Assessed up to 12 weeks.|Safety of the whole treatment, To describe safety of the whole treatment (part 1 \& 2) in terms of Adverse Event.

During the first part of the study (concomitant radio-chemotherapy), all AE (Adverse Events) will be reported. AE occurring after end of treatment will not be collected for patients withdrawn from the study at the end of the first part. For the second part of the study (adjuvant chemotherapy), all AE will be reported up to 30 days after the end of adjuvant chemotherapy, until progression if any. Then, only AE possibly related to chemotherapy or radiation therapy will be collected, up to 5 years after the end of radiation therapy or until progression (whichever occurs first). All AE will be graded using the NCI-CTCAE v5.0 and AE of grade \>2 will be considered as severe AE., From the date of inclusion in the Part 1 of the study, up to 5 years after the end of radiation therapy or until progression (whichever occurs first).
This is a mutlicentric, open-label non-randomized, national, 2-stage phase II trial to assess efficacy and safety of a weekly Carboplatin-Paclitaxel adjuvant chemotherapy after intensity modulated extended-field chemoradiation in patient suffering from of locally advanced cervical cancer with para-aortic positive nodes.

Patients

* will be registered in the first part of the study at diagnosis and will receive a first part of treatment corresponding to a standard of care (standard concomitant radio-chemotherapy, "Part 1 of the study").
* will be included in the second part of the study for the second part of treatment (experimental adjuvant chemotherapy, "Part 2 of the study"), providing they fulfill eligibility criteria at this stage (no progression during Part 1 of the study and no medical contra-indication to the study treatment).

The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy with Carboplatin-Paclitaxel administrated in adjuvant situation after concomitant radio-chemotherapy in terms of Progression Free Survival (PFS) in patients treated for a locally advanced cervical cancer presenting positive lombo-aortic lymph nodes.