Neo-Adjuvant Study in Triple Negative Breast Cancer Patients
Ixabepilone and capecitabine combination has demonstrated to be an active regimen in patients with metastatic breast cancer after failing other treatments. Cetuximab is active against tumors expressing epidermal growth factor receptor w/demonstrated activity in head \& neck and colorectal tumors and may be effective in some breast cancers known to express EGFR. Study seeks to evaluate Ixabepilone alone or in combination with cetuximab as a an antitumor therapy w/randomization stratified by stage (T1N1-3M0 or T2-4 N0-3M0).
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Ixabepilone
Complete Response Rate, The study's primary objective is to determine the pathologic complete response rate (pCR) (breast and axilla) of Ixabepilone versus Ixabepilone when combined with cetuximab in patients with invasive breast adenocarcinoma T1N1-N3M0 or T2-4 N0-3M0 disease who are triple negative and who are candidates for preoperative chemotherapy.

The criteria used: "Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR.", or similar definition that is accurate and appropriate., one year after treatment
Recurrence Free Survival (RFS), The secondary objective is to evaluate the RFS in both treatment groups. The criteria used: "Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR.", or similar definition that is accurate and appropriate., Median 3-year|Safety and Toxicity of Both Treatment Regimens: Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The number of participants with adverse events will be measured. Toxicity/safety will be assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE v.3.0). Baseline signs and symptoms will be recorded and followed throughout the trial. Toxicity assessments will be continuous during treatment and the year of follow-up, after which all study drug-related toxicities will be deemed resolved, stabilized, or irreversible. Vital signs will be performed at baseline and will be monitored pre-dose and during study drug administration for Cycles 1 - 4. Chemistry and hematology laboratory tests will be done at baseline and prior to each subsequent chemotherapy cycle., one year after last treatment dose
Ixabepilone and capecitabine combination has demonstrated to be an active regimen in patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) after failing an anthracycline and a taxane regimen. Cetuximab is active in tumors that express epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) with demonstrated activity in head and neck and colorectal tumors. A proportion of breast cancers are known to express EGFR. Cetuximab's mechanism of action suggests the possibility of efficacy in breast cancer patients, and several studies show that it may be efficacious in Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC). This study seeks to evaluate Ixabepilone alone or in combination with cetuximab as a possible way to increase antitumor activity. In this randomized open-label phase II trial, patients will be randomized equally between 1) Ixabepilone or 2) Ixabepilone plus Cetuximab. Randomization will be stratified by disease stage (T1N1-3M0 or T2-4 N0-3M0).

The study's primary objective is to determine the pathologic complete response rate (pCR) (breast and axilla) of Ixabepilone versus Ixabepilone when combined with cetuximab in patients with invasive breast adenocarcinoma T1N1-N3M0 or T2-4 N0-3M0 disease who are triple negative and who are candidates for preoperative chemotherapy. The secondary objectives are to evaluate overall objective response rate in both treatment groups and to assess safety and toxicity of each regimen. There are also tertiary, exploratory objectives that will hopefully allow for the correlation of biomarker expression and response to treatment.