Trial-specific Patient Decision Aid (tPDA) of the ImmunoSABR Phase 2
This is a trial-specific (NCT03705403) decision aid (tPDA) for stage IV NSCLC patients that might want to participate.

We want to investigate if a tPDA would be (significantly) helpful for these patients in making a decision.

ImmunoSABR has a complex study design, we expect that the patients get a better overview of the trial via the tPDA because you can bring multiple tools together. (text, video, questions, pictures, timelines, etc.)
NSCLC Stage IV|Lung Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
OTHER: Decision tool
Patient's decisional needs to make a decision about participating a clinical trial, Patients' decisional needs (development phase):semi-structured interviews with patients about the decision about their treatment, and what information the patients need to make., 1 year|Usability of the decision aid, Quantitative research using a questionnaire based on the International Standard ISO-9242-11. This questionnaire measure to what extent the decision aid is easy to use. Answers will be clear for the patient; agree, neutral, disagree., 1 year|Decisional conflict (patients, evaluation phase), Decisional conflict will be assessed using the DCS (Decisional conflict scale): change in DCS between baseline group (usual care) and ImmunoSABR clinical trial. Answers will be clear for the patient; agree,neutral, disagree. Items are scored and summed. High total score will be in favour of the tPDA, 6months after randomization|Control Preference Scale (patients; evaluation phase), Patient's preference to participate in medical decisions will be assessed using the 3-item Control Preference Scale (CPS):change in CPS between baseline group (usual care) and ImmunoSABR clinical trial . Questions and answers will be clear for the patient; agree, neutral, disagree. Items are scored and summed. High total score will be in favour of the tPDA, 6months after randomization|Perception shared decision-making, Patient's perception of the shared decision-making process will be assessed using the (shared decision making) SDM-Q9 instrument for patients: change in SDM between baseline group (usual care) and ImmunoSABR clinical trial. 9 questions with clear answers; totally disagree, strongly disagree, disagree, agree, strongly agree, totally agree., 6months after randomization|Perception shared decision-making, Doctor's perception of the shared decision-making process will be assessed using the SDM-Q9 instrument for professionals: change in SDM between baseline group (usual care) and ImmunoSABR clinical trial. 9 questions with clear answers; totally disagree, strongly disagree, disagree, agree, strongly agree, totally agree., 6months after randomization
Patients' satisfaction with decision aid, Patients satisfaction with the tPDA will be tested via questions with predefined answers; agree,neutral, disagree. Items are scored and summed. High total score will be in favour of the tPDA, 6months after randomization|Patients' intention to use and recommend tPDA to others, Patients recommendation regarding the tPDA will be tested via questions with predefined answers; agree, neutral, disagree. Items are scored and summed. High total score will be in favour of the tPDA, 6months after randomization
A lung cancer patient might want to take part in the ImmunoSABR phase 2 trial (NCT03705403). Before they can decide, it is important that the patients understand why the research is being done and what it would involve for them.

This tPDA will give information about this trial via text, small movies, quiz and preferences. In the end, the patient will receive an overview of their choices.

Detailed Description ImmunoSABR:

IMMUNOSABR will include 126 patients. In this single-stage controlled randomised open-label phase II trial, we aim to demonstrate an absolute increase in progression-free survival (primary endpoint). PFS will be determined as the time between randomisation and disease progression, according to RECIST 1.1, death due to any cause or last patient contact alive and progression-free. Patients will be randomized between control (no immunocytokine) and experimental arms (with immunocytokine L19-IL2) in a 1:1 ratio. The accrual period will be 29 months (or 2.41 years), and the minimum follow-up will be 18 months (or 1.5 years), making the total study duration 47 months. Comparison between control and experimental arms will be made using the Log-Rank statistic. This test for superiority will be one-sided with the desired type I error of 0.10 and power of 0.90.

Patients enrolled in the trial will be randomised into the control arm (C-arm) or experimental arm (E-arm).

C-arm: Standard of Care (SOC) according to the local and national guidelines: (wait and see or surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or standard (symptomatic) radiotherapy and/or SABR, oligometastatic disease.

E-arm: SABR (oligometastatic disease) or radiotherapy (diffuse disease) + L19-IL2 up to 6 cycles (+ aPD(L)1 if SOC) The expected 1.5-year PFS is 15% in the C-arm and 35% in the E-arm. A sample size of 116 patients (58 patients per treatment arm) is needed to show this difference of 20% in PFS, using a logrank test with a two-sided alpha of 0.05 and power of 85%. Patients will be evenly divided over the two arms. Assuming a drop-out rate of 10%, a total of 126 patients (63 per arm) need to be included.

Primary objective The main objective of the trial is to test if the activity of the combination of (SAB)R and L19-IL2 in patients with metastatic NSCLC will result in improved progression-free survival (PFS) compared to the SOC.

Secondary Objectives

Assessment of the PFS of the patient cohort, at 5 years after randomisation. Assessment of the overall survival of the patient cohort, at 5 years after randomisation.

To assess the toxicity of this treatment schedule; To assess Quality of Life (QoL); To assess the occurrence of an Out of Field Radio-Immune (OFRI) response / abscopal effect using imaging; To assess the occurrence of an In Field Radio-Immune (IFRI) response using imaging; To perform correlative biomarker studies related to treatment response.

Exploratory endpoints:

Correlative biomarker studies:

Tumour tissue: e.g EDB expression, non-synonymous mutations, immune monitoring; Blood: e.g. EDB expression, cfDNA, and immune monitoring; Radiomics on CT and if available MRI; Faeces: diversity in microbiota. iRECIST Tumour grow kinetics