SABR Combined with Axitinib and Toripalimab in Recurrent or Metastatic RCC
This is a prospective, single-center clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of combining stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR) with the targeted therapy Axitinib and the immunotherapy Toripalimab in patients with recurrent metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Patients will receive a treatment regimen consisting of Axitinib, Toripalimab, and comprehensive multi-lesion SABR. The primary endpoint is Progression-Free Survival 1 (PFS1), and secondary endpoints include Progression-Free Survival 2 (PFS2), Overall Survival (OS), Local Control (LC), Objective Response Rate (ORR), and Disease Control Rate (DCR). Adverse events will be monitored according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 5.0). The aim of this study is to explore a potentially more effective treatment combination for recurrent metastatic RCC.
Radiation Therapy|Targeted Therapy|Immunotherapy|Renal Cancer Metastatic
RADIATION: Stereotactic Ablative Body Radiotherapy (SABR)|DRUG: TORIPALIMAB INJECTION(JS001 )|DRUG: Axitinib (VEGF-TKI)
Progression-Free Survival 1 (PFS1), PFS1 is defined as the time from the initiation of stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR) to the first occurrence of disease progression, as determined by radiological imaging (CT, MRI, or PET/CT) based on RECIST criteria. Disease progression is defined as an increase in the size of target lesions or the appearance of new lesions., From the start of SABR treatment to the first disease progression, up to 2 years. This primary endpoint assesses how long patients survive without disease progression while receiving the combination therapy.
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment (SABR combined with Axitinib and Toripalimab) to death from any cause., From the start of treatment to death or until the end of the study (up to 3 years). This secondary endpoint will help evaluate the overall survival benefits of the combined treatment over a longer period.|Progression-Free Survival 2 (PFS2), PFS2 is defined as the time from the start of stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR) to the need for second-line treatment due to disease progression or clinical deterioration, or to death. This will be measured by assessing the time until the initiation of a next-line treatment regimen or the occurrence of death., From the start of SABR treatment to the initiation of next-line treatment or death (an average of 3 year)
Local Control (LC), Local Control is defined as the percentage of patients who have no evidence of disease progression in the irradiated lesions after treatment, Through study completion, an average of 3 year|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), From the start of treatment to the first radiological evaluation to the best response(an average of 6 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD), From the start of treatment to the first disease progression, up to 2 years.
This is a prospective, single-center clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of combining stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR) with the targeted therapy Axitinib and the immunotherapy Toripalimab in patients with recurrent metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Patients will receive a treatment regimen consisting of Axitinib, Toripalimab, and comprehensive multi-lesion SABR. The primary endpoint is Progression-Free Survival 1 (PFS1), and secondary endpoints include Progression-Free Survival 2 (PFS2), Overall Survival (OS), Local Control (LC), Objective Response Rate (ORR), and Disease Control Rate (DCR). Adverse events will be monitored according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 5.0). The aim of this study is to explore a potentially more effective treatment combination for recurrent metastatic RCC.