Durvalumab and Tremelimumab ± Platinum-Based Chemotherapy in Patients With Metastatic Squamous or Non-Squamous NSCLC
Durvalumab is a new type of drug for many kinds of cancer. It is considered "immunotherapy" and not "chemotherapy". Laboratory tests show that it works by allowing the immune system to detect cancer and reactivate the immune response. This may help to slow down the growth of cancer or may cause cancer cells to die. Durvalumab has been shown to shrink tumours in animals and has been studied in more than 5000 people and seems promising.

Tremelimumab is a new type of drug for various types of cancers. It works in a similar way to durvalumab and may improve the effect of durvalumab. Tremelimumab may also help slow the growth of the cancer cells or may cause cancer cells to die. It has been shown to shrink tumours in animals and has been studied in over 1200 people and seems promising.
Lung Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: Platinum-Based Drug
Overall Survival, time from randomization to the date of death, 33 months
Progression-free Survival Using RECIST 1.1, time from randomization to the date of the first documented disease progression. Progression was defined as: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of measured lesions taking as references the smallest sum of diameters recorded on study (including baseline) AND an absolute increase of ≥5 mm, or appearance of new lesions., 33 months|Objective Response Rate Using RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST, proportion of patients with a documented complete response, partial response (CR + PR) based on iRECIST criteria. The primary estimate of ORR will be based on all patients randomized, and compared using Cochran- Mantel-Haeszel test stratified by stratification factors at randomization between the study new treatment and the standard control arms., 33 months
Combinations of durvalumab and tremelimumab have also been studied. While the combination has been studied in over 200 people, it is not clear if it can offer better results when it is combined with chemotherapy.

Recently, immunotherapies that target the PD-1/PD-L1 axis have shown promise in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.