A Phase IV Post Approval Clinical Study of ExAblate Treatment of Metastatic Bone Tumors for the Palliation of Pain
The study hypotheses is that the proportion of patients experiencing clinically significant pain relief will be at least 30% greater than the proportion experiencing worsening pain.
Bone Metastasis
DEVICE: ExAblate MRgFUS
Proportion of Responders, The statistical hypothesis is that the proportion of responders will be significantly greater than the proportion of subjects experiencing pain progression (worsened pain or increased pain medications usage). Using the Numerical Rating Score (NRS) for pain (0 being no pain and 10 being worst imaginable pain), subjects were rated as a Responder or as having Pain Progression. A responder is defined as a subject with a reduction in NRS worst score from baseline of two (2) or more points, and no increase in pain medication use. Pain Progression was increased pain of two (2) or more points., Three months post treatment
Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for Pain Score, Patient pain intensity on an 11-point Numerical Rating Scale from 0 to 10 in which 0 is no pain and 10 is the worst pain you can imagine. The NRS was administered pre-treatment and post-treatment. The trajectory of change was presented graphically., Three months post treatment|Quality of Life (QOL) as Measured by Change in Brief Pain Inventory - Interference (BPI) From Baseline, The BPI-QOL questionnaire is designed to show the severity and interference of pain in the lives of patients. This is a 7-item questionnaire that asks respondents the extent to which pain interferes with their general activity, mood, walking ability, normal work, relations with other people, sleep and enjoyment of life using a 0-10 numerical rating scale in which 0 represents 'does not interfere' and 10 indicates 'completely interferes'. Responses to the 7 items are averaged to form the pain interference scale score. Thus, the minimum possible is 0 and the maximum possible is 10 points. Lower scores are better, showing less interference in daily activities while higher scores show more interference and hence worse outcomes., Baseline, 1 Month post treatment, 2 Month post treatment, 3 Month post treatment.
As part of the PMA # P110039 review process and approval, InSightec was requested to conduct a post-approval study. Patients will be treated following the approved commercial treatment guidelines.

For this study, participating sites will use the ExAblate device for the administration of the ExAblate treatment. This study will be performed on either 1.5T or 3T MR scanners.

For this study, a total of 70 patients meeting the approved commercial guidelines will be enrolled and treated with the ExAblate system at from 7 to 10 sites. The proportion of responders is expected to be at least 30% greater than the proportion of subjects experiencing pain progression (i.e., 60% vs. 30%). Additionally, at the 3 month visit, an analysis of both the safety and efficacy profiles will be compared to the original PMA pivotal study group.