Bendamustine, Rituximab and Acalabrutinib in Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
This is a multi-centre, open label, single-arm, phase II clinical trial in untreated patients with Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia. Symptomatic, previously untreated patients will receive SOC bendamustine and rituximab for 6 28-day cycles. Bendamustine will be given intravenously at 90 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2 of each cycle. Rituximab will be given on day 1 of each cycle (375 mg/m2 intravenously for the first cycle and 1400 mg subcutaneously OR 375 mg/m2 intravenously for subsequent cycles (as per institutional procedures)). Concomitantly, participants will receive 100 mg of the investigational product, Acalabrutinib, orally for 1 year (365 days) at 100 mg BID.
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Rituximab
Best combined complete response (CR) and very good partial response (VGPR), To document the best combined CR and VGPR rate of first-line treatment with bendamustine and rituximab plus acalabrutinib in patients with WM using response criteria from the Sixth International Workshop on Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia9. Response will be documented at cycle 7, 12 and 18 (durable CR)., through study completion, an average of 1 year - cycle 7, 12 (day 1 of 28 day cycle) up to 18 months
Overall objective response and partial response, using criteria from 6th international workshop on WM, 6 and 12 months|Documentation of minimal residual disease (MRD) rate, MRD will be assessed at three on treatment timepoints (before start of cycles 7, 12, 18) as well as extended follow-up vistis. MRD will be measured from two body compartments-peripheral blood and bone marrow. MRD will be recorded and will be reported based on the limit of detection of the assay (to be determined). Results will be pooled and rates of MRD negativity for the assay will be recorded at each time point for the pooled patients and for each of the two body compartments that are being assessed., through study completion, an average of 18 months cycle 7, 12 and 18 (each cycle is 28 days)|Documentation of overall survival, OS will be determined using the time from first day of study treatment to death for each patients. Results for each patient will be pooled to derive an overall survival rate., Up to 6 years post first dose|Documentation of progression free survival, PFS will be defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to the first objective documentation of progressive disease (PD), the start of an alternative anticancer therapy, or death from any cause during study. Results for each patient will be pooled to derive an overall progressive free survival rate. Participants not meeting criteria for PD will be followed by telephone every 6 months for up to six years from the time of first dose., Up to 6 years post first dose|Toxicities graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0 (NCI CTCAE, v5.0)], A descriptive analysis of safety will be performed with descriptions of frequency and grade of the adverse events including adverse events of special interest such as hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias and bleeding events. The common toxicities described in the NCK common terminology criteriae for adverse events (NC CTAE v5.0) will be documented and grade in each patient at each visit throughout the trial. Rates and severity of all of these toxicity will be collected and reported., Up to 30 days following last dose|Duration of Response, Defined as the length of time a participant is identified as CR or VGPR until they progress. Different from PFS, Up to 6 years post first dose|Time to Next Treatment, Defined as the amount of time from the start of trial until the patient requires a new form of treatment to treat their WM, Up to 6 year post first dose
This is a multi-centre, open label, single-arm, phase II clinical trial in untreated patients with WM. Patients will require a biopsy to confirm the pathology and molecular testing for MYD88, CXCR4 and P53 mutations. A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will be performed to document WM and MRD. Participants will be classified into clinical risk categories based on the International Prognostic Scoring (IPS) System for WM. Symptomatic, previously untreated patients will receive SOC bendamustine and rituximab for 6 28-day cycles. Bendamustine will be given intravenously at 90 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2 of each cycle. Rituximab will be given on day 1 of each cycle (375 mg/m2 intravenously for the first cycle and 1400 mg subcutaneously OR 375 mg/m2 intravenously for subsequent cycles (as per institutional procedures)).

Concomitantly, participants will receive 100 mg of the investigational product, Acalabrutinib, orally for 1 year (365 days) at 100 mg BID. Patients will have pre-treatment computed tomography (CT) scans, and CT scans at 7, 12 and 18 months. Best objective response will be documented using the criteria from the Sixth International Workshop on Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia. Assessment of metabolic uptake by positron emission tomography (PET) scan is not considered appropriate for WM as WM usually do not take up fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). Patients with WM will also have disease assessed using measurements of serum IgM, serum protein electrophoresis (SPE), immunofixation (IFA), and viscosity assessments measured serially. A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will be done before treatment and at response assessment at cycle 6 and will be repeated if positive. Durability of response will also be assessed at 18 months.

Participants will be followed by extended follow-up by telephone for up to 6 years to obtain data on the secondary endpoints.