Pre-reinductive Decitabine and Vorinostat in Relapsed Lymphoblastic Lymphoma or Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Decitabine and vorinostat may alter the cancer cells by reversing the cancer pathways needed for cell growth. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) together with decitabine and vorinostat may kill more cancer cells than with chemotherapy alone.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving decitabine and vorinostat together with combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or lymphoblastic lymphoma that has relapsed or not responded to treatment.
Leukemia|Lymphoma
DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: decitabine|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: imatinib mesylate|DRUG: methotrexate|DRUG: pegaspargase|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|DRUG: vorinostat
Response to Treatment, Response includes both complete remission (defined as \<5% leukemic blasts in the bone marrow) and partial remission (defined as a greater than 35% reduction in the bone marrow leukemia blast percentage at day 33), Day 33
Level of Methylation, the percentage of methylated DNA, Day 0|Level of Methylation, the percentage of methylated DNA, Day 5|Level of Methylation, the percentage of methylated DNA, Day 33
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Patients undergo blood and bone marrow sample collection at baseline, on day 5, Day 19 and at the end of study treatment for correlative laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed for hypermethylation at diagnosis and demethylation post-exposure with decitabine and vorinostat using LINE methylation.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour and oral vorinostat twice daily on days 1-4; vincristine sulfate IV on days 5, 12, 19, and 26; oral prednisone twice daily on days 5-33; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes and cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 5; pegaspargase IV or intramuscularly on days 6, 12, 19, and 26; and methotrexate\* IT on days 12 and 33. Patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive disease may also receive oral imatinib mesylate once daily on days 5-33.

NOTE: \*Patients with central nervous system (CNS)-positive disease also receive methotrexate IT on days 19 and 26.

Patients undergo blood and bone marrow sample collection at baseline, on day 5, Day 19 and at the end of study treatment for correlative laboratory studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 60 days.