Study of DOXIL/CAELYX (Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin) and VELCADE (Bortezomib) or VELCADE Monotherapy for the Treatment of Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate time to progression, overall survival, response rate and safety for the two open-label treatment groups; DOXIL/CAELYX in combination with VELCADE vs. VELCADE monotherapy.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib (VELCADE)|DRUG: Bortezomib (VELCADE)|DRUG: Doxorubicin hydrochloride (DOXIL/CAELYX)
Time to Progression (TTP), Median time to progression of disease is assessed according to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria or death from any cause. IMWG criteria: increase of \>=25% from lowest level in Serum M-component or (the absolute increase must be \>=0.5 gram per deciliter \[g/dL\]); Urine M component or (the absolute increase must be \>=200 milligram per 24 hour. Only in participants without measurable serum and urine M-protein levels: the difference between involved and uninvolved free light chain levels. The absolute increase \>10 mg/dL. Bone marrow plasma cell percentage \>=10%. Definite development of new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas or definite increase in the size of existing. Development of hypercalcemia. Participants who died or dropped out due to any reason without progression will be censored with the day of death or drop-out, respectively and who are alive at the end of the study without any progression was censored with the last available date., Up to 1 year and 4 months (From date of first participant randomization [20 December 2004] up to interim analysis cut-off date [28 April 2006])
Overall Survival, The OS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to date of death from any cause. If the participant is alive or the vital status is unknown, the participant will be censored at the date the participant will be last known to be alive., Up to 9 years and 5 months (From date of first participant randomization [20 December 2004] to cut-off date for final survival analysis (16 May 2014)|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly., Up to 1 year and 11 months (From date of first participant randomization [20 December 2004] to cut-off date for safety update (28 November 2006)
This is a randomized (study drug assigned by chance), parallel-group, open-label (all involved people know the identity of the intervention), multicenter study in 18 countries. A total of 646 patients with multiple myeloma whose disease has progressed after an initial response to at least 1 line of prior therapy or was refractory to initial treatment will be enrolled. The primary endpoint is time to progression (the interval between the date of randomization and the date of disease progression); secondary endpoints are overall survival (the interval between the date of randomization and the patient's death from any cause), response rate (the proportion of patients in the evaluable population who achieved a complete or partial response), and safety. Other study endpoints include patient reported outcomes and exploratory pharmacogenics (to identify genetic markers of response). Patients are assessed for efficacy and safety every 3 weeks until disease progression is documented or for up to 42 weeks from the start of the first dose of study drug. Patients, who do not progress after the 42-week period, are assessed every 6 weeks until disease progression is documented. Efficacy evaluations includes: serum protein electrophoresis, 24-hour urine collection for protein electrophoresis, skeletal survey (plain films), bone marrow biopsy and aspirate, clinical or radiologic assessment of plasmacytomas, and serum calcium. Responses and progressions are assessed objectively by a computer algorithm based on the EBMT criteria. Safety evaluations include adverse event reports, changes in clinical laboratory findings, and tests for cardiac function (multiple gated acquisition scan/echocardiogram and electrocardiogram). Group A: VELCADE monotherapy: VELCADE 1.3 milligram per meter square (mg/m\^2) to be administered by i.v. bolus on Days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of each 21-day cycle. Group B: DOXIL/VELCADE combination: treated with VELCADE at the same dose and schedule as specified in Group A. DOXIL/CAELYX 30 mg/m\^2 by intravenous infusion given on Day 4 of every 21-day cycle following the administration of VELCADE.