Rehabilitation of Cognitive Changes in Breast Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to test a memory training program for breast cancer survivors who have problems with memory after receiving chemotherapy. Since breast cancer survivors have been reported to have trouble with their memory, a program to help these problems is important. Studies have shown that a 5-week software training program improved memory in pediatric cancer survivors and other disorders like stroke, but it has not been tested for breast cancer survivors. This study will see if breast cancer survivors can improve their memory and attention problems by using either one of two software versions of the program. One version is called Cogmed Working Memory Training, and the other is a comparison version of the software that has the same exercises but is less difficult. People who decide to participate in the study will be randomly given one of the two versions.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cogmed Working Memory Training Program
Determine the efficacy of working memory training, in breast cancer survivors based on improved performance on neuropsychological tests of working memory., 2 years
Test whether or not working memory training in breast cancer survivors is associated with greater gains in the software's "Improvement Index"., 2 years|Investigate whether breast cancer survivors perceive functional improvement following working memory training., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to test a memory training program for breast cancer survivors who have problems with memory after receiving chemotherapy. Since breast cancer survivors have been reported to have trouble with their memory, a program to help these problems is important. Studies have shown that a 5-week software training program improved memory in pediatric cancer survivors and other disorders like stroke, but it has not been tested for breast cancer survivors. This study will see if breast cancer survivors can improve their memory and attention problems by using either one of two software versions of the program. One version is called Cogmed Working Memory Training, and the other is a comparison version of the software that has the same exercises but is less difficult. People who decide to participate in the study will be randomly given one of the two versions.