A Phase Ia/Ib Study of GH2616 Tablet in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a Phase Ia/Ib, dose escalation and dose expansion study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, pharmacodynamics (PD) and preliminary efficacy of GH2616 Tablet in subjects with advanced solid tumors. It includes two parts: the dose escalation study (Phase Ia) and the dose expansion study (Phase Ib).
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: GH2616 Tablets
Number of Participants Reporting Adverse Events (AEs) or Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Adverse events (AE), serious adverse events (SAE), and severity of AE using the NCI-CTCAE version 5.0., 2 years|Dose-limiting Toxicities Incidence Count Among Study Participant, DLT refers to Dose-Limiting Toxicity. It is defined as a side effect or adverse reaction of a drug or treatment that is severe enough to prevent an increase in dosage. Identifying DLT is crucial in clinical trials for determining the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of a new drug., 2 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, ORR is defined as the proportion of participants with complete response or partial response (CR+PR). (phase I), 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, PFS is defined as the interval of time between the date of first treatment to the earliest date of disease progression or death which occurs first. (phase I), 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, DCR is defined as proportion of participants with complete response, partial response, stable disease(CR+PR+SD). (phase I), 2 years|Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Highest observed plasma concentration of GH2616. (phase I), 2 years|Area Under the plasma Concentration-Time Curve (AUC), Area under the plasma concentration time curve of GH2616. (phase I), 2 years|Time to CAchieve Cmax (Tmax), Time of highest observed plasma concentration of GH2616. (phase I), 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, DCR refers to Disease Control Rate. It is a measure used in clinical trials to indicate the proportion of patients whose cancer shrinks or remains stable over a specified period., 2 years
Phase Ia: Dose Escalation Study This is a Phase Ia, open-label, multi-center, dose escalation study, aiming to investigate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD and preliminary anti-tumor activity of GH2616 Tablet in subjects with advanced solid tumors.

• Dose Escalation Phase This study will consist of 8, sequential, ascending-dose cohorts (A1\~ A8) and utilize a "3+3" dose escalation design.

Phase Ib: Dose Expansion Study The Phase Ib part is an open-label, multi-center, dose expansion study, aiming to further evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of GH2616 Tablet in subjects with advanced solid tumors harboring TP53 mutation and WGD+ at the RDEs.

Phase Ib study will consist of 2 to 3 dose level cohorts (B1 \~ B3) of RDEs identified by the safety, tolerability, PK/PD characteristics, and preliminary efficacy data obtained from Phase Ia study.