Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors (MK-3475-028/KEYNOTE-28)
This study will assess the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) administered to participants with incurable advanced biomarker-positive solid tumors that have not responded to current therapy or for which current therapy is not appropriate.

The study hypothesis is that administration of pembrolizumab to participants with some types of solid tumors will result in a clinically meaningful response rate.
Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants who experienced a complete response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 by the investigator., Up to approximately 86 months
Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants with at least one AE was assessed., Up to approximately 28 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued From Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who discontinued treatment due to an AE was assessed., Up to approximately 25 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of allocation to the date of the first documentation of disease progression, as determined by investigator per modified RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause (whichever occurred first). Disease progression was defined as at least 20 percent (%) increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter \[mm\]) in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions. PFS was estimated and analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 86 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of allocation to the date of death due to any cause. Participants who were lost to follow-up and those who were alive at the end of the trial were censored at the date of last assessment., Up to approximately 86 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrated a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per modified RECIST 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first documented evidence of a CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. DOR for participants who had not progressed or died at the time of analysis was censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. Per modified RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. DOR assessments were based on investigator with confirmation. The DOR according to modified RECIST 1.1 for all participants who experienced a confirmed CR or PR was reported. Per protocol, participants were analyzed according to disease type., Up to approximately 86 months
Qualified participants who complete up to \~2 years of pembrolizumab treatment but progress after discontinuation may be eligible for a second course of pembrolizumab for up to \~1 additional year, at the Investigator's discretion. Per protocol, response or progression during this second course will not count towards efficacy outcome measures and adverse events during this second course will not count towards safety outcome measures.