Radiotherapy in Hepatocellular Carcinomas After Hepatectomy With Narrow Margin (<1 cm) and / or Microvascular Invasion
Hepatocellular carcinoma is one of ten leading cancer types worldwide and also in Asia, but the five-year relative survival rate is relatively quite low1-3. For hepatocellular carcinoma treatment, current options are surgical resection, embolization chemotherapy, radiation therapy, a variety of ablation therapy, biological and gene therapy, etc. Among them, the use of radiation therapy is getting more and more attention, and it is changing from the past palliative treatment to current curable treatment. From an oncologic point of view, a narrow margin \<1 cm and microvascular invasion is not safe and is often associated with higher rates of recurrence and shorter patient survival.On the other hand, it is also believed that most intrahepatic recurrences arise from multicentric carcinogenesis and are distant from the resection margin. To address this issue, the investigators are going to conduct a series of retrospective and prospective studies to investigate the effect of adjuvant Radiotherapy for centrally located hepatocellular carcinoma after narrow margin (\<1 cm) hepatectomy on tumor recurrence.
HepatoCellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: Postoperative radiotherapy|DRUG: Postoperative TACE
overall survival, 5years
Hepatocellular carcinoma is one of ten leading cancer types worldwide and also in Asia, but the five-year relative survival rate is relatively quite low1-3. For hepatocellular carcinoma treatment, current options are surgical resection, embolization chemotherapy, radiation therapy, a variety of ablation therapy, biological and gene therapy, etc. Among them, the use of radiation therapy is getting more and more attention, and it is changing from the past palliative treatment to current curable treatment. From an oncologic point of view, a narrow margin \<1 cm and microvascular invasion is not safe and is often associated with higher rates of recurrence and shorter patient survival.On the other hand, it is also believed that most intrahepatic recurrences arise from multicentric carcinogenesis and are distant from the resection margin. To address this issue, the investigators are going to conduct a series of retrospective and prospective studies to investigate the effect of adjuvant Radiotherapy for centrally located hepatocellular carcinoma after narrow margin (\<1 cm) hepatectomy on tumor recurrence.