A Patient Navigation Program to Increase Access to Early Supportive Care in Patients With Stage IV Solid Tumors
In this randomized clinical trial, patients with Stage IV solid tumors will be enrolled in a patient navigator-led generalist palliative and supportive care intervention or in usual care led by their treating physician. The patient navigator will assess the patient's palliative and supportive care needs using standardized quality of life and symptoms questionnaires and present this assessment to a multidisciplinary team composed of oncologists and palliative care specialist. The multidisciplinary team will develop a personalized supportive care plan for the patient which will then be presented and discussed by the patient navigator. Those interventions which are accepted by the patient will be implemented by the patient navigator, who will also provide education and teaching. The patient navigator will also help eligible patients complete advanced directives according to local rules and regulations. The patient navigator will follow the patients both in person and by telephone to ensure that the recommended interventions have been implemented. Three months after enrollment the patients will undergo quality of life and symptom assessment once again, and the implementation of interventions will be recorded.
Neoplasm Metastasis
OTHER: Patient Navigation
Referrals to Supportive Care Services, Proportion of patients who agree to participate in the patient navigation program, complete the initial assessment, meet with the patient navigator to discuss advanced care planning and supportive care interventions and obtain the appropriate referrals and consultations., Three months
Rate of advanced directive completion, Obtaining a signed advanced directive, Three months|Implementation of planned supportive care interventions, Documentation of the planned interventions on the patient's medical record at end-of-study, Three months|Changes in QOL, Changes in QOL measured using the FACT-G from baseline., Three months|Changes in self-reported pain, Changes in self reported pain measured using the BPI scale from baseline., Three months|Use of chemotherapy at the end of life, Interval between last administration of chemotherapy and death, 18 months|Healthcare utilization, Sum of hospital admissions, emergency room admissions and ICU admissions during the study period, 18 months|Survival, Overall survival (defined as time from study enrollment to last recorded visit or death), 18 months
In this randomized clinical trial, patients with Stage IV solid tumors will be enrolled in a patient navigator-led generalist palliative and supportive care intervention or in usual care led by their treating physician. The patient navigator will assess the patient's palliative and supportive care needs using standardized quality of life and symptoms questionnaires and present this assessment to a multidisciplinary team composed of oncologists and palliative care specialist. The multidisciplinary team will develop a personalized supportive care plan for the patient which will then be presented and discussed by the patient navigator. Those interventions which are accepted by the patient will be implemented by the patient navigator, who will also provide education and teaching. The patient navigator will also help eligible patients complete advanced directives according to local rules and regulations. The patient navigator will follow the patients both in person and by telephone to ensure that the recommended interventions have been implemented. Three months after enrollment the patients will undergo quality of life and symptom assessment once again, and the implementation of interventions will be recorded.