Post Market Clinical Follow-up of CODMAN CERTAS Programmable Valve
Post-Market Clinical Follow-up Registry of Patients with CODMAN CERTAS Plus Programmable Valves.
Hydrocephalus|Hydrocephalus in Children|NPH (Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus)|IIH - Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension|Brain Tumor|Post-Traumatic Hydrocephalus|Hemorrhagic Stroke
DEVICE: CODMAN CERTAS Plus Programmable Valve
Precise Device Placement: Maintaining Integrity and Functionality at 30 Days Post-Deployment, Device Success is defined as:

1. Deployment with the correct valve positioning
2. Original intended device in place, and
3. No additional surgical or interventional procedures related to access or the device since completion of the original procedure., 30 Days
Incidence of Valve Replacement, Incidence of Valve replacement post - implantation, 12, 24 and 36 Months|Adverse Events, Incidence of Adverse Events post - implantation

Long term safety will be assessed by the incidence of all adverse events/complications including number of subjects with shunt and/or shunt system infections., 12, 24 and 36 Months|Number of encounters with inadvertent reprogramming of CODMAN CERTAS Plus Programmable Valves, Incidence of inadvertent reprogramming of CODMAN CERTAS Plus Programmable Valves post - implantation prior to MRI, 12, 24 and 36 Months
The CODMAN CERTAS Plus Programmable Valve is a single use implantable device designed for shunting cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for the treatment of hydrocephalus.

The valve can be set to 8 different performance settings for intraventricular pressure and drainage of CSF. The performance setting of the valve can be set preoperatively and can also be noninvasively changed post-implantation.

This clinical investigation will maintain data for each patient from the date of implant through 3 years post-implantation.

Data collection for each patient will occur per standard of care.

However, the clinical investigation specifically aims to collect and analyze data from the day of procedure, and post-operatively at 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, 24 months, and 36 months.

Data from follow-up visits will be analyzed according to pre-defined time-intervals referring to these follow-up moments.