Liver Surgery and Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Colorectal Cancer With Liver Metastases That Can Be Removed by Surgery and Lung Metastases That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well liver surgery and chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone work in treating patients with colorectal cancer that has spread to the liver (liver metastases) that can be removed by surgery and that has spread to the lungs (lung metastases) that cannot be removed by surgery. Liver surgery removes a portion of the liver affected by the tumor. Chemotherapy drugs work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Liver surgery and chemotherapy may work better than chemotherapy alone in treating patients with colorectal cancer which has spread to the liver and lungs.
Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Liver|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Lung|Recurrent Colorectal Carcinoma|Resectable Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Chemotherapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Metastasectomy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Overall survival, The primary analysis will be performed in an intention-to-treat data set. Stratified log-rank test adjusting for the study stratification factors will be used to compare overall survival between the two treatment arms. The hazards ratio of overall survival for the surgery arm compared to the non-surgery arm will be estimated by fitting Cox proportional hazards regression models, adjusting for the effects of covariates including stratification factors., From the date of randomization to the date of death or the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events, Tabulated by frequency and percentages, by grade, and by their relations to surgical treatment., Up to 3 years|Extrahepatic and extrapulmonary metastases, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time to extrahepatic and extrapulmonary metastases., Up to 3 years|Intrahepatic recurrence, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time to intrahepatic recurrence among patients randomized to surgery., Up to 3 years|Biomarker levels in blood and resected liver specimens, Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards models will be fitted to evaluate the association between biomarkers in blood and resected liver specimens and time to event outcomes, including overall survival development of extrahepatic and extrapulmonary metastases, and time to intrahepatic recurrence among patients randomized to surgery. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression will be used to assess the association between biomarkers and response to chemotherapy, Up to 3 years|Scores of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General 7 questionnaire, Summarized using descriptive statistics including mean, standard deviation, median, and range. Summation of item GP1, GP4, GP2, and GE6 (higher score indicates worse condition) and summation of GF5, GF3 and GF7 (higher score indicates better condition) will be calculated for each patient. Two sample t-tests will be used to compare scores of each item or summations between the two treatment arms., Up to 3 years|Patients who abandon treatment, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine a survival benefit of liver resection in patients with resectable liver and unresectable low-volume pulmonary metastases from colorectal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify biomarkers in blood and resected liver specimens that correlate with survival, and development of extrahepatic and extrapulmonary metastases.

II. To assess patients' quality-of-life in each treatment arm with serial questionnaires.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo hepatectomy and receive chemotherapy at the discretion of treating oncologist. Patients whose lung tumors become able to be removed by surgery with chemotherapy may undergo lung metastasectomy.

GROUP II: Patients receive chemotherapy at the discretion of the treating oncologist. Patients whose lung tumors become able to be removed by surgery with chemotherapy may undergo lung metastasectomy.

Patients are followed up every 3-6 months up to 3 years.