Gabapentin, Methadone Hydrochloride, and Oxycodone Hydrochloride in Improving Quality of Life in Patients With Stage II-IV Head and Neck Cancer During Chemoradiation
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of gabapentin and how well it works when given together with methadone hydrochloride and oxycodone hydrochloride in improving quality of life in patients with stage II-IV head and neck cancer during chemoradiation. Gabapentin, methadone hydrochloride, and oxycodone hydrochloride may help relieve moderate or severe pain caused by head and neck cancer during and after chemoradiation therapy.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Pain|Stomatitis
DRUG: Gabapentin|DRUG: Methadone Hydrochloride|DRUG: Oxycodone Hydrochloride|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in pain levels via Oral Mucositis Daily Questionnaire (OMDQ), European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30, Head and Neck Quality of Life Survey, and physical evaluations, Evaluated using a repeated measures model. Tested using a two-sided 0.05 significance level. Post hoc analyses will be done with multiple comparisons adjusted for using the Bonferroni method. Assumptions of normality and equal variance will be examined, and transformations will be used as appropriate., Baseline to up to 24 months|Incidence of side effects or drug intolerance, Will be graded and recorded. Tested using a two-sided 0.05 significance level. Post hoc analyses will be done with multiple comparisons adjusted for using the Bonferroni method. Assumptions of normality and equal variance will be examined, and transformations will be used as appropriate. The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade by treatment arm., Up to 24 months|Proportion of patients who require higher equivalents of narcotic support added to their analgesia regimen in each arm, Each patient requiring rescue medication for breakthrough or refractory pain will be counted as a failure for that specific regimen. At the end of the trial, number of failures will be compared between the two treatment arms using Fisher's exact test. Total amount of opioid intake mean will be compared using a t-test between the two arms. Tested using a two-sided 0.05 significance level. Post hoc analyses will be done with multiple comparisons adjusted for using the Bonferroni method. Assumptions of normality and equal variance will be examined, and transformations will be used as appropriate, Up to 24 months
Change in oral mucositis rating scores during and after CRT, using the OMDQ, The total score of the OMDQ questionnaire will be recorded after each follow-up visit. Tested using a two-sided 0.05 significance level. Post hoc analyses will be done with multiple comparisons adjusted for using the Bonferroni method. Assumptions of normality and equal variance will be examined, and transformations will be used as appropriate., Baseline to up to 24 months|Change in quality of life rating scores during and after CRT, using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and H&N35, The total score of the EORTC questionnaires will be recorded after each follow-up visit. Tested using a two-sided 0.05 significance level. Post hoc analyses will be done with multiple comparisons adjusted for using the Bonferroni method. Assumptions of normality and equal variance will be examined, and transformations will be used as appropriate., Baseline to up to 24 months
Change in patient hydration and nutrition using the OMDQ, Tested using a two-sided 0.05 significance level. Post hoc analyses will be done with multiple comparisons adjusted for using the Bonferroni method. Assumptions of normality and equal variance will be examined, and transformations will be used as appropriate., Baseline to up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Collect preliminary data on the safety and efficacy of two analgesic regimens that can be used to design larger studies for comparing such regimens.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine effects of the treatment regimens on pain control, oral mucositis, and quality-of-life ratings scores during and after chemoradiation therapy (CRT).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess treatment regimen effect on patient nutrition and hydration status during and after CRT (weight loss, vitals, oral \[PO\] tolerance, etc.).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive gabapentin PO thrice daily (TID) for up to 7 weeks during radiotherapy.

ARM II: Patients receive gabapentin PO TID, methadone hydrochloride PO twice daily (BID), and oxycodone hydrochloride PO every 8 hours (Q8H) as needed (PRN) for up to 7 weeks during radiotherapy.

All patients may continue to receive treatment for pain throughout their course of chemoradiation therapy (and up to 24 months following CRT if continuing on a pain regimen).

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 30 days, and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. Patients requiring prolonged analgesic therapy may be followed up every 6 months for 24 months.