A Study for the Participants With Metastatic Hormone Sensitive Prostate Cancer (mHSPC) Treated With Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) Plus Apalutamide or Enzalutamide
The purpose of this study is to assess the real-world outcomes differences between apalutamide or enzalutamide plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for the treatment of participants with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC).
Metastatic Hormone-sensitive Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Percentage of Participants With Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Level <0.2 ng/mL at Month 3, Percentage of participants with PSA level less than (\<)0.2 nanogram per milliliter (ng/mL) at month 3 will be reported., At month 3|Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) as Assessed by Partial European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Questionnaire, HRQoL of the participants will be assessed as partial EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire. EORTC QLQ-C30 scale scores range from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high level of functioning, whereas a high score for a symptom scale/single item represents a high level of symptom., Up to 30 Months|Cognitive Functioning as Assessed by Partial Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog) Questionnaire, Cognitive function of the participants will be measured by the partial FACT-Cog (Version 3) questionnaire. The FACT-Cog score ranges from scale 0-148. The higher the total score, the better the cognitive function., Up to 30 Months|Fatigue as Assessed by Brief Fatigue Inventory-Short Form (BFI-SF) Questionnaire, Participant fatigue will be assessed by the BFI-SF questionnaire. The BFI-SF score range from scale 0-10. Scores are categorized as Mild (1-3), Moderate (4-6), and Severe (7-10)., Up to 30 Months|Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Anxiety as Assessed by Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer (MAX-PC) Questionnaire, PSA anxiety of the participant will be assessed by the MAX-PC questionnaire. The MAX-PC total score ranges from scale 0 to 54. The MAX-PC is divided into three subscales: a) prostate cancer anxiety (PCA) range from 0 to 33, b) Prostate-Specific Antigen Anxiety (PSAA) ranges from 0 to 9, and c) fear of recurrence (FOR) ranges from 0 to 12., Up to 30 Months
The purpose of this study is to assess the real-world outcomes differences between apalutamide or enzalutamide plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for the treatment of participants with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC).