Safety and Feasibility of the Infinity Catheter for Radial Access
The main objective of this single arm study is to evaluate the safety and feasibility of the AXS Infinity LS (Stryker, Freemont, CA, USA) and AXS Infinity LS Plus (Stryker, Freemont, CA, USA) catheters during the transradial approach through a secondary use of the data collected during neurointerventional procedures. This includes evaluating the conversion rates to a transfemoral approach. A secondary aim of the study is to assess the radial artery occlusion rates post procedure.
Brain Tumor|Stroke, Acute|Brain Aneurysm|Intracranial Arteriovenous Malformations|Carotid Stenosis|Cavernous Sinus Thrombosis
DEVICE: Transradial approach
Feasibility of TRA Intervention, The size of the radial artery will be measured and the transradial approach will be used. Notation will be also be recorded if conversion to TFA is used., 1 month
Assess radial artery occlusion rates post procedure, Reverse Barbue Test and ultrasound, 1 month|Demographics, Patient demographics will be analyzed such as past medical history, HTN, HLD, Afib, 1 month
Patients who are undergoing endovascular intervention will be enrolled into the study. Consent will be obtained for the procedure and for the use of their prospectively collected clinical data. As the metrics analyzed in this study are already normally collected, this study can be considered as a secondary use of the data. The procedure will be done using standard criteria as per operator preference. All interventional cases at the study institution undergo a "radial first" approach, meaning that the access site of choice is the radial artery. The investigators will measure the radial artery size to ensure that the artery is greater than 2.4 mm in order to use the Infinity catheter (8Fr). If the artery does not meet the size criteria, only a 6Fr sheath will be used, and the data recorded during the procedure will not be utilized for analysis in this study. The preoperative and postoperative care will be the same for all the patients. No tests will be done outside of standard of care.