SCINTIX [BgRT} Using RMRS in Solid and Soft Tissue Tumors
This study proposes 6 anatomic groupings which each can be defined similarly as the "head and neck" grouping above. These 6 groupings are: (1) Head and Neck, (2) Thoracic not including lung parenchymal, (3) Hepatobiliary and other non-hepatobiliary abdominal tumors, (4) Retroperitoneal, (5) Pelvic, and (6) Distributed or orphan. The study is designed to gather essential imaging data on the RefleXion Medical Radiotherapy System (RMRS) to validate the accuracy of FDG-directed BgRT, also known as SCINTIX therapy, in various anatomical groupings. Study subjects will go through the entire SCINTIX treatment workflow, including radiopharmaceutical administration and live PET imaging, but without turning on the treatment beam. Collected data will be used offline to generate the set of machine instructions that would have been used during treatment delivery to calculate the "emulated" BgRT dose distribution, i.e., what the delivered dose would have been had the treatment beam been turned on during the session. The 6th category ("Distributed or orphan") is meant to capture tumor types that can manifest across anatomies and/or for which utilization of stereotactic radiotherapy for treatment is relatively rare, with lymphomas being a prototypical example.
Thoracic Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer|Pelvic Cancer|Hepatobiliary Carcinoma in Situ|Retroperitoneal Cancer|Distributed and Orphan Tumors
DEVICE: RefleXion X1 Radiotherapy System [Imaging Only]
Emulated BgRT Delivery accuracy, The percent of radiotherapy fractions where the emulated BgRT dose distribution is shown to be consistent with the approved BgRT treatment plan (i.e., 95% of DVHDelivered points for the BTZ and OAR fall within bounded DVH of the approved BgRT plan)., Assessed for each emulated delivery through study completion, an average of 2 years
BgRT deliverability, Percent of fractions where there is concordance between physical and digital phantoms of emulated BgRT delivery derived from human subject PET emissions. Concordance is defined as a standard gamma index of 90% of pixels meeting the 3mm/3% deviation standard., Assessed for each emulated delivery through study completion,an average of 2 years
Ablative radiotherapy has become an integral tool for the treatment of primary tumors and metastatic lesions across the human body. Because ablative radiotherapy techniques like stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) involve delivering high doses of radiotherapy in a few fractions, they have the potential to cause serious injury to normal tissues near the target lesion. Therefore, a standard concern for radiation oncologists is to conformally and precisely deliver ablative radiotherapy while maximally sparing surrounding organs and tissues. This goal is relevant throughout the anatomy and pertains as much to tumors in the head and neck as it does to those in the pelvis.

Biology-guided radiotherapy is a novel radiotherapy delivery mechanism that achieves precision by aiming beamlets of external radiotherapy by tracking PET emissions that originate from the target after it has taken up an injected radiotracer. Because the radiotherapy beamlets are guided to the tumor in real-time, this technology holds strong promise for reducing margins around the target and thereby reducing normal tissue toxicities.