The Effect of an Inter-Disciplinary Program, Including MBSR, in Breast Cancer Survivors With Chronic Neuropathic Pain
Chronic neuropathic pain is a common problem for breast cancer survivors. Even with the best medical treatment, some survivors continue to experience disabling pain. It is well-established that an interdisciplinary approach is key to the treatment of some types of chronic pain, but little research has been done on the effectiveness of interdisciplinary treatments for cancer survivors with chronic neuropathic pain. The investigators will evaluate the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary approach combining medical treatment and mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) to reduce disability and improve quality of life among breast cancer survivors with chronic neuropathic pain. The investigators will also evaluate the impact of the program on psychological distress, pain cognitions, biomarkers of stress and immune function, cognitive function, as well as brain structure and function.
Breast Cancer|Painful Neuropathy|Chronic Pain|Worries; Pain or Disability|Quality of Life
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction
Change from baseline in pain-related disability, as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory - Pain Interference scale, at 3-month post-intervention., The primary outcome is pain-related disability, as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory - Pain Interference scale. The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) - Pain Interference consists of 7 numerical scales (0 to 10) rating pain interference with general activity, mood, walking ability, work, relations with other people, sleep and enjoyment of life., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention
Change from baseline in neuropathic pain intensity, as measured by the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory, at 3 months post-intervention, Neuropathic pain intensity will be measured using the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI), a self-report questionnaire that consists of 10 pain descriptors and two temporal items. Responses are rated on a numerical scale (0-10) and a total intensity score is calculated. Five sub-scores are also derived: spontaneous burning pain, spontaneous pressing pain, paroxysmal pain, evoked pain and paresthesia/dysesthesia., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in pain severity, as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory - Pain Severity scale, at 3 months post-intervention, Pain Severity will be measured using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) - Pain Severity. The BPI consists of 4 numerical scales (0 to 10) rating pain severity at its worst, at its least, on average, and at the time of filling out the measure. Each severity question is analyzed individually., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in mood states, as measured by the Profile of Mood States scale, at 3 months post-intervention, The Profile of Mood States (POMS-2A) will be used to measure mood disturbance. Participants are asked to rate 65 adjectives using a 5-point likert scale ( 0= not at all, to 4 = extremely) based on how they have been feeling during the past week, including the day they are filling out the questionnaire. A total mood disturbance score is calculated, as well as scores for 6 subscales: depression, tension-anxiety, anger-hostility, vigor-activity, fatigue, confusion-bewilderment., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Overall change in status from baseline, as measured by Patient Global Impression of Change scale, at 3 months post-intervention, The participants' perceived degree of change in overall status will be measured using the Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) scale. The PGIC uses a 7-point likert scale (very much worse, to very much better) to measure how much the participant feels their overall status has changed since the start of the study., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in stress, as measured by the Perceived Stress Scale, at 3 months post-intervention, The Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) will be used to measure the participants' perceived stress levels. The PSS uses a 5-point likert scale (0=Never, to 4=Very often) to measure the degree of stress a participant has experienced over the past month. A total perceived stress score is obtained by reversing the scores on items 4, 5, 7, and 8, and then summing across all 10 items. Higher scores indicate higher perceived stress., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in depressive symptoms, as measured by the Patient Health Questionnaire - 9 scale, at 3 months post-intervention, The Patient Health Questionnaire - 9 (PHQ-9) is a 9-item scale used to assess the severity of depressive symptoms over the past two weeks and is based on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM-IV) diagnostic criteria for major depression. Total scores range from 0 to 27, and clinical cut-points correspond to mild, moderate, moderately severe, and severe depression., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in pain catastrophizing, as measured by the Pain Catastrophizing Scale, at 3 months post-intervention., The Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) is a 13-item instrument which will evaluate the degree to which patients have negative self-statements and catastrophizing thoughts and ideations when in pain. The PCS uses a 5-point likert scale (0=not at all, 4=all the time) and consists of three subscales (rumination, magnification, helplessness)., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in mindfulness, as measured by the Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire, at 3 months post-intervention., Mindfulness will be measured using the Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ). The FFMQ is a 39-item instrument measuring five aspects of mindfulness: Non-reactivity to inner experience, observing, describing, acting with awareness, and non-judging of experience. Participants are asked to use a 5-point Likert-type scale (1 = never or rarely true; 5 = very often or always true) to rate how true of them they believe each statement to be., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in quality of life, as measured by the Short-Form-12 Health Survey, at 3 months post-intervention., Quality of life will be measured by the Short-Form-12 Health Survey (SF-12v.2). The SF-12v2 is a brief, twelve-item self-report measure based on the Short-Form-36. It includes items assessing eight health domains, such as bodily pain, social functioning, role limitations due to physical health, and general health perceptions. Two summary scores, the physical composite scale (PCS) and mental composite scale (MCS) are computed based on the 12 items. Scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating greater quality of life., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from pre-intervention in biomarkers of stress, as measured by hair cortisol levels, at 3 months post-intervention., Cortisol is a useful biomarker of stress levels. One cm hair samples will allow us to collect data on cortisol exposure over the past month., Pre-intervention and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in immune function, as measured by blood levels of interleukin-4, interleukin-6, interleukin-10, tumor necrosis factor - alpha, and C reactive protein, at 3 months post-intervention., Six mL whole blood samples will be obtained from participants and the measurement of cytokine secretion and CRP will be performed. The concentrations of interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL-10), tumor necrosis factor - alpha (TNF-α), as well as C reactive protein (CRP) production will be quantified and recorded. All samples and standards will be analyzed in duplicate., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from baseline in biomarkers of stress, as measured by telomere length, at 3 months post-intervention., Total genomic DNA will be extracted from 0.2 mL of whole blood. The relative average Telomere Length (TL) will be determined and recorded. Samples will be analyzed in triplicate., Baseline and 3 months post-intervention|Change from pre-intervention in neuronal health, as measured by white matter integrity, at 2 weeks post-intervention., Changes in participants' neuronal health will be measured with MRI sessions that include diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). These imaging sessions will provide measures of white matter integrity (fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, radial diffusivity)., Pre-intervention and 2 weeks post-intervention|Change from pre-intervention in brain areas associated with emotional regulation, as measured by blood flow in the brain seen in functional magnetic imaging, at 2 weeks post-intervention., Changes in blood flow to areas of participants' brains known to be associated with emotional regulation will be measured using functional magnetic imaging (fMRI)., Pre-intervention and 2 weeks post-intervention|Change from pre-intervention in brain structure, as measured by changes in structural volume different areas of the brain, at 2 weeks post-intervention., High resolution magnetic resonance imaging will be used to look at the anatomy of participants' brains and measure changes in structural volume., Pre-intervention and 2 weeks post-intervention
The investigators will recruit 108 adult women survivors of breast cancer living with chronic neuropathic pain. All will have their medical treatment optimized by a pain medicine specialist before being randomly assigned to either an 8-week group MBSR program or a wait-list. All participants will complete self-report questionnaires, provide a hair sample for cortisol measurements and a blood sample to measure several markers of immune function at four different time points: before medical treatment, after medical treatment and before randomization to MBSR or waiting, after the completion of MBSR as well as at 3-month follow-up. A sub-sample will complete a series of tasks while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging before and after participation in MBSR.

The primary outcome is pain interference. The investigators will compare the proportion of participants who report reduced pain-related disability, as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory-Interference Scale, in each group. The primary hypothesis is that at 3-month follow-up, there will be at least 30% more responders (≥1.0 decrease in mean Brief Pain Inventory Interference score) in the interdisciplinary program in comparison to medical treatment alone.