Stellate Ganglion Block in Head and Neck Cancer Surgery
The purpose of this study is to evaluate and reduce pain and improve quality of life in patients being treated for head and neck cancer with unilateral surgery. In this study, patients will be randomly assigned to receive either pre-operative stellate ganglion block or no pre-operative treatment. Blocks will be placed by a trained anesthesiologist using ultrasound guidance in the preoperative holding area prior to surgery. All patients will receive the same post-operative pain medication regimen with appropriate pain treatment as needed. Patients will be asked to fill out surveys prior to surgery, while in the hospital after surgery, and at each follow-up appointment for up to 24 months.
Head and Neck Cancer|Pain, Postoperative
PROCEDURE: Stellate ganglion block
Brief Pain Inventory, Validated pain survey in head and neck cancer patients, 2 years
Inpatient morphine equivalents, Requirement of short-term post-operative narcotic therapy, 1-7 days or longer depending on length of stay|Defense & Veterans Pain Rating Scale, Non-validated pain survey in head and neck cancer patients, 2 years|University of Washington Quality of Life Scale Version 4 (UW-QOL 4), Validated quality of life outcomes scale in head and neck cancer patients, 2 years|EuroQol 5D-5L, Non-validated quality of life survey in head and neck cancer patients, 2 years
Sympathetic blockade of the stellate ganglion is used for upper limb, temporomandibular joint, and facial pain, and may be placed pre-operatively to decrease post-operative pain in upper limb orthopedic surgery. Use of this block for head and neck cancer pain has been studied with mixed results in a case series in the distant past prior to the advent of image guidance or newer long-lasting anesthetic drugs. One recent case report for intractable head and neck cancer pain demonstrated encouraging results with relief provided after diagnostic stellate ganglion blockade followed by chemical neurolysis.

Patients who choose to participate in the study will be randomly assigned to receive either stellate ganglion block placement in the pre-operative holding area on the day of surgery or no pre-operative intervention. Participating patients will be asked to fill out separate questionnaires to evaluate pain and quality of life preoperatively and post-operatively.

Upon enrollment in the study, patients will be assigned an identification number and will undergo simple randomization to either the control or treatment group using a randomly computer-generated sequence. If patients have not had an evaluation of vocal cord mobility on prior workup, this will be assessed by flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy prior to proceeding with block placement.

Patients assigned to receive a block will have it placed on the respective surgical side in the pre-operative holding area on the day of surgery. A trained anesthesiologist will perform the placement using an injection of 0.25% bupivacaine under ultrasound guidance. While in the hospital after surgery, patients will be given a regimen of scheduled acetaminophen 650 milligrams every 6 hours. Planned treatment of pain will include the option of requesting oxycodone on an as-needed basis every four hours and IV morphine for breakthrough pain. Surveys will be administered and collected on a daily basis while patients are in the hospital. If patients are already utilizing other non-opioid pain medications like muscle relaxers (Flexeril, baclofen, etc.), or neuropathic pain medications (Neurontin), they will be allowed to continue these medications while inpatient provided there are no changes in dosing. Home non-steroidal anti-inflammatory analgesic medications will be withheld while patients are in the hospital due to the potential risk of post-operative bleeding and kidney injury related to use of these medications in the perioperative setting. These medications may be resumed once you are discharged from the hospital.

Patients will be discharged home on a seven-day course of acetaminophen with as-needed oxycodone. Outcomes surveys will then be collected at each subsequent post-operative follow up. Follow up visits will occur one week after discharge, four weeks after discharge, and then every three months until completion of the two year study period.