Pomalidomide in Treating Patients With Kaposi Sarcoma and Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection
This phase II clinical trial studies the side effects of pomalidomide and how well it works in treating patients with Kaposi sarcoma and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Biological therapies, such as pomalidomide, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing and it may also block the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 Positive|Skin Kaposi Sarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pomalidomide
Overall response rate, The binomial proportion and its 95% exact confidence interval will be used to estimate the overall response rate., Up to 48 weeks|Complete response rate, The binomial proportion and its 95% exact confidence interval will be used to estimate the complete response rate, Up to 48 weeks|Incidence of adverse events defined as grade 3 or higher toxicities graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, The binomial proportion and its 95% exact confidence interval will be used to estimate the proportion of participants who experience a grade 3 or higher toxicity., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment
Changes in CD4 T cell count, Changes in CD4 counts and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) viral load will be evaluated using generalized estimating equations., Baseline to up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Changes in HIV viral load as measured by HIV quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Changes in CD4 counts and HIV viral load will be evaluated using generalized estimating equations., Baseline to up to 30 days after last dose of study drug
Changes in serum cytokine levels as measured by Luminex assay, General estimating equations will be used to evaluate changes in cytokine levels over time. Logistic regression analyses will be used to evaluate the association between cytokine levels and clinical response., Baseline to up to 48 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if pomalidomide monotherapy induces a minimal level of antitumor efficacy to justify its further development for HIV-associated Kaposi sarcoma (KS) in sub-Saharan Africa and is safe and tolerable.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effects of pomalidomide monotherapy on standard measures of HIV control, i.e., CD4 counts and HIV viral loads, in this participant population.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of pomalidomide treatment on serum cytokine levels. II. To evaluate if changes in serum cytokine levels correlate with clinical response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pomalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 48 weeks.