Patient and Caregiver Priorities in Neuro-oncology Care
This study is being done to identify patient and caregiver burdens regarding their experience with diagnosis and treatment of CNS tumors. These results will help doctors find areas where patients and caregivers may need more support.
Malignant Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Central Nervous System
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Patient experience, Participant and caregiver interviews will be analyzed qualitatively and reported descriptively. Interviews will be analyzed to describe the patient experience related to primary or metastatic central nervous system (CNS) tumors., Up to 6 months|Symptom burden related to primary or metastatic central nervous system tumors, Participant and caregiver interviews will be analyzed qualitatively and reported descriptively. Interviews will be analyzed to characterize the symptom burden related to primary or metastatic central nervous system (CNS) tumors., Up to 6 months|Caregiver experience, Patient and caregiver interviews will be analyzed qualitatively using thematic analysis and reported descriptively. Interviews will be analyzed to characterize the caregiver experience related to primary or metastatic CNS tumors., Up to 6 months|Caregiver needs, Patient and caregiver interviews will be analyzed qualitatively using thematic analysis and reported descriptively. Interviews will be analyzed to characterize caregiver needs related to primary or metastatic CNS tumors., Up to 6 months|Importance of treatment outcomes, Patient and caregiver interviews will be analyzed qualitatively using thematic analysis and reported descriptively. Interviews will be analyzed to establish which interventional treatment outcomes are important to patients and caregivers, within a wider understanding of their lived experience with CNS tumors and their treatment, Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the patient experience and characterize the symptom burden related to primary or metastatic central nervous system tumors.

II. Describe the caregiver experience and caregiver needs related to patients with primary or metastatic central nervous system tumors. III. Establish which interventional treatment outcomes are important to patients and caregivers, within a wider understanding of their lived experience with CNS tumors and their treatment.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Patients and their caregivers participate in interviews on study. Patients also have their medical records reviewed on study.