M7824 Versus Pembrolizumab as a First-line (1L) Treatment in Participants With Programmed Death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) Expressing Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bintrafusp alfa (M7824) compared with pembrolizumab in participants with advanced NSCLC with high PD-L1-tumor expression, with no epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) translocation. The Phase III adaptive design allows for the option to recruit up to 584 patients based on pre-specified rules.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: M7824|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST Version 1.1) Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC), Progression free survival was defined as the time from randomization of study intervention until the first documentation of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Time from randomization of study drug until the first documentation of PD or death, assessed approximately up to 746 days|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival was defined as the time from randomization of study intervention to the date of death due to any cause. The overall survival was analyzed by using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from randomization of study drug assessed approximately up to 843 days
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment-Related TEAEs According to National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 5.0, Adverse Event (AE) was defined any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered with a study drug, which does not necessarily had a causal relationship with this treatment. Serious AE was defined AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial/prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect. TEAEs: TEAEs was defined as events with onset date or worsening during the on treatment period. TEAEs included serious AEs and non-serious AEs. Treatment-related TEAEs: reasonably related to the study intervention., Time from first treatment assessed up to approximately 843 days|Percentage of Participants With Unconfirmed Best Overall Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC), Percentage of participants with unconfirmed best overall response that is at least one overall assessment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) reported here., Time from randomization of study drug until the first documentation of PD or death, assessed approximately up to 746 days|Duration of Response (DOR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC), DOR was defined for participants with objective response, as the time from first documentation of objective response (Complete Response \[CR\] or Partial Response \[PR\]) to the date of first documentation of progression disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the SLD of all lesions. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. DOR was determined according to RECIST v1.1 and assessed by IRC. Results were calculated based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., From first documented objective response to PD or death due to any cause, assessed approximately up to 746 days
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bintrafusp alfa (M7824) compared with pembrolizumab in participants with advanced NSCLC with high PD-L1-tumor expression, with no epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) translocation. The Phase III adaptive design allows for the option to recruit up to 584 patients based on pre-specified rules.