Pembrolizumab Plus Bevacizumab for Treatment of Brain Metastases in Metastatic Melanoma or Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this phase 2 trial is to study the activity of pembrolizumab in combination with bevacizumab in patients with untreated brain metastases from melanoma or NSCLC to determine activity and safety of the drug combination. Furthermore, in patients who undergo resection of biopsy of a brain metastasis, we will evaluate biomarkers predictive of treatment benefit, and will also conduct correlative biomarker studies on extra-cerebral specimens in all patients in whom a systemic biopsy is feasible or in archival tumor tissue when available.

A total of 53 eligible patients will be enrolled on this trial (40 with melanoma and 13 with NSCLC). Individual cohorts of the study can be stopped if insufficient activity is observed in the first stage of that cohort. The study will accrue for approximately 84 months, and will be open for approximately 12 additional months as patients on study are being followed.
Melanoma|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Brain Metastasis
DRUG: Pembrolizumab plus Bevacizumab
brain metastasis response rate (BMRR) using modified RECIST (mRECIST) criteria, up to 2 years from start of treatment
Proportion of patients using steroids to control of cerebral edema for greater than 96 hours, up to 2 years from start of treatment|best overall response rate (ORR) by mRECIST criteria in the brain or RECIST criteria in the body, up to 2 years from start of treatment|progression-free survival by mRECIST criteria in the brain or RECIST criteria in the body, up to 2 years from start of treatment or to disease progression|Safety and toxicity of combination pembrolizumab and bevacizumab assessed using common terminology criteria for adverse events v. 4., up to 2 years from start of treatment
PD-L1 expression and other potential predictive biomarkers in CNS, tumors and blood, correlated with response to treatment, 2 years from start of trial
The purpose of this phase 2 trial is to study the activity of pembrolizumab in combination with bevacizumab in patients with untreated brain metastases from melanoma or NSCLC to determine activity and safety of the drug combination. Furthermore, in patients who undergo resection of biopsy of a brain metastasis, we will evaluate biomarkers predictive of treatment benefit, and will also conduct correlative biomarker studies on extra-cerebral specimens in all patients in whom a systemic biopsy is feasible or in archival tumor tissue when available.

A total of 53 eligible patients will be enrolled on this trial (40 with melanoma and 13 with NSCLC). Individual cohorts of the study can be stopped if insufficient activity is observed in the first stage of that cohort. The study will accrue for approximately 84 months, and will be open for approximately 12 additional months as patients on study are being followed.