Photoacoustic Imaging for Measuring Tumors and Normal Tissue in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer
This trial studies how well photoacoustic imaging works in measuring tumors and normal tissue in patients with head and neck cancer. Photoacoustic imaging (PAI) is a low-risk imaging method that provides information about the oxygenation of tissues using a combination of light and ultrasound techniques. This study may help doctors determine if PAI is correlated with clinical responses of both tumor (for example: shrinking, swelling or disappearing) and normal tissues (for example: skin redness, dry mouth, appearance of sores, healing of skin or mucosa). If there is a correlation with clinical responses, then doctors may develop PAI as method for measuring response to earlier treatment.
Head and Neck Carcinoma|Head and Neck Lymph Node|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Laryngeal Neoplasm|Radiation Therapy Recipient
PROCEDURE: Photoacoustic Imaging|PROCEDURE: Transcutaneous Acupoint Electrical Stimulation
Feasibility of photoacoustic imaging (PAI) to quantify tumor characteristics (part I): rate, Feasibility rate is defined as the proportion of evaluable patients who have at least 3 imaging sessions that produce a usable image., Up to 6 months after treatment completion|Feasibility of PAI to quantify tumor characteristic in patients undergoing ALTENS (part II): rate, Feasibility rate is defined as the proportion of evaluable patients who have at least 3 imaging sessions that produce a usable image., Up to 2 years
Utility of serial PAI-based oxygen saturation (%sO2) measurements, Descriptive statistics (means, medium) will be used to summarize percent of SO2, Up to 2 years|Changes in hemoglobin (hbt) measurements, Compare hemoglobin measurements between baseline until end of study, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Define the feasibility of the current photoacoustic imaging (PAI) technology in head and neck (H\&N) cancer patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Define the utility of the current PAI in H\&N cancer patients.

OUTLINE:

PART I: Patients undergo PAI before the start of chemoradiation therapy, weekly during 7 weeks of chemoradiation, and again 3-4 months after completion of chemoradiation therapy.

PART II (CANCER-FREE WITH XEROSTOMIA): Patients undergo PAI at baseline, up to twice during acupuncture-like transcutaneous nerve stimulation (ALTENS) therapy, once after ALTENS, and at 3-6 months follow up.