TYK2 Inhibition in Paradoxical Psoriasis
Paradoxical psoriasis is a side effect of a biological treatment (anti-tumor necrosis factor agent, short called anti-TNF) that is used to treat diseases of the skin, the intestine or the joints. If paradoxical psoriasis occurs, the anti-TNF-treatment often needs to be stopped and so far, no specific treatment for paradoxical psoriasis exists.

This research project aims to study whether the efficacy of the drug 'Deucravacitinib' 6mg, a tablet taken by mouth once a day is superior compared to taking a placebo in treating paradoxical psoriasis.
Psoriasis
DRUG: Deucravacitinib
Paradoxical Psoriasis Investigator Global Assessment, Percentage of patients attaining PxP IGA 0/1 and at least a reduction of 2 points from baseline, At Week 4
Paradoxical Psoriasis Body Surface Area, Change of Paradoxical Psoriasis Body Surface Area ( PxP-BSA ) measured in percentage of the total Body Surface area. 100% would be the total Body Surface area., At Week 4|Paradoxical Psoriasis palmoplantar Psoriasis Area and Severity Index, Change of Paradoxical Psoriasis palmoplantar Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PxP PPPASI) Score in patients presenting paradoxical psoriasis of the hands of feet. Where 72 is the worst possible calculated score, and 0 is the best score., at 4 Weeks|Paradoxical Psoriasis Scalp Investigator General Assessment, Change of Paradoxical Psoriasis Scalp Investigator General Assessment (PxP-scalp IGA) if paradoxical Psoriasis is affecting the Scalp. It's a 4-point Scale with 4 being the worst score (severe Scalp Psoriasis) and 0 is the best score with clear scalp., At Week 4|Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI), Change of Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) in patients with pre-existing disease of Psoriasis. The PASI is calculated following the official PASI Score calculation. 72 is the worst score, 0 means clear skin., At Week 4 and at Week 16|American College of Rheumatology (ACR) Score, Percentage of patients with underlying disease of psoriasic arthritis, having an American College of Rheumatology (ACR) Score of 20%, 50% or 70% reduction in comparison with the Baseline assessment. To achive a 70% ACR, an improvement of 70% in the number of painful joints, and in the number of swollen joints must be reached, additionally an improvement of 70% in 3 out of 5 criteria need to be reached:

Health Assessment Questionnaire, assessing patients disability (0 best score, 3 worst score), Patient overall disease assessement (0 no disease activity, 10 worst disease activity), Visual Analogue Scale assessing patients pain (0 no pain, 10 worst pain), C-reactive protein Blood-Test (CRP); Investigator General Disease Activity Assessment (0 no disease activity, 10 worst disease activity)

For ACR 50%, the same calculation is made with 50% improvement, ACR 20%, same calculation with 20% improvement, At Week 4 and Week 16
Nanostring, Normalization of inflammatory gene signature, At Week 4
Paradoxical psoriasis is a side effect of a biological treatment (anti-tumor necrosis factor agent, short called anti-TNF) that is used to treat diseases of the skin, the intestine or the joints. If paradoxical psoriasis occurs, the anti-TNF-treatment often needs to be stopped and so far, no specific treatment for paradoxical psoriasis exists.

This research project aims to study whether the efficacy of the drug 'Deucravacitinib' 6mg, a tablet taken by mouth once a day is superior compared to taking a placebo in treating paradoxical psoriasis.