Effect of the LIVESTRONG at the YMCA Exercise Program on Cancer Related Outcomes in Cancer Survivors
The proposed study is a randomized trial evaluating the impact of the 12-week LIVESTRONG exercise program vs. waitlist control on cancer-related outcomes in 200 cancer survivors.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: LIVESTRONG
Change in Physical Activity Level, Modifiable Physical Activity Questionnaire will be used to assess physical activity levels at baseline and 3-months to examine whether the LIVESTRONG program led to maintenance or further increases in physical activity levels compared with participants randomized to control., 3 months
Change in Body Fat Percentage, Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scans will be used to assess body fat percentage, lean body mass, and bone mineral density at baseline and 3-months. Study participants will receive a copy of their 3-month DEXA report., 3 months|Change in Lean Body Mass, Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scans will be used to assess body fat percentage, lean body mass, and bone mineral density at baseline and 3-months. Study participants will receive a copy of their 3-month DEXA report., 3 months|Change in Bone Mineral Density, Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scans will be used to assess body fat percentage, lean body mass, and bone mineral density at baseline and 3-months. Study participants will receive a copy of their 3-month DEXA report., 3 months|Change in Body Mass Index (BMI), Height and weight will be measured at baseline and 3-months. Participants will be weighed in light indoor clothing, without shoes, rounding up to the nearest 0.1 kg; height will be measured without shoes, using a stadiometer, rounding up to the nearest 0.1 cm. BMI will be calculated using the formula: kg/m2. All measures will be performed and recorded twice in succession., 3 months|Change in Blood Biomarkers, Fasting blood (\> 12 hours) will be collected at baseline and 12 weeks for measurement of insulin, c-reactive protein, leptin and adiponectin, which are biomarkers that have been linked to cancer prognosis in prior studies., 12 weeks
Change in Walk Distance, All participants will undergo a 6MWT at baseline and after the 12-week protocol period. Participants will wear tennis shoes and will walk indoors along a long, flat, straight, enclosed corridor, on a flat surface for 6 minutes. They will be instructed to walk continuously along an area at least 50 feet in length, back and forth, for 6 minutes., 12 weeks|Change in Quality of Life, Quality of Life (QOL) will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire (version 3) as well as the PROMISE Q. Breast cancer survivors will also complete the FACT-B-ES form that assesses endocrine-related symptoms specific to breast cancer. Additionally, fatigue will be assessed through the FACT-Fatigue Scale, which consists of 13 items designed to assess fatigue in terms of its intensity and interference with performing everyday functions., 12 weeks|Lymphedema Questionnaire, Breast cancer survivors will complete a validated Norman Lymphedema Questionnaire. Previous methodologically strong studies have shown exercise, including upper body resistance/strength training, to decrease the risk of exacerbation of lymphedema as well as severity of lymphedema symptoms in breast cancer survivors randomized to a twice-weekly year long strength training program compared with breast cancer survivors randomized to control. Given these findings, breast cancer survivors with lymphedema will not be excluded from participation in the study. However, MD consent to exercise will be obtained from her oncologist., 12 weeks|Change in Breast Cancer Prevention Trial Symptom Checklist, The Breast Cancer Prevention Trial Symptom Checklist Short Form is a symptom checklist that will be completed by all study participants at baseline and 3-months to assess side effects/symptoms related to cancer surgery and treatment and how exercise may improve or prevent some of these symptoms. Symptoms such as lymphedema, neuropathy, and arthralgias will be assessed., 3 months
The proposed study is a randomized trial evaluating the impact of the 12-week LIVESTRONG exercise program vs. waitlist control on cancer-related outcomes in 200 cancer survivors. Participants will undergo baseline testing at Dana-Farber or Yale, including administration of questionnaires to assess quality of life and the presence of cancer and treatment-related symptoms, fasting blood draw, and evaluation of body composition (using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Participants will then take part in the 12-week LIVESTRONG Program or will be assigned to a wait-list control group. All measurements will be repeated at Dana-Farber or Yale after the 12-week exercise program or control period.