Acetic Acid Guided Biopsies Compared With High Definition Endoscopy in the Detection of Barrett's Esophagus
Specialized columnar epithelium (SCE) is considered as pathognomonic for Barrett's esophagus. Chromoendoscopy after local acetic acid application enables recognition of the mucosal surface architecture. The new available EPKi processor (Pentax, Japan) enables HD+ resolution above HDTV standard. Aim of the study is to test the efficacy of HD+ endoscopy in conjunction with i-Scan or acetic acid to diagnose Barrett's esophagus. The primary endpoint of the current prospective study is to investigate the diagnostic yield of virtual chromoendoscopy using the i scan function as compared to acetic acid chromoendoscopy and 4-quadrant biopsies.

Patients with visible columnar lined lower esophagus (CLE) are included. After standardized PPI therapy (14 days; standard dosage) patients were randomized at a 1:1 ratio to undergo either chromoendoscopy in conjunction with acetic acid application or i-Scan. Biopsies are taken in a targeted fashion using acetic acid or i scan and afterwards 4-quadrant biopsies are taken.
Barrett's Esophagus
OTHER: biopsies|OTHER: biopsy
diagnostic yield of targeted biopsies with high definition endoscopy using i scan virtual chromoendoscopy and acetic acid guided biopsies, one year
Specialized columnar epithelium (SCE) is considered as pathognomonic for Barrett's esophagus and can be recognized by new endoscopic techniques. Aim of the study is to test the efficacy of HD+ endoscopy in conjunction with i-scan (newly developed post processing digital filter) or chromoendoscopy (acetic acid) to diagnose Barrett's esophagus.

Patients with visible columnar lined lower esophagus (CLE) or known Barrett's esophagus are included. After standardized PPI therapy (14 days; standard dosage) patients are randomized at a 1:1 ratio to undergo either chromoendoscopy in conjunction with acetic acid application (10-15ml; 1.5%) or HD+ endoscopy in conjunction with i-scan. Mucosal surface structure within CLE is graduated according to Guelrud's classification (type 1-2: endoscopic prediction: gastric epithelium; type 3-4: Barrett's epithelium). Biopsies are taken in a targeted fashion (type 1-4) in both groups and subsequently 4-quadrant biopsies were taken. Primary outcome analysis's to investigate the diagnostic yield of the different biopsy protocols.