Poziotinib in EGFR Exon 20 Mutant Advanced NSCLC
This phase II trial studies how well poziotinib works in treating patients with non-small lung cancer with an EGFR or HER2 exon 20 mutation that is stage IV or has come back (recurrent). Poziotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth..
EGFR Exon 20 Mutation|ERBB2 Gene Mutation|Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Poziotinib
Objective response rate a in patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (EGFR) exon 20 mutant non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) (Cohort 1), According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria., Up to 4 years|Objective response rate a in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) exon 20 mutant non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) (Cohort 2), According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria., Up to 4 years
Disease control rate (complete response + partial response + stable disease) of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently, Will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 4 years|Progression free survival of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and the comparison between or among patient's characteristic groups will be evaluated by log-rank test. The Cox regression model may be applied to assess the effect of covariates of interest on progression free survival., Up to 4 years|Overall survival of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and the comparison between or among patient's characteristic groups will be evaluated by log-rank test. The Cox regression model may be applied to assess the effect of covariates of interest on overall survival., Up to 4 years|Duration of response of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently, Duration of response will be measured., Up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03. Toxicity data will be summarized by frequency tables., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the objective response rate (ORR) to poziotinib according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR exon 20 mutations.

II. Assess the objective response rate (ORR) to poziotinib according to RECIST 1.1 criteria in NSCLC with HER2 (ErBB2) exon 20 mutations.

III. Assess the objective response rate (ORR) to poziotinib according to RECIST 1.1 criteria in advanced solid tumors with EGFR exon 20 or HER2 exon 20 mutations.

IV. Assess the objective response rate (ORR) to poziotinib according to RECIST 1.1 criteria in advanced solid tumors with HER2 exon 19 mutations ORR will be calculated as the percent of patients whose best confirmed response is complete response (CR, defined as disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR, defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter \[LD\] of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Disease control rate (complete response + partial response + stable response) of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently.

II. Progression free survival of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently.

III. Overall survival of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently. IV. Duration of response of poziotinb in cohort 1 and 2, analyzed independently.

V. Safety and toxicity.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess molecular markers associated with resistance and response to poziotinib, including secondary mutations.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive poziotinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6 months thereafter.