Cryodevitalization for the Treatment of Early Stage Lung Cancer, CRYSTAL Trial
This clinical trial studies side effects and best treatment time of cryodevitalization in treating patients with early stage (stage I or stage II) lung cancer. Cryodevitalization is a type of cryosurgery that uses a flexible probe (cryoprobe) to kill tumor cells by freezing them. It is delivered at the time of standard diagnostic robotic bronchoscopy. Using cryodevitalization may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in treating patients with early stage lung cancer.
Stage I Lung Cancer|Stage II Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Cryosurgery|PROCEDURE: Robotic Bronchoscopy|PROCEDURE: Bronchoscopy with Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Resection|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Maximum tolerated dose for cryodevitalization cycle duration, Will implement a modified Toxicity Probability Interval design. Each dose will be modeled using a Beta-Binomial model with the prior distribution, Beta (1,1). For each dose level, a 95% credible interval for the toxicity probability will be computed., At time of surgery|Feasibility of bronchoscopically delivered cryodevitalization, Proportion of procedures that can be safely completed with full dose delivered, At time of surgery|Incidence of adverse events, Will be modeled using a Beta-Binomial model with the prior distribution, Beta (1,1). For each dose level, a 95% credible interval for the toxicity probability will be computed., Up to 7 days post-cryosurgery
Pathologic response, Pathologic response will be assessed comparing the confirmed devitalization zone determined by intraprocedural cone-beam computed tomography imaging (percent tumor treated by cryodevitalization) and remaining tumor viability by histopathologic examination of resected specimens., At time of surgical resection|Incidence of adverse events, Will be modeled using a Beta-Binomial model with the prior distribution, Beta (1,1). For each dose level, a 95% credible interval for the toxicity probability will be computed., From day 8 post-cryosurgery to surgical resection
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for cryodevitalization cycle duration.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients undergo 3 freeze-thaw cycles of cryodevitalization over 30 seconds or 3, 5, or 7 minutes each during standard of care robotic bronchoscopy with biopsy on study. Patients then undergo standard of care surgical resection on study. Patients also undergo a chest radiography (x-ray) on study as well as computed tomography (CT) and tissue sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 7 days and are then followed as clinically required per standard of care for 24 months.