Clinical Utility Study for MyProstateScore+
This is a national-level research study of urologists. The purpose of this study is to assess the clinical evaluation and management (drug, procedures, counseling and other) of a subset of common patient care indications.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Education Materials for MyProstateScore
Clinical Performance and Value (CPV)-measured variation in Assessment, Measuring the rates of ordering prostate biopsy with proper assessment, recognition, and management of prostate cancer risks in patients with different PSA levels, a negative previous prostate biopsy, and an elevated PI-RADS score., [4 months]|CPV-measured change in treatment Quality, Measure of the difference in quality of overall diagnostic scores between control physicians using standard of care diagnostic tools and intervention physicians using the MyProstateScore test., [4 months]|CPV-measured variation in evidence based decisions between control and intervention arms, Measure of the difference in number of evidence-based decisions made by intervention physicians versus control physicians, while controlling for physician and practice characteristics, between rounds 1 and 2., [4 months]|CPV-measured variation in evidence based decisions between intervention arms, Measure the differences in amount of evidence-based decisions made by intervention group one physicians versus intervention group two physicians to assess whether the choice to order the MyProstateScore test impacts the frequency of prostate biopsies and overall patient care and outcomes., [4 months]|CPV-measured rate of adoption for MyProstateScore, Rate of adoption of the MyProstateScore test after receiving educational materials on the benefits of testing in patients who are at risk., [4 months]|CPV-measured differences in cost of care between control and intervention arms, Difference in the cost of care between control and intervention physicians (Cost will be calculated by measuring differential rates of medical interventions/levels of care selected by each arm, and multiplying by Medicare reimbursement rates for these interventions, and/or by modeling the incidence of expected complications and calculating associated costs per above)., [4 months]
The results of this study could contribute to improved quality of care for patients by encouraging better care practices and adherence to evidence-based guidance. The data from this study will be submitted to a national journal for publication. The study plans to enroll up to 250 physicians.

Upon consenting and agreeing to participate in this study, participants will be asked to care for 3 simulated patient cases, known as Clinical Performance and Value Vignettes (CPV®). CPVs describe patients physicians typically encounter in their daily practice and are not meant to be difficult. In each vignette, physicians are asked to share their expected care through 5 domains: 1) history, 2) physical exam, 3) diagnostic workup, 4) diagnosis and 5) treatment and follow-up. Each case takes approximately 15-20 minutes to complete and we estimate the time commitment for each round of CPV administration to be approximately 45 - 60 minutes. All responses to the cases will be completed online and will be kept confidential. Over 2 CPV administration rounds, the total time to care for the simulated patients is estimated at 1.5-2 hours.

If physicians are randomized to an intervention group in this study, they will receive education materials on a novel diagnostic test after the first round of CPV administration. They are asked to review these materials before moving to the next CPV administration round. Time to review education materials is estimated to be approximately 15 minutes.

Depending on the results of this randomized controlled trial, there may be an opportunity for physicians to re-enroll into a follow-on study. If they choose to participate in this second study, they will be asked to identify and send de-identified records of patients in their practice that are similar to the simulated patients they previously cared for in this study.