Radiomics for Prediction of Long Term Survival and Local Failure After Stereotactic Radiotherapy for Brain Metastases
Published prognostic scores have limitations in prediction of long term survival after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases. Moreover, no validated tools are available for prediction of local failure. The value of radiomics is evaluated in this perspective.
Metastases, Neoplasm
Sensitive value of 12 months survival after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics, Sensitivity of 12 months survival after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics. Radiomics is a tool to analyze tumor characteristics based on CT and MR images., 1 year|Sensitive value of 12 months local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics, Sensitivity of 12 months local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics. Radiomics is a tool to analyze tumor characteristics based on CT and MR images., 1 year
Specificity of 12 months survival and local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics., Specificity of 12 months survival and local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics., 1 year|Positive predictive value of 12 months survival and local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics., Positive predictive value of 12 months survival and local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics., 1 year|Negative predictive value of 12 months survival and local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics., Negative predictive value of 12 months survival and local failure after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases with radiomics., 1 year
Area under the curve of published prognostic scores, Area under the curve published prognostic scores, 1 year|Mismatch rate of published prognostic scores, Mismatch rate of published prognostic scores, 1 year
Sensitivity is low for prediction of long term survival of currently available prognostic scores for brain metastases. First the current clinical models will be optimized with a new prognostic model and nomogram. Radiomics is a tool to analyze tumor characteristics based on CT and MR images. These tumor characteristics may reflect tumor biology and outcome. Therefore it is investigated if radiomics improves prediction of long term survival after stereotactic radiotherapy for brain metastases. Moreover, the predictive value of radiomics for local failure is investigated.