Study on Skin Toxicities Induced by Cancer Treatments
The skin toxicities will be evaluated on patient (male or female) with an indication of cancer treatment in the case of solid tumor of the breast, or lung.
Solid Tumor, Adult|Breast Cancer|Lung Cancer
OTHER: Evaluation on skin toxicities
Estimate the rates of severe skin toxicities (grade 2) induced by cancer treatments, at 8 months after the start of treatment., Severity of cutaneous toxicities at 8 months after the start of treatment (grade \> 2 according to the NCI-CTCAE classification version 4.03), induced by the anticancer treatments., 8 months
Evaluate the thickness, firmness, tone, viscosity of the skin in case of skin toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. A cutaneous ultrasound system will be used to evaluate thickness of the skin and a cutometer will be used to evaluate firmness, tone and viscosity of the skin. The measurement in millimeters will be used to assess this outcome measure., 8 months|Evaluate skin color in case of skin toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. A colorimeter will be used to evaluate skin color. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure., 8 months|Evaluate the skin pH in case of skin toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. A pHmeter will be used to evaluate skin pH. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure, 8 months|Evaluate the temperature in case of skin toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. Thermometer will be used to evaluate temperature of the skin. The measurement in degrees Celsius will be used to assess this outcome measure., 8 months|Evaluate the quantity of sebum in case of toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. Sebumeter will be used to evaluate quantity of sebum of the skin. The measurement in microgram/centimeter\^2 will be used to assess this outcome measure, 8 months|Evaluate plantar supports in case of toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. Podobarometric platform will be used to evaluate plantar supports. The measurement in N/Centimeter\^2 will be used to assess this outcome measure., 8 months|Evaluate Skin hydration rate in case of skin toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. Corneometer will be used to evaluate skin hydration rate. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure., 8 months|Evaluate skin elasticity index in case of toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. Cutometer will be used to evaluate skin elasticy. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure., 8 months|Evaluate insensitive loss of water in case of toxicities, The assessments will be performed at day 0 (before the start of the study) and at 1 month (M1), M2, M3, M4 and M8 after the start of treatment. Tewameter will be used to evaluate insensitive loss of water. The measurement in gram/meter\^2/hour will be used to assess this outcome measure., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of thickness, firmness, tone, viscosity of the skin over the course of the study, A cutaneous ultrasound system will be used to evaluate thickness of the skin and a cutometer will be used to evaluate firmness, tone and viscosity of the skin. The measurement in millimeters will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of thickness, firmness, tone, viscosity of the skin will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3, M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measures at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of skin color over the course of the study, A colorimeter will be used to evaluate skin color. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of skin color will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of skin pH over the course of the study, A pHmeter will be used to evaluate skin pH. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of pH of the skin will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage, 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of skin temperature over the course of the study, A thermometer will be used to evaluate skin temperature. The measurement in degrees Celsius will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of temperature of the skin will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of skin sebum quantity over the course of the study, A sebumeter will be used to evaluate quantity of sebum of the skin. The measurement in microgram/centimeter\^2 will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of quantity of sebum of the skin will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of plantar supports over the course of the study, A podobarometric platform will be used to evaluate plantar supports. The measurement in N/Centimeter\^2 will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of plantar supports will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of skin hydration over the course of the study, A corneometer will be used to evaluate skin hydration rate. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of skin hydration of the skin will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of skin elasticity over the course of the study, A cutometer will be used to evaluate skin elasticy. No unit will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of elasticity of the skin will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate variation rate of insensitive loss of water of the skin over the course of the study, A tewameter will be used to evaluate insensitive loss of water. The measurement in gram/meter\^2/hour will be used to assess this outcome measure. Variations of insensitive loss of water of the skin will be calculated according to results obtained at M1, M2,M3,M4 and M8. Results will be compared to initial measure at day 0. Variation rate will be estimated in percentage., 8 months|Evaluate the consequences of cutaneous toxicities on the patient's therapeutic scheme (hold, dosage reduction, change of molecule);, Number of treatment interruptions or dose changes related to skin toxicities;, 8 months|To evaluate the quality of life of patients at 8 months;, A questionnaire (Medical Outcome Study Short Form - 36 (MOS SF-36) will be completed by patients. This is a scale allowing to assess health regardless of causal pathology, gender, age and treatment, which is related to patients level of well-being. A score from 0 (poor quality of life) to 100 (very good quality of life) will be given;, 8 months|Define patient profiles likely to develop severe cutaneous toxicity during their anticancer treatment;, During these assessments, a census of skin toxicities (grade \>2) will be carried out according to the NCI-CTCAE version 4.03 classification, and the patient's medical record will be analyzed to determine the predictors of skin toxicities., 8 months
The skin toxicities will be evaluated on patient (male or female) with an indication of cancer treatment in the case of solid tumor of the breast, or lung.