Quad Resection (Hot Snare vs Cold Snare vs Hot EMR vs Cold EMR)
The study will compare the use of cold snare, hot snare, cold EMR, and hot EMR for polyp resection. Although previous studies have compared two of the potential resection methods, no previous study has evaluated all four of the resection methods.
Colon Cancer|Colon Polyp|Colon Adenoma
PROCEDURE: Cold Snare|PROCEDURE: Hot Snare|PROCEDURE: Cold EMR|PROCEDURE: Hot EMR
Efficacy of Resection (Central Post-Resection Biopsies), Efficacy of resection will be assessed by biopsies in four quadrants of the perimeter of the defect post-resection and one biopsy from the center of the defect post-resection. Comparison of the biopsy pathology results for polyps removed by cold snare vs. hot snare vs. cold EMR vs. hot EMR. Negative means that there was no residual polyp tissue seen on the central post-resection biopsies. Positive means that there was residual polyp tissue seen on the central post-resection biopsies. Negative central post-resection biopsies are considered a better outcome., 1 day|Efficacy of Resection (Peripheral Post-Resection Biopsies), Efficacy of resection will be assessed by biopsies in four quadrants of the perimeter of the defect post-resection and one biopsy from the center of the defect post-resection. Comparison of the biopsy pathology results for polyps removed by cold snare vs. hot snare vs. cold EMR vs. hot EMR. Negative means that there was no residual polyp tissue seen on the peripheral post-resection biopsies. Positive means that there was residual polyp tissue seen on the peripheral post-resection biopsies. Negative peripheral post-resection biopsies are considered a better outcome., 1 day
The optimal method for removal of polyps 6-9 and 10-15 mm in size is not established. In this study, we propose to evaluate four different treatments for polyps (sized 6mm-15mm). The four treatments are cold snaring without injection, hot snaring without injection, cold EMR, and hot EMR. This study aims to help to establish the optimal resection technique for 6-9 and 10-15 mm polyps.