LCI-HEM-MYE-CRD-002: Carfilzomib-Revlimid-Dexamethasone-Elotuzumab in Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The study drug elotuzumab, has been clinically shown to be effective in treating relapsed/refractory MM in combination with either bortezomib, or lenalidomide and dexamethasone. Elotuzumab in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone is currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma. Carfilzomib is also FDA approved for treating multiple myeloma and frequently given in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for treatment of relapsed/refractory MM. Based on these findings, this study will look at how subjects with relapsed/refractory MM respond to a combination treatment with the following drugs: elotuzumab, carfilzomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone. The combination of these four drugs is not FDA approved and is experimental.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Elotuzumab
Number of Participants With VGPR or Better Response to Induction, The primary endpoint is a binary variable determined for each subject indicating whether the subject achieved a very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR), or stringent complete response (sCR) to induction treatment with KRd-Elo, as defined by the IMWG 2016 response criteria. Per IMWG 2016 criteria, VGPR is defined as serum/urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not electrophoresis OR \>= 90% reduction in serum M protein plus urine M-protein \<100 mg/24 h. CR is defined as negative immunofixation on serum and urine, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas, and \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow aspirates. sCR is defined as CR plus normal FLC ratio and absence of clonal cells in bone marrow by immunohistochemistry., From enrollment to the disease response determined at the end of the induction part of regimen (4 cycles of KRd-Elo was planned, but some subjects progressed before the end of induction). The median length of induction was 16 weeks.
Number of Subjects With an Objective Response, Objective response was determined for each subject as a binary variable indicating whether or not the subject achieved a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by IMWG 2016 response criteria., From enrollment to best response while on study treatment; subjects remained on treatment until disease progression or death or unacceptable toxicity.|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the duration from treatment start date to the date of death from any cause. Subjects who are alive or lost to follow up at the time of the analysis will be censored at the last known date they were alive., From date of treatment start to date of death, or censored as described; assessed for approximately 5 years.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from treatment start date to first occurrence of either progressive disease (PD) or death. PD must be objectively determined per IMWG 2016 criteria, where progression date is date of last assessment that identified PD. If subject died without documented PD, progression date will be death date. For surviving subjects who do not have PD, PFS will be censored at the date of last disease assessment. For subjects who received subsequent anti-cancer therapy prior to documented PD, PFS will be censored at the date of last disease assessment prior to commencement of subsequent therapy. Subjects who have an initial PFS event immediately following 2 or more consecutive missed assessments will be censored at date of last assessment prior to missed assessments., From treatment start date to date of progression/death, or censored as described; assessed for approximately 3 years.|Time to Disease Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the duration of time from treatment start date to first occurrence of either progressive disease (PD) or death related to disease progression. PD must be objectively determined per IMWG 2016 criteria, where progression date is date of last assessment that identified PD. If a subject died for causes related to disease progression then progression date will be date of death. If a subject died for causes other than disease progression, TTP will be censored at the date of other cause mortality. For surviving subjects who do not have PD, TTP will be censored at the date of last disease assessment. For subjects who received subsequent anti-cancer therapy prior to documented PD, TTP will be censored at the date of last disease assessment prior to commencement of subsequent therapy. Subjects who have an initial TTP event immediately following 2 or more consecutive missed assessments will be censored at date of last assessment prior to missed assessments., From treatment start date to date of progression/death, or censored as described; assessed for approximately 3 years.|Duration of Response (DoR), DoR will be calculated for each subject with response for the VGPR+ and overall response endpoints. The DoR intervals will be calculated from the time of the first assessment that identified response until disease progression or death. The censoring mechanism for DoR will be the same as described for PFS., From time of first response to date of progression/death, or censored as described; assessed for approximately 3 years.|Time to Next Treatment (TTNT), TTNT will be calculated from the time of treatment start until the start of the first subsequent anti-cancer therapy after all protocol directed therapy is completed. For surviving subjects who do not receiving subsequent therapy, TTNT will be censored at the last contact date. For subjects who die before beginning subsequent anti-cancer therapy, TTNT will be censored at the date of death, From treatment start date to date of next treatment, or censored as described; assessed for approximately 3 years.
This single arm, open-label phase II study is designed with the primary objective of evaluating the efficacy of induction therapy comprised of 4 cycles of carfilzomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and elotuzumab (KRd+elotuzumab) in terms of very good partial response or better (VGPR+) in subjects with relapsed and/or refractory MM, and comparing to relevant historical controls. Post induction, all subjects will undergo disease evaluation for assessment of the primary endpoint. Maintenance therapy comprised of elotuzumab and lenalidomide (R+elotuzumab) will start directly after induction and continue until relapse or progression.