Phase I Study of Neoadjuvant Radiotherapy With 5-Fluorouracil for Rectal Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of fluorouracil when given together with radiation therapy followed by combination chemotherapy before and after surgery in treating patients with rectal cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Giving additional combination chemotherapy after surgery may kill any remaining tumor cells. Giving radiation therapy and fluorouracil followed by combination chemotherapy before and after surgery may be a better treatment for rectal cancer.
Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Rectal Cancer|Stage IIB Rectal Cancer|Stage IIC Rectal Cancer|Stage IIIA Rectal Cancer|Stage IIIB Rectal Cancer|Stage IIIC Rectal Cancer
RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiation therapy|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Dose limiting toxicity for continuous infusional 5-Fluorouracil given concurrently with short course pelvic radiation, To determine the maximum tolerated dose of continuous infusional 5-Fluorouracil, up to a target dose of 200 mg/m\^2/day, given concurrently with short course radiation followed by neoadjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy and planned surgical resection for locally advanced rectal cancer. Assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4., Up to 21 days
Pathological response rate for subjects treated with concurrent 5-FU, To determine the rates of pathologic response for subjects treated with 5-FU together with neoadjuvant, short course pelvic RT., Up to at least 5 years|Complete response rate with radiographic imaging prior to surgery, To determine the rate of complete response prior to surgery., Up to 8 weeks after completion of pre-operative chemotherapy|Three-year rate of local-regional recurrence for all subjects enrolled on the study, To determine the rates of local-regional recurrence for subjects treated with 5-FU together with neoadjuvant, short course pelvic RT., 3 years|Adverse events at any time, To determine the incidence of all toxicity (gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal) associated with protocol treatment in the preoperative period, the postoperative period, and therefore assess the tolerability of the combination regimen., 30 days after surgery|Three-year rate of disease-free survival for all subjects enrolled on the study, To determine the disease-free survival for subjects treated with 5-FU together with neoadjuvant, short course pelvic RT., 3 years|Postoperative morbidity rates, Up to 30 days after surgery|Postoperative mortality rates, Up to 30 days after surgery
OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of fluorouracil.

CHEMORADIATION: Patients undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) over 5 days for a total of 5 fractions and concurrently receive fluorouracil intravenously (IV) continuously over 96 hours.

PREOPERATIVE CHEMOTHERAPY: Within 2 weeks of completing chemoradiation, patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV as a push followed by IV continuously over 46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

SURGERY: Within 4-8 weeks of completing preoperative chemotherapy, patients undergo total mesorectal excision.

POSTOPERATIVE CHEMOTHERAPY: Within 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in preoperative chemotherapy. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year or until removal from the study or death, whichever occurs first.