Talazoparib and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Locally Recurrent Gynecologic Cancers
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of talazoparib in combination with radiation therapy and to see how well they work in treating patients with gynecologic cancers that have come back after previous treatment (recurrent). Talazoparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving talazoparib in combination with radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with gynecologic cancers.
Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Recurrent Vaginal Carcinoma|Stage IV Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Vaginal Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Talazoparib
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), MTD is determined by dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The MTD will be determine using the time-to-event Bayesian optimal interval (TITE-BOIN) model, and it is defined as the dose for which the isotonic estimate of the DLT rate is closest to the target DLT rate., Up to 30 days
Incidence of adverse events, Incidence of adverse events graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., Up to 2 years|Response rate, Anti-cancer activity will be measured by response rate by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Each endpoint will be analyzed using the cumulative incidence method when competing events exist or the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier when competing events are absent. Additionally, competing risk regression or proportional hazards modeling, whichever is appropriate, will be used to examine each endpoint while adjusting for disease. Estimates and 95% intervals will be reported., From the start of study treatment until documentation of local or regional recurrence, progression, time to next therapy, and death, assessed up to 2 years|Local control rate, Will be analyzed using the cumulative incidence method when competing events exist or the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier when competing events are absent. Additionally, competing risk regression or proportional hazards modeling, whichever is appropriate, will be used to examine each endpoint while adjusting for disease. Local control will be summarized as freedom from local failure calculated as 1 minus the cumulative incidence of local or regional recurrence. Estimates and 95% intervals will be reported., From the start of study treatment until documentation of local or regional recurrence, progression, time to next therapy, and death, assessed up to 2 years|Time to progression, Will be analyzed using the cumulative incidence method when competing events exist or the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier when competing events are absent. Additionally, competing risk regression or proportional hazards modeling, whichever is appropriate, will be used to examine each endpoint while adjusting for disease. Estimates and 95% intervals will be reported., From the start of study treatment until documentation of local or regional recurrence, progression, time to next therapy, and death, assessed up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will be analyzed using the cumulative incidence method when competing events exist or the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier when competing events are absent. Additionally, competing risk regression or proportional hazards modeling, whichever is appropriate, will be used to examine each endpoint while adjusting for disease. Estimates and 95% intervals will be reported., From the start of study treatment until documentation of local or regional recurrence, progression, time to next therapy, and death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be analyzed using the cumulative incidence method when competing events exist or the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier when competing events are absent. Additionally, competing risk regression or proportional hazards modeling, whichever is appropriate, will be used to examine each endpoint while adjusting for disease. Estimates and 95% intervals will be reported., From the start of study treatment until documentation of local or regional recurrence, progression, time to next therapy, and death, assessed up to 2 years
Level of PAR inhibition, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be generated for all summary statistics. No formal statistical testing will be completed. Summary statistics and box plots will be created to examine Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) component scores at each assessment time as well as to examine the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) bowel questionnaire measured at week 5. Models will be created to examine impact of dosage upon quality of life (QoL) and acute gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity. In the case of QoL, the models will examine QoL over time using linear mixed models, and we will test for an interaction effect between dose and time to examine whether any potential effects of dose upon QoL change over time. No testing will be completed; 95% confidence intervals will be created for all model coefficients., Up to 2 years|Gamma-H2AX and RAD51 foci formation levels, Gamma-H2AX and RAD51 foci formation levels in peripheral mononuclear cells and CTCs will be tested for association with PAR inhibition using Pearson and Spearman correlation methods. An association between germline and tumor BRCA mutation status and PAR inhibition, H2AX. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be generated for all summary statistics. No formal statistical testing will be completed., Up to 2 years|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT), Will examine the component scores at each assessment time. as well as to examine the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) bowel questionnaire measured at week 5. . No testing will be completed; 95% confidence intervals will be created for all model coefficients., Up to 2 years|Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), Will examine the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) bowel questionnaire measured at week 5. No testing will be completed; 95% confidence intervals will be created for all model coefficients., Up to 2 years|Overall quality of life as assessed by the FACT questionnaire, Models will be created to examine impact of dosage upon quality of life (QoL). In the case of QoL, the models will examine QoL over time using linear mixed models, and we will test for an interaction effect between dose and time to examine whether any potential effects of dose upon QoL change over time. No testing will be completed; 95% confidence intervals will be created for all model coefficients., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability, and maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of talazoparib combining talazoparib and fractionated radiotherapy in patients with refractory or recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, primary peritoneal, cervical, or vaginal or endometrial carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of talazoparib in combination with fractionated radiotherapy for recurrent gynecologic cancers.

II. To determine a preliminary anti-cancer activity of this combination at the MTD.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the potential feasibility of using biomarkers in tumor tissue, whole blood or serum as predictive markers of treatment response.

II. To explore the impact of talazoparib when combined with radiotherapy for recurrent gynecologic cancers on 1) patient reported acute gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity and 2) overall longitudinal quality of life at week 5 of therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of talazoparib.

Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) beginning on days -10 to -7 and continuing for up to 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy 5 days a week (Monday-Friday) for up to 7 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and then every 6 months for up to 1 year.