Positron Emission Mammography and Standard Mammography in Women at High Risk of Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Screening tests may help doctors find cancer cells early and plan better treatment for breast cancer. It is not yet known whether positron emission mammography is more effective than standard mammography in finding breast tumors.

PURPOSE: This phase III trial is studying positron emission mammography to see how well it works compared with standard mammography in women undergoing screening mammogram at Boston Medical Center.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: digital mammography|PROCEDURE: positron emission mammography
Frequency of Breast Imaging Assessment Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) "0" Call-back in Mammography vs Breast Imaging Assessment Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) "0" in Positron Emission Mammography, Number of participants called back due to Breast Imaging Assessment Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) "0" Mammogram compared to number of patients with Breast Imaging Assessment Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) "0" in positron emission mammography

Breast Imaging Assessment Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) Scale:

0 = Inconclusive for malignancy; call-back in mammography

1. = normal
2. = abnormal, with no malignancy
3. = abnormal, likely benign
4. = abnormal, likely malignant
5. = malignant, immediately at completion of mammogram
Patient Satisfaction Level as Pertaining to Comfort and Pain for Each Study, Number of participants satisfied with positron emission mammography with regard to comfort and pain for each study 1-7 rating scale, Entries from 1-4 considered Satisfied. Entries 5-7 considered not Satisfied., One month
OBJECTIVES:

* To install the breast Positron Emission Mammography system and to test and ensure its compliance with all regulatory agencies including the American College of Radiology and the Food and Drug Administration.
* To measure and compare the number of call-backs for positron emission mammography (PEM) imaging and conventional mammography.
* To measure and compare patient satisfaction for both conventional mammography and positron emission mammography in terms of comfort and pain.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo a conventional two-view mammogram and positron emission mammography (PEM). Immediately following treatment, patients complete a questionnaire on their satisfaction with the standard mammogram and the positron emission mammography.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually.