SUV PDL1/PD1 in Sun Damaged & Sun Protected Human Skin of Participants
The purpose of this research study is to look at how the proteins and genes in people's skin change when they're exposed to simulated sunlight. The researchers want to see if there are differences between people who've had skin cancer and those who haven't despite having a similar type of skin and history of sun exposure. Since this study is designed to simulate sun exposure to small areas of skin, mild to moderate sunburn and tanned spots at the site of the simulated sunlight exposure is a risk. In addition to simulated sun exposure, patients will also have four 6 mm punch skin biopsies performed. Brief discomfort may be felt when the local painkiller (lidocaine) is injected prior to skin biopsies; however, it is usually minimal. Participation in the study involves 4 visits to the clinic over the course of 4 weeks. Each visit will take no longer than 90 minutes.
Other Skin Changes Due to Chronic Exposure to Nonionizing Radiation
OTHER: Solar Simulated Light
To assess PD-L1 protein expression levels in the epidermal keratinocytes of subjects with and without a history of cutaneous squamous cell skin cancer., The primary objective will be the relative increase in PD-L1 protein expression levels in the epidermal keratinocytes of subjects in two risk cohorts (Cohort A (history of \> 2 cSCC) and Cohort B (no history of cSCC)) after acute solar simulated light treatment compared to unexposed skin within the same subject. Proteomic evaluation will be performed by reverse phase protein microarray and confirmatory IHC (immunohistochemistry) stain., Changes from baseline (pre-SSL exposure) to post-SSL exposure (at 24 hour post-exposure).
Evaluation of CD70/CD27 protein expression analysis, Reverse phase protein microarray will be implemented to evaluate changes in CD70/CD27 protein expression and immunohistochemistry assays will analyze changes in these signaling pathways over time., Changes from baseline (pre-SSL exposure) to post-SSL exposure (at 24 hour post-exposure).|Spatial genomic assessment through whole transcriptomic analysis, Nanostring DSP (Digital Spatial Profiling). Whole transcriptomic analysis will assess these markers as well as query signaling pathways which may be differentially affected by UV in each group. The research team will perform NanoString spatial whole transcriptomic analysis on SD (sun damaged) skin samples in the 20 participants from each cohort by evaluating both pre- and post- SSL exposure, resulting in 2 matched pairs per study subject. The research team will also use DermTech RNA-seq for skin sampling and gene expression analysis on a subset of sun damaged skin samples., Changes from baseline (pre-SSL exposure) to post-SSL exposure (at 24 hour post-exposure).|High dimensional data analysis, The objective is to integrate the proteomic and genomic data to evaluate possible synergistic relationship between them in describing the risk of cSCC based on PD-L1/PD1 and other co-expressed genes/protein expression., Changes from baseline (pre-SSL exposure) to post-SSL exposure (at 24 hour post-exposure).
The purpose of this research study is to look at how the proteins and genes in people's skin change when they're exposed to simulated sunlight. The researchers want to see if there are differences between people who've had skin cancer and those who haven't despite having a similar type of skin and history of sun exposure. Since this study is designed to simulate sun exposure to small areas of skin, mild to moderate sunburn and tanned spots at the site of the simulated sunlight exposure is a risk. In addition to simulated sun exposure, patients will also have four 6 mm punch skin biopsies performed. Brief discomfort may be felt when the local painkiller (lidocaine) is injected prior to skin biopsies; however, it is usually minimal. Participation in the study involves 4 visits to the clinic over the course of 4 weeks. Each visit will take no longer than 90 minutes.