HPV-E6-Specific Anti-PD1 TCR-T Cells in the Treatment of HPV-Positive NHSCC or Cervical Cancer
Human papillomavirus infections 16 (HPV16) is known to be a high-risk factor to induce cervical cancers. To date, HPV16-related cervical cancer is still a major concern in developing countries where vaccination is not prevalent. Concurrent therapies for cervical cancers have limited response rate and high chance of relapse. However, HPV16-induced cancers provided an ideal target for T cell-based immunotherapy due to the non-self origins. Engineered T cells bearing a TCR (TCR-T) that can specifically recognize the presented HPV antigen become a viable approach to treat this type of cancer. Though engineered T therapies have been well-recognized in hematological cancers, solid cancer treatment has been a major hurdle due to the immune-suppressive tumor microenvironment. One key mechanism of tumor-elicited suppression is the PDL1-PD1 interaction which induces T cell exhaustion. Therefore, TCR-T cells armed with a PD1 antagonist could further enhance the efficacy of TCR-T in solid cancers.
Cervical Cancer|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: HPV E6-specific TCR-T cells
To Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose, Verify the MTD of TCR-T cells for HPV16 E6 antigen for treatment. Nine patients will be enrolled in this project, using a dose-climbing approach, with every three patients as a group. The first group of patients returned to 5x106/kg TCR-T cells, the second group returned to 1x107/kg TCR-T cells, and the third group returned to 5x107/kg TCR-T cells, 8 weeks
Human papillomavirus infections 16 (HPV16) is known to be a high-risk factor to induce cervical cancers. To date, HPV16-related cervical cancer is still a major concern in developing countries where vaccination is not prevalent. Concurrent therapies for cervical cancers have limited response rate and high chance of relapse. However, HPV16-induced cancers provided an ideal target for T cell-based immunotherapy due to the non-self origins. Engineered T cells bearing a TCR (TCR-T) that can specifically recognize the presented HPV antigen become a viable approach to treat this type of cancer. Though engineered T therapies have been well-recognized in hematological cancers, solid cancer treatment has been a major hurdle due to the immune-suppressive tumor microenvironment. One key mechanism of tumor-elicited suppression is the PDL1-PD1 interaction which induces T cell exhaustion. Therefore, TCR-T cells armed with a PD1 antagonist could further enhance the efficacy of TCR-T in solid cancers.