Accuracy of Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Post TACE
The purpose of this research study is to find out if a different type of imaging study called contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) is as good as, or better than CT or MRI in patients diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after receiving TACE treatment
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Lumason
Residual Disease on CEUS Imaging., Number of lesions with residual disease identified on CEUS imaging. Residual disease is defined as enhancement within the lesion using CEUS., 2-4 months post TACE|Residual Disease on CT/MRI Imaging, Number of lesions with residual disease identified on CT/MRI imaging. Residual disease is defined as enhancement within the lesion using CT/MRI., 2-4 months post-TACE|No Viable Disease on CEUS Imaging., Number of lesions with no viable disease identified on CEUS imaging. Non-viable disease is defined as no enhancement within the lesion using CEUS., 2-4 months post-TACE|No Viable Disease on CT/MRI Imaging., Number of lesions with no viable disease identified on CT/MRI imaging. Non-viable disease is defined as no enhancement within the lesion using CT/MRI., 2-4 months post-TACE
Lesions Missed or Miscategorized on CEUS Imaging., Number of lesions missed or miscategorized on CEUS imaging., 4-8 months post-TACE|Lesions Missed or Miscategorized on CT/MRI Imaging., Number of lesions missed or miscategorized on CT/MRI imaging., 4-8 months post-TACE
This is a prospective trial to determine if contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) is non-inferior to CT or MRI in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) following transcatheter arterial chemoembolization(TACE) treatments. All patients will receive standard of care CT/MRI and will also get a contrast ultrasound to directly compare.

Timepoint 0- Our proposed study population includes subjects with diagnosed HCC, who are treated with TACE. Patients will be identified and enrolled at the time of initial TACE.

Timepoint 1- Following initial TACE, patients will receive a CT or MRI, as routinely ordered in the post-TACE setting, to assess for residual or new HCC. At this same imaging follow-up visit, patients will also receive a one-time additional contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS). Timepoint 2- Per standard clinical care, patients typically return for repeat imaging (CT/MRI) within 2-4 months following the first imaging visit.