IRX-2, Cyclophosphamide, and Pembrolizumab in Treating Participants With Recurrent or Metastatic Gastric or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects of IRX-2, cyclophosphamide, and pembrolizumab work in treating participants with gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer that has come back or that has spread to other places in the body. Interleukins, such as those found in IRX-2, are proteins made by white blood cells and other cells in the body and may help regulate immune response. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving RX-2, cyclophosphamide, and pembrolizumab may work better in treating participants with gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer.
Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVB Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Pathologic Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Recurrent Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Cytokine-based Biologic Agent IRX-2|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. From initial treatment until progression or death. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From first day of study drug administration to disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years
Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. From the time of initial treatment until death from any cause., Up to 2 years|Overall Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile of combination IRX-2 regimen and pembrolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate of IRX-2 regimen combined with pembrolizumab using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and immune modified RECIST criteria.

II. To evaluate initial median progression-free and overall survival in these patients treated with combination IRX-2 regimen and pembrolizumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the circulating T cell profiles in patients before and after therapy with combination IRX-2 regimen and pembrolizumab.

II. To evaluate the baseline and post-treatment tumor tissue immune gene expression profiling using the Nanostring platform.

III. To explore identification of tumor tissue neoantigens through a multiplex proteomic assay (MHC-PepSeq) paired with tumor genomic and transcriptomic sequencing.

IV. To explore putative biomarkers (including circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] and immune cell profiles) in peripheral blood to generate hypotheses for response to treatment with combination IRX-2 regimen and pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Participants also receive cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and IRX-2 subcutaneously (SC) for 10 days starting on day 4 during cycles 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21, 25, 29, and 33. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 30 days and then up to 1 year.