Postoperative Complications Following Skull Base Tumor Resection
The skull base tumor is located in the deep intracranial layer and is closely related to the brain stem and intracranial nerves. The incidence of postoperative complications after skull base tumor resection is high. Therefore, the perioperative management of skull base tumor resection is challenging.
Skull Base Tumor|Postoperative Complications
OTHER: Pulmonary ultrasound examination
The incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications, The primary outcome was the incidence of a composite endpoint of postoperative pulmonary complicationswithin 7 days after surgery. Postoperative pulmonary complications was considered to have occurred if at least one postoperative pulmonary event was observed, such as the pneumonia, pleural effusion, respiratory failure, hypoxemia, pneumothorax, atelectasis of the lung, bronchospasm..Ultrasound scans were performed at 20 min before starting mechanical ventilation of the lungs (before intubation) and performed at 20 min after surgery (after extubation), Postoperative 7 days
The incidence of postoperative deep venous thrombosis, Lower extremity venous ultrasound, preoperative and postoperative coagulation related values, blood routine, etc, Postoperative 7 days|Cardiac injury, Myocardial injury was diagnosed when available troponin concentrations exceeded generation-specific and type-specific thresholds and were apparently of ischaemic origin (ie, no other obvious cause for artifactual elevation). We used the following thresholds based on available literature at time of adjudication: 1) non-high-sensitivity (fourth-generation) troponin T ≥0.03 ng/ml2; 2) high-sensitivity troponin T ≥65 ng/L; or high-sensitivity troponin T 20-64 ng/L and an increase ≥5 ng/L from baseline3; 3) high-sensitivity troponin I (Abbott assay) is ≥75 ng/L4; 4) high-sensitivity troponin I (Siemens assay) is ≥60 ng/L5; or, 5) troponin I (other assays) greater than local 99th percentiles. Myocardial infarction diagnosis required both troponin elevation and at least one diagnostic symptom or sign., Postoperative 7 days and 30 days|Postoperative pain, Postoperative pain evaluated by 0-10-point numerical rating scale, with high scores indicating worse pain., Postoperative 2 days and 7 days|Overall complications, Surgery-related complications include cardiovascular, respiratory, pulmonary, digestive, urinary, neurological, infection, and bleeding from the surgery., Postoperative 7 days and 30 days|Postoperative mortality rate, Follow-up by phone or mail for patient mortality., Postoperative 7 days and 30 days
1. Postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs), always had a 11.2%-24.6% high incidence rate. Pulmonary ultrasound (LUS), as a non-invasive diagnostic tool, has high accuracy in diagnosing pulmonary complications. Compared to traditional chest X-ray examinations, pulmonary ultrasound can identify PPCs such as atelectasis and pneumothorax earlier, and it is also more accurate in diagnosing lung consolidation.With relevant literature postoperative PACU pulmonary ultrasound is used to predict the area under the PPC curve (AUC) of 0.64 in patients within 8 days after non cardiac major surgery. Through pulmonary ultrasound examination, doctors can identify high-risk patients with pulmonary complications early after surgery. In this observational study, investigators aimed to assess the occurrence of PPCs within 7 days after surgery and evaluate the accuracy of preoperative and postoperative lung ultrasound scores in predicting PPCs.
2. Patients with skull base tumors often have a high risk of postoperative lower extremity venous thrombosis due to long operation time and many postoperative complications, such as long-term bed rest. If not treated in time, lower extremity venous thrombosis can cause disability, and severe cases can cause serious consequences such as pulmonary embolism due to thrombus detachment. In this observational study, investigators aimed to prospectively collect perioperative data and the occurrence of DVT.