Combined Antiinflammatory and Angiostatic Therapy in Patients With Hormone-refractory Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability and safety of a multi-targeted therapy in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: imatinib mesylate|DRUG: Treosulfane|DRUG: etoricoxib|DRUG: pioglitazone|DRUG: dexamethasone
PSA Response Rate, To investigate the effect of a treatment with Imatinib mesylate, Pioglitazone , Etoricoxib, and Dexamethasone in combination with metronomic chemotherapy (Treosulfane) on the PSA response rate in patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer. A patient will be defined as a responder if a PSA decline of at least 50%, which must be confirmed by a second PSA value 4 weeks later, is observed. A patient will be defined as a non-responder if PSA has not decreased during treatment. Non-response is defined as a 25% increase over the baseline on-study which is confirmed (equal or more) by a second value 4 weeks apart. The absolute increase must account for \> 5 ng/ml., up to 24 weeks
Time to PSA Response, Time to PSA response, defined as the time from first administration of study drugs to the first PSA value of a confirmed PSA response. Non-responders will be censored with date of final visit/premature discontinuation for the analysis. Median time to PSA response was not achieved, every 4 weeks up to 24 weeks|Time to Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival, defined as the time from first administration of study drugs to the first PSA value of a PSA non-responder. Responders will be censored with date of PSA response for the analysis. The median time to PSA progression free survival was not achieved, every 4 weeks up to 24 weeks|Overall Survival Rate, Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause or last date known alive. The median time to overall survival rate was not achieved, every 4 weeks up to 24 weeks|Quality of Life Assessed With EORTC-30, Health-related quality of life was assessed with the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC-30) questionnaire and was presented descriptively. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire including following sub-scales: global health status, functional scales (physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning, and social activity), symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, and pain) and single items (dyspnoea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhoea and financial difficulties). Scores are averaged for each scale and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score indicates better quality of life on global health status and functional scales and worse quality of life on symptom scales and financial difficulty scale., baseline and Final Visit (week 24)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability and safety of a multi-targeted therapy in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.