18F-FLT-PET Imaging of the Brain in Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer to the Brain Treated With Whole Brain Radiation Therapy With or Without Sorafenib: Comparison With MR Imaging of the Brain
The purpose of this study is to compare two different imaging methods to examine the response of brain metastases to WBRT. These two imaging methods will take pictures of the brain using : 1) a positron emission tomography (PET) scanner and 2) Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner. A PET scanner resembles a CT or MR scanner.PET scans use radioactive substances also called as radioactive markers to "see" cancer cells. We plan to use \[18F\]FLT as a radioactive marker. FLT is used to image tumor growth. FLT PET scan is a new clinical procedure. It is in the testing stage of development unlike FDG-PET which is used more commonly used. Therefore, this is considered a "research" study. This will help us evaluate whether this scan will be safe and better used in the future to evaluate tumors. The amount of radiation to the body is small. The radiation from the radiotracer drug will be gone from the body in a few hours. There is no radiation risk from the MRI scans. Additionally, we also plan to use MRI imaging of the brain. We expect that \[18F\]FLT PET is better when compared to MRI and will give us more information about the brain metastases after WBRT.
Metastatic Breast Cancer to the Brain
DEVICE: 18F-FLT-PET Imaging|DEVICE: 18F-FLT-PET Imaging
Overall Response Rate, Overall Response Rate is the proportion of participants who had a complete or partial response (Cohort 1), 1 year
Change in Avg SUV Max From Baseline to 1 Year, Comparing FLT PET findings with tissue analysis will enable us to determine if imaging results are concordant with histological findings and thus allow for confirmation of this hypothesis. In this manner, we propose to generate a bridge between tissue analysis and FLT-PET brain imaging studies. For patients needing to undergo craniotomy for resection of a brain metastasis after WBRT, tissue findings (radionecrosis versus viable tumor) will be correlated with radiologic assessment in an exploratory manner., 1 year
The purpose of this study is to compare two different imaging methods to examine the response of brain metastases to WBRT. These two imaging methods will take pictures of the brain using : 1) a positron emission tomography (PET) scanner and 2) Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner. A PET scanner resembles a CT or MR scanner.PET scans use radioactive substances also called as radioactive markers to "see" cancer cells. We plan to use \[18F\]FLT as a radioactive marker. FLT is used to image tumor growth. FLT PET scan is a new clinical procedure. It is in the testing stage of development unlike FDG-PET which is used more commonly used. Therefore, this is considered a "research" study. This will help us evaluate whether this scan will be safe and better used in the future to evaluate tumors. The amount of radiation to the body is small. The radiation from the radiotracer drug will be gone from the body in a few hours. There is no radiation risk from the MRI scans. Additionally, we also plan to use MRI imaging of the brain. We expect that \[18F\]FLT PET is better when compared to MRI and will give us more information about the brain metastases after WBRT.