Neoadjuvant Combination of Atezolizumab/Bevacizumab Versus Neoadjuvant Radiation Therapy
A multicentre, parallel group, randomized controlled Phase II clinical trial evaluating neoadjuvant Atezolizumab/Bevacizumab versus neoadjuvant SBRT in patients with biopsy proven solitary HCC with PVTT involving the portal vein branches. Both arms are considered experimental, and as such, a Simon two-stage design will be initially used within both arms. Only if both arms are deemed of interest for further study will a comparison between arms, using a pick-the-winner design, be conducted. Following the completion of neoadjuvant therapy, study participants will undergo a CT scan or MRI to assess tumour response to neoadjuvant therapy. Hepatic resection will be performed for those participants who meet the surgical resection criteria.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Portal Vein Tumour Thrombosis
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Neoadjuvant
Hepatectomy, Proportion of patients who undergo hepatectomy in each arm (number of patients who undergo hepatectomy divided by the number of patients randomized to each arm)., 17 Weeks
Response rate, Radiological and pathological response rate to neoadjuvant therapy., 2 years|Toxicity to SBRT, Toxicity rate related to neoadjuvant SBRT., 2 years|Postoperative complications, Postoperative complication rate and mortality, 90 days post operatively|Survival Progression Free, Progression free survival (PFS)., 2 years|Survival, Overall survival (OS)., 2 years|Toxicity to Atezolizumab/Bevacizumab, Toxicity to Atezolizumab/Bevacizumab in the neoadjuvant setting, 2 years
Surgical resection without adjuvant therapy is the standard of care for most patients with solitary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The presence of portal vein tumour thrombus (PVTT) is associated with a poor prognosis, and as a result patients usually do not undergo surgery.1 One potential strategy to improve the outcome of patients with HCC and PVTT is to administer treatment to the tumour prior to surgery, i.e. "neoadjuvant" therapy. This strategy has been proven to be effective in other types of cancer, and results in tumour downstaging and potentially eliminates micro-metastatic disease In a recent randomized controlled trial (RCT) in patients with HCC and PVTT, the addition of radiation therapy (RT) to the tumour prior to hepatic surgery was compared with surgery alone.4 There was a statistically significant improvement in survival with RT. Systemic therapy with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor Sorafenib improved survival compared to placebo in patients with advanced HCC and PVTT.5 Another recent trial in patients with advanced HCC demonstrated improved survival with the combination of Atezolizumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI), and Bevacizumab, an antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor compared to Sorafenib alone.6

Currently, there is no standard of care for the neoadjuvant treatment of solitary HCC. Radiotherapy has not been widely adopted despite recent evidence suggesting some benefit. It is conceivable that RT will downsize the tumour increasing the surgical resection rate and reducing the shedding of tumour cells. Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) is a type of RT that provides high dose, focal radiation to tumours using highly precise imaging and treatment fields, with rapid dose fall-off thereby sparing normal tissue. Based on experience in other cancers, it would seem judicious that effective systemic therapy be considered for the neoadjuvant treatment of HCC to downsize the primary tumour and eradicate occult micro-metastases.2,3

We hypothesize that treating patients with HCC and PVTT with either 1) neoadjuvant systemic therapy, or 2) neoadjuvant SBRT may lead to improved hepatic resection rates. Complete hepatic resection is being considered as a surrogate for good long-term outcomes. The aim of our randomized Phase II trial is to select the treatment arm with the most favourable outcomes based on a trade-off between resection rate and toxicity for study in a future trial.