Goniometry and Goniometric Measurement on Standardised Images in Dupuytren's Disease
Measuring range of motion (ROM) is essential in detecting musculoskeletal deficits, monitoring the effects of treatment and progression of the disease. In Dupuytren's disease the active and passive extension deficits (AED, PED) of digits 4 and 5 are usually clinically measured using a universal, short arm goniometer which is considered the standard of care. Using the goniometer can be time consuming. Measuring the extension deficit on a standardised picture could improve follow up, since it is a faster and easier process to take a picture and upload it to the patients files. Though this gives rise to the question whether this kind of measurement would be equally accurate and reliable in comparison to regular clinical measurement using a goniometer.
Dupuytren's Disease
PROCEDURE: ROM measurement of the MCP and PIP joints in digits 4 and 5
Active Extension Deficits (AED), AED in the MCP and PIP joints of digit 4 and 5 are measured by using a goniometer, Baseline
Measuring range of motion (ROM) is essential in detecting musculoskeletal deficits, monitoring the effects of treatment and progression of the disease. In Dupuytren's disease the active and passive extension deficits (AED, PED) of digits 4 and 5 are usually clinically measured using a universal, short arm goniometer which is considered the standard of care. Using the goniometer to measure the extension deficit of both fingers, for both the proximal interphalangeal (PIP) and metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint can be a time consuming process. A lot of clinicians have limited time per patient, which leads to partially or completely missing data due to not performing the measurements. Measuring the extension deficit on a standardised picture could improve follow up, since it is a faster and easier process to take a picture and upload it to the patients files. Though this gives rise to the question whether this kind of measurement would be equally accurate and reliable in comparison to regular clinical measurement using a goniometer. Establishing the difference between both methods is essential to monitor change, which makes a statistical comparison of accuracy of both methods very valuable for patients with Dupuytren's disease. Furthermore, a lot of clinicians have collected and stored standardised pictures of their patient's hands over the years. Therefore this study could solidify the available data through these images, which provide valuable information for future follow up. Furthermore, proper patient education could provide the clinician with standardised images taken by the patient himself, leading to improved follow up, if images and clinical measurement prove to be equally accurate.