Anxiety and Depression Levels in Cancer Patients After Self-Application of EFT (Emotional Freedom Techniques)
Anxiety and depression have been found to be significant co-occurring conditions in cancer patients. This study examines these and other psychological conditions in patients diagnosed with cholangiocarcinoma, a rare cancer of the bile duct, with an average survival time of three to six months post-diagnosis. Participants are taught EFT in telephone and internet group coaching sessions, and have access to an online support forum. They complete the Mini-Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale (Mini-MAC), EORTC Quality of Life scale, the PTSD checklist, the Patient Health Questionnaire, and a brief health checklist. Participants also provide medical records confirming their diagnosis, and markers, both before and after the study. The study is expected to enroll 20-15 cholangiocarcinoma patients, and use a within-subjects, time series, repeated measures design. Symptoms are assessed prior to coaching, after four, and again after eight weekly coaching sessions. Follow-ups will occur in one month, three months, and one year. It is hypothesized that a drop in the severity of co-occurring psychological symptoms, pain and insomnia may occur after EFT coaching.
Depression
BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle Counseling with Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT)
depression, duration of study
anxiety, duration of study|pain, duration of study|insomnia, duration of study
Anxiety and depression have been found to be significant co-occurring conditions in cancer patients. This study examines these and other psychological conditions in patients diagnosed with cholangiocarcinoma, a rare cancer of the bile duct, with an average survival time of three to six months post-diagnosis. Participants are taught EFT in telephone and internet group coaching sessions, and have access to an online support forum. They complete the Mini-Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale (Mini-MAC), EORTC Quality of Life scale, the PTSD checklist, the Patient Health Questionnaire, and a brief health checklist. Participants also provide medical records confirming their diagnosis, and markers, both before and after the study. The study is expected to enroll 20-15 cholangiocarcinoma patients, and use a within-subjects, time series, repeated measures design. Symptoms are assessed prior to coaching, after four, and again after eight weekly coaching sessions. Follow-ups will occur in one month, three months, and one year. It is hypothesized that a drop in the severity of co-occurring psychological symptoms, pain and insomnia may occur after EFT coaching.