Multicenter Study Of CPX-1 (Irinotecan HCl: Floxuridine) Liposome Injection In Patients With Advanced Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether CPX-1 is effective in patients with advanced colorectal cancer who have already received chemotherapy that included the drug oxaliplatin or irinotecan. All patients will receive CPX-1 at a dose of 210 units/m2 over 90 minutes every two weeks.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: CPX-1 (Irinotecan HCl:Floxuridine) Liposome Injection
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.0, Disease response was assessed using RECIST 1.0. Measurable disease and target lesions were determined prior to study entry. Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the sum of the target tumor lesions were used in the RECIST criteria. Best response on study was classified as follows. Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all clinical and radiological evidence of tumor. Partial Response (PR) at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Stable Disease (SD), steady state of disease. Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Progressive Disease (PD) at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of measured lesions taking as references the smallest sum of longest diameters recorded since the treatment started. Appearance of new lesions also constituted progressive disease., From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 48 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST Version 1.0, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the first dose to the documentation of progressive disease (PD), death, or lost to follow-up at last assessment visit., Every 8 weeks
Duration of Response (DoR) Per RECIST Version 1.0, The duration of overall response was measured from the time that measurement criteria were met for CR or PR (whichever status was recorded first) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The duration of overall complete response was measured from the time measurement criteria were first met for complete response until the first date that recurrent disease was objectively documented., Every 8 weeks
CPX-1 Liposome Injection is a liposomal formulation of a fixed combination of the antineoplastic drugs irinotecan HCl and floxuridine. The two drugs are present inside the liposome in a fixed 1:1 molar ratio. CPX-1 was developed as a means of delivering and preserving a fixed 1:1 molar ratio of the two drugs. This ratio was found in vitro and in vivo models of cancer to have synergistic anti-cancer activity and preservation and delivery of this ratio is important because other ratios of these two drugs have been found to be antagonistic or only additive. Both floxuridine and irinotecan HCl are active chemotherapeutic agents, each approved for clinical use in the United States and Canada for colorectal cancer. Current practice routinely administers 5- fluorouracil with irinotecan in combination regimens in first or second line treatment without the means of preserving the synergistic ratio.