Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Toxicity Risk Prediction in Solid Tumors
This study examines how certain risk factors (such as age, gender, other medical conditions, and the type of immunotherapy used to treat the cancer) affect whether a patient with a malignant solid tumor will develop mild or serious side effects from the immunotherapy medications. Immunotherapy is the type of treatment that helps the body's immune system fight cancer. In the future, this information may help doctors make better decisions about cancer treatments.
Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Occurrence of severe or worse non-hematological immune-related adverse event (irAE), Adverse events will be recorded according to the physician rated Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) scoring system., 52 weeks
Change in Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-29, PROMIS-29 Includes 4 questions to evaluate each of 7 domains (physical function, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbance, social functioning, and pain interference) using a 5- point Likert scale, as well as a single item to assess pain severity on a 0-10 scale. The PROMIS-29 assesses severity levels of symptoms and their effect on the patient's functioning, assessed over the preceding 7-day period., Baseline to 52 weeks|Change in PRO-CTCAE scores, Patients report severity, frequency, and/or interference of toxicities. For this protocol the following 11 items will be assessed: fatigue interference, neuropathy severity and interference, nausea frequency and severity, shortness of breath severity and interference, presence of rash, itching severity, and diarrhea severity and interference over the preceding 7 days., Baseline to 52 weeks|Change in PROMIS Cognitive Function- Short Form 4a version 2.0 scores, Assesses patient-perceived cognitive deficits over the past 7 days. Facets include mental acuity, concentration, verbal and nonverbal memory, verbal fluency, and perceived changes in these cognitive functions. The extent to which cognitive impairments interfere with daily functioning, whether other people observe cognitive impairments, and the impact of cognitive dysfunction on quality of life are also assessed. The PROMIS Short Form Cognitive Function 4a is a questionnaire composed of 4 items rated on a 5 level scale, ranging from Never to Very often (Several times a day), with raw scores ranging from 5 to 20, with higher scores representing better cognitive function. In combination with the PROMIS-29, the use of this questionnaire allows the calculation of the PROMIS-Preference score, which quantifies the value participants place on different health states., Baseline to 52 weeks|Change in toxicity over time (ToxT), ToxT is a collection of statistical codes in Statistical Analysis Software that generate plots depicting summary statistics or individual patient data over discrete timepoints, combined with longitudinal statistical analyses (repeated measures modelling, and time-to-event and AUC analyses)., Baseline to 52 weeks|Change in cytokine toxicity (CYTOX) score, The relationship between the CYTOX score and the occurrence of irAE will be evaluated using area under the curve (AUC). Separate evaluations will be conducted using both cytokine levels determined both prior to ICI-based therapy and after 1 cycle of ICI-based therapy., Baseline to 1 cycle after ICI-therapy
Feasibility of the Patient Cloud electronic (e)PRO app, Will be assessed by comparing the extent of missing data at each assessment time between participants choosing the Patient Cloud ePRO application (app) versus the use of paper forms. The participant experience of using the Patient Cloud ePRO app will also be assessed using a one-time questionnaire at the end of the participant's participation in the study, Up to 52 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To both develop and independently validate a risk prediction model for Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade 3 or higher non-hematological immune-related adverse events (irAEs) in the first year of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-based therapy for the treatment of solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To prospectively assess the incidence of any grade of non-hematological irAEs and grade 4 hematological irAEs on ICI-based therapy.

II. To observe the trajectory of patient-reported quality of life and health preferences over 12 months.

III. To observe the trajectory of patient-reported adverse events over 12 months using serial assessment with select Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) measures.

IV. To measure the burden of chronic, grade 1 and 2 toxicities using methods such as toxicity over time (ToxT).

V. To track patterns of treatment of irAEs and patterns of toxicity resolution.

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the cytokine toxicity (CYTOX) score, a composite measure derived from 11 different cytokine levels, both prior to ICI-based therapy and after 1 cycle of ICI-based therapy as a predictive signature for the development of irAEs.

II. To establish a repository of archival tissue and blood/serum specimens for potential predictive and/or prognostic markers of irAE risk.

ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility of using electronic (e)PRO in a multi-center clinical trial setting.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo collection of a tissue sample at the start of their routine cancer treatment. Patients complete questionnaires at the start of cancer treatment, weeks 4, 12, 24, and 52. Patients will have the option of providing blood samples at several time points during the study.