Evaluation of Biomarkers Associated With Response to Subsequent Therapies in Subjects With HER2-Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
This was a multicenter, open-label, Phase II study in subjects with Human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer who received at least 2 prior lines of anti-HER2-targeted therapies of which at least one included a Trastuzumab-containing regimen. This study was a post-approval commitment with regulatory authorities. It was designed to evaluate whether treatment with Dual blockade promoted changes to biomarkers associated with immunomodulation.
Neoplasms, Breast
DRUG: Lapatinib|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs)
Fold Change in Expression Profile of Genes and/or Proteins for Arm A (LAP+TRAS±AI (HER2-Enriched)) From Screening to Approx. 3.5 Years, Evaluate changes in biomarkers associated with immunomodulation between pre-treatment biopsy and disease progression biopsy within each arm. Biomarker analysis was performed using an mRNA gene expression panel derived from Nanostring platform in a total of 20 subjects who received the study treatment as per the study design and with baseline tumor biopsies available.

For the selected biomarkers associated with immunomodulation, the median fold changes of gene expression level and 95% confidence interval are presented. The fold change was calculated as the ratio of the expression level of a biomarker at disease progression over the baseline., At screening and at disease progression, assessed up to approx. 3.5 years|Fold Change in Expression Profile of Genes and /or Proteins for Arm B (TRAS+CHEM±AI (HER2-Enriched)) From Screening to Approx. 3.5 Years, Evaluate changes in biomarkers associated with immunomodulation between pre-treatment biopsy and disease progression biopsy within each arm. Biomarker analysis was performed using an mRNA gene expression panel derived from Nanostring platform in a total of 20 subjects who received the study treatment as per the study design and with baseline tumor biopsies available.

For the selected biomarkers associated with immunomodulation, the median fold changes of gene expression level and 95% confidence interval are presented. The fold change was calculated as the ratio of the expression level of a biomarker at disease progression over the baseline., At screening and at disease progression, assessed up to approx. 3.5 years|Fold Change in Expression Profile of Genes and /or Proteins for Arm C (Non-HER2- Enriched) From Screening to Approx. 3.5 Years, Evaluate changes in biomarkers associated with immunomodulation between pre-treatment biopsy and disease progression biopsy within each arm. Biomarker analysis was performed using an mRNA gene expression panel derived from Nanostring platform in a total of 20 subjects who received the study treatment as per the study design and with baseline tumor biopsies available.

For the selected biomarkers associated with immunomodulation, the median fold changes of gene expression level and 95% confidence interval are presented. The fold change was calculated as the ratio of the expression level of a biomarker at disease progression over the baseline., At screening and at disease progression, assessed up to approx. 3.5 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization (for Arm A and B) / treatment start date (for Arm C) to the date of the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever was earlier. If a subject had not progressed or died at the analysis cutoff date, PFS was censored at the time of the last adequate tumor assessment. PFS was summarized using Kaplan-Meier estimates., From randomization to disease progression or death, up to approx. 5.6 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate was defined as the percentage of subjects achieving either a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and was calculated from the Investigator's assessment of response per RECIST 1.1 criteria. . The confirmed CR or PR was derived using the following rules: confirmed CR - at least two determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart before disease progression; confirmed PR - at least two determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression., From enrollment/randomization to the end of study, approximately 5.6 years|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as percentage of subjects with a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or maintaining stable disease (SD) for at least 24 weeks while on study according to the investigator assessment of response per RECIST 1.1 criteria. CR and PR are confirmed responses derived using the following rules: Confirmed CR - at least 2 determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart before disease progression. Confirmed PR - at least 2 determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression., From enrollment/randomization the end of study, approximately 5.6 years|Association Between Biomarkers and PFS, Describe if changes of biomarker expression at disease progression from baseline correlate with PFS., From randomization to disease progression or death, up to approx. 5.6 years
This study was designed to address the post-authorization measures as agreed with the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). Recruitment of subjects into this study was challenging, and following agreement with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) enrollment into this study was halted after the enrollment of 42 of the 225 planned subjects.

The primary endpoint of the study evaluated changes in expression of biomarkers associated with immunomodulation between a pre-treatment biopsy and the disease progression biopsy. Secondary efficacy endpoints included overall response rate, clinical benefit rate and progression-free survival (PFS), as well as safety/tolerability. All subjects received study treatment until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or subject withdrawal. In case of disease progression during the treatment period, the subject was followed-up for 30 days for safety evaluation. In case of study treatment discontinuation for any reasons other than disease progression, the subject was followed-up for safety and efficacy assessments until disease progression, new anticancer therapy, death, withdrawal of consent or end of study, whichever came first.

This study supported a better understanding of the rapidly accumulating evidence for the importance of the immune microenvironment in HER2-positive breast cancer and the observed immunomodulation in the neoadjuvant setting could be confirmed in the advanced setting and supported the putative mechanism of action of HER2 dual blockade and its potential function on the tumor microenvironment. No formal comparisons between treatment arms were undertaken.