T-DM1 and Osimertinib Combination Treatment to Target HER2 Bypass Track Resistance in EGFR Mutation Positive NSCLC
This is a single arm open-label multi-center phase II study, investigating disease control rate after 3 months of treatment with trastuzumab-emtansine/osimertinib combination therapy in patients with advanced EGFR mutation positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with HER2 bypass track resistance.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine|DRUG: Osimertinib
Safety (intensity and incidence of adverse events), Safety as indicated by intensity and incidence of adverse events, graded according to NCI CTCAE Version 4.03, Up to 30 days after last study drug intake|Objective response rate according to RECIST v1.1 after 3 months of treatment, Complete response and partial response after 3 months of treatment, From date of registration until 3 months.
Progression-free survival, PFS, defined as the time from first administration of the study drug combination to disease progression by RECIST v1.1. or lost to follow up or death, whichever comes first, From date of registration until the date of first documented progression up to 100 months|Disease control rate, after 3 months of treatment, DCR, defined as the percentage of patients with stable disease (SD), partial response (PR) or complete response (CR), From date of registration until 3 months.|Overall survival, OS, defined as the time from first administration of the study drug combination to lost to follow up or death, whichever comes first, From date of registration until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 100 months.
Genetic profiling to assess predictors of response and resistance - circulating free (cf)DNA, cfDNA samples will be collected to assess predictors of response and resistance, At baseline, every 6 weeks and at treatment discontinuation (expected 6 months after start)
This study is a multicenter single arm phase II study with a phase I run in to study the toxicity and efficacy of T-DM1 and osimertinib combination treatment in patients with EGFR mutated NSCLC and HER2 bypass track activation (HER2 immunohistochemistry (IHC) ≥2+ and/or HER2 amplification) after progression on an EGFR TKI.

In the phase I run in, study safety will be assessed in a classical 3+3 design. Because of potential for overlapping hematologic and non-hematologic adverse events (AE), the first 3 patients will receive a reduced dose of T-DM1 3.0 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks combined with osimertinib 80 mg once daily. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as a grade 3 AE toxicity according to CTC AE 4.03 that does not recover to grade ≤2 before the next cycle of T-DM1. DLT's will be collected up to 6 weeks after treatment initiation (2 T-DM1 cycles). Dose escalation within patients is not allowed.

If 1 patient develops a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), 3 more will be included and treated with T-DM1 3.0 mg/kg. If ≥2 of the 6 patients develop a DLT, further study of the combination will be halted. Otherwise, T-DM1 3.0 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks combined with osimertinib 80 mg once daily will be the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) to put forward in the phase II part of this study.

If none of the first three patients develops a DLT, the T-DM1 dose will be escalated to the standard dose of 3.6 mg/kg. If ≤1 patient experiences a DLT in 6 patients (3+3), T-DM1 3.6 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks and osimertinib 80 mg once daily will be the MTD. If ≥2 patients develop a DLT, the T-DM1 will be lowered to 3.0 mg/kg and three more patients will be enrolled in this dose cohort. When ≤1 of these patients develops a DLT, this will be the MTD.