A Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability and Immunogenicity of EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox in Subjects With Recurrent GBM
The purpose of the Cerebral EDV study is to determine the safety and tolerability of EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox in order to establish the best dose level to be used in future studies. The study will also examine the body's immune response to EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox and assess if it is effective in the treatment of patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).
Glioblastoma|Astrocytoma, Grade IV
DRUG: EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox
Safety outcome measures, Recording of adverse Events (AE's) and clinically significant changes in vital signs, physical and neurological examinations, cardiac tests, radiological imaging inc. CT scan (Day 27/28) and clinical laboratory tests., Safety measures will be conducted from Study Day 1 as per study schedule to safety follow-up visit 30 (+5 days) post last dose.
Efficacy outcome measure, Disease response will be measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) using Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO)., Screening, then post cycle (Days 50-56)|Identification of a recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox in subjects with recurrent GBM, Review of safety data for dose limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluable subjects., DLT evaluable subjects are those who experience a DLT assessed within the first treatment cycle of Part 1 i.e.including up to 7 days after the final dose, days 1-50 of treatment.|Overall survival outcome measure, Overall survival is defined as time from the date of first administration of EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox to the date of death, regardless of cause, The number of days from the date of first administration of EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox to the date of death, regardless of cause up to 60 months.
This is an open-label, Phase 1, dose exploration and preliminary immunogenicity study of single agent EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox in subjects with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). Eligible subjects enrolled in the study will receive EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox administered weekly for 7 weeks via IV 20 minute infusion, followed by radiological evaluation at week 8 (1 Cycle). Subjects may continue to receive subsequent cycles of EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox unless the subject becomes intolerant to investigational product (IP), withdraw consent or the individual is no longer receiving clinical benefit (factors taken in to consideration will be disease progression radiologically or clinically, and clinical benefits to quality of life). Tumour assessment will be repeated after each 7 week cycle (week 8).

The study will take place in two parts, Part 1 (Dose Exploration) and Part 2 (Dose Expansion).

Part 1 - Dose Exploration will assess the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of drug at two dose levels (5 x 10\^9 and 8 x 10\^9) and will enroll prior to Part 2. Three subjects will be recruited per dose level. Enrollment will begin with the 5 x 10\^9 dose level, and the decision to enroll to the 8 x 10\^9 dose level will follow a comprehensive safety evaluation and a standard 3 + 3 dose escalation study design.

Part 2 - Dose Expansion will be conducted pending safety results of Part 1 to provide guidance regarding the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). Subjects will be treated and assessed as outlined in Part 1 above. If 0 out of 3 subjects, or 1 out of 6 subjects, experience dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) at the 5 x 10\^9 dose level in Part 1, additional subjects to a total of 10 will be recruited to this dose level in Part 2. Similarly, if 0 out of 3 subjects, or 1 out of 6 subjects, experience DLTs at the 8 x 10\^9 dose level in Part 1, additional subjects to a total of 10 will be recruited to this dose level in Part 2. If both dose levels are tolerated, a total of 10 subjects per dose level will be enrolled.

A safety follow-up visit must be performed 30 (+5) days after the last dose of drug for all subjects.All subjects who discontinue investigational product and who have not withdrawn full consent to participate in the study will continue in the long term follow-up phase. Long term follow-up will continue approximately every 1 month for 12 months, from the 30 (+5) day follow-up visit, then approximately every 2-3 months for the extent of subject survival.