Financial Distress During Treatment for Pediatric Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in the United States
The overall goals of this study are to measure parents' financial distress (worry or anxiety about money) during their child's/adolescent's treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia and whether it changes over time, and to learn what factors are associated with changes in financial distress. Information gathered from this study will inform future intervention studies that may mitigate financial distress for parents of children/adolescents being treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Survey Administration
Change in financial distress, Financial distress will be measured serially using the Personal Finance Wellbeing (PFW) scale (previously InCharge Financial Distress/Financial Well-Being scale). Scores on the PFW scale will be computed by adding numerical responses for each of the 8 questions, then dividing the total by 8. These scores can range from 1 to 10, with 1 indicating overwhelming financial distress and 10 indicating no financial distress., From start through completion of acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy, an average of 2.5 years
Factors associated with financial distress, Candidate factors include socio-demographic variables, clinical variables, institutional variables, financial variables (e.g., Household Material Hardship \[HMH\] scores, change in household income), and financial coping behaviors., From start of through completion of acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy, an average of 2.5 years
Domains of financial toxicity, Descriptive statistics will be used to report domains of financial distress, informed by the conceptual framework guiding this study., From start through completion of acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy, an average of 2.5 years|Parental experiences of financial distress and material hardship, and perceptions about financial screening/assessments during their child's/adolescent's treatment, Each audio-recorded interview, and the associated field notes and summary, will be transcribed verbatim. These data will be coded using a directed content analysis approach., From start through completion of acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy, an average of 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the trajectory of financial distress over time, as reported by parents of children and adolescents ages 1 to 14.9 years with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), from start to completion of ALL therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Identify factors associated with financial distress over time for families of children and adolescents ages 1 to 14.9 years with newly diagnosed ALL.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe domains of financial toxicity, informed by the conceptual framework guiding this study, specifically treatment-related material hardship during treatment for pediatric ALL, potential financial coping behaviors during treatment for pediatric ALL, and institutional factors.

II. In a sub-cohort of participants, qualitatively explore parental experiences of financial distress and material hardship, and perceptions about financial screening/assessments during their child's/adolescent's treatment for ALL.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Parents complete surveys over 15-30 minutes at the beginning of their child's induction chemotherapy, at the beginning of maintenance chemotherapy, and at the end of last chemotherapy. Parents may also participate in one-time individual interview over 30-45 minutes. Additionally, children's medical records are reviewed during the study.