MSG Use With 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT Imaging
18F-DCFPyL is an agent that binds to prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA). Due to high levels of PSMA in prostate cancer, treatments targeting PSMA have been developed to deliver therapy to these specific target cells. Unfortunately when this treatment is delivered there is radiotracer uptake in the salivary glands and kidneys, not related to cancer, which causes dry mouth and causes patients to stop treatment. It is proposed that having tomato juice containing monosodium glutamate (MSG) may reduce radiotracer uptake in the salivary glands and kidneys and reduce damage to these tissues.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Cancer Metastatic|Prostatic Neoplasm
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT scan|OTHER: Placebo drink|OTHER: MSG drink
Salivary Gland Maximal Standardized Uptake Values Corrected for Lean Body Mass (SULmax) for 18F-DCFPyL, Comparison of MSG and placebo 18F-DCFPyL salivary gland (submandibular) accumulation measured by the maximal standardized uptake values corrected for lean body mass (SULmax). For determination of salivary gland uptake, regions of interest will be drawn around the salivary glands, using a standardized contouring method, to measure the SULmax. The average SULmax in the organs will be used for this analysis., scan with MSG and 3-7 days later, scan with Placebo (or vice versa)
Renal Maximal Standardized Uptake Values Corrected for Lean Body Mass (SULmax) for 18F-DCFPyL, Comparison of MSG and placebo 18F-DCFPyL renal accumulation measured by the maximal standardized uptake values corrected for lean body mass (SULmax). For determination of renal uptake, regions of interest will be drawn around the kidneys, using a standardized contouring method, to measure the SULmax. The average SULmax in the organs will be used for this analysis., scan with MSG and 3-7 days later, scan with Placebo (or vice versa)|Tumour Maximal Standardized Uptake Values Corrected for Lean Body Mass (SULmax) for 18F-DCFPyL, Comparison of MSG and placebo 18F-DCFPyL tumour accumulation measured by the maximal standardized uptake values corrected for lean body mass (SULmax). For determination of tumour uptake, all malignant lesions, the SULmax were measured using the PET Edge tool running on MIM. All regions of interest were created in one dataset by a blinded observer, and then saved and compared to the identical location in the second dataset for matched comparisons of activity. The median SULmax in the malignant lesions will be used for this analysis., scan with MSG and 3-7 days later, scan with Placebo (or vice versa)|Number of Participants With Tomato Juice (Containing Either MSG or Placebo) Related Adverse Events as Assessed by Abnormal Vital Sign Measurement., Vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate and pulse oximetry) will be measured at two time points (before tomato juice and 2 hours after radiotracer injection). All values that fall outside of the normal parameters will be assessed by a physician and reported as an adverse event., 2 hours
This is a prospective single cohort study to evaluate the utility of MSG in reducing salivary gland radiotracer uptake, in patients who undergo an 18F-DCFPyL Positron Emission tomography / Computer Tomography (PET/CT) scan.

18F-DCFPyL PET/CT scans Each participant will receive 2 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT scans at the BC Cancer - Vancouver Centre, as part of this research sub-study. Each participant will receive tomato juice before each appointment. One visit they will have tomato juice containing MSG and the other will be a placebo (standard tomato juice).

Each study participant will receive a bolus intravenous dose of 18F-DCFPyL. The participant will rest in a comfortable chair for 120 minutes and will then be taken to the PET/CT scanner for images.

24 hour follow-up All participants will be requested to either return to the functional imaging department approximately 24 hours (acceptable range 16-28 hours) after the injection of 18F-DCFPyL and tomato juice consumption or agree to be contacted by phone. The participants will be asked if they experienced any undesirable effects following the administration of 18F-DCFPyL and tomato juice, or in the intervening 24 hours. The local site attending nuclear medicine physician will then make an assessment as to whether these effects are likely related to 18F-DCFPyL and/or tomato juice administration.

The study is expected to take approximately 1 year for accrual.