Safety and Efficacy Study of Osmotic Release Oral System (OROS) Hydromorphone in Participants With Cancer Pain
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of Osmotic Release Oral System (OROS) hydromorphone using standardized conversion from prior opioid therapy among participants with cancer pain.
Pain
DRUG: Osmotic Release Oral System (OROS) hydromorphone
Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Average Score at Baseline, The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) assesses the severity of pain and the impact of pain on daily functions (interference items). The severity items are scored from 0=no pain and 10=pain as bad as you can imagine. The interference items are scored from 0=no interference and 10=interferes completely., Baseline|Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Average Score at Day 28, The BPI assesses the severity of pain and the impact of pain on daily functions (interference items). The severity items are scored from 0=no pain and 10=pain as bad as you can imagine. The interference items are scored from 0=no interference and 10=interferes completely., Day 28
Number of Participants Given Rescue Pain Medications, Rescue medication was a medication intended to relieve symptoms immediately. Rescue medication of morphine was used during the study duration and dose was set at 10-15 percent of the total daily morphine dose which ranged from 10-60 milligram., Day 28|Number of Participants With Categorical Score on Clinical Global Impression Scale as Assessed by Clinician, The Clinical Global Impression (CGI) rating scale is a 7-point global assessment that measures the clinician's impression of the severity of illness exhibited by a participant, which ranges from "very much worse" to "very much improved" (as compared to Baseline)., Day 28
This is a prospective (study following participants forward in time), open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), single-arm, multi-center (conducted in more than one center) study to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of stable dose of OROS hydromorphone among participants with cancer pain. The duration of this study will be 28 days and will include visits at: Day 0 (Baseline), Day 7, 14 and 28. The OROS hydromorphone will be administered orally for 28 days and dose titration (incremental increase in drug dosage to a level that provides the optimal therapeutic effect) will be done every two days upon administration of dose. Rescue medication (a medication intended to relieve symptoms immediately) of morphine will be permitted throughout the study duration. Efficacy of the participants will primarily be evaluated by Brief Pain Inventory score. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.