Depression and Body Image Distress Following Mastectomy With Reconstruction
Mastectomy is a major surgery that can have a profound effect on women's psychosocial wellbeing, including elevated depression and body image distress. Reconstructive breast surgery aims to improve patients' psychosocial adjustment to mastectomy, yet for some women substantial distress persists after reconstruction. However, very little is known about risk or protective factors for persistent depression or body image distress following mastectomy with reconstruction. The present study aims to address this critical gap. In women undergoing mastectomy with breast reconstruction, the investigators will assess risk and protective factors for post-surgery depression severity and body image distress.
Breast Cancer|BRCA1 Mutation|BRCA2 Mutation
OTHER: Psychosocial variables
Body Image Scale (BIS), Assesses severity of body image distress related to breast cancer treatment with a summed total score, which ranges from 0 (no body image distress) to 30 (substantial body image distress)., 2-3 months post-surgery (i.e., Time 2)|Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II), Assesses severity of depressive symptoms with a summed total score, which ranges from 0 (no depressive symptoms) to 63 (severe depressive symptoms)., 2-3 months post-surgery (i.e., Time 2)
Mastectomy is a major surgery that can have a profound effect on women's psychosocial wellbeing, including elevated depression and body image distress. Reconstructive breast surgery aims to improve patients' psychosocial adjustment to mastectomy, yet for some women substantial distress persists after reconstruction. However, very little is known about risk or protective factors for persistent depression or body image distress following mastectomy with reconstruction. The present study aims to address this critical gap. In women undergoing mastectomy with breast reconstruction, the investigators will assess risk and protective factors for post-surgery depression severity and body image distress.