Bevacizumab, Cisplatin, Etoposide, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Limited-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Others interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving bevacizumab together with cisplatin, etoposide, and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bevacizumab together with cisplatin, etoposide, and radiation therapy works in treating patients with limited-stage small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: etoposide|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Progression-free survival at 1 year
Response rate|Toxicity
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the 1-year progression-free survival of patients with limited-stage small cell lung cancer treated with bevacizumab, cisplatin, etoposide, and radiotherapy.

Secondary

* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. During course 1, patients also undergo thoracic radiotherapy twice daily on days 1-5, 8-12, and 15-19.

Patients achieving a complete or partial response or stable disease after the first 4 courses of chemotherapy continue to receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with bevacizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Within 4-6 weeks after blood counts recover from the first 4 courses of chemotherapy, patients achieving a complete or partial response also undergo prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) in 10 fractions over 3 weeks.\*

NOTE: \*Bevacizumab should not be given for 3 weeks prior to or during PCI, but resumed 1 week after completion of PCI.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 10 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 79 patients will be accrued for this study.