Intraoperative Dual-modality Imaging in Renal Cell Carcinoma
Intraoperative tumor localization and resection can be enhanced using intraoperative fluorescence imaging and radiodetection. Girentuximab specifically recognizes carbonic anhydrase IX expressed on \> 95% of renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Therefore Indium-111-DOTA-girentuximab-IRDye800CW is a perfect dual-labeled antibody for dual-modality image-guided surgery in RCC.

The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility and safety of intraoperative dual-modality imaging with Indium-111-DOTA-girentuximab-IRDye800CW in renal cell carcinoma patients.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Indium-111-DOTA-Girentuximab-IRDye800CW|RADIATION: SPECT/CT|PROCEDURE: Intraoperative dual-modality imaging
Fluorescent signal at time of surgery, Can the tumor be identified by the fluorescent signal? Yes/No. Can the tumor be distinguished from normal tissue? Yes/No, During surgery
Safety of dual-labeled antibody injection as assessed by the number of participants with grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events according to CTCAE v4.0, The number of participants with grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events according to CTCAE v4.0 will be scored., 4 weeks|Blood levels of the dual-labeled antibody, Blood samples will be measured for radioactivity in a gamma counter at different timepoints after injection. This will be expressed as percentage injected dose per gram (%ID/g)., 60, 120 and 180 minutes after injection and 4 and 7 days after injection|Optimal dose of the dual-labeled antibody preparation, Tumor to background ratio will be evaluated for each dose., 4 weeks
In oncologic surgery complete tumor resection is important for treatment outcome and patient survival. Intraoperative tumor localization and resection can be enhanced using intraoperative imaging techniques (e.g. targeted radioguided or fluorescence guided surgery). A powerful synergy can be achieved by combining radiotracers (e.g. Indium-111) and optical tracers (e.g. IRDye 800CW) conjugated to an antibody against a tumor-associated antigen. Girentuximab specifically recognizes carbonic anhydrase IX expressed on \> 95% of renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Therefore Indium-111-DOTA-girentuximab-IRDye800CW is a perfect dual-labeled antibody for dual-modality image-guided surgery in RCC. The concept has been shown in preclinical studies with mice and the investigators will translate this to the clinic.

Eligible patients with renal cell carcinoma scheduled for (partial) nephrectomy will receive dual-labeled girentuximab 7 days before surgery. At day 4 or 5 a SPECT/CT of the abdomen will be obtained. Surgery at day 7 will be extended with the use of a near-infrared fluorescence camera and a gamma probe.

The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility and safety of intraoperative dual-modality imaging with Indium-111-DOTA-girentuximab-IRDye800CW in renal cell carcinoma.