Optimizing the Number of Systematic COres During a MRI Target Biopsy
This is a multicentre, paired-cohort, prospective, controlled study. The patient with a suspicion of PCa and a concomitant positive mpMRI (defined as presence of one lesion PI-RADS ≥ 3) will receive a MRI-TBx (4 target cores). During the same session, subsequently to MRI-TBx, patient will receive a systematic sampling with 6-core S-Bx followed by 14-core S-Bx, for a total of 20-core systematic cores, in addition to 4 MRI-TBx cores. Procedure will be performed by the same operator. Each single core will be stored in a dedicated cassette and sequentially numbered. We hypothesize that the proportion of csPCa (defined as prostate cancer with Gleason score ≥ 3+4) detected by 6-cores S-Bx will be no less than that detected by 20-cores S-Bx, both performed in addition to MRI-TBx. Assessing the optimal number of systematic cores to take in addition to MRI-TBx cores in men undergoing a MRI-TBx would provide a useful clinical information for every day clinical practice. Moreover, the possibility to decrease the number of systematic cores taken during a MRI-TBx, hence reducing the overall number of cores taken during a biopsy, would reduce the length of the diagnostic procedure, potentially reduce the probability of infections/sepsis and reduce the overdiagnosis of clinically insignificant PCa.
Suspicion of Prostate Cancer With a Positive Multiparametric Magnetic Resonance of the Prostate
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Prostate biopsy
Detection rate of clinically significant prostate cancer with 6-core vs. 20-core systematic biopsy during a MRI target biopsy, Proportion of patients diagnosed with csPCa with 6-core vs. 20-core systematic biopsy during a MRI target biopsy, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Incremental value of any additional systematic and targeted core on the detection rate of clinically significant prostate cancer during MRI target biopsy, The proportion of men diagnosed with csPCa according to the addition of any single systematic core, through study completion, an average of 1 year
This is a multicentre, paired-cohort, prospective, controlled study. The patient with a suspicion of PCa and a concomitant positive mpMRI (defined as presence of one lesion PI-RADS ≥ 3) will receive a MRI-TBx (4 target cores). During the same session, subsequently to MRI-TBx, patient will receive a systematic sampling with 6-core S-Bx followed by 14-core S-Bx, for a total of 20-core systematic cores, in addition to 4 MRI-TBx cores. Procedure will be performed by the same operator. Each single core will be stored in a dedicated cassette and sequentially numbered. We hypothesize that the proportion of csPCa (defined as prostate cancer with Gleason score ≥ 3+4) detected by 6-cores S-Bx will be no less than that detected by 20-cores S-Bx, both performed in addition to MRI-TBx. Assessing the optimal number of systematic cores to take in addition to MRI-TBx cores in men undergoing a MRI-TBx would provide a useful clinical information for every day clinical practice. Moreover, the possibility to decrease the number of systematic cores taken during a MRI-TBx, hence reducing the overall number of cores taken during a biopsy, would reduce the length of the diagnostic procedure, potentially reduce the probability of infections/sepsis and reduce the overdiagnosis of clinically insignificant PCa.