Trajectory Analysis of Symptom Distress and Cancer-related Fatigue After Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Breast Cancer Female
When receiving adjuvant chemotherapy, a variety of symptoms will appear and it is very painful. These symptoms occur at the same time and are related to each other. The symptom distress may affect the patient's compliance with adjuvant chemotherapy and whether the adjuvant chemotherapy can be completed on schedule. Among the symptoms of trouble, cancer-related fatigue is the most common, and the incidence can be as high as 99%. In this study, I want to track the population of breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy, and women in the control group who receive only anti-hormonal breast cancer or carcinoma in situ. During the treatment period, at different time points, it also collects subjective symptom distress changes and changes. The study aimed cancer-related exhaustion is measured to gain a deeper understanding of the effects of symptom troubles suffered by patients during treatment. We also hoped that in the future, it can be provided to colleagues in clinical work and can be given to breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy and increased holistic care quality.
Symptom Distress During Breast Cancer Treatment
BEHAVIORAL: breast adenocarcinoma receiving chemotherapy|BEHAVIORAL: Control-for
Trajectory of Symptom distress, Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale, ESAS; including nine symptoms, one symptom range from 0-10, total score 0-90., T0 to T6, T0 pre chemotherapy; T1, chemotherapy 1 month; T2, chemotherapy 2 month; T3, chemotherapy 3 month;T4, chemotherapy 4 month;T5, chemotherapy 5 month;T6, chemotherapy 6 month;|Trajectory of fatigue, Brife fatigue inventory, BFI; including nine items, total score 0-10., T0 to T6, T0 pre chemotherapy; T1, chemotherapy 1 month; T2, chemotherapy 2 month; T3, chemotherapy 3 month;T4, chemotherapy 4 month;T5, chemotherapy 5 month;T6, chemotherapy 6 month;|Trajectory of distress temperature, Distress Thermometer, DT; range from 0-10., T0 to T6, T0 pre chemotherapy; T1, chemotherapy 1 month; T2, chemotherapy 2 month; T3, chemotherapy 3 month;T4, chemotherapy 4 month;T5, chemotherapy 5 month;T6, chemotherapy 6 month;|Trajectory of Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Cancer (FACT-B), FACT-B;multidimensional questionnaire with 37 items that build 5 dimensions (subscales) when using a 5-point Likert scale. (from 0, not at all through 4, very much) that constitute 5 dimensions., T0 to T6, T0 pre chemotherapy; T1, chemotherapy 1 month; T2, chemotherapy 2 month; T3, chemotherapy 3 month;T4, chemotherapy 4 month;T5, chemotherapy 5 month;T6, chemotherapy 6 month;|Trajectory of PHQ-4: Validated Screening Tool for Anxiety and Depression, PHQ-4;PHQ-4 Scoring: Total score ranges from 0 to 12, with categories of psychological distress as follows:

None: 0-2; Mild: 3-5; Moderate: 6-8; Severe: 9-12; Anxiety subscale = sum of items 1 and 2 (score range: 0 to 6) Depression subscale = sum of items 3 and 4 (score range: 0 to 6) On each subscale, a score of 3 or greater is considered positive for screening purposes., T0 to T6, T0 pre chemotherapy; T1, chemotherapy 1 month; T2, chemotherapy 2 month; T3, chemotherapy 3 month;T4, chemotherapy 4 month;T5, chemotherapy 5 month;T6, chemotherapy 6 month;|Trajectory of ISI: Insomnia Severity Index, (ISI) is a brief instrument that was designed to assess the severity of both nighttime and daytime components of insomnia. ISI is a 7-item self-report questionnaire assessing the nature, severity, and impact of insomnia.11,24 The usual recall period is the "last month" and the dimensions evaluated are: severity of sleep onset, sleep maintenance, and early morning awakening problems, sleep dissatisfaction, interference of sleep difficulties with daytime functioning, noticeability of sleep problems by others, and distress caused by the sleep difficulties. A 5-point Likert scale is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28. The total score is interpreted as follows: absence of insomnia (0-7); sub-threshold insomnia (8-14); moderate insomnia (15-21); and severe insomnia (22-28)., T0 to T6, T0 pre chemotherapy; T1, chemotherapy 1 month; T2, chemotherapy 2 month; T3, chemotherapy 3 month;T4, chemotherapy 4 month;T5, chemotherapy 5 month;T6, chemotherapy 6 month;
When receiving adjuvant chemotherapy, a variety of symptoms will appear and it is very painful. These symptoms occur at the same time and are related to each other. The symptom distress may affect the patient's compliance with adjuvant chemotherapy and whether the adjuvant chemotherapy can be completed on schedule. Among the symptoms of trouble, cancer-related fatigue is the most common, and the incidence can be as high as 99%. In this study, I want to track the population of breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy, and women in the control group who receive only anti-hormonal breast cancer or carcinoma in situ. During the treatment period, at different time points, it also collects subjective symptom distress changes and changes. The study aimed cancer-related exhaustion is measured to gain a deeper understanding of the effects of symptom troubles suffered by patients during treatment. We also hoped that in the future, it can be provided to colleagues in clinical work and can be given to breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy and increased holistic care quality.