Biological, Prospective Study Evaluating the Dosage of Plasma Cytokines Including the FLT3 Ligand and IL6 of Patients Treated With Non-intensive Chemotherapy
There are 2 possible treatments for the treatment of Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML), high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (HR-MDS) or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML): intensive curative chemotherapy , and for over-aged or co-morbid patients , non-intensive palliative chemotherapy with a hypomethylating agent (Azacytidine) associated or not with venetoclax.

Pro-inflammatory cytokines and in particular IL-6 (Interleukin 6) seem to play a key role in the chemoresistance of solid cancers and AML : it would be associated with a poor prognosis of AML , would promote the proliferation of leukemic blasts , and would promote the progression of MDS to AML .

In AML treated with intensive chemotherapy, researchers demonstrated that a particular kinetic profile of the FLT3 ligand and IL6 at day 22 could very significantly predict the survival of patients with AML .

It therefore seems interesting to study the plasma cytokine profiles in patients with AML, HR-MDS or CMML treated non-intensively, and to see if researchers observe the same prognostic correlation as during intensive chemotherapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
Evaluation of cytokine profiles (Flt3-L, IL (Interleukin) 1beta, IL6, IL8/CXCL8, IL10, IL15, IL17A, IL17E, IL17-F, IL18, GM-CSF, TNFalpha) in patients treated non-intensively for AML, SMD-HR or an LMMC., Determination of plasma cytokines (Flt3-L, IL1beta, IL6, IL8/CXCL8, IL10, IL15, IL17A, IL17E, IL17-F, IL18, GM-CSF (granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor, TNFalpha) by Luminex at diagnosis and during treatment of adult patients with of AML, SMD-HR (High risk myelodysplastic syndrome) or CMML(Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia) treated non-intensively, 2 years
Patients will be divided into 2 groups treated according to a non-intensive chemotherapy :

Group 1 : 40 patients treated with Azacytidine and Venetoclax +/- another molecule according to the following schedule:

* Azacytidine 75 mg/m² D1 to D7 SC
* Venetoclax: 400 mg/day orally in 1 dose between 14 and 28 days per cycle. The cycles will be 28 days long and will be carried out until relapse or death. Cytokine assays will be carried out on D1, D8, D15 and D22 of each cycle for 2 cycles.

Group 2 : 20 patients treated with Azacytidine +/- another molecule according to the following schedule:

• Azacytidine 75 mg/m² D1 to D7 SC The cycles will be 28 days long and will be carried out until relapse or death. The cytokine assays will be carried out on D1, D8, D15 and D22 of each cycle for 3 cycles.

The duration of follow-up for a patient is 12 months from day 1 of the first cycle.