Microtubule-Targeted Agent BAL101553 and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
This Phase I study investigated the side-effects and best dose of microtubule-targeted agent BAL101553 when given together with radiation therapy in treating patients with newly-diagnosed O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter unmethylated glioblastoma (GBM). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as microtubule-targeted agent BAL101553, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, stopping them from dividing, or stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving microtubule-targeted agent BAL101553 and radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with GBM.
Glioblastoma|MGMT-Unmethylated Glioblastoma
DRUG: Microtubule-Targeted Agent BAL101553|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Number of Patients With Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) for Each Maximal Tolerated Dose (MTD)-Determining Dose Cohort, A DLT was defined as a clinically-significant adverse event (AE) or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease progression, intercurrent illness, or concomitant medications. Any DLT had to be a toxicity considered at least possibly related to BAL101553 or the combination of BAL101553 and radiation., Up to 10 weeks
Number of Patients With Grade 3 to Grade 5 Adverse Events (AEs), Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) displayed by increasing severity grades 3 to 5 (CTCAE grade 3/4/5 ), up to 10 weeks|Overall Survival (OS) Time, OS was defined as the time from Day 1 dosing to the date of death. Patients who have not died at study closure were censored at the time of last known alive., Day 1 to date of death - up to 1679 days (4.6 years)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS was the interval between Day 1 dosing and the earliest date of progression. Progression was defined as: an increase in tumor size of more than 25% or the appearance of new lesions on MRI scans, significant clinical deterioration not attributable to causes other than the tumor, or death from any cause.

Patients who have not progressed or died at study closure were censored at the time of their last assessment without progression., Day 1 to date of disease progression - 1092 days (3.0 years)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of microtubule-targeted agent BAL101553 (BAL101553) in combination with standard radiation in patients with newly diagnosed MGMT promoter unmethylated GBM.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate safety and tolerability of the combination of BAL101553 in combination with standard radiation in patients with newly diagnosed MGMT promoter unmethylated GBM.

II. To determine overall and progression-free survival.

OUTLINE: This was a dose escalation study of the microtubule-targeted agent BAL101553.

Patients received BAL101553 orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 weeks, concurrent with standard radiation therapy (RT) 5 days per week for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

This treatment period was followed by a 4-week no-treatment period. The duration of study treatment was defined as these 6 weeks of treatment plus the 4 weeks of rest.

The safety evaluation period was the 10 weeks from start of treatment

After completion of study treatment, patients were followed up at 30 days, and then every 2 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.