Daratumumab, Azacitidine, and Dexamethasone for Treatment of Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Multiple Myeloma Previously Treated With Daratumumab
This phase II trial studies how well daratumumab, azacitidine, and dexamethasone work in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back (recurrent) or has not responded to treatment (refractory) and was previously treated with daratumumab. Daratumumab is an antibody made up of immune cells that attaches to a protein on myeloma cells, called cluster of differentiation 38 (CD38). CD38 is found in higher levels on tumor cells than on normal cells. Daratumumab prevents the growth of tumors who have high levels of CD38 by causing those cells to die. Chemotherapy drugs, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Dexamethasone is a steroid that helps decrease inflammation and lowers the body's normal immune response to help reduce the effect of any infusion-related reactions. Giving azacitidine may help increase the levels of CD38 on the tumor cells to increase the function of daratumumab to attach to those tumor cells to help destroy them.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Azacitidine|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants with either a stringent complete response (sCR) + complete response (CR) + very good partial response + partial response (PR) as best response using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria for all subjects who have measurable disease and received at least 2 cycles of study treatment, and have at least 2 efficacy evaluation assessments., Up to 18 months
Number of Participants With Reported Treatment-related Adverse Events (AE), All safety analyses for AEs will be based on all subjects who receive at least 1 cycle of study treatment. AEs will be graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 from the initiation of study treatment until discontinuation of treatment. For each treatment-related adverse event, the number of subjects who experience at least 1 occurrence of the given event which was attributed to the study regimen as probable, possible or definite will be summarized., Up to 18 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the date of initial documentation of a response (PR or better) to the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease according to the IMWG criteria or death due to progressive disease whichever occurred first all subjects who have measurable disease and received at least 2 cycles of study treatment, and have at least 2 efficacy evaluation assessments. DOR will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. Median even-free survival will be reported and the corresponding 95% confidence interval will be calculated using Brookmeyer and Crowley method., Up to 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of death due to any cause or censored based on the date of last encounter if patient is alive or lost to follow-up. OS will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. Median even-free survival will be reported and the corresponding 95% confidence interval will be calculated using Brookmeyer and Crowley method., Up to 18 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease or death, whichever occurs first. PFS will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier estimator. Median even-free survival will be reported and the corresponding 95% confidence interval will be calculated using Brookmeyer and Crowley method., Up to 18 months|Change in CD38 Surface Expression of Plasma Cells, Change in CD38 surface expression will be summarized using descriptive statistics and tested using the one-sample t-test. Two-sided p-value less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Starting 6 days before treatment up until the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days); up to 34 days total|Number of Patients Who Achieve at Least 1.5 Fold Increase in Their CD38 Expression, Will be assessed by flow cytometry and based on a one-sample t-test at a two-sided type I error rate of 0.05., At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Correlation of Change in CD38 Expression After Azacitidine With Overall Response, Will be correlated to overall response using logistic regression, linear regression methods, and Spearman's correlation coefficient, as appropriate., Up to 18 months|Correlation of Change in CD38 Expression After Azacitidine Treatment With Depth of Response, Correlation will be calculated using logistic regression, linear regression methods, and Spearman's correlation coefficient, as appropriate., Up to 18 months|Correlation of Change in CD38 Expression After Azacitidine With Duration of Response, Will be correlated to duration of response using logistic regression, linear regression methods, and Spearman's correlation coefficient, as appropriate., Up to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of adding azacitidine to daratumumab and dexamethasone, as measured by the overall response rate in patients with relapsed refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) previously treated with daratumumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the duration of response per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria.

II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of azacitidine in combination with daratumumab and dexamethasone.

III. To evaluate progression free and overall survival in patients treated with azacitidine in combination with daratumumab and dexamethasone.

IV. To assess the changes in CD38 expression on plasma cells after treatment with azacitidine and correlate this change with the depth and duration of response of azacitidine in combination with daratumumab and dexamethasone.

OUTLINE:

PRE-INDUCTION (CYCLE 0): Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) on days -7 to -3 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

INDUCTION PHASE (CYCLES 1-2): Patients receive azacitidine IV on days 22-26 and dexamethasone IV or orally (PO) and daratumumab subcutaneously (SC) over 3-5 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION PHASE (CYCLES 3-6): Patients receive azacitidine IV on days 22-26 of cycle 3 and on days 1-5 of cycles 5-6 and dexamethasone IV or PO and daratumumab SC over 3-5 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE PHASE (CYCLES 7+): Patients receive azacitidine IV on days 1-5 and dexamethasone IV or PO and daratumumab SC over 3-5 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 weeks for up to 1 year.