Image-guided, Tumor-focused Radiotherapy Treatment in Intermediate and High-risk Prostate Cancer
This is a phase II non-blinded randomized controlled trial of image-guided, tumor-focused radiotherapy in patients with intermediate- or high-risk prostate cancer planning to undergo definitive radiotherapy with or without systemic therapy. The image-guided, tumor-focused radiotherapy will be compared to standard, whole-prostate treatment. The investigators hypothesize that tumor-focused radiotherapy reduces the radiation dose to organs close to the prostate, possibly leading to decreased acute toxicity to the genitourinary and gastrointestinal organs. The investigators will measure acute and late genitourinary and gastrointestinal toxicity due to radiation and regardless of cause. The investigators will also measure overall survival, metastasis-free survival, and quality of life, as well as biomarkers that may help predict, in the future, who may have a worse toxicity following radiation therapy.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Image-guided tumor-focused radiation therapy
Acute toxicity, Acute any attribution genitourinary or gastrointestinal toxicity (grade 2 or higher), compared between randomized arms, defined as the percentage of patients with Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events genitourinary or gastrointestinal toxicity of grade 2 or higher within 3 months of completing radiation therapy.

Based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event, grade 1 is the lowest and grade 5 is the highest. Grade 5 represents the worst outcome (death)., 3 months
Definitive radiation therapy for prostate cancer with dose intensification and/or focal boosting has excellent oncologic outcomes. However, many patients experience long-term toxicity in particular to the genitourinary and gastrointestinal organs, impacting their quality of life. Given the excellent survivorship after definitive prostate cancer treatment, there is interest in identifying strategies that can improve the therapeutic ratio and minimize toxicity while maintaining excellent oncologic outcomes. Intraprostatic recurrence after definitive radiation therapy occurs at the site of the primary tumor and the dose to the site of the primary tumor is an important predictor of future treatment failure. This leads to the hypothesis that, if accurate discrimination between tumor(s) and benign prostate tissue can be achieved, radiation oncologists can devise tumor-focused radiation therapy plans that deliver ablative dose radiation therapy to the tumor(s) and de-escalated dose to the remainder of the electively irradiated prostate. This strategy is now possible thanks to advanced imaging technologies that can accurately identify the primary clinically significant tumor(s) to be targeted. De-escalated dose to the remainder of the prostate may lead to low dose also to neighboring organs, such as rectum and bladder, potentially leading to lower rates of acute and late toxicity and minimizing the impact of prostate cancer treatment on quality of life. A randomized trial is required to compare the efficacy and toxicity of tumor-focused radiation therapy to that of standard radiation therapy for definitive treatment of localized prostate cancer.