BXCL701 Phase 1 R/R Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
The goal of this research study is to find the safest and most effective dose of the study drug, BXCL701, for the treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) or Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS).

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are/is:

* BXCL701
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Excess Blasts-2
DRUG: BXCL701
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Defined as the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a dose-level toxicity (DLT). MTD will be used to inform recommended Phase II dose. If no DLTs are observed, the MTD is not reached., From initiation of therapy to day 28, up to 35 days|Number of Participants with treatment related Adverse Events per CTCAE 5.0, Assessed using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., 4 weeks up to 1 year
Complete Remission (CR) Rate, Proportion of patients who have the response, criteria are based upon International Working Group (IWG) and European LeukemiaNet (ELN) criteria for Acute Myeloid Leukemia (APPENDIX D) and Myelodysplastic Syndrome (APPENDIX F)., Disease assesment at baseline, cycle 1, 3 , 8, 15 , 22, and day 1 of every cycle and up to 12 cycles, corresponding to a treatment duration up to one year (each cycle is 28 days).|Complete Response with Incomplete Count Recovery (CRi) Rate, Proportion of patient who has the response, criteria are based upon International Working Group (IWG) and European LeukemiaNet (ELN) criteria for Acute Myeloid Leukemia (APPENDIX D) and Myelodysplastic Syndrome (APPENDIX F)., Disease assesment at baseline, cycle 1, 3 , 8, 15 , 22, and day 1 of every cycle and up to 12 cycles, corresponding to a treatment duration up to one year (each cycle is 28 days).|Partial Response (PR) Rate, Based upon International Working Group (IWG) and European LeukemiaNet (ELN) criteria for AML (APPENDIX D) and MDS (APPENDIX F). Defined as decrease by \>= 50% in blast percentage to 5-25% or to \<= 5% with auer rods present in marrow; normalization neutrophil count \>= 1000μL and platelet count \>= 100000μL., Disease assesment at baseline, cycle 1, 3 , 8, 15 , 22, and day 1 of every cycle and up to 12 cycles, corresponding to a treatment duration up to one year (each cycle is 28 days)..|Morphologic Leukemia-free State (MLFS) Rate, Evaluated only in AML patients per the 2017 ELN criteria (Dohner, Blood 2017, PMID: 27895058), defined as: Bone marrow blasts \<5%; absence of blasts with Auer rods; absence of extramedullary disease; no hematologic recovery required., Disease assesment at baseline, cycle 1, 3 , 8, 15 , 22, and day 1 of every cycle and up to 12 cycles, corresponding to a treatment duration up to one year (each cycle is 28 days).|Hematologic Improvement (HI) Rate, Evaluated only in MDS-EB-2 patients., Disease assesment at baseline, cycle 1, 3 , 8, 15 , 22, and day 1 of every cycle and up to 12 cycles, corresponding to a treatment duration up to one year (each cycle is 28 days).|Median Overall Survival, OS is based on the Kaplan-Meier method, defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., up to 2 years|Median Duration of Response (DOR), Defined as the time of first morphologic response until the earlier of progression of disease or death due to any cause., up to 2 years|Maximum Concentration (Cmax), Defined as the maximum concentration of BCXL701 over the collection period., Pharmacokinetic sampling is collected Cycle 1 Day 1, 3, 8, 15, Day 22, and Cycle 2 Day 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
This is a multi-center, single-arm, Phase I research study for the study drug, BXCL701, for participants with refractory or relapsed Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) and Myelodysplastic Syndrome with Excess Blasts-2 (MDS-EB-2). Phase I clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means the drug is being studied. BXCL701 is a synthetic dipeptide that is in tablet form and is taken by mouth.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved BXCL701 as a treatment for any disease.

Research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations, blood collections, bone marrow biopsies, and follow up visits.

Participation in this study will last approximately 3 years.

It is expected that about 24 people will participate in this study.

BioXcel is supporting this research study by providing the study drug and funding research tests and procedures.