Phase 2 Ascending Dose Safety and Efficacy Study of RVP-001, a Manganese-based MRI Contrast Agent
This Phase 2 clinical trial will study RVP-001, a new manganese-based MRI contrast agent, in people who are known to have gadolinium-enhancing central nervous system (CNS) lesions, for example brain tumors or multiple sclerosis.

The goal of this study is to assess safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of RVP-001 at three dose levels. The study will also compare RVP-001 imaging to gadolinium-based contrast agent (GBCA) imaging. A single dose of RVP-001 will be administered to each subject. Subjects will have known gadolinium-enhancing CNS lesions and will have a gadolinium-based contrast agent-enhanced MRI of the brain 2-14 days before receiving RVP-001 with imaging.

The ultimate goal of this research program is development of a gadolinium-free alternative to current general purpose MRI contrast agents.
Central Nervous System (CNS) Lesions|Brain Metastases|Brain Neoplasms|Brain Neoplasms, Benign|Brain Tumor, Primary|Brain Tumor, Recurrent|Brain Tumors|Brain Cancer|Brain Tumor|Brain Neoplasm, Primary|Multiple Sclerosis|Multiple Sclerosis Brain Lesion|Neurofibroma|Acoustic Neuroma|CNS Tumor|CNS Lesion|CNS Metastases|CNS Cancer|CNS Lymphoma
DRUG: RVP-001
Adverse Events, Treatment-emergent adverse events for each dose level will be summarized., From time of dosing to 7 days post dose|Lesion visualization criteria for RVP-001 enhanced MRI compared to unenhanced MRI, The lesion visualization criteria is based on 3 criteria: border delineation, lesion contrast, and internal morphology. These criteria will be assessed by independent readers for representative lesions using the images acquired during the MRI performed with RVP-001., 1 day|Lesion visualization criteria for RVP-001 compared to gadolinium-based contrast agent (GBCA), The lesion visualization criteria is based on 3 criteria: border delineation, lesion contrast, and internal morphology. These criteria will be assessed by independent readers for representative lesions using the images acquired with RVP-001 and those acquired with the GBCA.

For each reader, only matching lesion-pairs present in both MRI image sets (using GBCA and RVP-001) will be considered., 1 day
Subjects may include individuals who have a stable primary brain tumor, metastatic brain tumors, multiple sclerosis, or other gadolinium-enhancing CNS lesions. Following the screening GBCA-enhanced MRI scan to confirm presence of target lesion(s), a baseline unenhanced MRI scan will be performed prior to RVP-001 injection. Dynamic imaging will be performed in conjunction with RVP-001 injection. Steady state imaging will follow at multiple time points during the first hour following dose administration to characterize the pharmacodynamics of RVP-001 and to assess its ability to enhance visualization of areas with disrupted blood brain barrier and/or abnormal vascularity of the central nervous system.

Three dose cohorts are planned.

An unenhanced MRI scan follow-up study will be performed between one week and six weeks following the administration of RVP-001.

Safety will be evaluated throughout the study by assessing the following parameters: adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, injection site monitoring, electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital signs, clinical laboratory evaluations, medical history, and prior and concomitant medications.