Aggressive Smoldering Curative Approach Evaluating Novel Therapies and Transplant
This study evaluates the use of carfilzomib, lenalidomide, daratumumab, and dexamethasone in subjects with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM). Subjects will receive treatment in 3 phases - induction (6 cycles), consolidation (6 cycles), and maintenance (12 cycles). Each cycle is 28 days.
Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Daratumumab|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Stringent complete response rate, A confirmed sCR on 2 consecutive evaluations at any time during the course of treatment., During treatment
MRD negativity after each treatment phase, MRD negativity after induction, consolidation, and maintenance, 6 months, 12 months, and 2 years|MRD negativity at 1 year post treatment, Persistent MRD negativity rate will be evaluated at 1 year after completion of planned treatment consisting of induction, consolidation, and maintenance., 1 year post treatment|Overall Survival, time of registration to death due to any cause, up to 10 years post registration|Progression-free survival, the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, up to 10 years post registration|Adverse events, all eligible subjects that have initiated treatment will be considered evaluable for assessing adverse even rates. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded. Relationship to trial treatment will be taken into consideration., 2 years
This study is a multi-center phase 2 study of carfilzomib, lenalidomide, daratumumab, and dexamethasone in subjects with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM). Myeloma remains incurable with the current approaches. The typical natural history of myeloma is one of repeated relapses, accompanied by genetic evolution and development of new abnormalities, which are often responsible for drug resistance. The presence of a precursor phase of smoldering myeloma, and the ability to identify those at the highest risk of progression, sets the stage to examine the possibility that we can cure the disease through early intervention. In order to potentially achieve this, we need to develop a highly effective combination that includes the most active drugs from different classes. Carfilzomib in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone results in high response rates and deep responses in subjects with newly diagnosed myeloma. Daratumumab in combination with lenalidomide results in high response rates in relapsed refractory disease. All these drugs are well tolerated and subjects are able to stay on them long term as a maintenance treatment. The combination of the carfilzomib, lenalidomide, daratumumab and dexamethasone presents the potential to enhance the effectiveness of the regimens. We hypothesize that this combination will lead to deep response including a higher proportion of minimal residual disease (MRD) negative disease among those with high risk smoldering myeloma and may translate into cure or long term disease quiescence.