Combination Chemo, Rituximab, and Bevacizumab in Older Patients With Stage II-IV Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy together with rituximab and bevacizumab works in treating older patients with stage II, stage III, or stage IV diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab and bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking blood flow to the cancer. Giving combination chemotherapy together with monoclonal antibodies may kill more cancer cells.
Contiguous Stage II Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage III Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage IV Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|DRUG: prednisone|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival at 1 Year, Measured from time of registration to date of of first observation of progression/relapse, or death due to any cause, or last contact date, 0-1 year|Progression-free Survival at 2 Year, Measured from time of registration to date of of first observation of progression/relapse, or death due to any cause, or last contact date, 0-2 years
Objective Response (Confirmed and Unconfirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR)), Complete Response(CR) is a complete disappearance of all disease with the exception of nodes. No new lesions. previously enlarged organs must have regressed and not be palpable. Bone marrow(BM) must be negative if positive at baseline. Normalization of markers. CR Unconfirmed (CRU) does not qualify for CR above, due to a residual nodal mass or an indeterminate BM. Partial Response(PR) is a 50% decrease in the SPD for up to 6 identified dominant lesions, including spleenic and hepatic nodules from baseline. No new lesions and no increase in the size of liver, spleen or other nodes., After Cycle 4 (Day 64) but prior to Cycle 5 (Day 85) and after Cycle 8 (Day 181). After completion of protocol treatment, every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for a maximum of five years.|Number of Patients With Grade 3 Through Grade 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Adverse Events (AEs) are reported by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. For each patient, worst grade of each event type is reported. Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life-threatening, Grade 5 = Fatal., Patients were assessed for adverse events after every cycle (1 cycle = 21 days) of protocol treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the 1-year progression-free survival rate in patients with advanced stage diffuse large B-cell NHL treated with CHOP - rituximab - bevacizumab.

II. To estimate the response rate (complete, complete unconfirmed, and partial) and 2-year progression-free survival of this regimen in patients with advanced stage diffuse large B-cell NHL.

III. To evaluate the toxicities associated with this regimen. IV. To correlate angiogenic biomarkers with patient outcome.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive rituximab IV, bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV over 15 minutes, doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 1. Patients also receive oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at least every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 3 years.