Rehabilitation Planning Consult Phase II Trial
The study will evaluate the efficacy of the Rehabilitation Planning Consult (RPC) to achieve key rehabilitation outcomes in survivors of head and neck cancer compared to a waiting list control group. The RPC is a consultative intervention that teaches survivors to use self-management and problem solving strategies to meet and attain individualized goals. Follow-through with plans and goal attainment are facilitated by a Rehabilitation Consultant. Results from this study will be used to plan for a larger multi-site trial and subsequent real world implementation.
Head and Neck Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Rehabilitation Planning Consult (RPC)|OTHER: Wait list control (WLC)
Change in the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey - Physical Composite Summary, The 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) is a self-report generic quality of life measure. The SF-36 has eight domains with scores ranging from 0 to 100, higher scores indicate greater self-reported quality of life. The proportion of participants achieving minimal important difference on the Physical Composite Summary score in the RPC group and WLC group will be analyzed., RPC: 1) 1 week pre-intervention; 2) 1 week post intervention; WLC: 1) 1 week pre-waiting period; 2) 1 week post-waiting period.
Change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck scores, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H\&N) is a self-report disease-specific quality of life measure. The FACT-H\&N covers 5 domains of quality of life: a) physical well being (score range 0-28), b) social/family well being (score range 0-28), c) emotional well being (score range 0-24), d) functional well being (score range 0-28), and e) head and neck cancer subscale (score range 0-40). A total score can be calculated by adding the 5 subscale scores (total score range 0-148). Higher scores indicate greater better outcomes., RPC: 1) 1 week pre-intervention; 2) 1 week post intervention; WLC: 1) 1 week pre-waiting period; 2) 1 week post-waiting period.|Change in Brief Rehabilitation Assessment for Survivors of Head and Neck Cancer scores, The Brief Rehabilitation Assessment for Survivors of Head and Neck Cancer (BRASH) is a self-report measure of individualized goal performance. the measure has three domains, performance, satisfaction, and self-efficacy. Scores for each of the three domains range from 0 to 100, higher scores indicate better outcomes., RPC: 1) 1 week pre-intervention; 2) 1 week post intervention; WLC: 1) 1 week pre-waiting period; 2) 1 week post-waiting period.|Change in 36-Item Short Form Health Survey - Mental Composite Summary scores, The 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) is a self-report generic quality of life measure. The SF-36 has eight domains with scores ranging from 0 to 100, higher scores indicate better outcomes. The Metal Composite Summary score will be analyzed., RPC: 1) 1 week pre-intervention; 2) 1 week post intervention; WLC: 1) 1 week pre-waiting period; 2) 1 week post-waiting period.
Survivors of head and neck cancer (HNC) often have significant impairments, functional limitations, and reduced quality of life (QL). Rehabilitation services, such as speech-language pathology to improve swallowing, physiotherapy to improve neck mobility, and occupational therapy to enable return to work, can effectively reduce the impact of impairments, restore function, and improve QL. However, access to rehabilitation for survivors of HNC is extremely limited. A trans-professional self-management program is needed to provide resources, links to community providers, and instruction in problem-solving strategies. The program should fit seamlessly into the cancer care system with minimal additional resources. To meet these specifications, an innovative intervention, the Rehabilitation Planning Consult (RPC), was developed and evaluated. The RPC is delivered in 1 to 2 sessions and, in a single arm pilot study, had a moderate to large effect on several aspects of QL and individualized goal attainment. It remains unknown whether the RPC is efficacious in comparison to standard care. In preparation for a Phase III trial, the effect of the RPC, as compared to a standard care control will be estimated, on HNC survivors' QL, attainment of individualized goals, and self-efficacy related to self-management. To facilitate recruitment and ensure ethical provision of services, participants will be randomized to a waiting list control (WLC) or RPC. Assessments will be conducted at three time points for the RPC group and four times for the WLC group. Based on pilot data, approximately 43% of the RPC group are expected to achieve a minimal important difference (MID) in QL, thus 56 participants per arm, 112 participants total, will be recruited. The primary outcome will be QL related to physical health, measured using the SF-36 Physical Component Summary Score (PCS). Secondary measures will include individualized goal performance measured using the Brief Rehabilitation Assessment for Survivors of HNC, disease-specific QL measured with the FACT-HN, and self-efficacy.