Message 2: The Effect of Message Content and Clinical Outcome on Patient's Perception of Physician Compassion
The goal of this research study is to learn how patients view their doctor's compassion about supportive care and treatment options for advanced cancer patients.
Advanced Cancers
BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires|BEHAVIORAL: Video
Rating of Physician's Compassion, Participant's rating of physician's compassion scored by using a 5-item tool consisting of five 0-10 numerical rating scales assessing five dimensions: warm-cold, pleasant-unpleasant, compassionate-distant, sensitive insensitive, caring-uncaring. Sum of the five scales gives a final score representing physician's compassion with a 0 to 50 scale., 1 day
If you agree to take part in this study, during an already scheduled office visit, you will complete the following:

* Basic information about you will be collected from your medical record (such as your date of birth, date of diagnosis, sex, and religion).
* You will complete 4 questionnaires about any symptoms you may be having, how hopeful you are in general, how you are dealing with the disease, your trust in the medical profession, and your strength of religious faith. It should take about 10 minutes total to complete all questionnaires.

You will then be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Each group will watch a short video that shows actors playing a doctor and patient having a conversation about different cancer treatment options. Each video is about 4 minutes long and will discuss the same material, but the message shown in the videos will be different for each group.

After you watch the video, you will complete 3 questionnaires that will ask about your impression of the doctor in the video, how hopeful you think the doctor was, if you think the doctor was professional, and how you would rate the doctor overall. It should take about 8 minutes total to complete all questionnaires.

You will then read a small story about the patient in the video. Afterwards, you will complete the same 3 questionnaires that you filled out after you watched the video. You will also complete an additional questionnaire about your impression of the doctor's compassion and trustworthiness. This should take less than 10 minutes to complete.

Length of Study:

It should take about 25 minutes total to watch the video and to complete all questionnaires. Your active participation on this study will be over after you have completed the last questionnaire.

Other Information:

You are taking part in this study alone. Your family members will not be in the room with you. If you request, your family may be able remain in the room, but the investigators ask that they remain silent.

This is an investigational study.

Up to 128 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.