Bevacizumab and Combination Chemotherapy as First-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of colorectal cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as irinotecan, leucovorin, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bevacizumab together with combination chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bevacizumab together with combination chemotherapy works as first-line therapy in treating patients with metastatic colorectal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|GENETIC: polymorphism analysis
Percentage of Participants in Objective Response (Partial or Complete Responses), Objective response defined as complete or partial responses according to RECIST v1.0. Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions and partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SLD (RECIST V1.0.).Radiologic assessment was carried out every four cycles (8 weeks) with centralized external secondary review., 6 months
Median Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the delay between response (complete or partial) and disease progression according to RECIST V1.0. Therefore, this criterion can only be assessed in in subjects who have responded. Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions and partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SLD (RECIST V1.0.). Progression is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters (SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SLD, or appearance of one or several new lesions (RECIST V1.0) Radiologic assessment was carried out every four cycles (8 weeks) with centralized external secondary review., 24 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the efficacy of bevacizumab, irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil, in terms of partial or complete response, in patients with unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer.

Secondary

* Determine the duration of response in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the overall survival and progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the tolerability of this regimen in these patients.
* Assess the pharmacogenetics and change in genetic polymorphisms susceptible to modification by this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter study.

Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and bevacizumab IV on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood and tissue samples are collected periodically for pharmacogenetic and genetic polymorphism analysis.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 61 patients will be accrued for this study.