The Role of Cathepsin X in Infection With the Helicobacter Pylori
The immune response to Helicobacter pylori (Hp) importantly determines the pathogenesis of infection as well as the success of antibiotic eradication of the bacteria. The investigators want to demonstrate the importance of cathepsin X (CTSX), a cysteine protease, for the Hp eradication success. The diversity of the innate immune response to H. pylori antigens leading to either successful eradication of the infection or maintenance of chronic inflammation is connected to CTSX. The aim of this study is to determine whether H. pylori suppresses the CTSX expression and cytokine secretion in macrophage cell line THP-1 in the individuals that are not capable of eradicating the infection, opposite to H pylori in patients with successful H pylori eradication . The investigators also investigate the possibility whether strain-dependent differences in H. pylori lipopolysaccharide (LPS) influence the CTSX expression and cytokine secretion.
Persistence of Infection With Helicobacter Pylori
DRUG: clarithromycin, metronidazole, proton pump inhibitor
Evidence that cathepsin X influences on the eradication of Helicobacter pylori confirmed by lower expression of cathepsin X and cytokines in those patients. that can not eradicate Helicobacter pylori., The investigators assume that vast majority of patients, that have problems with eradication of Helicobater pylori, not caused by primary resistence to antibiotics, can not eradicate helicobacter because of inappropriate immune response. The investigators will measure cathepsin X (CTSX) expression and assume that those patients who have low concentrations of CTSX also have inappropriate immune response seen in low levels of cytokines. To treat such patients, you need to give them different and longer antibiotic therapy., 7 months after last participant included in the study
The immune response to Helicobacter pylori (Hp) importantly determines the pathogenesis of infection as well as the success of antibiotic eradication of the bacteria. The investigators want to demonstrate the importance of cathepsin X (CTSX), a cysteine protease, for the Hp eradication success. The diversity of the innate immune response to H. pylori antigens leading to either successful eradication of the infection or maintenance of chronic inflammation is connected to CTSX. The aim of this study is to determine whether H. pylori suppresses the CTSX expression and cytokine secretion in macrophage cell line THP-1 in the individuals that are not capable of eradicating the infection, opposite to H pylori in patients with successful H pylori eradication . The investigators also investigate the possibility whether strain-dependent differences in H. pylori lipopolysaccharide (LPS) influence the CTSX expression and cytokine secretion.