A Novel Method for Treating Lung Met w/Combo of Electric Fields & Rad Therapy: A Single-Arm
This is a phase 0, pilot prospective study to determine the feasibility of combined irreversible electroporation (IRE) and radiation therapy in subjects with lung tumors with metastatic cancer of any histology. These are subjects who have advanced disease (stage IV) or previously treated disease that has become progressive, recurrent, or metastatic.
Lung Tumor|Metastatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: Irreversible electroporation (IRE) ablation|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Feasibility, measured as the number of patients completing both IRE and the single fraction of radiation, Number of patients completing treatment of both IRE and the single fraction of radiation. Up to 6 replacements are allowed (total subjects 6-12), Up to 3 years
Number of grade 3-5 adverse events, Severe toxicity will be measured by cumulative CTCAE v5.0 grade 3-5 events. Evaluation of Grade 3-5 toxicity will be made at 30 days, Up to 3 years|Local failure at the treated site, Local failure rate at the treated site will be determined using cumulative incidence rates with death as a competing event at 12 months after initiation of treatment, Up to 3 years|Duration of response, The duration of response is measured from the time of treatment initiation until local failure is objectively documented, Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Estimates at 6 and 12 months will be made., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, The duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Estimates at 6 and 12 months will be made., Up to 3 years|Number of grade 1-5 adverse events, Toxicity will be measured by cumulative CTCAE v5.0 grade 1-5 events. Evaluation of Grade 1-5 toxicity will be made at 30 days, Up to 3 years|Patient reported quality of life, Mean summary score of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L). Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) Scale is a 36-item self-reported instrument that measures multidimensional quality of life for lung cancer patients. Questions are scored on a 5-point Likert Scale. The FACT-L includes the FACT-G (general) assessment which is comprised of four subscales including Physical Well-Being (score = 0-28), Social/Family Well-Being (score= 0-28), Emotional Well Being (score = 0-24), and Functional Well-Being (score = 0-28), for a total score min/max = 0-108, plus, the Lung Cancer Subscale (nine lung cancer related items, score = 0-45). Total scores range from 0-136, with higher scores indicating better quality of life., Up to 3 years|Forced vital capacity, Pulmonary function is assessed by the volume change (mL) in the value of forced vital capacity (FVC), Up to 3 years|Forced expiratory volume at 1 second (FEV1), Pulmonary function is assessed by volume change (mL) in the value of forced expiratory volume at 1 second (FEV1), Up to 3 years|Diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO), Pulmonary function is assessed by change in the value of diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) measured in mL/min/kPa, Up to 3 years
This is a phase 0, pilot prospective study to determine the feasibility of combined irreversible electroporation (IRE) and radiation therapy in subjects with lung tumors with metastatic cancer of any histology. These are subjects who have advanced disease (stage IV) or previously treated disease that has become progressive, recurrent, or metastatic.