Allo Non-myeloablative SCT Utilizing Matched Family Member Stem Cells Purged Using Campath
Allogeneic transplantation is used to treat many malignant and non-malignant diseases, though the potential toxicities of the procedure remain high. We and others have shown that a less toxic preparative regimen allows reliable allogeneic engraftment for allogeneic transplantation.

The primary purpose of this treatment trial is to follow subjects undergoing allogeneic transplantation for long term outcomes. The regimen used has been tested in our prior phase I / II trial which has completed accrual. The issues of engraftment and rate of graft versus host disease have been answered and our success has led to this regimen being a standard approach for less toxic allogeneic therapy.
Lymphoma|Myeloma|Leukemia|Myelodysplasia|Solid Tumors
DRUG: Campath Purged Non-myeloablative ASCT
Toxicity, Acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) was graded according to the consensus criteria and NCI common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v2.0 or 3.0 was used for all other toxicities. Recognizing that acute GVHD pathology in the nonablative and donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) setting may occur late, we tabulated skin, gut and liver toxicity consistent with acute GVHD (aGVHD) at anytime in the year following the infusion as aGVHD. Toxicities were formally recorded for all patients twice weekly for the first 100 days, at each follow up visit, and as needed intercurrently., 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), Estimate overall survival rates in subjects treated with a non-myeloablative preparative regimen followed by matched related allogeneic stem cells for allogeneic transplantation., Up to 12 years; participants were followed for the duration of the study, an average of 8 years
Response, Response Assessment included physical exam and evaluation of peripheral blood and bone marrow. There's no widely accepted criteria for response other than complete response (CR).

CR for malignant hematologic diseases is met if all the following are met for \>/= 1 month:

1. absence of pathologic lymphadenopathy by physical and radiographic exam
2. absence of constitutional symptoms due to disease
3. Polymorphonuclear leukocyte count \> 1,500/uL; platelet count \>50,000/uL; and hemoglobin \>10.0 g/dL
4. bone marrow aspirate/biopsy done after (a) through (c) have been met, \>/= 30% cellularity and an absence of abnormal lymphoid nodules or cells by flow cytometry, cytogenetics, etc.
5. molecular markers of disease must be negative by polymerase chain reaction, Fluorescence in situ hybridization, cytogenetics etc.

CR for solid tumors requires complete resolution of disease on physical exam and radiographs. CR for marrow failure is normal white cell, platelet and hematocrit values., 1 year
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation may cure or ameliorate illnesses of many types; however the toxicity of the procedure limits its broad applicability. Hematologic malignancies of all types have shown responses. Those with marrow failure, such as aplasia, and hemoglobinopathies have further shown responses in multiple trials as well. Even patients with certain solid tumors, such as breast, renal cell, and melanoma have shown partial or complete responses to allogeneic therapy. The limiting effect of the historical methods of aggressive induction for allogeneic therapy were extremely toxic, requiring limiting those offered allogeneic therapy to the healthiest of the ill patients. Work over the last decade has shown that less toxic agents targeting the immune system effectively allowed engraftment with less effects on the patient's liver, lungs, and other vital organs. We and others have completed multiple trials showing the effective use of these less toxic, non-myeloablative, regimens for allogeneic therapy. Trials with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide at standard doses (patients are not ablated and recover blood counts in 2 weeks) allow for 80% of patients to engraft donor cells. Some groups have added low doses of radiation to this combination, with 80-100% allogeneic engraftment. The lessened toxicity of this approach has been confirmed in multiple studies, including our own data with the specific schema in this treatment plan reviewed below. Phase I results with this combination: Our group has combined the above combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide with the antibody CAMPATH 1H. This antibody is given to the patient to purge the immune system and prevent rejection. It also purges the T cells in the donated stem cells to minimize graft versus host disease (GVHD). This approach has been proven successful in multiple trials using standard more toxic ablative procedures. Our approach over the last 3 years has been very successful using this antibody with the less toxic non-myeloablative procedure and our trials have completed. We have presented our preliminary results, with data on long term follow up for outcomes being collected. We have shown that 100% of patients with a malignancy or marrow failure treated with this regimen in our early phase trial engrafted donor cells. There was only an 8% severe GVHD risk, though the risk for infection remains high with a risk of fungal and viral infection about 5% each. Despite working with older, more infirmed patients, only 3/40 patients died within the first 100 days from therapy. Similar approaches on matched unrelated donors have been reported by other groups as well. As the phase I feasibility trial is complete and the outcomes encouraging, this protocol will follow the same general treatment plan and allow further information to be gained for long term follow up of subjects treated with this approach.