TPF-Induction Chemotherapy of Oropharyngeal and Cavity of the Mouth Cancer
A combination therapy of Docetaxel, Cisplatin und 5-Fluorouracil (= TPF) will be used in patients with resectable oropharyngeal and cavity of the mouth cancer. To improve the compatibility of the TPF-induction without decreasing the efficacy the dose will be given on day 1 and 8 instead of applying the whole dose on day 1 every 3 weeks.

In the phase I-part of the trial the optimal therapeutic dose of Docetaxel and Cisplatin will be defined.

In the phase II-part the progression-free survival after 2 years will be assessed in patients treated with the optimal therapeutic dose.
Oropharynx Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
DRUG: Taxotere, Cisplatin, 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)
Determination of progression-free survival after 2 years, 24 months
Overall survival after 2 years, after 2 years|Determination of the efficacy of the induction therapy, CT or magnetic resonance tomography (MRT) of the neck region, after 1, 12 and 24 months|Function of swallowing according the penetration-aspiration-scale, assessed according the penetration-aspiration-scale (PAS, Rosenbek et al. 1996) and according measuring after Prosiegel (Prosiegel et al. 2002)., 0,1, 6, 12, 18, 24 months|Adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability, The number of patients with adverse events will be evaluated. Adverse events will be assessed according Common Terminology Criteria of Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.3.0 and analysed as number per patient and number per cycle., once a week|Quality of life, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of life questionnaire (QLQ) for head and neck cancer patients (HN35) questionnaire filled in by the patients, 0,1, 6, 12, 18, 24 months
Local advanced Oropharyngeal and cavity of the mouth Cancer are often treated with a combination of surgery and/or radiation and /or chemotherapy.

Despite of therapy improvement there are only little advances in progression-free survival and overall survival.

Therefore new therapy concepts are needed. The advantage of the induction chemotherapy is the possibility of tumor response assessment during chemotherapy and may present a selection criterion for organ preservation.

In order to minimize the time between chemotherapy and surgery it is important to have an early answer for the tumor response. In this study response will be assessed after the first cycle of chemotherapy. Patients showing no tumor response will be operated at once. The other patients will receive further cycles of chemotherapy.

Toxicity of the induction chemotherapy have to be moderate because surgery should not be delayed.

To improve the tolerance of induction therapy the medication dose isn't given on day 1 every 3 weeks, but is dispersed on day 1 and day 8, q3weeks.