Prevention of Neovascular Glaucoma by Intravitreal Injections of Anti-VEGF in Patients Treated with Proton Therapy for a Large Choroidal Melanoma
The reference treatment of ocular melanoma is a conservative treatment by proton therapy. Its goal is to treat the tumor while preserving the eyeball and visual acuity. However, ablation of the eyeball is sometimes necessary after proton therapy in the case of neovascular glaucoma. This complication occurs in 7 to 47% of cases (depending on the size of the tumor) and is associated with hypersecretion of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) related to necrotic and inflammatory tumor tissue after proton therapy or ischemic retina. The intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF are used in the treatment of neovascular radicular glaucoma without avoiding enucleation in all cases. The investigators propose to study the prevention of neovascular glaucoma by intravitreal prophylactic administration of anti-VEGF.
Ocular Melanoma
DRUG: Aflibercept Injection|DRUG: False injection
Occurrence of neovascular glaucoma, Occurrence of neovascular glaucoma after radiation-induced proton therapy. Clinical diagnosis (examination at the slit lamp), at 5 years
The reference treatment of ocular melanoma is a conservative treatment by proton therapy. Its goal is to treat the tumor while preserving the eyeball and visual acuity. However, ablation of the eyeball is sometimes necessary after proton therapy in the case of neovascular glaucoma. This complication occurs in 7 to 47% of cases (depending on the size of the tumor) and is associated with hypersecretion of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) related to necrotic and inflammatory tumor tissue after proton therapy or ischemic retina. The intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF are used in the treatment of neovascular radicular glaucoma without avoiding enucleation in all cases. The investigators propose to study the prevention of neovascular glaucoma by intravitreal prophylactic administration of anti-VEGF.