Effect of Aromatherapy Massage on Symptom Control
Although the incidence of colorectal cancers is high, it is often possible to treat it when diagnosed at an early stage. Although the treatment options vary according to many factors such as the type and stage of the cancer, possible side effects, the preference of the patient, and the general health status, surgery stands out as the most commonly used treatment method. However, in addition to the methods and drugs used in the diagnosis and treatment process, temporary or permanent stomas that are opened to ensure discharge cause biopsychosocial effects on the life of the individual and lead to deterioration of the quality of life. In this context, knowing and resolving the problems experienced by patients in the pre-operative and post-surgical period, which is the most commonly used treatment method, will also increase the quality of life of patients. In the literature, it was stated that patients experienced high levels of anxiety before colorectal surgery and this situation caused emotional and cognitive reactions; in the postoperative period, it is seen that they experience many problems such as anxiety, restlessness, fatigue, gastrointestinal dysfunction, pain, loss of control (inability to control gas and stool output), decreased appetite, insomnia, nausea-vomiting, abdominal distension, constipation. However, modern treatment methods, drug and non-drug treatments used to control these symptoms are not effective in some cases. At this stage, complementary and alternative medicine applications come into play, one or more of these methods are used to alleviate symptoms and increase well-being during traditional treatments. In this study, it was planned to evaluate the effect of aromatherapy massage after colorectal surgery on postoperative symptom control (pain, anxiety, fatigue, sleep quality, nausea-vomiting, flatulence).
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: Aromatherapy|OTHER: Classical foot massage
Pain levels, A visual analog scale will be used, with a score expressing painlessness on one side and unbearable pain on the other. Their values range from 0-10. Absence of pain is defined as "0 points" and unbearable pain is defined as "10 points"., The change between the first, second and third days after surgery will be checked.|Anxiety levels, Measurements will be made using the State Anxiety Scale. This scale determines how the individual feels at a particular moment and under certain conditions., The change between the first, second and third days after surgery will be checked.|Fatigue levels, A visual analog scale will be used.Their values range from 0-10., The change between the first, second and third days after surgery will be checked.|Sleep quality, The Richard-Campbell Sleep Quality Scale will be used. This scale evaluates the depth of night sleep, the duration of falling asleep, the frequency of awakening, the duration of being awake when awakened, the quality of sleep, and the noise level in the environment., The change between the first, second and third days after surgery will be checked.|Nausea-vomiting, There are four options in the Post-operative Nausea Vomiting Impact Scale, which consists of two questions, with 0, 1, 2, 3 points for each question. The first question is whether there is vomiting or retching, the frequency is questioned, the second question is whether there is nausea (feeling of discomfort in the stomach and vomiting), if there is a feeling of nausea, you can get out of bed, move comfortably in bed, walk normally or your daily life activities such as eating and drinking. whether it affects or not is questioned., The change between the first, second and third days after surgery will be checked.
The population of the study will consist of patients who underwent colorectal cancer surgery between June 2021 and June 2022, and the sample of patients who meet the criteria for inclusion in the study.The sample was planned to be 90 people, 30 patients for each of the aromatherapy massage, classical foot massage and control groups. However, power analysis was also performed to calculate the minimum sample size to be reached. In the study, it was aimed to evaluate the differences in mean scale between three groups, including one control and two experiments. When it is not known how many units of difference between groups are important, the effect width value is taken as 0.35 as the method used. The effect width value gives results with a very high constraint of 0.10, medium level of 0.25 and a maximum acceptance constraint of 0.40. The total number of patients was 84, including 28 patients in the groups, with an error margin of 5% and a width of effect value of 0.35 at 81.19% power level.Block Randomization technique will be used in the sample selection of the research. In order to blind the randomization, it was made by a statistician who was not related to the research and the group rankings were put in 9 envelopes and numbered by another person who was not related to the research. For data collection Patient Information Form , Visual Analog Scale (VAS-Pain), Visual Analog Scale (VAS-Fatigue), Richard-Campbell Sleep Quality Scale, State Anxiety Scale, Post-operative Nausea-Vomiting Effect Scale will be used.The first interview with the patients will be held in the preoperative period and information will be given about the research. For patients who agree to participate in the study, a Patient Information Form will be filled out and a group assignment will be made using the block randomization method.