Efficacy Study of Adding Chemotherapy to Radiotherapy for Treating Bladder Cancer.
The purpose of this study is to define the optimal management of localised transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urinary bladder. The main objective is to evaluate whether chemoradiation is superior to radiotherapy alone.
Transitional Cell Carcinoma of Urinary Bladder
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: External beam radiation treatment
Invasive local failure at 3 years, 3 years
Complete response (CR) rate at 3 months from randomisation, 3 months|Disease-free survival, Final analysis when all patients have been followed for 3 years. (approx. 7 years from start of trial)|Overall survival, Final analysis when all patients have been followed for 3 years. (approx. 7 years from start of trial)|Cystectomy-free survival, Final analysis when all patients have been followed for 3 years. (approx. 7 years from start of trial)|Acute and late toxicity, Interim analyses will be performed on an annual basis.|Pattern of failure (local, regional, distant), Final analysis when all patients have been followed for 3 years. (approx. 7 years from start of trial)|Quality of life measures, Final analysis when all patients have been followed for 3 years. (approx. 7 years from start of trial)
Whilst concurrent chemo-radiation is increasingly being looked upon as the treatment of choice for patients referred for bladder preservation, the study by the NCI of Canada (Coppin CM, Gospodarowicz MK et al.Improved Local Control of Invasive Bladder Cancer by Concurrent Cisplatin and Pre-operative or Definitive Radiation.J. of Clinical Oncol. 14(11): 2901-2907, 1996) is the only randomised trial to show some superiority of concurrent Cisplatin and radiation treatment over radiation alone in increasing pelvic tumour control. There was no impact on overall survival. However, this study had relatively small subject numbers and included two distinct treatment options. In one group the patients were treated with a bladder sparing approach and in the other by pre-operative therapy and cystectomy with the type of definitive treatment being decided upon by both the treating Specialist and patient. At 5 years the pelvic failure rates in the radiation alone and chemo-radiation arms were 59% and 40% respectively. With half of the patients in each group having had planned cystectomy as part of their treatment regimen, the above rates of local relapse (especially in the chemo-radiation arm) are disappointing.

Given the concerns with the above study, and the continuing paucity of randomised phase III studies comparing chemo-radiation with radiation alone, there lies an opportunity for Australasian centres to take up the challenge. For this study, the proposed schedule for the chemo-radiation arm is to be the same as that being investigated in our previous phase II study (six weekly doses of Cisplatin plus radiation to a dose of 64Gy in 32 fractions over 6.5 weeks). This will be compared with radical radiation alone (64Gy in 32 fractions over 6.5 weeks).