Optimizing Induction Chemotherapy Regimens for ND Elderly AML Patients Who Are Eligible for Intense Chemotherapy
The optimal induction chemotherapy regimen for newly diagnosed elderly AML patients who are eligible for intense chemotherapy is currently not well defined. Thus, we intend to conduct a multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial to compare the safety and efficacy of three different induction regimens (Ven+AZA vs DA/IA 3+7 vs DA/IA 2+5+VEN). A total of 90 patients will be enrolled in this study and segregated into thress groups with 30 in each group. Patients who achieve CR/CRi/CRh after using different induction regimens will receive the same consolidation and maintenance therapy. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is recommended for patients in the high-risk group or those with persist MRD positivity. After completion of the treatment phase, patients entered the follow-up period.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
OTHER: Different induction chemotherapy regimens
Event-free survival (EFS), It is defined as the time from the start of randomization to the occurrence of induction failure or disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first)., Up to approximately 2 years
Complete remission (CR) rate or complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) rate or complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi) rate, Proportion of patients with CR, CRh or CRi, Up to approximately eight weeks|Minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative remission rates after induction, Among those who have achieved CR/CRh/CRi after induction, proportion of patients who is MRD-negative, Up to approximately eight weeks|Cumulative incidence of minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative remission rates, The proportion of patients with negative MRD results at any time during treatment, Up to approximately 1 years|Relapse-free Survival (RFS), It is defined as the time from the start of achieving remission to disease progression, death from any cause or the last follow-up., Up to approximately 2 years|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time from the start of randomization to the death from any cause., Up to approximately 2 years|30-day postinduction mortality, It is defined as death from any cause within 30 days after the start of induction., Up to approximately 30 days|60-day postinduction mortality, It is defined as death from any cause within 60 days after the start of induction., Up to approximately 60 days
The optimal induction chemotherapy regimen for newly diagnosed elderly AML patients who are eligible for intense chemotherapy is currently not well defined. Thus, we intend to conduct a multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial to compare the safety and efficacy of three different induction regimens (Ven+AZA vs DA/IA 3+7 vs DA/IA 2+5+VEN). A total of 90 patients will be enrolled in this study and segregated into thress groups with 30 in each group. Patients who achieve CR/CRi/CRh after using different induction regimens will receive the same consolidation and maintenance therapy. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is recommended for patients in the high-risk group or those with persist MRD positivity. After completion of the treatment phase, patients entered the follow-up period.