Adipose Tissue Gene Expression Profiles in Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) Versus Controls
Adipose tissue is a central organ in mediating metabolic health. There is some evidence that women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have a degree of adipose tissue dysfunction which may negatively affect their metabolic health. The aim of this study was to assess transcriptomic profiles of subcutaneous adipose tissue of women with PCOS in comparison with a control population matched on the basis of age and body mass index (BMI). A secondary aim was to then relate these gene expression profiles to the biochemical environment.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Transcriptomic profiling of subcutaneous adipose tissue of women with PCOS and age and BMI matched controls, Gene expression profiles from women with PCOS and controls matched for age and BMI were determined by microarray analysis of whole subcutaneous adipose tissue samples. Single gene changes as well as pathway analyses will be used to determine differently expressed genes and pathways between the PCOS cohort and controls., Recruitment ran from Dec 2007-July 2008. Subjects attended the study location fasting on one occasion
Measurement of biomarkers of metabolic health (lipid, inflammatory markers) in plasma of PCOS cases and controls, Biomarkers of metabolic health were assessed in plasma of women with PCOS and age and BMI matched controls. Lipid profile, hormonal profile, various key inflammatory markers and adipokines will be measured. Glucose and insulin concentrations will be assessed also. All parameters will be assessed following a 12 hour over night fast at the study location., Recruitment ran from Dec 2007-July 2008. Subjects attended the study location fasting on one occasion
Adipose tissue is a central organ in mediating metabolic health. There is some evidence that women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have a degree of adipose tissue dysfunction which may negatively affect their metabolic health. The aim of this study was to assess transcriptomic profiles of subcutaneous adipose tissue of women with PCOS in comparison with a control population matched on the basis of age and body mass index (BMI). A secondary aim was to then relate these gene expression profiles to the biochemical environment.