Chemotherapy - Induced Peripheral Neuropathy
The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy of cryotherapy with frozen gloves for the prevention of the chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) of the hand.

Frozen glove was provided for dominant hand of breast cancer patients while receiving paclitaxel treat, and as the experimental group. In addition, another hand as a control group. The questionnaire was used before chemotherapy and at the fourth, eighth, twelfth, and sixteenth weeks to understand the effectiveness of frozen gloves.
Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: Cryotherapy (frozen glove)
peripheral neuropath (hand sensory symptoms and hand motor symptoms) "change" is being assessed., The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy 20 (EORTC QLQ-CIPN 20) was used to assess chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy in breast cancer patients. It contains 20 items and includes three scales (sensory scale, motor scale, and autonomic scale)

In this study, we focused on the evaluation of the peripheral neurological symptoms of the hand according to the purpose of the research. Therefore, we selected the scope related to the hand in the EORTC QLQ-CIPN20 as an assessment item. It contains four items about sensory symptoms and four items about motor symptoms.Each item is rated on a 4-point Likert-type scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total score is the sum of all item scores. Higher scores reflect more peripheral neuropathic signs and symptoms., Questionnaire were filled out five times, before the first chemotherapy session and at the fourth, eighth, twelfth, and sixteenth weeks following the first chemotherapy session.
In this study, the cryotherapy interventions were based on previous studies, with the dominant hand wearing the frozen glove set as the experimental group, and the non-dominant hand that was not wearing a frozen glove as the control group. The Elasto-Gel flexible frozen glove (Southwest Technologies, North Kansas City, MO, USA) used in this study lasted for 20 to 40 minutes and was easy to clean.The cold temperature of the refrigerator was measured in advance to be -20.2째C to -22.8째C. The freezing of the gloves lasted for at least three hours, and the gloves were tested with an infrared temperature-measuring instrument before use.

Its temperature range was -24.3째C to -24.7째C. The patient began to wear gloves 15 minutes before the administration of paclitaxel for one hour, and replaced them with new frozen gloves at the 45th minute. The patient continued to wear the gloves until 15 minutes after the end of the chemotherapy drug administration, for a total of 90 minutes. These intervention procedures were used for each treatment for 12 weeks.