Black Cohosh for Host Flashes Due to Androgen Deprivation Therapy
This is a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover study. Participants will be actively participating in the study for 6 months, and enrolled in the study for up to 1 year. During the first phase of the study, the participants will be randomized into either the placebo group or treatment group for 8 weeks following 1 week of baseline data collection (no treatment). Following this first phase, a no-treatment washout period of at least 3 weeks will be implemented for all participants. After the washout period, the randomized groups will switch from treatment to placebo group, or placebo to treatment group for an additional 8 week period. Hot flash frequency and severity will be documented using a daily hot flash diary and calculated using the Hot Flash Score questionnaire. The impact on quality of life will be documented by weekly Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS) questionnaires.
Hot Flashes
DRUG: Black Cohosh|OTHER: Placebo
Frequency of hot flashes as calculated from self reported questionnaire, Subjects will record the number and timing of their on the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference (HFRDIS) questionnaire each week during the study., Daily assessments throughout the study (assessed for up to 16 weeks)
Severity of hot flashes as calculated from self reported questionnaire, Subjects will record the intensity of their hot flashes on the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference (HFRDIS) questionnaire each day during the study., Daily assessments throughout the study (assessed for up to 16 weeks)|Quality of life as recorded from self reported questionnaire, Subjects will answer questions regarding the impact of their hot flashes on the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference (HFRDIS) questionnaire each day during the study., Daily assessments throughout the study (assessed for for up to 16 weeks)|Measurement of serum testosterone, The effect of Black Cohosh on serum testosterone will be measured at the end of each 8-week treatment cycle., From the beginning of treatment to the end of the 8-week treatment phase (up to 16 weeks due to cross-over of study arms)|Measurement of serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), The effect of Black Cohosh on AST will be measured at the end of each 8-week treatment cycle., From the beginning of treatment to the end of the 8-week treatment phase (up to 16 weeks due to cross-over of study arms)|Measurement of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), The effect of Black Cohosh on serum ALT will be measured at the end of each 8-week treatment cycle., From the beginning of treatment to the end of the 8-week treatment phase (up to 16 weeks due to cross-over of study arms)|Measurement of serum bilirubin, The effect of Black Cohosh on serum bilirubin will be measured at the end of each 8-week treatment cycle., From the beginning of treatment to the end of the 8-week treatment phase (up to 16 weeks due to cross-over of study arms)|Measurement of serum Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), The effect of Black Cohosh on serum PSA will be measured at the end of each 8-week treatment cycle., From the beginning of treatment to the end of the 8-week treatment phase (up to 16 weeks due to cross-over of study arms)
This is a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover study. Participants will be actively participating in the study for 6 months, and enrolled in the study for up to 1 year. During the first phase of the study, the participants will be randomized into either the placebo group or treatment group for 8 weeks following 1 week of baseline data collection (no treatment). Following this first phase, a no-treatment washout period of at least 3 weeks will be implemented for all participants. After the washout period, the randomized groups will switch from treatment to placebo group, or placebo to treatment group for an additional 8 week period. Hot flash frequency and severity will be documented using a daily hot flash diary and calculated using the Hot Flash Score questionnaire. The impact on quality of life will be documented by weekly Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS) questionnaires.