Fludarabine Phosphate, Low-Dose Total Body Irradiation, and Donor Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Hematologic Malignancies or Kidney Cancer
This clinical trial studies fludarabine phosphate, low-dose total body irradiation, and donor stem cell transplant in treating patients with hematologic malignancies or kidney cancer. Giving chemotherapy drugs, such as fludarabine phosphate, and total-body irradiation before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. The donated stem cells may replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells (graft-versus-tumor effect). Giving an infusion of the donor's T cells (donor lymphocyte infusion) after the transplant may help increase this effect. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving cyclosporine before the transplant and cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil after the transplant may stop this from happening.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Childhood Renal Cell Carcinoma|Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Recurrent/Refractory Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer|T-cell Large Granular Lymphocyte Leukemia|Type 1 Papillary Renal Cell Carcinoma|Type 2 Papillary Renal Cell Carcinoma|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|PROCEDURE: nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|PROCEDURE: allogeneic bone marrow transplantation|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic allogeneic lymphocytes|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Establishment of an allograft as defined by stable mixed chimerism or full donor chimerism, Engraftment will be assessed separately among patients who receive bone marrow and patients who receive PBSC. Patients with low-risk and high-risk disease will be assessed separately., At day 56
Disease-free survival, Will be summarized., Up to 200 days|Relapse, Will be summarized., Assessed up to 5 years|Disease-related mortality, Will be summarized., Before day 200|Response of malignancy to DLI, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of myelosuppression, Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 500/ul for more than 2 days, platelets less than 20,000/ul for more than 2 days. Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Greater than 2 days after initial PBSC infusion|Incidence of aplasia after DLI, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Greater than 2 days after initial PBSC infusion|Incidence of grades 2-4 acute GVHD after DLI, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Until day 90|Incidence of grades 2-4 acute GVHD after PBSC infusion, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Up to day 177|Incidence of grades 2-4 chronic extensive GVHD after DLI, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Assessed up to 5 years|Dose of CD3+ required to convert mixed to full lymphoid chimeras, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Day 28 post-transplant|Dose of CD3+ required to convert mixed to full lymphoid chimeras, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Day 56 post-transplant|Dose of CD3+ required to convert mixed to full lymphoid chimeras, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Day 84 post-transplant|Incidence of infections, Examined and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates. Analyses will be conducted separately among the low- and high-risk groups., Assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether stable allogeneic engraftment from unrelated hematopoietic stem cell donors can be safely established using a non-myeloablative conditioning regimen in patients with hematologic malignancies and renal cell carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) can be safely used in patients with mixed or full donor chimerism to eliminate persistent or progressive disease.

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -4 to -2. Patients also undergo low-dose total-body irradiation (TBI) on day 0.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) or bone marrow transplantation on day 0.

IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 100 with taper to day 177 and mycophenolate mofetil PO BID on days 0-40 with taper to day 96. Patients with mixed chimerism, persistent or progressive disease, and no evidence of graft-versus-host disease and who have been off immunosuppression for at least 2 weeks undergo DLI over 30 minutes. DLI may be repeated every 65 days for up to 3 doses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are follow-up periodically for 5 years.