Sildenafil for the Treatment of Lymphatic Malformations
A Phase 2 study to evaluate safety and efficacy of sildenafil taken orally to improve or resolve lymphatic malformations in children. Subjects may receive either placebo or treatment in an oral dosage with an open label extension for subjects who received placebo. The study treatment assignment will be randomized in a double blind fashion. MRI examination will evaluate change in lesion volume due to treatment. Other safety and efficacy measures will be taken through the 32-week study duration.

Funding Source - FDA OOPD
Lymphatic Malformations|Lymphatic Diseases
DRUG: Sildenafil 20 mg tablets|OTHER: Placebo tablets (resembling Revatio)
Change in Lesion Volume of the Test Medication as Evaluated by MRI Examination., Participants will be followed for the duration of the study, an expected average of 20 weeks., Baseline, week 20
Change in Subject's Assessment of Change in Lymphatic Malformation Overall Score, Subject's evaluation of the overall change in lymphatic malformation. Participants will be followed from baseline to 20 weeks.

Patients rated change as no improvement, minimal improvement (1-25% change), fair improvement (25-50% change), good improvement (50-75% change), and excellent improvement (75-100% change)., Baseline, week 20
Lymphatic malformations (LMs) are localized areas of abnormal development of the lymphatic system that commonly occur in the head and neck of children. LMs are considered a rare or orphan disease which causes complications including pain, ulceration, secondary infection, infiltration of other organs, and death. Current therapies involve surgical excision or methods of chemical or physical destruction of portions of lesions. No therapies are uniformly effective and all have the risk of significant adverse events. We recently witnessed almost complete resolution of a LM lesion in a child who was treated with sildenafil oral therapy for pulmonary arterial hypertension. We have subsequently evaluated additional subjects who improved with sildenafil. The goal of this clinical research trial is to document the benefit or absence of benefit of sildenafil therapy for LMs and identify which type of patient will benefit from sildenafil. This study is a double-blind placebo-controlled trial which involves precise documentation of volume changes associated with therapy or placebo by using MRI segmentation techniques. We will also observe and document the clinical response to sildenafil or placebo using clinical evaluation scores and surveys. The results of the study should identify characteristics of LM lesions which may suggest a beneficial response to sildenafil therapy. Sildenafil has very low risk of side effects in the dosage used in this trial. Documentation of an effective response of LMs to sildenafil will accelerate the interest in, and the ability to understand, the mechanisms of LM formation and treatment.