Brentuximab Vedotin and Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of ipilimumab and nivolumab when given together with brentuximab vedotin, and how well they work in treating patients with Hodgkin lymphoma that has returned after a period of improvement (recurrent) or has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab and nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Brentuximab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, brentuximab, linked to a toxic agent called vedotin. Brentuximab attaches to CD30 positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. It is not known whether giving brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab with or without ipilimumab may kill more cancer cells.
Recurrent Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of each combination (Phase I), MTD defined as the highest dose level at which less than 33% of 6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity, will be graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Upon completion of the trial, frequency of subjects experiencing toxicities will be tabulated. Toxicities will be assessed and graded according to CTCAE version 4.0 terminology. Exact 95% confidence intervals (CI) around the toxicity proportions will be calculated., 21 days|CR rate (Phase II), The analysis of CR between two arms will be performed using exact Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test stratifying on prior brentuximab vedotin (BV) (yes versus \[vs.\] no) and age (\< 18 vs. \>= 18). Multivariable logistic regression modeling will be used to adjust for the effect of any covariates that are associated with these categorical outcomes., Up to 10 years
Complete response (CR) rate (Phase I), Assessed using the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma and reported along with the 95% CI., Up to 3 years|Partial response (PR) rate (Phase I), Assessed using the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma and reported along with the 95% CI., Up to 3 years|Overall response rate (ORR) rate (Phase I), Assessed using the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma and reported along with the 95% CI., Up to 3 years|Duration of response (DOR) (Phase I), DOR will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Greenwood's formula will be used to calculate 95% CI for the Kaplan-Meier estimates. Descriptive statistics will be used to evaluate the DOR achieved with the protocol therapy and with the most recent prior systemic therapy., From the documented beginning of response up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS) (Phase I), OS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Greenwood's formula will be used to calculate 95% CI for the Kaplan-Meier estimates., From the date of study entry up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase I), PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Greenwood's formula will be used to calculate 95% CI for the Kaplan-Meier estimates., From entry onto study up to 3 years|ORR (Phase II), Assessed using Revised Response (Cheson) and Deauville criteria. The analysis of ORR between two arms will be performed using the CMH test stratifying on prior BV (yes vs. no) and age (\< 18 vs. \>= 18). Multivariable logistic regression modeling will be used to adjust for the effect of any covariates that are associated with these categorical outcomes., Up to 10 years|PFS (or modified PFS) (Phase II), PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology and compared between arms using stratified log-rank test. Greenwood's formula will be used to calculate 95% confidence intervals for the Kaplan-Meier estimates. Cox proportional regression model will be used to estimate hazard ratios (95% CI) and assess the relationship between other prognostic factors with time-to-event outcome. Point estimates of all endpoints will be accompanied by the corresponding 95% confidence intervals., From randomization up to 10 years|OS (Phase II), OS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology and compared between arms using stratified log-rank test. Greenwood's formula will be used to calculate 95% confidence intervals for the Kaplan-Meier estimates. Cox proportional regression model will be used to estimate hazard ratios (95% CI) and assess the relationship between other prognostic factors with time-to-event outcome. Point estimates of all endpoints will be accompanied by the corresponding 95% confidence intervals., From randomization up to 10 years|DOR (Phase II), DOR, will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology and compared between arms using stratified log-rank test. Greenwood's formula will be used to calculate 95% confidence intervals for the Kaplan-Meier estimates. Cox proportional regression model will be used to estimate hazard ratios (95% CI) and assess the relationship between other prognostic factors with time-to-event outcome. Point estimates of all endpoints will be accompanied by the corresponding 90% confidence intervals. The DOR achieved with the most recent prior systemic therapy will be collected on the case report forms, and descriptive statistics will be used to evaluate the DOR achieved with the protocol therapy and with the most recent prior systemic therapy., From the documented beginning of response up to 10 years
Change in the percentage of activated T cells and natural killer cells (Phase I and II), These quantities of interest will be calculated for each patient and the Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to test for significant difference between the time points. Using Wilcoxon rank sum test (two-sided type I error of 0.1), differences between those who progress or die within one year versus (vs.) those who are event-free at one year will be evaluated., Baseline (Time 1) to 9 weeks (Time 3, time of first re-staging)|Change in the percentages of activated T cells and natural killer cells (Phase I and II), These quantities of interest will be calculated for each patient and the Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to test for significant difference between the time points. Using the Wilcoxon rank sum test (two-sided type I error of 0.1), differences between those who progress or die within one year vs. those who are event-free at one year will be evaluated., Day 1 of cycle 2 (Time 2) or 9 weeks (Time 3) to up to 6 weeks after completion of study treatment (Time 4, end of study)|Effects of combinations on systemic immunity (Phase I and II), Baseline to up to 6 weeks after completion of study treatment|Pre- and post-treatment levels of cytokines and T cell specific biomarkers (Phase I and II), Pre- and post-treatment levels of these markers will be compared using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test with two-sided type I error of 0.1. Marker levels between patients who fail at 1-year vs. patients who are event-free at 1-year will be evaluated. Given limited data, the analyses of PD-1, co-expression of Tim-3 with PD-1, ICOS, sCD30, galectin-1 and the peripheral blood absolute lymphocyte to monocyte ratio will be mainly exploratory and will be summarized descriptively at the time-points described above. The association with PFS will be explored., Baseline to up to 6 weeks after completion of study treatment|Differentially expressed genes between two groups (patients who fail at 1-year vs. patients who are event-free at 1-year or responders vs. non-responders) (Phase I and II), Assessed using gene expression profiling (GEP). Differentially expressed genes will be identified using a rank-based method developed by Dr. Hong (RankProd, R package, Bioconductor Project) with multiple comparison adjustment using a false discovery rate approach. A two-way unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis will be applied to both the genes and the samples to illustrate whether GEP can separate two groups or is associated with other clinical factors. The genes ranked as most significant will be assessed by gene ontology and pathway analysis for their potential functions in lymphoma biology and treatment failure., 1 year|Microbiome analysis (Phase I and II), Will compare the gut microbiome between Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) patients and healthy controls with respect to global diversity, taxonomic abundance, and bacterial functional pathways. The relative abundance of each taxon (phyla to genera) and functional pathways among different groups will be statistically compared in univariate analysis using t-test (or Wilcoxon test) and in multivariate analysis using logistic regression. Global diversity tests and multivariate analysis for taxonomic abundance and functional pathways will be adjusted for potential confounders (age, gender, race, and body mass index) in the comparisons of HL patients and controls, and further adjusted for stage and grade when examining the clinical response among HL patients., Completion of study treatment|Absolute maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax) (Phase II), Image data will be evaluated using Lugano response criteria with various D 5PS cut-offs in the entire cohort and in different therapy cohorts to determine if the existing set of criteria is sufficient to segregate the group into various response categories. Will correlate PFS, event free survival (EFS), OS 5PS in two reading settings (1-3 \[negative\] vs 4-5 \[positive\] and D 5PS 1-4 \[negative\] vs 5 \[positive\]) (Kaplan-Meier \[KM\] curve and log-rank testing)., Up to cycle 10|Metabolic whole body tumor volume (MTV) and tumor lesion glycolysis (TLG), Image data will be evaluated using Lugano response criteria with various D 5PS cut-offs in the entire cohort and in different therapy cohorts to determine if the existing set of criteria is sufficient to segregate the group into various response categories. Will correlate PFS, EFS, OS 5PS in two reading settings (1-3 \[negative\] vs 4-5 \[positive\] and D 5PS 1-4 \[negative\] vs 5 \[positive\]) (KM curve and log-rank testing)., Up to cycle 10|Percent change in SUVmax, MTV and TLG between baseline and during therapy, Image data will be evaluated using Lugano response criteria with various D 5PS cut-offs in the entire cohort and in different therapy cohorts to determine if the existing set of criteria is sufficient to segregate the group into various response categories. Will correlate PFS, EFS, OS 5PS in two reading settings (1-3 \[negative\] vs 4-5 \[positive\] and D 5PS 1-4 \[negative\] vs 5 \[positive\]) (KM curve and log-rank testing)., Baseline up to cycle 10|Percent change in size (sum of perpendicular diameters [SPD]) on computed tomography (CT), Image data will be evaluated using Lugano response criteria with various D 5PS cut-offs in the entire cohort and in different therapy cohorts to determine if the existing set of criteria is sufficient to segregate the group into various response categories. Will correlate PFS, EFS, OS 5PS in two reading settings (1-3 \[negative\] vs 4-5 \[positive\] and D 5PS 1-4 \[negative\] vs 5 \[positive\]) (KM curve and log-rank testing)., Baseline up to cycle 10|Absolute CT tumor volumes, Image data will be evaluated using Lugano response criteria with various D 5PS cut-offs in the entire cohort and in different therapy cohorts to determine if the existing set of criteria is sufficient to segregate the group into various response categories. Will correlate PFS, EFS, OS 5PS in two reading settings (1-3 \[negative\] vs 4-5 \[positive\] and D 5PS 1-4 \[negative\] vs 5 \[positive\]) (KM curve and log-rank testing)., Up to cycle 10|Percent change in CT size (SPD) and in CT tumor volume between baseline and during therapy, Image data will be evaluated using Lugano response criteria with various D 5PS cut-offs in the entire cohort and in different therapy cohorts to determine if the existing set of criteria is sufficient to segregate the group into various response categories. Will correlate PFS, EFS, OS 5PS in two reading settings (1-3 \[negative\] vs 4-5 \[positive\] and D 5PS 1-4 \[negative\] vs 5 \[positive\]) (KM curve and log-rank testing)., Baseline up to cycle 10
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of the combinations of brentuximab vedotin and ipilimumab, brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab, and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate for the regimens of brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab compared to brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II; adult cohort \[aged \>= 18 years\]) III. To characterize the safety and toxicity of treatment combination in the pediatric population. (Phase II; pediatric cohort \[aged 12-17 years\])

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate complete response (CR) rate, partial response (PR) rate and overall response rate (ORR), for the combinations of brentuximab vedotin and ipilimumab, brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab, and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the duration of remission (DOR) to these combinations and compare with the DOR achieved with the most recent prior systemic therapy. (Phase I) III. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) and the overall survival (OS) in patients receiving the combination of brentuximab vedotin and ipilimumab, brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab, and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase I) IV. To evaluate the ORR, PR, and stable disease (SD) rate for the combinations of brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II) V. To evaluate the DOR to these combinations and compare with the DOR achieved with the most recent prior systemic therapy. (Phase II) VI. To evaluate the 5 year PFS and OS in patients receiving the combinations of brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II) VII. To further evaluate the safety and characterize the toxicity for the combinations of brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab, and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II)

CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the ability of these combinations to alter tumor specific T cell immunity. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the effects of these combinations on systemic immunity. (Phase I) III. To evaluate a panel of cytokine and T cell specific biomarkers from the peripheral blood as a potential immune signature of treatment response to therapy with these combinations for patients with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). (Phase I) IV. To evaluate using gene expression profiling (GEP) a signature of response to these novel combinations of an antibody drug conjugate with immunomodulatory therapy. (Phase I) V. To evaluate the ability of these combinations to alter tumor specific T cell immunity, and circulating T cell phenotypes, in patients as a function of treatment response at multiple timepoints during therapy. (Phase II) VI. To evaluate peripheral blood cytokine profiles in responding and resistant patients at multiple timepoints during therapy. (Phase II) VII. To evaluate using GEP a signature of response versus (vs.) resistance to these novel combinations of an antibody drug conjugate with immunomodulatory therapy. (Phase II) VIII. To evaluate the influence of human gut microbiome dysbiosis on HL lymphomagenesis and the systemic immune response. (Phase II)

IMAGING CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate atypical response patterns with currently available response evaluation criteria. (Phase II) II. To correlate response evaluated using currently available response evaluation criteria with duration of response (PFS, event free survival \[EFS\], failure free survival \[FFS\]). (Phase II) III. To evaluate response patterns in different immunotherapy treatment schemes and correlate with historical data using chemotherapy. (Phase II) IV. To correlate imaging changes in all treatment schemes quantitatively with PFS. (Phase II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate outcomes (CR, PFS) between patients with/without prior transplants. (Phase II) II. Evaluate outcomes (PFS, OS) between the patients who stay on treatment and do not go to transplant in both arms (the post auto and the few others who don't want transplant) vs the patients who go off for transplant. (Phase II) III. Evaluate outcomes (CR, PFS) in pediatric population (age 12 to \< 18 years of age) vs. adult population. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients are assigned into 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16 and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4, 8, 12, and 16. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16 and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-46. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 cycles and every 14 days beginning cycle 17 for up to 46 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16, nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-46, and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 every 12 weeks for up to 9 doses. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 cycles and every 14 days beginning cycle 17 for up to 46 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16 and nivolumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-34. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 34 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16, nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-34, and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 every 12 weeks for up to 9 doses. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 34 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or positron emission tomography (PET) scan throughout the trial. Patients undergo blood sample collection and may undergo tumor biopsy on study.

After completion of phase I study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, then every 6 months for 2 years. After completion of phase II study treatment, patients are followed up for 10 years.