Nivolumab and BMS-986253 for Hormone-Sensitive Prostate Cancer (MAGIC-8)
MAGIC-8 is a two-arm, multicenter, phase 1b/2 study to assess the efficacy of immunotherapy with either Nivolumab (anti-PD-1) or Nivolumab plus BMS-986253 combined with ADT using Degarelix (LHRH antagonist) for men with hormone-sensitive prostate cancer and a rising prostate-specific antigen (PSA). The purpose of this study is to see whether immunotherapy with either Nivolumab alone or Nivolumab plus BMS-986253 combined with Degarelix, which suppresses testosterone, is safe and can decrease the chance that the cancer will come back.

The primary objectives are to 1) determine the rate of PSA recurrence defined as a PSA \>0.2ng/ml for radical prostatectomy patients or PSA \>2.0ng/ml for patients who received primary radiation therapy at a time point of 10 months after start of therapy; and 2) determine the safety and tolerability of either nivolumab or nivolumab plus BMS-986253 in combination with degarelix in men with hormone-sensitive prostate cancer. The secondary objectives include determining relapse-free survival (RFS) and % change in PSA to immunotherapy alone.
Prostate Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Degarelix|DRUG: BMS-986253
Number of Participants With Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Recurrence, Defined as a PSA \>0.2ng/ml for radical prostatectomy patients or PSA \>2.0ng/ml for patients who received primary radiation therapy at a time point of 10 months after start of therapy., Up to 10 months after completion of therapy|Incidence of Adverse Events That Are Serious in Nature and Related to the Investigational Product., All participants receiving at least one dose of the study drug will be evaluated for safety and toxicity. Adverse events will be classified and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 100 days after completion of therapy
Percentage Change in PSA, Determine the % change in PSA in response to immunotherapy by comparing the PSA prior to and following 8 weeks of immunotherapy and before initiation of ADT, Baseline, 8 weeks|Relapse-free Survival (RFS), Relapse defined as a PSA \>0.2ng/ml for radical prostatectomy patients or PSA \>2.0ng/ml for patients who received primary radiation therapy., Up to two years
Prostate cancer is common and remains a major cause of death in men. Following local therapy with surgery or radiation, a significant number of men recur either with a rising PSA only (biochemical recurrence (BCR)) or clear metastatic disease on imaging. Although androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is a frequently used and effective treatment for prostate cancer, it is associated with significant side effects including fatigue, hot flashes, decreased libido and bone loss. Therefore, new approaches to decrease the time on ADT are crucial to improving quality of life for men with prostate cancer.

Once initiated, ADT can be given either continuously or intermittently. However, even with an intermittent approach the ADT-free interval typically decreases with each cycle and most men eventually develop castration resistance. Therefore new treatment strategies are needed to improve disease control while minimizing ADT exposure for men with early prostate cancer.