Safety Study of XL765 (SAR245409) in Combination With Erlotinib in Adults With Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of XL765 in combination with erlotinib (Tarceva®) in subjects with solid tumors. XL765 is a new chemical entity that inhibits the kinases PI3K and mTOR. In preclinical studies, inactivation of PI3K has been shown to inhibit growth and induce apoptosis (programmed cell death) in tumor cells, whereas inactivation of mTOR has been shown to inhibit the growth of tumor cells. Erlotinib is an orally administered inhibitor of EGFR (also known as HER1) tyrosine kinase. It was approved by the FDA as a single agent for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen and in combination with gemcitabine for first line treatment of patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic pancreatic cancer.
Cancer|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: XL765 (SAR245409)|DRUG: erlotinib
Safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of XL765 administered in combination with erlotinib, Assessed during periodic visits
To evaluate plasma pharmacokinetics of XL765 and erlotinib when administered in combination, Assessed during periodic visits|To evaluate preliminary efficacy of XL765 in combination with erlotinib in subjects with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and other solid tumors, Assessed during periodic visits
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of XL765 in combination with erlotinib (Tarceva®) in subjects with solid tumors. XL765 is a new chemical entity that inhibits the kinases PI3K and mTOR. In preclinical studies, inactivation of PI3K has been shown to inhibit growth and induce apoptosis (programmed cell death) in tumor cells, whereas inactivation of mTOR has been shown to inhibit the growth of tumor cells. Erlotinib is an orally administered inhibitor of EGFR (also known as HER1) tyrosine kinase. It was approved by the FDA as a single agent for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen and in combination with gemcitabine for first line treatment of patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic pancreatic cancer.