Anlotinib Hydrochloride For Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma Patients Who Do Not Receive Chemotherapy
Anlotinib is a multi-target receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It can inhibit the angiogenesis related kinase, such as Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor (VEGFR), Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor(FGFR), Platelet-Derived Growth Factor Receptor(PDGFR), and tumor cell proliferation related kinase c-Kit kinase. Anlotinib is an efficient second line therapeutic agent in treatment for metastatic soft tissue sarcoma which has been approved in clinical trials (ALTER-0203). There is a sort of patients who are not candidate for standard first line chemotherapy that is doxorubicin based. The patients either refused or too old and and debilitated to receive the cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: Anlotinib
Progress free survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from first dose of study treatment until the first date of either objective disease progression or death due to any cause., until Progressive Disease(PD) or death(up to 24 months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time until death due to any cause., From randomization until death (up to 24 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1.prior to progression or any further therapy., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Defined as the proportion of patients with a documented complete response, partial response, and stable disease (CR + PR + SD) based on RECIST 1.1., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|Quality of Life score (QoL), use EORTC QLQ-C30(version 3) questionnaire to evaluate the quality of life., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)
This study is planned to be carried out in Zhejiang and Jiangsu province regional multi-center. 44 cases are preliminarily expected to be included. The study started in January 2019 and ended in December 2019. It is expected that the trial will end in December 2020.

In the absence of such situations as withdrawal of informed consent, intolerance of drug toxicity and side effects, or inappropriateness for further trials, each participant's expected time for research and treatment will continue until radiographically confirmed tumor progression occurs.