Ambient Lighting During Colonoscopy and Its Effect on Adenoma Detection Rate and Eye Fatigue
A retrospective and prospective study to determine if the use of ambient lighting during screening colonoscopy is well tolerated and if ambient lighting will help physicians maintain adenoma detection rates while decreasing symptoms of eye strain as the day progresses.
Colorectal Cancer Screening|Colon Adenomatous Polyp
OTHER: Ambient lighting|OTHER: Low lighting
Change in adenoma detection rate, Adenoma detection rate, comparing change from first case of the day to the last. Ranges from 0-99%, with greater increases adenoma detection rate (ADR) being more favorable., 6 months|Eye strain score, Eye strain score, as calculated from survey responses completed by physicians. Ranges from 0 - 60, with lower scores indicating less severe symptoms (therefore, lower scores are more favorable)., 6 months
Adenoma detection rate (overall), Overall adenoma detection rate. Ranges from 0% to 100%. Higher ADR is more favorable., Participants each assessed on one day during 6 month study period|Adenoma detection rate (first case vs last case of the day), Adenoma detection rate, comparing first case of the day to the last. Ranges from from -99 to 99%, with greater numbers (increases) being more favorable., Participants each assessed on one day during 6 month study period|Satisfaction by staff, Satisfaction by staff involved in endoscopy, based on survey responses, 6 months
This study is a a single-center study at an independent community-based teaching hospital comparing adenoma detection rate in screening colonoscopies performed in low lighting with those performed with ambient lighting (75-150 lux). All cases included in the study involved adult patients undergoing screening colonoscopy with a participating gastroenterologist. Diagnostic colonoscopies, history of colon resection, colorectal cancer, and cases performed in children, pregnant women, and prisoners were excluded from analysis. Cases involving gastroenterology fellows were also excluded. Retrospective data was collected over a six month period from January 2017 to June 2017, followed by a prospective arm the during the same calendar months the subsequent year (January 2018 to June 2018).