Gleevec and Gemzar in Patients With Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
This study will evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of the combination of Gleevec and Gemzar in patients with ovarian cancer, who have progressed after receiving at least one prior chemotherapy treatment. Gleevec is an oral chemotherapy drug used is this study and Gemzar is an IV chemotherapy drug used. Participation in the treatment portion of the study will continue as long as the patient's tumors shrink or remain stable and as long as the patient is able to tolerate the study drug. The follow-up portion of the study will last for 5 years.
Ovarian Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: imatinib mesylate by mouth|DRUG: Gemcitabine Intravenous
The Cystostatic, Anti-tumor Activity of the Combination of Gleevec and Gemzar Via Progression-free Survival for at Least Six Months in Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Epithelial Ovarian or Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma., Progression free survival at six months was assessed for all research subjects. Progression defined by SWOG criteria: Invest New Drugs. 1992 Nov;10(4):239-53. Progression is defined as \> 50% increase in the sume of measured cross sectional area of areasa of measurable disease, measured from the lowest measured amount of disease. Progression is also defined as new areas of measurabe disease., Time to progression was measured from enrollment in study until documented disease progression over a period not greater than 2 years.|To Determine the Safety and Tolerability Via Frequency and Severity of Adverse Effect of Combination Gleevec and Gemzar in This Cohort of Patients as Assessed Byt Common Toxicity Criteria, Toxicity was assess prior to each cycle of therapy (every 3 weeks) and graded based on NCI common toxicity criteria, Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
Tumor Response Rates Using Modified SWOG Criteria to the Combination of Gleevec and Gemzar in Patients With Relapsed Ovarian Cancer Who Have Failed at Least One Prior Chemotherapy Treatment., Best response to thearpy was assessed using modified SWOG criteria (same as for outcome masure #1). Subjects were assess as "complete response", "partial response", "stable disease", and "progressive disease" after 2 cycles (6 weeks) of beginning treatment and every 6 weeks afterward until progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, or subject withdrawl from study.

the measurement reported is the number of patients who met the criteria for partial response., Subjects treated until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity. no maximum dose was specified|To Determine the Distribution of the Overall Survival, All subjects were followed after treatment was complete to assess overall survival., Until death|To Estimate the Clinical Response Rate(Partial and Complete Response as Defined Under the SWOG Criterial), Using SWOG criteria for response of measurable disease, subject best response was assessed. First assessment was 6 weeks after starting treatment. Subjequent evaluations were every 6 weeks in patients who remained on study.

Repsonse rate was the sum of Complete Repsonse and Partial Response., until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity|To Assess the Effects of Prognostic Variables; Initial Performance Status; Platinum Sensitivity, and Mucinous (or Clear Cell)Histology on Progression-free Survival Overall., The study was stopped after 8 subjects. It was not possible to perform meaningful analysis on prognostic variables. this outcome measure was not done., Until disease progression
Each 21 day period will be considered a cycle. Disease status will be assessed with a Cancer Antigen (CA)-125 prior to the start of each new cycle with an assessment of measurable diseased by either CT or MRI every 6 weeks. Treatment will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicities, or the patient elects to withdraw from the study. All patients will be followed until disease progression or study withdraw. In addition, following disease progression, patients will be monitored for delayed toxicity and survival for a period of 5 years, unless consent is withdrawn.