Ipilimumab and Nivolumab in Combination With Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage 2-3 Non-small Lung Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects of ipilimumab and nivolumab in combination with radiation therapy, and to see how well they work in treating patients with stage II-III non-small cell lung cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab and nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Radiation therapy uses high energy rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Ipilimumab and nivolumab may also help radiation therapy work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the radiation therapy. Giving ipilimumab and nivolumab in combination with radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with stage II-III non-small cell lung cancer compared to standard chemotherapy in combination with radiation therapy.
ALK Gene Rearrangement|EGFR Gene Mutation|Locally Advanced Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Incidence of adverse events, Safety and tolerability will be assessed by the incidence and severity of adverse events as determined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 and by physical examination findings, clinical laboratory tests, and vital signs, assessments., Up to 2 years
Anti-tumor activity, The anti-tumor activity of study treatment will be assessed by the site investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1)., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals around the median will be calculated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals around the median will be calculated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to 2 years|Time to local treatment failure, Will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals around the median will be calculated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to 2 years|Time to distant treatment failure, Will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals around the median will be calculated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Up to 2 years|Overall response rate, Up to 2 years|Duration of response, Up to 2 years
Tumor tissue/blood biomarkers, Will be assessed for tumor mutational burden and PD-L1 immunohistochemistry and will be correlated to clinical outcomes of response, PFS, and OS. Biomarker effects will be summarized using descriptive statistics and associations with clinical efficacy and/or safety outcomes may be explored., Up to 2 years|Microbiome evaluation, The microbiome flora will be correlated to clinical outcomes of response, PFS, and OS., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine safety and feasibility of ipilimumab-nivolumab (Bristol-Meyers-Squibb, Opdivo), a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA4) and programmed death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor in the treatment of local-regionally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the clinical outcomes of treatment with ipilimumab-nivolumab concurrent with radiation therapy in patients with local-regionally advanced NSCLC.

II. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. III. To identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers for early recurrence using circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA).

IV. To identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers for early recurrence using tumor tissue PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC).

V. To identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers for early recurrence using tumor tissue tumor mutational burden (TMB).

VI. To identify potential resistance mechanisms using immune biomarker and genetic analysis in post-progression biopsies.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Tumor tissue/blood biomarkers will be assessed for tumor mutation burden (TMB) and PD-L1 immunohistochemistry.

II. Patient microbiomes will be evaluated with stool specimen collection kits.

OUTLINE:

CONCURRENT THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with nivolumab repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles, and treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 42 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 1 day of starting nivolumab and ipilimumab, patients also undergo radiation therapy 5 days a week (Monday-Friday) over 6-7 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.