TSC Biosample Repository and Natural History Database
The TSC Biosample Repository collects and stores samples of blood, DNA, and tissues that scientists can request to use in their research. The samples we collect are all linked to clinical data in the TSC Natural History Database. The TSC Natural History Database captures clinical data to document the impact of the disease on a person's health over his or her lifetime. This data may be collected retrospectively or prospectively.
Tuberous Sclerosis|Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
PROCEDURE: Phlebotomy|PROCEDURE: Buccal (cheek) swab|GENETIC: Genetic Testing|OTHER: Tissue donation after routine clinical procedure
Natural History data and biosamples including blood, tissue, or other types of biological samples from individuals with TSC, The purposes of this project are to:

* Collect biosamples such as blood, tissue, fluid, or other types of bodily samples from people with TSC.
* Collect information about people with TSC over their lifetime., Average 15 years
The purpose of the project which is sponsored by the TSC Alliance is to learn more about tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) which may lead to new treatments for conditions that affect different areas of the body such as the brain, kidney, heart, lungs, and skin. The TSC Alliance TSC Biosample Repository (BSR) was established to provide a central biobank at the Van Andel Institute (VAI) Biorepository in Grand Rapids, Michigan for the collection of blood, tissues, and cells from a vast number of individuals with TSC.

The TSC Alliance Natural History Database (NHD), established in 2006, will serve as the central repository of de-identified clinical data associated with biosamples collected from individuals with TSC. The NHD research project involves collection of retrospective and prospective private information on individuals with a diagnosis of TSC over their lifespan (i.e., a longitudinal study). The VAI Biorepository will distribute biosamples and NHD data to researchers as approved by the TSC Alliance.

This project also aims to collect biosamples and clinical data on people affected by sporadic lymphangioleiomyomatosis (sporadic LAM). LAM is a common symptom reported in TSC that may occur outside the context of a TSC diagnosis (i.e., sporadic LAM patients).

The collection of biosamples will be at a clinical study site (CSS) such as a TSC Alliance recognized TSC clinic, a non-CSS such as a participant's home, an educational meeting, or by other clinical partners (CP) with institutional review board (IRB) approval of this protocol and informed consent forms. Collection of biosamples may also occur at a non-CSS or by a licensed phlebotomist (e.g., via partnership with mobile phlebotomy companies). The VAI Biorepository will provide collection kits, instructions, and materials to the CSS, non-CSS, CP, or directly to participant.

The CSS, CP, non-CSS, or authorized representative will ship collected biosamples to the VAI Biorepository for processing and storage according to their IRB-approved standard operating procedures. The VAI Biorepository will distribute biosamples to investigators as approved by the TSC Alliance. Their accreditation under the Biorepository Accreditation Program of the College of American Pathologists (CAP) will stand as the governing rules for best practices. Distribution of biosamples will require receipt of the investigator's IRB approval and a material transfer agreement (MTA) executed between the approved investigator and the TSC Alliance.

Clinical data in the NHD associated with a biosample will be provided to an investigator as approved by the Natural History Database-Biosample Repository (NHD-BSR) Steering Committee.

This project is open to individuals of all ages with a diagnosis of tuberous sclerosis complex or lymphangioleiomyomatosis.