Imiquimod, Fluorouracil, or Observation in Treating HIV-Positive Patients With High-Grade Anal Squamous Skin Lesions
This randomized phase III trial studies imiquimod or fluorouracil to see how well they work compared to observation in treating patients with high-grade anal squamous skin lesions who are human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive. Biological therapies, such as imiquimod, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not yet known whether imiquimod or fluorouracil is more effective than observation in treating high-grade anal squamous skin lesions.
Anal Intraepithelial Neoplasia|High-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion|HIV Infection
DRUG: imiquimod|DRUG: fluorouracil|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response in 5-FU Arm and Observation Arm Using ITT Population, Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology.

The percentage of participants achieving complete response in the 5-FU and observation arms will be reported and compared across sites, along with the corresponding p-value, using stratified Mantel-Haenszel-Cochran tests at a one-sided alpha level of 0.025., At week 20|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response (5-FU vs Observation ) Using Per Protocol Population, Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology.

The percentage of participants achieving complete response in the 5-FU and observation arms will be reported, along with the corresponding p-value, using stratified Mantel-Haenszel-Cochran tests to compare results across sites at a one-sided alpha level of 0.025., At week 20|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response in 5-FU vs. Imiquimod, Using the ITT Population Restricted to Those Randomized to Either Treatment Prior to the Closure of the Imiquimod Arm., Complete response is defined as an absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology.

Compare the percentage of complete response in 5-FU vs Imiquimod arms across sites using stratified CMH test at one-sided 0.05 alpha., Week 20|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response in 5-FU vs. Imiquimod, Using the PP Population Restricted to Those Randomized to Either Treatment Prior to the Closure of the Imiquimod Arm., Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology.

Compare the complete response by 5-FU vs Imiquimod across sites using stratified CMH test at one-sided 0.05 alpha using only the participants randomized to imiquimod and 5-FU prior to closure of the imiquimod arm., Week 20|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response in Imiquimod vs Observation Arm, Using ITT Population Restricted to Those Randomized to Either Treatment Prior to the Closure of the Imiquimod Arm., Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology.

Compare the complete response by Observation vs Imiquimod across sites using stratified CMH test at two-sided 0.05 alpha using only the participants randomized to imiquimod and observation prior to closure of the imiquimod arm., Week 20|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response in Imiquimod vs Observation Arm, Using Per Protocol Population Restricted to Those Randomized to Either Treatment Prior to the Closure of the Imiquimod Arm., Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology.

Compare the complete response by Observation vs Imiquimod across sites using stratified CMH test at two-sided 0.05 alpha using only the participants randomized to imiquimod and observation prior to closure of the imiquimod arm., Week 20|Number of Participants With Peri-anal HSIL Confirmed by Histology Across All Study Arms, Perianal HSIL are HSIL lesions detected in peri-anal region; These lesions will be detected by visual inspection using high resolution anoscopy and biopsy.

Number of participants with presence of peri-anal HSIL on histology, At week 20|Number of Participants With Intra-anal HSIL, Intra-anal HSIL lesions are those lesions that are detected in intra-anal region. It will be detected using visual inspection using HRA followed by positive identification of HSIL using biopsy or cytology.

Presence of intra-anal HSIL lesions will be descriptively reported across the three arms, At week 20
Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event of Grade 1 to 5 by Week 44, Irrespective of Relatedness to the Intervention. AEs Were Stratified According to Those Reported at or Before Week 20 and After Week 20., Adverse events are graded on a scale from 1 (mild) to 5 (death) as per CTCAE v. 5.0, with higher grades indicating greater severity.

The number of participants who experienced an adverse event of grade 1 to 5 by Week 44, regardless of its relatedness to the intervention, will be reported.

AEs were stratified according to those reported at or before Week 20 and after Week 20., Up to week 44|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete or Partial Response in 5-FU vs Observation Using ITT Population, Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology.

Partial response is defined as either 1) The regression of HSIL histology but HSIL cytology is present, or 2) Reduction in number of octants with HSIL.

Percentages will be compared across sites using the stratified Mantel-Haenszel-Cochran test at the two-sided 0.05 alpha level., Up to week 20|Percentageof Patients Achieving Complete or Partial Response in Imiquimod vs Observation Arm, Using ITT Population Restricted to Those Randomized to Either Treatment Prior to the Closure of the Imiquimod Arm., Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology. Partial response is defined as 1) The regression of HSIL histology but HSIL cytology is present, or 2) Reduction in number of octants with HSIL.

Percentage of patients achieving complete or partial responses with imiquimod will be compared to observation using participants randomized to imiquimod and observation prior to closure of the imiquimod arm., Up to week 20|Amount of Drug Consumed in 5-FU and Imiquimod Arm by Week 16, Amount of study drug consumed by measuring the mass of study drug dispensed (weight of study drug container at baseline - weight of study drug at the end of treatment) by study arm (5FU vs imiquimod) by the time of receiving 8 cycle treatment, Week 16|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete or Partial Response in 5-FU vs Observation Using ITT Population, Complete response is defined as the Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL histology for all biopsies and the absence of HSIL cytology. Partial response is defined as 1) The regression of HSIL histology but HSIL cytology is present, or 2) Reduction in number of octants with HSIL.

Percentage will be compared across sites using the stratified Mantel-Haenszel-Cochran test at the two-sided 0.05 alpha level., At 44 weeks|Percentage of Patients Achieving Complete or Partial Response in Imiquimod vs Observation Arm, Using ITT Population Restricted to Those Randomized to Either Treatment Prior to the Closure of the Imiquimod Arm., The proportion of patients achieving complete or partial responses with imiquimod will be compared to observation using participants randomized to imiquimod and observation prior to closure of the imiquimod arm. Complete response is defined as the absence of HSIL based on central pathology review, if available; otherwise, local biopsy results will be used. Partial Response is defined as: 1) The regression of HSIL histology but HSIL cytology is present, or 2) Reduction in number of octants with HSIL., Up to week 44|Persistence and New Infections of HPV Type Specific Infections, The proportion of participants with persistent HPV infection, defined as the presence of the same HPV type detected at both baseline and Week 20. The proportion of participants who acquire a new HPV infection at Week 20 that was not detected at baseline is new infection. Persistence and new infection will be assessed separately for each HPV type., At week 20|Comparison of the Number of hrHPV Genotypes in Each Arm Observed at Baseline vs at Week 20, hrHPV genotypes will be detected in anal swabs specimens processed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and reverse line blot analysis.

Comparison of mean number of hrHPV genotypes in each arm observed at baseline vs at week 20, week 20|HPV Genotypes Present at Baseline But no Longer Detected at Week 20, Count of HPV genotypes present at baseline but no longer detected at week 20., 20 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of intra-anal imiquimod 2.5% for treatment of anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) compared to observation only.

II. To assess the efficacy of intra-anal topical 5-fluorouracil (fluorouracil) 5% for treatment of anal HSIL compared to observation only.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of intra-anal imiquimod 2.5% and topical 5-fluorouracil 5%.

II. To compare the efficacy of intra-anal imiquimod 2.5% and topical 5-fluorouracil 5%.

III. To assess for partial response of intra-anal imiquimod 2.5% or topical 5-fluorouracil 5% as compared to observation only.

IV. To evaluate the effect of intra-anal imiquimod 2.5% and topical 5-fluorouracil 5% on human papilloma virus (HPV) persistence.

V. To evaluate anal HSIL outcomes at week 44. VI. To evaluate the effect of behavioral patterns including tobacco smoking and sexual activity on treatment efficacy, tolerability and HPV.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients apply imiquimod intra-anally once daily (QD) for 16 weeks. (closed as of protocol version 5.0)

ARM B: Patients apply fluorouracil intra-anally twice daily (BID) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C: Patients receive no treatment. Patients who still have HSIL at week 20 and who agree to randomization may cross-over to Arm A or B.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at weeks 20, 24, 26, 32, 40, and 44.