Allogeneic Immunotherapy of Hematological Malignancies Using Regulatory T-cell Selective Depletion
Since the discovery that Treg suppress anti-tumor immune responses, inhibiting their function has become a major challenge for the development of efficient immunotherapy for cancer. In humans, we previously reported the positive results of a first clinical trial using Treg depletion for anti-tumor response amplification in the field of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). The present project aims at developing this anti-tumor immunotherapeutic strategy in the same setting, i.e. donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) for relapsing hematological malignancies after HSCT, using a new selection marker: CD127. The choice of this new strategy is supported by our results of a retrospective clinical study and pre-clinical data. Using human cells, this studies demonstrated, in vitro and in vivo in animal murine models, that Treg depletion through CD127 positive selection is much more efficient to improve allogeneic immune responses of donor T-cells as compared to the previous strategy using the CD25 marker.
Hematological Malignancies|Regulatory T Cell Depletion|Relapse
DRUG: T-reg depleted DLI
cumulative incidence of GVHD in its acute grade ≥ II and/or severe chronic form (according Glucksberg-Thomas and NIH scales, respectively), and uncontrolled after a 14-day immunosuppressive course including steroids., Composite criteria. In this evaluation, death from non-GVHD cause will be taken as a competitive event, occurring within the 2 months following d-DLI infusion
Incidence of acute and/or chronic GVHD, with corresponding grades according to NIH and Glucksberg-Thomas scales, at 2 and 12 month|Date of putative relapse/progression for estimation of cumulative incidence (taking into account the competitive risk of death not related to relapse), at 2 and 12 month|Date of putative relapse/progression for estimation disease-free survival, at 2 and 12 month|Number, causes and date of deaths, at 2 and 12 month
Since the discovery that Treg suppress anti-tumor immune responses, inhibiting their function has become a major challenge for the development of efficient immunotherapy for cancer. In humans, we previously reported the positive results of a first clinical trial using Treg depletion for anti-tumor response amplification in the field of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). The present project aims at developing this anti-tumor immunotherapeutic strategy in the same setting, i.e. donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) for relapsing hematological malignancies after HSCT, using a new selection marker: CD127. The choice of this new strategy is supported by our results of a retrospective clinical study and pre-clinical data. Using human cells, this studies demonstrated, in vitro and in vivo in animal murine models, that Treg depletion through CD127 positive selection is much more efficient to improve allogeneic immune responses of donor T-cells as compared to the previous strategy using the CD25 marker.