Fenretinide in Treating Patients With Biochemically Recurrent Hormone-Naïve Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well fenretinide works in treating patients with biochemically (rising PSA level) recurrent hormone-naïve (no previous hormone therapy) prostate cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fenretinide, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer
DRUG: fenretinide|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
PSA Response, PSA normalization (PSA-N) was recorded as the best PSA response when a PSA level was undetectable (\< 0.1 ng/ml), and was then subsequently confirmed by a second measurement ≥ 4 weeks later. PSA partial response (PSA-PR) was recorded if the PSA decreased by ≥ 50% from pre-treatment or baseline values and was confirmed by a second measurement made ≥ 4 weeks later. Response = PSA-N + PSA-PR., Baseline to 5 years
Time to PSA Progression, Was summarized using the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method. In patients whose PSA levels initially decreased, PSA progression was defined as a 25% increase over the nadir (postenrollment PSA value up to that point), and an increase in the absolute value in the PSA value of 5 ng/mL, relative to the lowest postenrollment PSA value up to that point, including the baseline PSA level - and which was confirmed by second value 3-4 weeks later. A best response of PSA-PD was recorded for those patients who did not achieve a confirmed PSA-N or PSA-PR and who experienced PSA progression within 3 months of start of treatment., From the start of treatment until the date of the first documentation of PSA progression, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the PSA response in prostate cancer patients with only biochemical recurrence after local curative therapy who are then treated with fenretinide (4-HPR).

II. To assess PSA doubling time as a measure of disease activity, time to PSA progression in prostate cancer patients receiving fenretinide.

III. To evaluate the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of this agent in this patient population.

IV. To evaluate pharmacokinetic studies on the bioavailability of 4-HPR in this patient population.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior therapy (surgery vs radiotherapy and/or brachytherapy vs both), stage at diagnosis (organ confined vs extra-capsular extension vs lymph node positive), Gleason score at diagnosis (2-4 vs 5-6 vs 7-10), and prostate-specific antigen level at diagnosis (0-4 ng/mL vs 4.1-10 ng/mL vs \> 10 ng/mL).

Patients receive oral fenretinide twice daily on days 1-7. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.