Liposomal Daunorubicin and SU5416 in Treating Patients With Hematologic Cancer That Has Not Responded to Initial Therapy
Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of liposomal daunorubicin and SU5416 in treating patients who have hematologic cancer that has not responded to initial therapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. SU5416 may stop the growth of hematologic cancer by stopping blood flow to the cancer
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts in Transformation
DRUG: liposomal daunorubicin citrate|DRUG: semaxanib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of semaxanib defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicities, Graded according to NCI CTC version 2.0., 2 months|Achievement of CR, defined as normalization of the peripheral blood and bone marrow with 5% or less blasts, normo-or hypercellular marrow, a granulocyte count of 1x 10^9 L or above, and a platelet count of 100 x 10^9 L or above, Up to 1 year
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of SU5416 when administered with daunorubicin liposomal in patients with acute myeloid leukemia, refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB), RAEB in transformation, or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia not in complete remission 21-50 days after one course of induction chemotherapy.

II. Determine the efficacy of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of SU5416.

Patients receive daunorubicin liposomal IV over 6 hours on days 1-3 and SU5416 IV twice a week for 2 months. The second course is administered for 1 month, then treatment continues every 4-6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SU5416 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicities.

Patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-37 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.