Feasibility Clinical Study of Targeted and Genome-Wide Sequencing
This research is being done to find out what types of gene mutations are present in people with cancer. This study is designed to help researchers and doctors understand more about cancer. With this information, doctors may have a better idea as to which cancer treatments are most appropriate for certain patients. The information will also help researchers find out the how to identify genes in cancers from biopsies and blood samples and how to use this information to help doctors and patients make treatment decisions.
Solid Tumors
OTHER: Sample Collection for Genome-Wide Sequencing
Time From Patient Recruitment to Final Results ≤ 21 Days in ≥ 90% of Patients, Average and range of time (in calendar days) that occurred between study participants providing informed consent to the reporting of genomic results to the physician., All patients will be followed for up to 2 years from study enrolment, or death, or whichever event occurs first.
Number of Participants With Actionable Genomic Results, Number of participants with actionable genomic results (defined as having the potential to impact on management recommendations based on diagnostic, prognostic and/or predictive implications), expressed as a percentage of the total number of study participants., All patients will be followed for up to 2 years from study enrolment, or death, or whichever event occurs first.|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Due to Tumor Biopsies on Study, Number of participants with any adverse events possibly, probably or definitely related to tumor biopsies on study; Grading by CTCAE version 4 of adverse events., All patients will be followed for up to 2 years from study enrolment, or death, or whichever event occurs first.|Patient and Physician Experience, Qualitative and quantitative responses on questionnaires and personal interviews regarding patient and physician experience of this research process and their understanding of genomic analysis including perceptions of benefit versus disadvantages, impact on clinical care and decision making, All patients will be followed for up to 2 years from study enrolment, or death, or whichever event occurs first.
This is a prospective cohort study with the goal of obtaining fresh tumor biopsies and one blood sample from patients with a confirmed histological or cytological diagnosis of cancer, who are potential candidates for a phase I or II clinical trial at their local institution. DNA from fresh tumor biopsies and from mononuclear blood cells will be subjected to targeted and genome-wide sequencing to enable molecular characterization of tumors. Application of genomic information by investigators will be captured. Archived tumor samples will be requested from all patients. For patients with malignant ascites or pleural effusions, fluid and tumor samples will be evaluated.