Avastin and Chemotherapy Followed by a KRAS Stratified Randomization to Maintenance Treatment for First Line Treatment of Metastatic Colorectal Cancer.
Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer will be treated with chemotherapy according to investigators choice. In addition to chemotherapy treatment, treatment with bevacizumab will be given concomitantly. This treatment will continue during 18 weeks. Meanwhile, the patients KRAS status will be tested. After having fulfilled these 18 weeks of induction treatment, patients who has responded (complete response/partial response versus stable disease) will be randomized to maintenance treatment. Patients with KRAS WT will be randomized to either bevacizumab alone, or to bevacizumab and erlotinib. Patient with KRAS mutation will be randomized to either bevacizumab, or metronomic capecitabine. Translational research is performed, with purpose to find predictive factors in blood and tumor tissue.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: bevacizumab, erlotinib|DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: low dose capecitabine
To demonstrate that maintenance treatment with bevacizumab + erlotinib following first line chemo- and anti-angiogenetic therapy results in a significant increase in progression free survival (PFS) compared to treatment with only bevacizumab., 3 years
To explore the activity of bevacizumab and low dose metronomic capecitabine in patients with KRAS mutated tumors., 3 years
Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer will be treated with chemotherapy according to investigators choice. In addition to chemotherapy treatment, treatment with bevacizumab will be given concomitantly. This treatment will continue during 18 weeks. Meanwhile, the patients KRAS status will be tested. After having fulfilled these 18 weeks of induction treatment, patients who has responded (complete response/partial response versus stable disease) will be randomized to maintenance treatment. Patients with KRAS WT will be randomized to either bevacizumab alone, or to bevacizumab and erlotinib. Patient with KRAS mutation will be randomized to either bevacizumab, or metronomic capecitabine. Translational research is performed, with purpose to find predictive factors in blood and tumor tissue.