Cancer of the Prostate Treated With Focal Implantation of a RadioactivE Source
The purpose is to assess and describe the oncological and functional outcomes following the introduction of curative targeted focal brachytherapy of prostate cancer in Denmark.

Men with a single MRI-identifiable prostate cancer index-tumour who fulfil inclusion criteria and are candidates for curative treatment. Eligible men will undergo curative intended targeted focal brachytherapy for treatment of histologically confirmed prostate cancer.

The intervention will include Low- (LDR) or High (HDR) dose rate targeted focal brachytherapy of prostate cancer. Collection of data on safety, morbidity, side effects and quality of life. Collection of clinical data on treatment efficacy, progression, and mortality.

All patients will have a follow up of 10-years for oncological outcome, 5-years for acute- and late toxicity-, and 2-years for functional outcomes, respectively. The follow up will include clinical data, MRI, confirmatory biopsies, and questionnaires at specific fixed time points pre-and post-operatively after 1-3 days, 4-weeks, 3-, 6--, 9-, 12-, 18-, and 24-months followed by every 6 months up to 5-yr and then every year up to 10-yr follow-up.

Anticipated number of patients is 50 and regular analysis and reporting will be performed continuously. The first short-term analysis will be after 18-months of follow-up after confirmatory MRI and biopsies, and the final reporting will be after 10-years follow-up in 2035.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Focal Brachytherapy
Number of patients with local treatment control at 18-month post treatment, An MRI followed by targeted prostate biopsies are performed 18 months post-treatment.

Lack of pathological control (progression) is defined by:

* No pathological changes on biopsy from baseline (stable disease); and/or
* Tumour upgrading (increase in maximum cancer core length (measured in mm) or higher-grade tumour with increasing Gleason grade (aggressiveness score 1-5, where 5 is worst) compared to baseline.

These two measurements will be aggregated to arrive at one reported value for the question:

- Pathological control at 18-month post treatment (yes/no)., 18 months
Number of patients with treatment related adverse events, Adverse events are assessed by

• CTCAEv5 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) changes from baseline to post-treatment; Grading 0-5. Higher scores mean worse outcome

The CTCAEv5 will be assessed before treatment, 1-3 days postoperatively, and at routine post-treatment follow-up visits (see below) up to two years following treatment, or at any time upon withdrawal or pathological or biochemical failure., 24-months post treatment|Number of patients with treatment related urinary dysfunction, Adverse events are assessed by

• IPSS (International Prostate Symptom Score) changes from baseline to post-treatment; Grading 0-35.Higher scores mean worse outcome

The abovementioned toxicity-questionnaire will be assessed before treatment, 1-3 days postoperatively, and at routine post-treatment follow-up visits (see below) up to two years following treatment, or at any time upon withdrawal or pathological or biochemical failure., 24-months post treatment|Number of patients with treatment related erectile dysfunction, Adverse events are assessed by

• IIEF-5 questionnaire (International Index of Erectile Dysfunction) changes from baseline to post-treatment; Grading 5-25. Higher scores mean worse outcome

The abovementioned questionnaire will be assessed before treatment, 1-3 days postoperatively, and at routine post-treatment follow-up visits (see below) up to two years following treatment, or at any time upon withdrawal or pathological or biochemical failure., 24-months post treatment|Number of patients with treatment related bowel dysfunction, Adverse events are assessed by

• EPIC bowel domain questionnaire (Extended Prostate Cancer Index - Bowel function) changes from baseline to post-treatment; Grading 0-24.Higher scores mean worse outcome

The abovementioned questionnaire will be assessed before treatment, 1-3 days postoperatively, and at routine post-treatment follow-up visits (see below) up to two years following treatment, or at any time upon withdrawal or pathological or biochemical failure., 24-months post treatment|Number of patients with treatment related quality of life changes, Adverse events are assessed by

SF-12 v2 questionnaire (Short Form Quality of life assessment) changes from baseline to post-treatment; Grading 12-56.Higher scores mean worse outcome

The abovementioned questionnaire will be assessed before treatment, 1-3 days postoperatively, and at routine post-treatment follow-up visits (see below) up to two years following treatment, or at any time upon withdrawal or pathological or biochemical failure., 24-months post treatment|Number of patients with clinical progression at 3-, 5- and 10-yrs, Clinical progression can be defined as either biochemical- or pathological progression. Biochemical progression is defined as prostate-specific-antigen (PSA) increase \>2 over nadir with an increase \>0.75 ng/ml per year. PSA levels will be analyzed prior to routine post-treatment follow-up visits. First appointment is planned at 4 weeks following treatment, then three-monthly for 12 months, six-monthly up to five years post treatment, then yearly until ten years following treatment, or at any time upon withdrawal. In case of biochemical failure, a repeat MRI + biopsies are performed. Due to potential risk of PSA fluctuations ("PSA bounce") during the first 18-24 months following implantation, biochemical progression will not be defined before the primary outcome has been assessed 18 months post-treatment. Secondary definitions of biochemical failure such as PSA-density nadir + 0.1 ng/mL/cc will be analyzed. Pathological progression is defined as under primary outcome., 10 years post-treatment|Rate of salvage treatment, The rate of salvage therapy is defined by the percentage of men who receive salvage treatment because of local disease progression following targeted focal brachytherapy. Salvage therapy may include (but not limited to) whole-gland radical prostatectomy, external beam radiation therapy, or re-treatment using focal brachytherapy., 10 years post-treatment
The purpose is to assess and describe the oncological and functional outcomes following the introduction of curative targeted focal brachytherapy of prostate cancer in Denmark.

Men with a single MRI-identifiable prostate cancer index-tumour who fulfil inclusion criteria and are candidates for curative treatment. Eligible men will undergo curative intended targeted focal brachytherapy for treatment of histologically confirmed prostate cancer.

The intervention will include Low- (LDR) or High (HDR) dose rate targeted focal brachytherapy of prostate cancer. Collection of data on safety, morbidity, side effects and quality of life. Collection of clinical data on treatment efficacy, progression, and mortality.

All patients will have a follow up of 10-years for oncological outcome, 5-years for acute- and late toxicity-, and 2-years for functional outcomes, respectively. The follow up will include clinical data, MRI, confirmatory biopsies, and questionnaires at specific fixed time points pre-and post-operatively after 1-3 days, 4-weeks, 3-, 6--, 9-, 12-, 18-, and 24-months followed by every 6 months up to 5-yr and then every year up to 10-yr follow-up.

Anticipated number of patients is 50 and regular analysis and reporting will be performed continuously. The first short-term analysis will be after 18-months of follow-up after confirmatory MRI and biopsies, and the final reporting will be after 10-years follow-up in 2035.