New Modalities for Detection of Oropharyngeal Cancer
Background: The incidence of human papilloma virus-driven oropharyngeal cancer (HPV-OPC), a type of head and neck cancer, is rapidly increasing within the US. Currently, there are no screening methods for early detection. HPV16 E6 antibodies combined with ultrasound imaging may be a promising method for early detection of HPV-OPC. However, prior to testing HPV16 E6 antibodies and ultrasound for HPV-OPC screening, larger studies are needed to further validate the utility of these methods in the diagnostic setting among patients with suspected and/or symptomatic HPV-OPC.

Objective/Hypothesis: To investigate two promising screening modalities for the detection of HPV-OPC, transcervical ultrasound and HPV16 E6 antibodies. The investigators hypothesize that both ultrasound and HPV16 E6 antibodies will be highly sensitive for the detection of symptomatic HPV-OPC.

Specific Aims: (1) Determine the sensitivity of ultrasound to characterize OPC tumors compared to current standard imaging modalities among patients with suspected or confirmed OPC. (2) To determine the sensitivity and specificity of HPV16 E6 antibodies for HPV-OPC. (3) Determine the sensitivity of ultrasound to detect HPV-OPC compared to current standard imaging modalities among patients that present with a neck mass and unknown primary tumor.
Human Papillomavirus Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oropharynx Cancer|Base of Tongue Carcinoma|Tonsil Cancer
PROCEDURE: Transcervical Oropharyngeal Ultrasound|PROCEDURE: Oral Rinse Collection|PROCEDURE: Blood Draw
Detection of tumor via transcervical ultrasound, Ability to detect oropharyngeal tumor via ultrasound will be a primary outcome of the study. Characteristics including ability to detect tumor, tumor size, and tumor location will be recorded at time of ultrasound. The ultrasound findings will then be compared to other imaging modalities used as standard work-up (CT/MRI). This comparison will be used to determine sensitivity of ultrasound for detection of oropharyngeal tumors., 1 day at time of clinic visit
HPV Serology, Both serum samples and oral rinse specimens will be shipped to German Cancer Research Center, Heidelberg (DKFZ) for blinded analysis of HPV antibodies. The samples will be completely de-identified prior to shipment and thus, there will be no way for the testing laboratory to link the specimens back to the patients. A random sample of blinded duplicates (10%) will be included as part of quality control. Seroreactivity against the HPV16 E6 protein will be determined using multiplex serology, an antibody detection method based on a glutathione S-transferase capture ELISA in combination with fluorescent bead technology., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
50 patients with suspected or confirmed OPC will undergo a transcervical ultrasound during their first visit at the Vanderbilt Head and Neck Clinic in addition to other imaging modalities (CT, MRI and/or PET) as indicated as part of routine clinical care; patients will also be asked to provide a blood specimen. Ultrasound exams will be performed by a clinician blinded to details of the case. All patients will have a CT as part of their diagnostic work-up. Sensitivity of ultrasound to detect tumors identified by CT will be determined. Approximately 40% of patients are expected to test negative on CT requiring MRI and/or PET imaging. Among this subset, the sensitivity of ultrasound to detect tumors identified by either PET and/or MRI will be determined. Tumor size will be determined by 3 ultrasound measurements along the largest diameter of the tumor; agreement between ultrasound and the clinical imaging modalities will be calculated. The investigators will recruit an additional 78 OPC patients with pre-treatment serum banked within the Vanderbilt Head and Neck Cancer Biorepository (18 HPV-negative, 60 HPV-OPC) for HPV serologic analyses; total: 128 samples. Sensitivity and specificity of HPV16 E6 antibodies for detecting HPV-OPC will be calculated. As an exploratory aim, the proportion of tumors undetectable by CT, PET, and MRI, but detected by ultrasound will be determined.