A Combination of Avelumab and Taxane (AVETAX) for Urothelial Cancer
This study evaluates the safety and efficacy of the combination of Avelumab, (a fully human anti-programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) IgG1 antibody) in combination with a taxane chemotherapy (docetaxel) in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer who are either ineligible to receive cisplatin based chemotherapy, refractory to cisplatin in first line setting or have disease relapse after receiving cisplatin based chemotherapy within a year in the neoadjuvant or adjuvant setting.
Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Avelumab|DRUG: Docetaxel
Dose De-Escalation Phase: To assess dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) using CTCAE v4.03., All adverse events (AEs )will be considered in DLT assessment unless an event is clearly unrelated to trial treatment. DLTs for phase 1b only include AEs that are considered possibly, probably, or definitely related to the Docetaxel plus Avelumab regimen which occur during the first 21 days of therapy. All AEs, including DLTs, are to be reported according to instructions in the Study Reference Manual and graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.03., From the start of treatment up to 5 years|Dose Expansion Phase: To determine overall response rate (ORR) (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR]) per RECIST v1.1, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 will be used to determine ORR., From the start of treatment up to 5 years
Dose Expansion: To determine radiologic progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST v1.1 and immune RECIST criteria, PFS is defined as the time between the first dose of study therapy and the earliest date of progression or death. Subjects who have neither progressed nor died will be censored at the last tumor assessment date for PFS., From the start of treatment up to 5 years|Dose Expansion: To determine ORR per RECIST v1.1, Overall survival defined as the time between the first dose of study therapy and death (subjects who have not died will be censored at the most recent last-known-alive date)., From the start of treatment up to 5 years
The study is a single institution, phase 1b, single arm non-randomized, open label prospective clinical trial to evaluate the combination of Avelumab and Docetaxel in adult subjects with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma with disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy, or within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant platinum-containing chemotherapy.

The study has two phases:

1. A Phase 1b dose de-escalation of Docetaxel in combination with Avelumab, to establish the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for the combination. The dose de-escalation phase will utilize a 3+3 design over 3 planned dose levels leading to the identification of a RP2D for the combination of Docetaxel and Avelumab. Note: Dose de-escalation is allowed only for Docetaxel and no changes will done to standard dose of Avelumab (i.e, 10 mg/kg).
2. In the dose expansion phase of the study, the fixed dose of Docetaxel in combination with Avelumab will be evaluated. The study is powered to a primary endpoint of overall response rate (ORR) with the combination of Docetaxel and Avelumab. Enrollment for part 2 will commence only after a RP2D is identified from phase 1.