Intra-Lymphatic STI-3031 Using the Sofusa DoseConnect Device for Treatment of In-Transit Melanoma, the Sofusa-2 Study
This phase Ib trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of STI-3031 given directly into the into the lymph nodes or the lymph vessels (intra-lymphatic) using the Sofusa DoseConnect device in treating patients with melanoma that has spread through a lymph vessel and begins to grow more than 2 centimeters away from the primary tumor but before it reaches the nearest lymph node (in-transit). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as STI-3031, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC V8|Melanoma|Metastatic Melanoma|Recurrent Metastatic Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-PD-L1 Monoclonal Antibody IMC-001|PROCEDURE: Punch Biopsy
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of STI-3031 that can be administered through the DoseConnect device, MTD is the dose level where at most 1 of the 6 patients treated at that dose level develops a dose limiting event (DLE) during the first cycle of treatment and neither a Grade 3 or worse AE attributable to either drug or device or a Grade 2 or worse adverse event (AE) lasting \>= 1 week and attributable to device is reported after the first cycle of treatment., Up to 42 days (Cycle 1)|Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade of each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient. For each adverse event reported by dose level, the percentage of patients developing any degree of that adverse event as well as the percentage of patients developing a severe degree (Grade 3 or higher) will be determined., Up to 2 years
Clinical benefit rate, Defined as the number of patients who complete 3 cycles of treatment and whose objective tumor status by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) is stable, partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) post discontinuation among all eligible patients enrolled., Up to the end of cycle 3 (126 days)|Progression-free survival (PFS), If a patient dies without a recurrence documented, the patient will be censored at the date of their last disease evaluation unless there is documentation that the patient was progression-free within 3 months of death. PFS distribution will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From study entry to the documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Response rate, Defined as the proportion of patients whose tumor meets the criteria for PR or CR on two consecutive evaluations at least 12 weeks apart among all eligible patients who began treatment., Up to 2 years
Lymphatic flow rate, Descriptive analysis will be performed to report these findings., Baseline and prior to cycle 3|Indocyanine green (ICG) lymphography classification, The ICG lymphography classification of the functional status of the lymphatic system first described by Yamamoto et al (Yamamoto 2011) will be utilized. Utilizing descriptive statistics, we will note any changes in the ICG flow patterns and if any improvement or deterioration appears associated with in-transit metastasis (ITM) response, stability, or progressive disease. This work will be exploratory and hypothesis generating., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the feasibility, safety, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody IMC-001 (STI-3031) that can be administered through the DoseConnect device in patients with metastatic melanoma demonstrating in-transit and/or regional lymph node metastases.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess clinical benefit rates to STI-3031 administered via DoseConnect device in patients with melanoma in-transit and/or reginal lymph node metastases.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess lymphatic drainage of the affected extremity via intralymphatic indocyanine green (ICG) prior to first treatment cycle and prior to last treatment cycle.

II. To assess for changes in antitumor immunity as a result of therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive STI-3031 intra-lymphatically via the DoseConnect device over 1-8 hours once weekly (QW) on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 of cycle 1, and once every 2 weeks (Q2W) on days 1, 15, and 29 of cycle 2. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with complete response (CR) at the end of cycle 2 receive 1-2 additional cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) at the end of cycle 2 continue treatment for a total of 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 2-4 weeks, 90 days and every 3 months for up to 2 years after study enrollment.