Plastic vs. Covered Metal vs. Uncovered Metal Biliary Stents for the Management of Malignant Biliary Obstruction
This is a single center, randomized, unblinded study to compare the rate of occlusion of plastic, uncovered metal, or fully covered metal biliary stents in patient's with surgically resectable disease or those undergoing neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. We will also compare occlusion rates between uncovered metal and fully covered metal biliary stents in those patients determined to have surgically unresectable disease.
Pancreatic Cancer
DEVICE: Biliary stent placement
Assess the Occlusion Rates, Attempted Surgical Resection or Death of Plastic, Covered, and Uncovered Biliary Stents in Patients Presenting With Malignant Biliary Obstruction., Number of participants who developed stent occlusion, attempted surgical resection or death following stent placement, Time of stent occlusion, attempted surgical resection or patient death to 300 days
Total Cost Associated With the Placement of Biliary Stents Including the Cost of the Device as Well as the Secondary Costs of Device Placement., Costs measured up to 500 days|Determine the Days of Hospitalization Following Stent Placement, Number of total days of hospitalization for all patients in each group, From stent placement up to 500 days post stent|Assess Days Neoadjuvant Therapy Was Delayed Due to Complications Associated With the Stents, Total number of days in which neoadjuvant therapy was delayed due to stent related issues, Time from stent placement to 500 days|Assess Rate of Acute Cholecystitis Associated With Each Type of Stent, time from stent placement to 500 days
Malignant biliary obstruction can result from extrinsic processes, such as proximal pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma or metastatic lesions, or from intrinsic lesions such as cholangiocarcinoma. Malignant biliary obstruction is typically treated endoscopically with placement of either plastic (polyethylene) or metal biliary stents. Metal stents have a wider diameter than plastic stents, and have been shown to have higher patency rates, but are also 15-40 times the cost of plastic stents. Metal stents with a polymer coating have been developed to prevent tumor ingrowth into the stent, which can lead to stent occlusion. Cost analysis has demonstrated an advantage to the use of metal stents in patients with unresectable disease, or who may achieve operable status following neoadjuvant chemotherapy, while either plastic stents or metal stents are used when patients are deemed to have a surgically resectable lesion. Patient's determined to have resectable, or borderline resectable malignancy (those who may achieve resectability status following neoadjuvant chemotherapy) will receive either plastic, uncovered metal, or covered metal stents in a randomized fashion, while patients determined to have surgically unresectable malignancy will randomly receive either covered or uncovered metal biliary stents. The primary aim of this study is to prospectively evaluate stent occlusion rates in patients presenting with malignant biliary obstruction. Secondary aims of the study will include a cost analysis of each stent type, rate of hospital admission following stent placement, days off of chemotherapy due to procedural complication, and rate of acute cholecystitis associated with stent placement.