NewBreez for Airway Protection in Head and Neck Cancer Patients With Chronic Aspiration
Laryngeal dysfunction is a problem that affects many patients after laryngeal cancer therapy (surgery or radio/chemotherapy). Laryngeal dysfunction is associated with higher incidences of aspiration and respiratory tract complications such as aspiration pneumonia. Current standard of care treatment to reduce the consequences of aspiration is often a tracheostomy which has its own risks and complications. The proposed study aims to describe the performance of a new CE marked medical implant, the NewBreez, in protecting the patient's airways from aspiration.
Aspiration|Laryngeal Cancer
DEVICE: NewBreez
Change From Baseline Per Patient of Number and Severity of Aspiration Events, In patient change from baseline measurement of aspiration severity and frequency of events at weeks 1,4,8,and 12, 12 weeks
Number of Reported Adverse Events, Analysis of the reported system or procedure related adverse events using standard AE reporting form, at device implantation|Number of Reported Adverse Events, Analysis of the the rate and severity of reported system or procedure related adverse events as a measure of safety of the device in this patient population over a 12 week period, 2 weeks|Number of Participants With an Increase of Greater Than 1 on the Heyse-Moore Score, In patient change from baseline score of dyspnea using Heyse-Moore (Dyspnea)score:

0 = None

1. = Mild, some difficulty
2. = Moderate Difficulty but can continue
3. = Severe difficulty, cannot continue, 1 weeks
Number of Participants With Reported Device Migration in the Larynx Post Implant, In patient change from baseline position of the device in the larynx of each patient assessed by endoscopy and/or other clinically appropriate methods (CT or video fluoroscopy) and recorded in migration direction and distance (cm), 1 weeks|Change From Baseline of Quality of Life (QoL) Score, In patient QoL assessed at baseline and at 12 weeks using German standard QoL clinical questionnaire specifically for patients with swallowing dysfunction, 12 weeks|Reported Subjective Rating of Comfort of the Device in the Larynx, In patient subjective measure (repeated) of pain score (1-10) and comfort level (questionnaire) at weeks 1,4,8,12, 12 weeks
Aspiration is associated with respiratory tract infections, reduced quality of life and increased mortality in patients. For chronic or unresolved aspiration, patients are often given a tracheostomy for safer breathing and greater protection of the airways from aspirated material. However tracheostomies are associated with risks and complications and do not give a 100% guarantee of aspiration protection to the patient. They also impact the quality of life in a negative way for many patients. The current study will evaluate the performance of a new intralaryngeal device for airway protection in a small group of patients who have chronic aspiration. The study will look at the overall performance of this device in preventing aspiration in this specific group of patients as well as determine any unforeseen risks of using this device in the identified group of patients. The outcomes will form the basis of future studies with larger groups of patients.