Trial of Radiotherapy With Leuprolide and Enzalutamide in High Risk Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies the safety of giving enzalutamide with leuprolide acetate before and after radiation therapy and to see how well it works in treating patients with prostate cancer that is at high risk of returning. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Most types of prostate cancer also need testosterone to grow and spread. After radiation therapy, patients often receive treatments to reduce testosterone to prevent the cancer from returning. Leuprolide acetate works by reducing the amount of testosterone that the body makes. Enzalutamide is a stronger treatment that may block testosterone from reaching cancer cells. Adding enzalutamide to treatment with leuprolide acetate after radiation therapy may help prevent high-risk prostate cancer from returning and improve patient survival.
Prostatic Neoplasms|Pelvic Nodal
DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Leuprolide|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy
Percentage of Participants With Acute Treatment-related Toxicity, Percentage of participants with acute, treatment-related toxicity defined as \<=90 days within the completion of radiotherapy, for any treatment-related grade 3 or higher adverse events as classified by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, From start of treatment to 90 days after completion of radiotherapy, approximately 6 months total|Percentage of Participants With Late Treatment-related Toxicity, Percentage of participants with late, treatment-related, toxicity is defined as any toxicity occurring \>= 90 days from completion of radiotherapy for any grade 3 or higher treatment-related adverse events as classified by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., From 90 days after completion of radiotherapy until end of study, approximately 30 months total|Proportion of Patients Achieving a Prostate Specific Antigen-Complete Response (PSA-CR), A PSA measurement will be obtained at 120-127 days after initiation of androgen deprivation therapy. The proportion of patients achieving a PSA-CR (PSA nadir \<=0.3) at 120-127 days will be determined., Up to 127 days
Median Time to Biochemical Failure, Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) nadir \>=2 ng/mL, also known as the Phoenix definition, is the definition most commonly used to establish biochemical failure (BF) after external beam radiotherapy for prostate cancer management. Time to biochemical failure is defined as the time from start of treatment to the time of change in PSA \>=2 ng/mL from the nadir., Up to 36 months|Median Time to Local Failure, Local failure was defined as the time from the start of treatment to a biopsy confirmed disease recurrence., Up to 36 months|Number of Participants With Regional or Distant Metastases Over Time, The number of participants with confirmed regional or distant metastases at 24 and 36 months will be reported., Up to 36 months|Median Time to Clinical Progression, Defined as the time from the start of study treatment to confirmed regional or distant metastases, Up to 36 months|Overall Median Change in Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) Levels During Treatment, HbA1C test results are reported as a percentage. The higher the percentage, the higher your blood sugar levels over the past two to three months. Changes in HbA1c results will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in HbA1c will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in Fasting Glucose Levels During Treatment, Changes in fasting glucose levels results will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in fasting glucose levels will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in Fasting Insulin Levels During Treatment, Changes in fasting insulin levels will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in fasting insulin levels will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in Lipid Levels During Treatment, Changes in fasting lipid levels will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in fasting lipid levels will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in Total Cholesterol Levels During Treatment, Changes in total cholesterol levels will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in total cholesterol levels will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL) Cholesterol Levels During Treatment, Changes in fasting HDL levels will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in fasting HDL will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL) Cholesterol Levels During Treatment, Changes in fasting LDL levels will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in fasting LDL will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in Score on the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) During Treatment, The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) is a comprehensive instrument designed to evaluate patient function and bother after prostate cancer treatment and assesses the disease-specific aspects of prostate cancer and its therapies and comprises four summary domains (Urinary, Bowel, Sexual and Hormonal). Response options for each EPIC item form a Likert scale, and multi-item scale scores are transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores representing better health related quality of life. Changes in EPIC scores will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in scores will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Fatigue Scores During Treatment, A PROMIS score of 50 is the average (or mean) score for a specific, relevant group of people under investigation. That group is the reference population. The PROMIS measures the responses use a T-score metric in which 50 is the mean of a relevant reference population and 10 is the standard deviation (SD) of that population. A score of 40 is one SD lower than the mean of the reference population and a score of 60 is one SD higher than the mean of the reference population. For PROMIS measures, higher scores equals more of the concept being measured (e.g., more Fatigue). Changes in the PROMIS fatigue scores will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in scores will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in EuroQol Group Five Dimensional Questionnaire (EQ-5D) During Treatment, EQ-5D is a standardized instrument for measuring generic health status. The health status is measured in terms of five dimensions (5D); mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. The respondents self-rate their level of severity for each dimension by selecting one of the following responses: no problems (0), slight problems (1), mild problems (2), moderate problems (3), or severe problems (4) with a particular dimension. Lower scores indicate less issues/problems with that particular health dimension. Changes in the EQ-5D scores will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in scores will be reported., Up to 24 months|Overall Median Change in EuroQol Group Visual Analog Scale (EQ-VAS) During Treatment, The EQ-VAS records the patient's self-rated health on a vertical visual analogue scale, similar to a ruler, where the endpoints are labelled with 100='The best health you can imagine' on one end and 0='The worst health you can imagine' on the other, with 50 being the midpoint and participants mark an X on the scale to indicate how their health is on the day of the visit. The VAS can be used as a quantitative measure of health outcome that reflect the patient's own judgement. Changes in the EQ-VAS scores will be assessed during treatment and the overall median change in scores will be reported., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility and safety of the combination of enzalutamide and leuprolide acetate (leuprolide) in patients undergoing definitive radiation therapy for high-risk prostate cancer or with pelvic nodal involvement.

II. To determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) complete response rate with the combination of enzalutamide and leuprolide (PSA-complete response (CR) as determined by PSA nadir =\< 0.3) in patients undergoing radiation therapy for high-risk prostate cancer or pelvic nodal involvement.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine time to biochemical failure as determined by the American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) Phoenix definition of nadir + 2 ng/mL, local progression, regional progression, and distant metastases.

II. To determine time to clinical progression free survival III. To assess changes in PSA nadir and PSA and testosterone levels. IV. To assess changes in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), fasting glucose, fasting insulin and fasting lipid and cholesterol levels.

V. To document changes in quality of life outcomes.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify potential mutations and changes gene copy number associated with enzalutamide resistance in patients with high risk prostate cancer.

II. To identify gene expression patterns, splice variants, and gene signatures associated with enzalutamide treatment and enzalutamide resistance in patients with high risk prostate cancer.

III. To identify changes in the immune response with enzalutamide treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) and leuprolide acetate intramuscularly (IM) every 1, 3, 4, or 6 months for 24 months. Patients also undergo standard of care intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days per week for 5 weeks beginning at week 8, followed by optional brachytherapy. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, 3-4 months, 6, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months.