Safety and Efficacy of Aprepitant, Ramosetron, and Dexamethasone for Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting in Patients With Ovarian Cancer Treated With Taxane/Carboplatin
The current recommended guideline for patients receiving moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC) is the combination of a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and corticosteroid. Incidence of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is approximately 50% in patients receiving MEC. An incidence rate of 25-38% for delayed emesis and 55-60% for delayed nausea has been observed. Hence, there is clearly a need for more effective prevention of CINV in patients receiving MEC, especially in women with ovarian carcinoma who are particularly susceptible to these symptoms. Therefore the investigators designed a study with the objective to evaluate if new combination (Aprepitant/Ramosetron/Dexamethasone) may improve actual CINV control in ovarian carcinoma patients treated with taxane/carboplatin.
Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting|Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Aprepitant/Ramosetron/Dexamethasone
Efficacy of the Aprepitant/Ramosetron/Dexamethasone Regimen in Terms of the Proportion of Patients With a Complete Response (CR) During the 120 Hour Following Initiation of Chemotherapy., Complete Response is defined as No vomiting with no rescue therapy. These response criteria will be applied to the following time periods: Overall: from 0 (chemotherapy initiation) to the morning of day 6, Acute: 0 to 24 hours following the initiation of chemotherapy, Delayed: 25 hours to the morning of day 6(D6)., 120 hours|Safety and Tolerability of the Aprepitant/Ramosetron/Dexamethasone Regimen, 120 hours
Efficacy of the Aprepitant/Ramosetron/Dexamethasone Regimen in Terms of the Proportion of Patients With no Vomiting During the 120 Hour Following Initiation of Chemotherapy, 120 hours|Time to First Vomiting Episode or Use of Rescue Medication, 120 hours
The current recommended guideline for patients receiving moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC) is the combination of a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and corticosteroid. Incidence of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is approximately 50% in patients receiving MEC. An incidence rate of 25-38% for delayed emesis and 55-60% for delayed nausea has been observed. Hence, there is clearly a need for more effective prevention of CINV in patients receiving MEC, especially in women with ovarian carcinoma who are particularly susceptible to these symptoms. Therefore the investigators designed a study with the objective to evaluate if new combination (Aprepitant/Ramosetron/Dexamethasone) may improve actual CINV control in ovarian carcinoma patients treated with taxane/carboplatin.