Microwave Ablation Combined With Camrelizumab in the Treatment of Early Breast Cancer
Ablative therapy, as a local treatment modality for tumors, has an immune activating effect. To explore the synergistic effect of microwave ablation combined with PD-1 inhibitors, this prospective, open-label, multi-cohort, single-center clinical study was conducted. To compare the feasibility and safety of preoperative microwave ablation alone, with or without camrelizumab in patients with early newly diagnosed breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Microwave Ablation|DRUG: Camrelizumab|PROCEDURE: Breast Surgery
Safety of Microwave Ablation Combined With Camrelizumab, Safety measured by occurrence of study related adverse effects defined by NCI CTCAE 5.0, 3 months
Complete ablation rate, The proportion of patients with complete ablation was calculated for all patients. Complete ablation was defined as: tissue section at the ablation margin that was negative by histochemical staining., 1 day|Negative predictive value of ultrasound, Preoperative ultrasonography was performed. The negative predictive value of ultrasound was calculated by comparing the pathology report. Negative predictive value = number of patients with negative pathology and negative ultrasound/number of patients with negative ultrasound, 1 day|Assessment of Immunogenicity, Proportion of subjects with immune response to synergistic therapy detected by biomarkers in peripheral blood samples, 3 months|Breast self evaluation, Breast self evaluation for patients will be assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast (FACT-B) scale scores.The FACT-B consists of 44 self-report items and assesses the specific breast cancer-related quality of life on 4 general and 1 breast-cancer specific subscale. A higher score indicates a higher cancer-related quality of life., 3 months
Ablative therapy, as a local treatment modality for tumors, has an immune activating effect. To explore the synergistic effect of microwave ablation combined with PD-1 inhibitors, this prospective, open-label, multi-cohort, single-center clinical study was conducted. To compare the feasibility and safety of preoperative microwave ablation alone, with or without camrelizumab in patients with early newly diagnosed breast cancer.