Veliparib in Treating Patients With Malignant Solid Tumors That Do Not Respond to Previous Therapy
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of veliparib in treating patients with malignant solid tumors that do not respond to previous therapy. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Basal-Like Breast Carcinoma|BRCA1 Mutation Carrier|BRCA2 Mutation Carrier|Breast Carcinoma|Estrogen Receptor Negative|HER2/Neu Negative|Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome|Ovarian Carcinoma|Pancreatic Carcinoma|Progesterone Receptor Negative|Prostate Carcinoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Solid Neoplasm|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Veliparib
MTD, DLT, recommended phase II dose of chronically dosed single-agent veliparib in patients with either a refractory BRCA 1/2- mutated solid cancer; platinum- refractory ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer; or basal-like breast cancer, 28 days
Incidence of toxicities as assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, The maximum grade of toxicity for each category of interest will be recorded for each patient and the summary results will be tabulated by category and grade. All DLTs and other serious (grade 3 or greater) will be described on a patient-by-patient basis; descriptions will include dose level and any relevant baseline data. Statistics on the number of cycles received by patients and any dose reductions will be tabulated., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Response (complete response, partial response, stable disease) evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Will be tabulated by disease diagnosis and by dose level., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Pharmacokinetic parameters, Prior to taking veliparib on day 1, 4, and 15 then 30 minutes, 1 hour, 1½, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 hours after taking veliparib on day 1 and 15, and 24 hours after taking day 1 and day 15 doses of veliparib|Changes in PAR in PBMCs and tumor biopsies, Will be assessed with Wilcoxon signed rank tests., Baseline to 4 weeks post-treatment|Changes in gamma-H2A histone family, member X (H2AX) in PBMCs and tumor biopsies, Will be assessed with Wilcoxon signed rank tests., Baseline to 4 weeks post-treatment|Changes in BRCA 1/2 expression in tumor blocks, Comparisons of the expression levels in the two groups of patients will be made with Wilcoxon tests., Baseline to 4 weeks post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), and recommended phase II dose of chronically dosed single-agent ABT-888 (veliparib) in patients with either a refractory breast cancer (BRCA) 1/2- mutated solid cancer; platinum-refractory ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer; or basal-like breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the safety and tolerability of single-agent ABT-888 in the above patient population. A dose expansion at the recommended phase II dose will be performed in 6-12 evaluable patients with germline BRCA mutations.

II. To determine the effects of ABT-888 treatment on the level of poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibition and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and tumor samples or cells in malignant ascitic fluid.

III. To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of chronically dosed ABT-888. IV. To document any evidence of anti-tumor response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID)\* on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*Patients receive veliparib once on day 1 of course 1 for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 4 weeks.