SonoVue®-Enhanced Ultrasound (US) Versus Unenhanced US for Focal Liver Lesion Characterization
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the Sensitivity and Specificity of SonoVue®-enhanced ultrasound is superior to that of unenhanced ultrasound for the characterization of benign versus malignant FLLs using final diagnosis based on histology or combined imaging (CE-CT and/or CE MRI)/clinical data as truth standard.
Liver Neoplasms
DRUG: SonoVue®
Sensitivity: Percentage of True Positive Lesions Among All Malignant Lesions Per Truth Standard, Sensitivity of SonoVue-enhanced ultrasound (SonoVue CE-US) versus unenhanced ultrasound (UE-US) for characterization of malignant focal liver lesions (FLLs) using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the Intent-to-diagnose (ITD) population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to subject, since each subject had a single lesion to be characterized.

True positive: subject with a target lesion characterized as malignant by both ultrasonography and the truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and/or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up Calculated as (number of true positive lesions/number of malignant lesions per truth standard) x 100, 24 hours to 6 months|Specificity: Percentage of True Negative Lesions Among All Benign Lesions Per Truth Standard', Specificity of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of benign FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population.

Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True negative: subject with a target lesion characterized as benign by both ultrasonography and truth standard.

Among the 259 ITD participants, only 140 participants (lesions) were benign based on the truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true negative lesions/number of benign lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months
Accuracy: Percentage of True Positive and True Negative Among All Lesions, Accuracy of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of malignant and benign FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population.

Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True positive: subject with a target lesion characterized as malignant by both ultrasonography and truth standard.

True negative: subject with a target lesion characterized as benign by both ultrasonography and truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true positive and true negative lesions/number of total lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Positive Predictive Value [PPV]: Percentage of True Positive Lesions Among All Malignant Lesions Per Ultrasound, Positive Predictive Value of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True positive: subject with a target lesion characterized as malignant by both ultrasonography and truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up.

Calculated as (number of true positive lesions/number of malignant lesions per ultrasound) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Negative Predictive Value [NPV]: Percentage of True Negative Lesions Among All Benign Lesions Per Ultrasound, Negative Predictive Value of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True negative: subject with a target lesion characterized as benign by both ultrasonography and truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true negative lesions/number of benign lesions per ultrasound) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Specific Diagnosis of Malignant FLLs, SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for specific diagnosis of malignant FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of correctly characterized lesions/number of lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Specific Diagnosis of Benign FLLs, SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for specific diagnosis of benign FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

Among the 140 ITD participants with benign lesions based on the truth standard, only 91 participants (lesions) were characterized as either hemangioma or focal nodular hyperplasia.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of correctly characterized lesions/number of lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Inter-reader Agreement, Kappa statistic based on assessment of malignant or benign by unenhanced and SonoVue-enhanced ultrasonography separately and computation for the percentage agreement within two categories: "3 out of 3 readers agree" and "2 out of 3 readers agree"., 24 hours to 6 months
Unit of analysis for the outcome measures was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.