Trial of Encapsulated Rapamycin (eRapa) for Bladder Cancer Prevention
eRapa (encapsulated rapamycin) will be investigated for secondary prevention in patients with diagnosed non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) through a phase II double-blind randomized controlled trial of long-term (one year) prevention with eRapa versus placebo. The primary hypothesis is that eRapa decreases the risk of cancer relapse for patients with NMIBC. Secondary hypotheses are that eRapa can improve certain immune parameters and improve cognition and physical function without adversely affecting patient-reported outcomes and quality of life.
Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: eRapa|DRUG: Placebos
Determine 1-year Recurrence Free Survival (RFS) rate, The primary analysis will be the estimation of the RFS rate with the 95% confidence interval and comparison of the rate to the historical rate of 68% using the single arm log-rank test (one-sided alpha = 0.05). If the observed rate of RFS is 80% the expected number of events is about 20-28. Recurrence confirmed by pathologic examination of biopsied tissue., 1 year|Change in Urinary Quality of Life, Urinary Quality of Life measured using the urinary domain of the QLQ-BLS24 Index (a 24-item questionnaire that measures quality of life as it relates to urinary symptoms, sexual function, and bother domains). QLQ-BLS24 with a scale ranging from 24-96, and higher scores are worse., Scored at baseline and months 3, 6, 12 and 24. For any subject who has a recurrence after enrollment, but prior to completing a full year of dosing at Visit 6, this will also be measured at the End of Treatment visit.|Change in Cognitive Function, Cognitive function will be measured throughout the study period using EXIT. The EXIT is a brief 25-item interview that will be used by trained research staff to evaluate executive cognitive dysfunction of subjects., EXIT will be scored at baseline and on months 12 and 24.For any subject who has a recurrence after enrollment, but prior to completing a full year of dosing at Visit 6, this will also be measured at the End of Treatment visit.|Change in Cognitive Function, Cognitive function will be measured throughout the study period using St. Louis University Mental Status exam (SLUMS). The SLUMS exam will be used to evaluate memory, digit span and animal fluency., SLUMS will be scored at baseline and on months 12 and 24.For any subject who has a recurrence after enrollment, but prior to completing a full year of dosing at Visit 6, this will also be measured at the End of Treatment visit.|Change in Cognitive Function, Cognitive function will be measured throughout the study period using Texas Assessment of Processing Speed (TAPS). The TAPS test will evaluate digit/symbol coding., TAPS will be scored at baseline and on months 6, 12, and 24. For any subject who has a recurrence after enrollment, but prior to completing a full year of dosing at Visit 6, this will also be measured at the End of Treatment visit.|Change in cytoscopy consistent with recurrence (time to recurrence), Change in cytoscopy results from baseline consistent with recurrence, confirmed by pathologic examination of biopsied tissue., Patients will undergo office-based cystoscopy with urine cytology every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, and at year 5, with biopsies per standard of care if necessary.|Change in Short Physical Performance Battery, The Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) consists of a balance test looking at the ability to maintain three standing positions for 10 seconds, a timed 4-meter walk in which subjects perform their walk at their preferred walking speed, and a chair stand test that times the ability of the subject to arise from a chair 5 times without using their arms. Each section is scored out of 4 points, for a total possible score of 12 points. This test provides information on several motor domains such as static and dynamic balance, coordination, and strength of lower limbs. Lower scores may be associated with increased disability risk. The SPPB and Handgrip Strength are physical assessments., SPPB will be scored at baseline and on months 6, 12, and 24. For any subject who has a recurrence after enrollment, but prior to completing a full year of dosing at Visit 6, this will also be measured at the End of Treatment visit.|Change in Handgrip Strength, When measuring handgrip strength, the subject will be seated in a chair with the forearm at a 90-degree elbow bend. Three consecutive grip strengths will be completed with a standard grip strength dynamometer for both hands. The Handgrip Strength and SPPB are physical assessments., Handgrip Strength will be scored at baseline and on months 6, 12, and 24. For any subject who has a recurrence after enrollment, but prior to completing a full year of dosing at Visit 6, this will also be measured at the End of Treatment visit.
The study is a multi-site phase II double-blind randomized trial. Subjects will be randomized into placebo arm or intervention arm with low dose (0.5 mg) eRapa (encapsulated rapamycin) Monday-Friday for one year or until disease recurrence. Patients will undergo endoscopic evaluation of the bladder every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, and at year 5. Some patients may also concurrently receive BCG immune therapy maintenance (weekly for 6 weeks for induction period, weekly for 3 weeks at 3 months, 6 months, and then every 6 months for a total of 7 maintenance cycles following tumor removal) per standard of care. Patient-reported outcome (PRO) assessments, cognitive assessments, and physical assessments will be completed according to the study calendar. Research blood to assess safety, immune response and rapamycin level will be collected regularly throughout the study period. Participants will be followed for up to 5 years following enrollment.