A Phase 2 Study of Cediranib in Combination With Olaparib in Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase II trial studies cediranib maleate in combination with olaparib in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other parts of the body (advanced/metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable), including breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, and pancreatic cancer. Cediranib maleate and olaparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Cediranib maleate may also block the flow of oxygen to the tumor, and may help make the tumor more sensitive to olaparib.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Lung Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Lung Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Lung Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Lung Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Unresectable Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma|Unresectable Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: 18F-Fluoromisonidazole|DRUG: Cediranib Maleate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Olaparib|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Objective Response Rate, Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. The exact two-sided 95% confidence interval for the objective response rate will be reported., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment (Up to 43 months)
Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The outcome was updated upon results entry to reflect the number of graded adverse events per cohort separated by Grade 3 and Grade 4., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment (Up to 44 months)|Progression-free Survival, This outcome was updated at the time of results entry to include the median PFS and the full range of survival time in months for each cohort. The time frame was updated as well. PFS was calculated as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment (Up to 44 months)
Prevalence of the Mutations of Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Repair Genes in Each Tumor Cohort, In the first 20 endpoint-evaluable patients with non-small cell lung cancer and 20 endpoint-evaluable patients with triple negative breast cancer, the exploratory analyses will be done using Fisher's exact tests, Mann-Whitney U tests or McNemar's test depending on the type of data observed., Up to 2 years|Changes in Tumor Hypoxia by Imaging, Measured by 18F-fluoromisonidazole positron emission tomography/computed tomography scans (non-small cell lung cancer). For the pre- and post-cediranib therapy outcome analysis, paired t- test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be applied for the continuous variables., Baseline to post-cediranib monotherapy|Changes in Level of Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA) (All Cohorts), Will be assessed using paired t- test or Wilcoxon signed-rank., Baseline to post therapy|Changes in Levels of Angiogenesis/ Inflammatory Markers (Angiome Panel) (All Cohorts), Will be assessed using paired t- test or Wilcoxon signed-rank., Baseline to post-therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) of cediranib (cediranib maleate) plus olaparib in combination in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors of the following tumor types: non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), triple negative breast cancer (TNBC), pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), and small cell lung cancer (SCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of oral administration of cediranib in combination with olaparib in patients with select advanced solid tumors.

II. To estimate progression free survival (PFS) in each tumor cohort.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the prevalence of the mutations of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair genes in tumors using the BROCA panel and to correlate tumor regression with mutations status. (Integrated) II. To evaluate changes in tumor hypoxia on cediranib treatment compared to baseline by \[F-18\] fluoromisonidazole (FMISO) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) in patients with NSCLC.

III. To evaluate levels of angiogenesis/inflammatory markers including VEGF at baseline and on treatment.

IV. To evaluate levels of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) at baseline and on treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on day 1. Patients undergoing FMISO scan also receive olaparib PO twice daily (BID) beginning the day after the second FMISO scan and the rest of the patients receive olaparib PO BID beginning day 4 of cycle 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days (35 days for cycle 1) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks. Patients who discontinue the study treatment for reasons other than disease progression or withdrawal of consent will continue to be followed every 4 weeks until disease progression, start of new therapy, or death, whichever occurs first.