A Phase 2 Study of Axalimogene Filolisbac (ADXS11-001) in Participants With Carcinoma of the Anorectal Canal
This is a single arm Phase 2 study. Stage 1 and 2 of the study are monotherapy evaluations of ADXS11-001 in 31 and 24 participants, respectively with persistent/recurrent, loco-regional or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) of the anorectal canal that have received at least 1 regimen for the treatment of advanced disease.
Anal Cancer|Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Axalimogene filolisbac
Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Best response was defined as achievement of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the first dose until progression or death (maximum duration: 68 weeks)|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival was defined as the time from treatment start until disease progression or death whichever occurred earlier. Participants who have not progressed or who are still alive at the time of evaluation will be censored for the analysis. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression. Kaplan-Meier method was used for estimating progression free survival., From the first dose until progression or death (maximum duration: 68 weeks)
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening (any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a preexisting condition that is temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product, was also an adverse event., From the first dose until end of study (maximum duration: 72 weeks)
This is a single arm Phase 2 study. Stage 1 and 2 of the study are monotherapy evaluations of ADXS11-001 in 31 and 24 participants, respectively with persistent/recurrent, loco-regional or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) of the anorectal canal that have received at least 1 regimen for the treatment of advanced disease.