RFA+Highly-purified CTL vs. RFA Alone for Recurrent HCC
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common and the third leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Recurrence of tumor within the liver remnant is common, with a reported 5-year recurrence rate of 70%. Repeat hepatectomy is an effective treatment for intrahepatic HCC but with a small proportion of resection rate because of the poor functional liver reserve and postoperative complications. Radiofrequency ablation(RFA) is becoming the main effective treatment for small HCC (≤5.0cm). The efficacy of RFA for recurrent HCC has been reported to be comparable to those achieved by surgery with minimal, but higher local recurrence rate after RFA. It has been reported that immunotherapy in patients who underwent curative treatment for HCC, adjuvant immunotherapy with activated CIK cells increased recurrence-free and overall survival. But there is little evidence for adjuvant immunotherapy of recurrence HCC. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes(CTL), a kind of effective T cells that specific recognizing and killing antigen targeted cells through cloning amplification after receiving antigen information from antigen presented cell and playing key role to clear cancerous cells. So our hypothesis is that RFA combined with immunotherapy (Highly-purified CTL) is superior to RFA for recurrent HCC. The aim of this prospective study is to compare the outcome of RFA combined with immunotherapy (Highly-purified CTL) with RFA for small recurrent HCC after partial hepatectomy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: RFA|PROCEDURE: RFA+highly-purified CTL
Recurrence-free survival, 2 years
Overall survival, 5 years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 1 month
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common and the third leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Recurrence of tumor within the liver remnant is common, with a reported 5-year recurrence rate of 70%. Repeat hepatectomy is an effective treatment for intrahepatic HCC but with a small proportion of resection rate because of the poor functional liver reserve and postoperative complications. Radiofrequency ablation(RFA) is becoming the main effective treatment for small HCC (≤5.0cm). The efficacy of RFA for recurrent HCC has been reported to be comparable to those achieved by surgery with minimal, but higher local recurrence rate after RFA. It has been reported that immunotherapy in patients who underwent curative treatment for HCC, adjuvant immunotherapy with activated CIK cells increased recurrence-free and overall survival. But there is little evidence for adjuvant immunotherapy of recurrence HCC. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes(CTL), a kind of effective T cells that specific recognizing and killing antigen targeted cells through cloning amplification after receiving antigen information from antigen presented cell and playing key role to clear cancerous cells. So our hypothesis is that RFA combined with immunotherapy (Highly-purified CTL) is superior to RFA for recurrent HCC. The aim of this prospective study is to compare the outcome of RFA combined with immunotherapy (Highly-purified CTL) with RFA for small recurrent HCC after partial hepatectomy.