GnRHa + Letrozole in Obese Progestin-insensitive Endometrial Cancer Patients
To investigate the efficacy of GnRHa plus letrozole in obese progestin-insensitive EEC patients.
Endometrial Neoplasms|Atypical Endometrial Hyperplasia|Progesterone Resistance|Obesity
DRUG: GnRH antagonist|DRUG: Letrozole 2.5mg
Complete response rates within 28 weeks of treatment, The cumulative 28-week CR rates will be calculated in two groups. Patients will be evaluated with an hysteroscopy every 12 to 16 weeks. For some may delay the evaluation as personal reasons, we define the primary outcome measure as complete response rates within 28 weeks of treatment., Up to 28 weeks
Adverse events, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 will be recorded, as well as incidence of adverse events., Through study completion, an average of 28 weeks|Time to achieve complete response, The median CR time will be calculated., Up to 28 weeks|Relapse rates, Through study completion, an average of 2 years|Rates of fertility outcomes, Through study completion, an average of 2 years|Compliance, Data on treatment and hysteroscopy management will be collected, and deviations from study protocol will be recorded in writing. For example, the time of drug interruptions due to related toxicities or AEs, and delay of hysteroscopy for personal reasons., Through study completion, an average of 28 weeks
There were more and more women with early endometrioid endometrial cancer (EEC) and atypical endometrial hyperplasia (EAH) who want to preserve fertility.

Approximately 70% to 80% of females who meet the criteria for conservation treatment are able to achieve CR after progestin therapy, with a median time of 6-7 months, but about 20% to 30% of patients get no response or need to take longer time to achieve remission (over one year). With long duration of treatment, there will be more side effects such as weight gain, impaired liver function, endometrial injury, ovarian reserve inhibition etc. which will decrease the efficacy of conservative treatment. Previous researches had shown that GnRHa plus letrozole could be a better second-line treatment for obese progestin-insensitive patients. Till now, no similar studies were found, so we design this study to explore the efficacy of GnRHa plus letrozole in obese progestin-insensitive EEC and EAH patients to provide new evidences for improving conservative treatment efficacy. We defined obese patients as these with BMI ≥ 30kg/m2.

This will be a single-centred prospective pilot study. Patients diagnosed as obese progestin-insensitive EEC by dilatation and curettage (D\&C) or hysteroscopy will be enrolled. The primary endpoint is cumulative complete response (CR) rate at 28 weeks of treatment. The secondary endpoints include adverse events, duration of complete response, recurrent rate, pregnancy rate and quality of life of patients.