Exercises Using Virtual Reality on Cancer Patients
in this study, a randomized controlled trial will be conducted to evaluate the effect of adding exercises using virtual reality on achievements in patients having breast cancer and conducted surgical treatment
Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: exercises using virtual reality technology
Handgrip strength, will be measured by Pablo system for the affected and unaffected upper limbs, at baseline|handgrip strength, will be measured by Pablo system for the affected and unaffected upper limbs, after the end of the treatment (after 8 weeks)|wrist joint active range of motion (ROM), flexion and extension active ROM of the wrist joints will be assessed using Pablo system, baseline|wrist joint active ROM, flexion and extension active ROM of the wrist joints will be assessed using Pablo system, after the end of the treatment (after 8 weeks)|Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH), DASH is a 30-item questionnaire. Each item is scored on a 1 (no difficulty) to 5 (unable) scale. The total score may range from 0 to 100 points. High scores indicate a high level of disability., at baseline|Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH), DASH is a 30-item questionnaire. Each item is scored on a 1 (no difficulty) to 5 (unable) scale. The total score may range from 0 to 100 points. High scores indicate a high level of disability., after the end of the treatment (after 8 weeks)|Fatigue by Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory, The MFI is a 20-item self-report instrument designed to measure fatigue. It covers the following dimensions: general fatigue, physical fatigue, reduced activity, reduced motivation, and mental fatigue., at baseline|Fatigue by Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory, The MFI is a 20-item self-report instrument designed to measure fatigue. It covers the following dimensions: general fatigue, physical fatigue, reduced activity, reduced motivation, and mental fatigue., after the end of the treatment (after 8 weeks)|Anxiety by The State Anxiety Inventory (SAI), SAI is a valid and commonly used measure for anxiety The SAI includes 20 items; each item is scored on a 4-point Likert scale The SAI range of total scores is between 20 and 80, with the higher score indicating more anxiety, at baseline|Anxiety by The State Anxiety Inventory (SAI), SAI is a valid and commonly used measure for anxiety The SAI includes 20 items; each item is scored on a 4-point Likert scale The SAI range of total scores is between 20 and 80, with the higher score indicating more anxiety, after the end of the treatment (after 8 weeks)|Pain using Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), this scale is valid and reliable measure of pain intensity. the patient is asked to rate pain intensity be choosing a number from 0 to 10 where 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates the worst pain ever, at baseline|Pain using Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), this scale is valid and reliable measure of pain intensity. the patient is asked to rate pain intensity be choosing a number from 0 to 10 where 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates the worst pain ever, after the end of the treatment (after 8 weeks)
in this study, a randomized controlled trial will be conducted to evaluate the effect of adding exercises using virtual reality on achievements in patients having breast cancer and conducted surgical treatment.

A virtual reality (VR) environment is created by combining computer systems and sensor technology with the use of three-dimensional graphics and enabling users to experience a more real, immersive experience by utilizing their various senses (vision, hearing, touch, etc.) through the use of the computer and sensor technologies and it is characterized by immersion, imagination, and interaction 2 groups will be selected randomly to receive experimental and control intervention for 1 month and outcomes will be collected before and after treatment.