Study With Gemcitabine and RTA 402 for Patients With Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
This study assesses the safety and efficacy of RTA 402 in combination with gemcitabine in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Neoplasms|Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl|DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl|DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl|DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl|DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl|DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl|DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Bardoxolone methyl
Phase I - To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of RTA 402 in combination with gemcitabine in patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer., End of trial|Phase II - To determine if treatment with RTA 402 in combination with gemcitabine can increase the progression-free survival versus gemcitabine plus placebo in patients with unresectable metastatic pancreatic cancer., End of Trial
Phase I - To document any preliminary antitumor activity of RTA 402 in this patient population., End ofTrial|Phase I - To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of RTA 402 in this population., End of Trial|Phase II - To determine the overall response rate in patients treated with RTA 402 + gemcitabine and in patients treated with gemcitabine + placebo., End of Trial|Phase II - To determine the 1-year survival in this patient population., End of Trial|Phase II - To determine the toxicities of these regimens., End of Trial|Phase II - To determine the changes in quality of life (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (Fatigue), [FACIT-F])., End of Trial
Phase I will be conducted to determine the MTD of RTA 402 (administered orally Days 1-21 or Days 1-28 of a 28-day cycle) in combination with gemcitabine (1000 m/m2). Gemcitabine will be administered as an intravenous infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle.

The phase II portion of the study will be randomized, and double-blinded. Phase II will utilize the RTA 402 MTD determined in Phase I; Arm 1 will consist of gemcitabine + RTA 402. RTA 402 capsules will administered orally Days 1-21 of each 28-day cycle (or Days 1-28 if appropriate, based on phase I results); gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2) will be administered as an intravenous infusion on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle in each Arm. Arm 2 will consist of gemcitabine + placebo, placebo capsules will be taken orally Days 1-21 of each 28-day cycle (or Days 1-28 if appropriate, based on phase I results). Both treatment arms are 4-weeks in length.

The study was conceived with both a Phase I and Phase II portion as described above; however, only the Phase I portion was completed. The trial was terminated in 2009 before the Phase II portion could begin.