Corticosteroids for Cancer Pain
Study hypothesis: corticosteroids are effective for pain in cancer patients. We will perform a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multicentre trial evaluating the effect of Methylprednisolone 16 mg twice daily in cancer patients with pain (average pain last 24 hrs NRS \> 4 (Numerical rating scale, 0 No pain, 10 worst pain).
Cancer|Pain
DRUG: Methylprednisolone|DRUG: Placebo
pain intensity at Day 7, change of pain intensity at Day 7, measured by "average pain for the last 24 hours" (NRS 0-10)., 7 days
fatigue, change of fatigue measured by EORTC QLQ30 and ESAS, 7 days|appetite, change of appetite measured by EORTC QLQ30 and ESAS, 7 days|Overall effect satisfaction, Overall effect measured by a global satisfaction-question ("How is your overall benefit from the medication?" NRS: 0= No important benefit 10=very important benefit)., 7 days|sleep quality, change of sleep quality measured by Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, 7 days|analgesic usage, change of analgesic usage measured by morphine equivalents., 7 days|Pain now and average pain last 24 hrs, Pain now and average pain last 24 hours measured by daily NRS (Numeric rating scale)(ESAS), 7 days
Patients are required to use strong opioids before entering the study. Weak opioids are allowed if patients have short acting strong opioids as rescue-medication. The scheduled opioids shall be stable last 48 hours before entering the study and will be kept stable during the study period. Patients may use as much short acting rescue-medication as they require. No other analgesic medication should be started during the study period.

The study is a multicentre trial. Patients will be randomized according to 1. study centre (No 1-5) and 2. pain mechanism: skeletal metastases (yes/no).

Patients are evaluated Day 0 and Day 7 by palliative care physician. Patients will be contacted by phone Day 1-6 and will fill in questionnaire regarding symptoms and analgesic usage. Patients will be contacted Day 14 and 21 to fill in questionnaires regarding symptoms, quality of life and side effects.