Evaluation of the Efficacy of Diuretics for Symptomatic Malignant Ascites Episodes in Advanced Stage of Cancer (DIASC)
While some authors recommend diuretics as the first treatment to initiate for symptoms caused by malignant ascites (MA), their prescription is variable. No randomized, controlled study has assessed their benefit in this context. According to literature, diuretics may bring relief in about 40% of cases, regardless of primary tumor.

The purpose of our study is to assess the effectiveness of diuretic treatment according to Serum Ascites Albumin Gradient (SAAG) measured before treatment. Judgment criteria is the time elapsed between recurrent MA that requires paracentesis. The investigators will also examine whether SAAG and serum levels of renin and aldosterone can predict symptom response to diuretics.
Cancer
DRUG: Spironolactone (+/- Furosemide)
Time between symptomatic malignant ascites episodes requiring paracentesis, Patients will be followed until their third malignant ascites episode, an expected average of 30 days.
Tolerance, Adverse events and serious adverse events related to diuretic treatment according to NCI-CTCAE v4.0, Up to 30 days after the last administration of the product|Quality of life based on the EORTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer) QLQ-C15-PAL, At baseline (prior to the start of treatment)|Quality of life based on the EORTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer) QLQ-C15-PAL, At cross-over (approximately 15 days after inclusion)|Quality of life based on the EORTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer) QLQ-C15-PAL, At the end of the study (up to 6 months).|Description of the patterns of prescription of diuretics, Growth pattern doses of diuretics, decrement pattern doses of diuretics, maintenance doses of diuretics, maximum doses reached of diuretics., During randomization in arm B (that is to say during approximately 15 days between the first and the second or between the second and the third milgnant ascites episode).|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : Serum Ascites Albumin Gradient (SAAG), Within 24 hours prior to the start of treatment|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : renin aldosterone plasmatic level, Within 24 hours prior to the start of treatment|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : SAAG, Twice a week for patients randomized in arm B|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : renin aldosterone plasmatic level, Twice a week for patients randomized in arm B|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : SAAG, At cross-over (approximately 15 days after inclusion)|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : renin aldosterone plasmatic level, At cross-over (approximately 15 days after inclusion)|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : SAAG, At the end of the study (up to 6 months).|Predictive factors of response to diuretics : renin aldosterone plasmatic level, At the end of the study (up to 6 months).
Patients eligible for the trial and having signed their consent to participate will be randomized to arm A or B.

Treatment order is randomly attributed to patients at the 1st paracentesis, after the reception of the laboratory results necessary to evaluate SAAG value. Randomization is stratified 1:1 according to SAAG values (≥ or \< to 11g/L) and Systemic treatment (yes or not)

* Patients randomized to arm A will be observed until the next episode requiring paracentesis (due to clinical symptoms : abdominal pain or heaviness, dyspnoea, orthopnoea, nausea/vomiting, anorexia, early satiety, gastro-oesophageal reflux, lower limb and genital oedema), at which time they will receive arm B (diuretics), in absence of contra-indication to diuretic treatment.
* Patients randomized to arm B will receive diuretics until the next episode requiring paracentesis, at which time they will receive arm A (observation).

Patients will have a physical assessment within 24 hours prior to the start of treatment, once every two weeks for patients randomized in arm A and each week for patients randomized in arm B, at cross-over and at the end of the study. Patient will also have a biological assessment within 24 hours prior to the start of treatment, twice a week for patients randomized in arm B, at cross-over and at the end of the study. Finally, they will address a quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C15-PAL) prior to the start of treatment, at cross-over and at the end of the study.