Vaccine Therapy Followed by Biological Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma
RATIONALE: Vaccines made from melanoma cells may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells. Biological therapies such as interferon gamma and interleukin-2 use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop cancer cells from growing. Combining vaccine therapy with biological therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying giving vaccine therapy together with interferon gamma and interleukin-2 in treating patients with stage III or stage IV melanoma.
Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: MART-1 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: gp100 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant CD40-ligand|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interferon gamma|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interleukin-4|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic autologous dendritic cells|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic tumor infiltrating lymphocytes|BIOLOGICAL: tyrosinase peptide|RADIATION: Candida albicans skin test reagent
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the clinical response rate and immune response in HLA-A2 positive patients with stage III or IV melanoma after receiving autologous dendritic cells pulsed with melanoma antigen peptides (MART-1:26-35, gp100:209-217, and tyrosinase:368-376) and treated ex vivo with CD40-ligand and interferon gamma, followed by interleukin-2 in vivo.
* Determine the toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo leukapheresis to harvest autologous dendritic cells (ADCs). Melanoma peptides (MART-1:26-35, gp100:209-217, and tyrosinase:368-376) are pulsed separately onto ADCs, which are also treated ex vivo with CD40-ligand, interferon gamma, interleukin-4, sargramostim (GM-CSF), and Candida albicans skin test reagent. Patients receive each melanoma peptide pulsed ADC vaccine separately via 3 successive 10 minute infusions on day 1. Patients then receive interleukin-2 subcutaneously every 12 hours on days 2-6. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed at 4 weeks, then every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 21-41 patients will be accrued for this study within 18-24 months.