Envafolimab Immunotherapy After ctDNA EGFR Clearance by Treatment With Almonertinib in EGFR-Mutant, PD-LI Positive NSCLC
This is a prospective, single-arm, open-label, interventional clinical study, aimed at exploring the efficacy and safety of sequential Envafolimab immunotherapy after patients with ctDNA EGFR mutation clearance and achieved stable radiographically deep esponse after first line treatment with Almonertinib in EGFR-Mutant, PD-LI positive non-small-cell lung cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Almonertinib Envafolimab
PFS, The progression-free survival is defined as the time from date of baseline until the the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first., 24 months.|TRP, Time to retest positive is defined as the time from date of sequential Envafolimab treatment until blood sample ctDNA detected for EGFR mutation recurrence or disease progression assessed by radiological imaging，assessed up to 24 months., 24 months.
ORR, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who have at least 1 response of CR or PR prior to any evidence of progression, assessed up to 24 months., From baseline, then every 6 weeks, until disease progression or discontinuation from study. ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who have at least 1 response of CR or PR prior to any evidence of progression assessed up to 24 months.|DCR, The disease control rate is defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR, PR, or SD., 24 months.|OS, OS is defined as the time from the starting date of study drug to the date of death，due to any cause., 24 months after the last subject participating in.
The study includes a screening period (not more than 28 days after the subject signs informed consent to before the first medication), treatment period (including Almonertinib treatment in 6-8 weeks after enrollment\\ctDNA testing and radiographically imaging assessment\\ctDNA guiding sequential Envafolimab immunotherapy) and follow-up period (including survival and safety) .

Eligible subjects receive 110 mg of Almonertinib once a day for 6-8 consecutive weeks of treatment，and receive ctDNA testing and radiographically imaging assessment again. According to test results, there are two types:

1. EGFR mutation is positive, subjects subsequent treament is up to the investigator (continue to receive 110 mg of Almonertinib once a day or combination therapy regimen), follow up every 6 weeks.
2. EGFR mutation is negative and achieve stable radiographically deep response after 6-8 weeks treatment with Almonertinib, subjects will stop Almonertinib treatment，and receive sequential Envafolimab immunotherapy (ctDNA dynamic monitoring guided treatment，every 6 weeks test ctDNA once, if it is negative, subjects continue to receive Envafolimab immunotherapy until ctDNA EGFR turns positive; if ctDNA EGFR is positive, subjects stop Envafolimab immunotherapy and receive Almonertinib 110 mg once a day again until ctDNA EGFR turns negative).

The treatment will continue until disease progression assessed by the investigator according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, or withdrawal or termination criteria are reached.