Five Year Adjuvant Imatinib Mesylate (Gleevec®) in Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (GIST)
This is a Phase II, non-randomized, open-label, multi-center study conducted in the USA. The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the use of long term adjuvant imatinib mesylate in patients at significant risk for recurrence following complete resection of primary GIST.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (GIST)
DRUG: imatinib mesylate
Recurrence-free Survival up to 60 Months, Recurrence-free survival assessment is based on the radiologic evidence and is defined as the time from the date of first dose of imatinib to the date of the first documented disease recurrence or death due to any cause (event)., Baseline up to 60 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimates for Recurrence-free Survival up to 60 Months, Recurrence-free survival (RFS) assessment is based on the radiologic evidence and is defined as the time from the date of first dose of imatinib to the date of the first documented disease recurrence or death due to any cause (event). RFS estimates were summarized using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit method (Kaplan 1958). Censoring rules for RFS with the earliest occurring rule used in the analysis: subjects without objective recurrence of disease who were alive at the time of their discontinuation from study were censored at the end of study date or end of treatment visit date if the subject refused to be followed post treatment and subjects recording antineoplastic therapy during the study were censored on the date of the therapy initiated, Baseline up to 60 months
Overall Survival (OS) at 60 Months, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study drug to the date of death. Subjects who were alive at the time of discontinuation/completion of the study were censored at the end of study date or end of treatment visit date if the subject refused to be followed post treatment. Full analysis set., Baseline up to approximately 60 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimates for Overall Survival (OS) up to 60 Months, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study drug to the date of death. Subjects who were alive at the time of discontinuation/completion of the study were censored at the end of study date or end of treatment visit date if the subject refused to be followed post treatment. Full analysis set., Baseline up to appoximately 60 months
This is a Phase II, non-randomized, open-label, multi-center study conducted in the USA. The primary endpoint is to evaluate the use of long term adjuvant imatinib mesylate in patients at significant risk for recurrence following complete resection of primary GIST. A total of 85 adult patients, 18 years of age and older will be enrolled.Participants will take 400 mg of imatinib mesylate daily by mouth for a total of 5 years. At the conclusion of the treatment period, patients will be followed for 2 years for survival, status of response and antineoplastic treatments and quality of life.