A Study of Herceptin (Trastuzumab) in Women With Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (HER) 2-Positive Advanced and/or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study will assess the efficacy and safety of intravenous (IV) trastuzumab (Herceptin) and IV docetaxel (Taxotere), with or without oral capecitabine (Xeloda), in women with previously untreated HER2-positive advanced and/or metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Xeloda|DRUG: Taxotere|DRUG: Herceptin
Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Tumor response was assessed by RECIST during the study. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels. PR was defined as greater than or equal to (≥) 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR. The percentage of participants with a best overall response for CR or PR was reported. The exact 95% confidence interval (CI) for one-sample binomial was determined using the Pearson-Clopper method., Tumor assessments at Baseline, then every 6 weeks until Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days), then every 12 weeks until progressive disease and/or one year after enrollment; thereafter according to routine clinical practice (up to 66 months overall)
Percentage of Participants With Death or Disease Progression According to RECIST, Tumor response was assessed by RECIST during the study. Disease progression or progressive disease (PD) was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-treatment sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. The percentage of participants who died or experienced PD was reported., Tumor assessments at Baseline, then every 6 weeks until Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days), then every 12 weeks until progressive disease and/or one year after enrollment; thereafter according to routine clinical practice (up to 66 months overall)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST, Tumor response was assessed by RECIST during the study. Disease progression or PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-treatment sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. PFS was defined as the time from start of treatment to the first event of death or PD. Participants without event at the time of analysis were censored at the latest date of last tumor assessment or last date in drug log. The median duration of PFS and corresponding 95% CI were estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and expressed in months., Tumor assessments at Baseline, then every 6 weeks until Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days), then every 12 weeks until progressive disease and/or one year after enrollment; thereafter according to routine clinical practice (up to 66 months overall)|Percentage of Participants Who Died, The percentage of participants who died from any cause was reported., Continuously during treatment (up to 66 months) and at any time after treatment discontinuation until 18 months after last participant enrolled (up to 66 months overall)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from start of treatment to date of death for any reason. Participants who were alive at the time of analysis were censored at the latest date of last tumor assessment, last drug intake, or last follow-up information. The median duration of OS and corresponding 95% CI were estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and expressed in months., Continuously during treatment (up to 66 months) and at any time after treatment discontinuation until 18 months after last participant enrolled (up to 66 months overall)|Duration of Response (DOR) According to RECIST, Tumor response was assessed by RECIST during the study. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. Response was to be confirmed ≥4 weeks after the initial assessment of CR or PR. DOR was defined as the time from first assessment of CR or PR until the first occurrence of documented PD, death, or withdrawal. The median DOR was reported and expressed in months., Tumor assessments at Baseline, then every 6 weeks until Cycle 8 (cycle length of 21 days), then every 12 weeks until progressive disease and/or one year after enrollment; thereafter according to routine clinical practice (up to 66 months overall)
This study will assess the efficacy and safety of intravenous (IV) trastuzumab (Herceptin) and IV docetaxel (Taxotere), with or without oral capecitabine (Xeloda), in women with previously untreated HER2-positive advanced and/or metastatic breast cancer.