Evaluating the Effects of Hemoglobin Threshold-specific Packed Red Blood Cell Transfusions on Quality of Life and Functional Outcomes in Patients With High-grade Myeloid Neoplasms, Acute Myeloid Leukemia, or B Acute Lymphoblastic Lymphoma/Leukemia
This clinical trial evaluates the effects of hemoglobin threshold-specific packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusions on quality of life and functional outcomes in patients who have undergone chemotherapy or an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant for a high-grade myeloid neoplasm, acute myeloid leukemia, or B acute lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia. Some types of chemotherapy and stem cell transplants can induce low platelet counts and/or anemia that requires PRBC transfusions. Given critical shortages in blood supply, and risks associated with transfusion of PRBC, there has been much investigation into the "minimum" hemoglobin level that effectively balances safety and toxicity in patients. This clinical trial evaluates the effects of giving PRBC transfusions based on a more restrictive hemoglobin threshold (\> 7 gm/dL) compared to a more liberal hemoglobin threshold (\> 9 gm/dL) on quality of life and functional outcomes. A more restrictive threshold may be just as effective at maintaining patient quality of life and function while decreasing side effects from blood transfusions and helping to conserve blood supply resources.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Myeloid Neoplasm
OTHER: Activity Tracking|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Cognitive Assessment|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Packed Red Blood Cell Transfusion|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Percentage of eligible patients that consent (feasibility), Randomizing patients to two different transfusion thresholds will be considered feasible if greater than 50% of eligible patients consent., Up to 30 months|Percentage of patients randomized to the restrictive 7 gm/dL threshold that tolerate this transfusion trigger (feasibility), Randomizing patients to two different transfusion thresholds will be considered feasible if greater than 75% of the patients randomized to the restrictive 7 gm/dL threshold tolerate this transfusion trigger. A patient will be defined as tolerant if the patient receives transfusions at a hemoglobin threshold higher than \> 7gm/dL less than 3 times due to signs/symptoms of acute anemia., Up to 7 days after completion of study intervention|Indication for early termination based on interim analyses of safety (feasibility), Randomizing patients to two different transfusion thresholds will be considered feasible if there is no indication for early termination based on the interim safety analyses., Up to 30 months
OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo PRBC transfusion if at any point their hemoglobin level is 7 gm/dL or less, starting the day after standard of care (SOC) chemotherapy/stem cell infusion is complete and continuing for up to 42 days. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples on study.

ARM II: Patients undergo PRBC transfusion if at any point their hemoglobin level is 9 gm/dL or less, starting the day after SOC chemotherapy/stem cell infusion is complete and continuing for up to 42 days. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples on study.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up for 7 days and then periodically for up to 5 years.