Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma That Cannot be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial is studying the side effects of pazopanib hydrochloride and to see how well it works in treating patients with metastatic melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Tumor Response Rate, Tumor response rate is defined as the number of eligible patients whose disease status meets the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for compete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the number of evaluable patients. A ninety percent confidence interval for the true response proportion will be calculated assuming that the number of confirmed tumor responses follows a binomial distribution and using the Duffy-Santner approach.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the largest dimension (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 5 years|Toxicity, Toxicity is defined as any grade 3 or higher adverse event as assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 and at least possibly related to treatment. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient. We report the number of patients experiencing a grade 3 or higher adverse event at least possibly related to treatment., Up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from registration to the time of death due to any cause. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from registration to the time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of Response, The date at which the objective status is first noted to be either a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) to the date progression is documented, assessed up to 5 years., From time of documented response to the date progression is documented, assessed up to 5 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the anti-tumor activity and safety profile of single agent Pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of Pazopanib on circulating levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).

II. To examine the association between tumor response and B-Raf and N-Ras mutations.

III. To examine pre/post-treatment expression levels of VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-1, VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3, and Ki67.

IV. To correlate baseline and changes in p-ERK levels in the tumor with response.

V. To determine pazopanib steady-state trough plasma concentrations (Css,min) and the relationships between Css,min and the PD effects and toxicities of pazopanib.

VI. To examine the associations of common polymorphisms in CYP1A2, CYP2C8, UGT1A1, ABCB1, and ABCG2 with the PK and PD of pazopanib.

VII. To Assess Progression Free Survival. VIII. To Assess Overall Survival.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral pazopanib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo tumor tissue biopsy at baseline and blood sample collection at baseline and on days 14, 28, and 42 for research studies. Tumor tissue samples are analyzed by DNA sequencing, ELISA, western blotting, and immunoperoxidase staining. Blood samples are analyzed for pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacogenetics by high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.