Combination of Hyperthermia and Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) in Treatment Failure Solid Tumors
The primary goals of hyperthermia combined with chemotherapy/radiotherapy on treatment failure solid tumors are tumor response rate, while secondary goals are rates of acute and late adverse effects, local control rate, distant metastasis rate, progression-free rate and overall survival rate.
Solid Tumors
RADIATION: Radiation|OTHER: Hyperthermia|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Taxotere
Tumor response rate, To estimate the tumor response rate (complete response + partial response; CR + PR; according to RECIST criteria version 1.1)., 12 weeks
Adverse events, To estimate rates of each grade adverse events (CTCAE, version 4.0) which is possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment and which occurs within 3 months from the start of radiation combined with hyperthermia and chemotherapy., up to 12 weeks|Late adverse events, To estimate rates of late adverse events., up to 1 years|Time to Disease Progression, To estimate the local control rate, distant metastasis rate and progression-free rate for patients., up to 5 years
The goal of this study is to conduct a phase II clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of combination of low temperature (40-43℃ range) hyperthermia and concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) in treatment failure solid tumors. There are 3 reasons of conducting this clinical trial. Firstly, it has been demonstrated that hyperthermia can enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy, radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy in various cancers, with acceptable safety profiles. Secondly, the salvage outcomes for treatment failure solid tumors were frustrated. Thermal enhancement ratio (TER) was observed when using hyperthermia combining radiotherapy or chemotherapy. This strategy should be investigated in its efficacy in treating those failing from previous standard treatment and maybe several times of salvage therapy. Thirdly, biologically reciprocal complementation between hyperthermia, chemotherapy and radiotherapy was observed. The reason may be complicated, including theories involving hypoxia, immunomodulation and reperfusion ... etc. If the immunity microenvironment could be improved by addition of hyperthermia, an unexpected survival benefit as compared with the literature may be potentially demonstrated from this study.