Anti-CD20 (Cluster of Differentiation Antigen 20) Therapy to Treat Metastatic Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to assess the overall disease control rate of Ofatumumab wo/w Dacarbazine in subjects with American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC 2009) unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma.
Stage III Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ofatumumab|BIOLOGICAL: Ofatumumab plus Dacarbazine
Disease control according to RECIST v. 1.1 criteria, Disease control according to RECIST v. 1.1 criteria until week 24, 24 weeks
Assessment of progression-free survival (PFS), Assessment of progression-free survival (PFS) defined as the time from first day of treatment to the first documentation of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., approximately 2 years|Evaluation of cell biological responses, in patients' blood and tumor samples, From date of inclusion until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 weeks|Duration of disease control, approximately 2 years|Overall survival, approximately 2 years
This is a prospective, multicenter, open-label, sequential, 2-cohort, phase 2 study to assess the overall disease control rate of Ofatumumab according to criteria of RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) v. 1.1. in subjects with unresectable stage III B (T1- 4a, N2b-c), stage III C or stage IV (American Joint Committee on Cancer 2009) disease.

Cohort 1: 10 eligible patients will be treated with ofatumumab alone. If interim analysis shows that at least 1 confirmed overall response occurs, an additional 19 eligible patients will be treated, for a total of 29 patients.

Cohort 2: If no confirmed overall response by ofatumumab alone-therapy is seen in the first 10 patients, cohort 2 will be opened. Initially, 13 eligible patients will be treated with a combination of Dacarbazine plus ofatumumab. If interim analysis gives at least 2 confirmed overall responses, additional 26 patients will be recruited.