Genetically Modified T-cells (CMV-Specific CD19-CAR T-cells) Plus a Vaccine (CMV-MVA Triplex) for the Treatment of Intermediate or High Grade B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the safety and feasibility of cytomegalovirus (CMV) specific CD19-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells in combination with the CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) triplex vaccine following lymphodepletion in treating patients with intermediate or high grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that does not respond to treatment (refectory). CAR T cells are a type of treatment in which a patient's T cells (a type of immune system cell) are changed in the laboratory so they will attack cancer cells. T cells are taken from a patient's blood. Then the gene for a special receptor that binds to a certain protein on the patient's cancer cells is added in the laboratory. The special receptor is called CAR. Large numbers of the CAR T cells are grown in the laboratory and given to the patient by infusion. Vaccines such as CMV-MVA triplex are made from gene-modified viruses and may help the body build an effective immune response to kill cancer cells. Giving CMV-specific CD19-CAR T-cells plus the CMV-MVA triplex vaccine may help prevent the cancer from coming back.
High Grade B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Intermediate Grade B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Recurrent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-CD19-CAR CMV-specific T-lymphocytes|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|PROCEDURE: Lymphodepletion Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Multi-peptide CMV-Modified Vaccinia Ankara Vaccine|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity, Toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0, and the revised American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) cytokine release syndrome (CRS) grading systems. Will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed and graded according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0, and the ASTCT consensus grading for CRS and neurotoxicity associated with immune effector cells., Up to 15 years
Feasibility as assessed by the ability to meet the required cell dose and product release requirement, Feasibility will be assessed by achieving the proposed dose of CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells per product and meeting product release requirements for enrolled participants. The goal is to manufacture 10 x 10\^6 cells (this is a flat dose)., Up to 56 days|Short- and long-term cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific CD19-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell expansion and persistence, Will be assessed longitudinally. Persistence is defined as detection of \>= 0.1% of CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells in CD3+ cells in peripheral blood, 28 days after vaccine administration, by flow cytometry and Woodchuck Hepatitis Virus Posttranscriptional Regulatory Element quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR). Expansion is defined as an increase of 2-fold in CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells after Triplex administration compared with pre-vaccination cell number. Response to Triplex will be assessed based on numbers of EGFR+, pp65-specific interferon gamma (IFNy)+ and CD137+T cells., Up to 15 years|Clinically significant CMV reactivation, Clinically significant defined as \> 1250 IU/ml or 500 GC/mL) CMV reactivation requiring management treatment after CAR T cell infusion as assessed by PCR., Up to 15 years|Disease response (complete response/minor response/partial response/disease progression/stable disease), Will be assessed according to International Working Group consensus response evaluation criteria in lymphoma 2017. The specific time trend for CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells will be assessed using linear mixed effects modeling. The overall fit of the model will be evaluated graphically by taking a scatter plot of data for the CAR T cells and applying an overlay of the line generated by the model. To assess changes over time, functional regression modeling will be used., 28 and 84 days after CAR T cell infusion|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Time from the start of lymphodepletion to the time of disease relapse, progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 1 year and up to 15 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Time from the start of lymphodepletion to death, assessed up to 15 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the safety and describe the toxicity profile of anti-CD19-CAR CMV-specific T-lymphocytes (CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells) as monotherapy and when given in combination with a multi-peptide CMV-modified vaccinia Ankara vaccine (CMV-MVA Triplex) following standard of care lymphodepletion.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the feasibility of autologous CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cell manufacturing, as assessed by the ability to meet the required cell dose and product release requirements.

II. Estimate the overall and complete disease response rate at days 28 and 84 after CAR T cell infusion.

III. Determine short- and longer-term CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cell in vivo expansion and persistence.

IV. Assess whether the CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells respond to CMV-MVA Triplex vaccine.

V. Estimate the rate of CMV reactivation after CAR T cell. VI. Estimate the one-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate and median overall survival (OS) post-CAR T cell infusion.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess whether the CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells respond to CMV-MVA Triplex vaccine when administered to participants that received CAR T cells only in the safety lead-in portion in the expansion phased of the study (i.e., once safety of the CMV-MVA Triplex vaccine is established in the feasibility portion of the study).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients undergo leukapheresis on day -30 and receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy on days -10 to -3 per standard of care (SOC) on study. Patients then receive CMV-specific CD19-CAR T cells intravenously (IV) on day 0 and CMV-MVA triplex vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on days 28 and 56 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity on study. Patients also undergo x-ray during screening and on study, as well as positron emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), blood sample collection, and bone marrow biopsy on study and during follow-up.