Volume Restriction in Esophageal Carcinoma Surgery: Randomized Clinical Trial
An exploratory single-centre randomized clinical trial was performed in order to investigate whether the fluid volume administered during esophageal carcinoma surgery affects pulmonary gas exchange and tissue perfusion.
Esophageal Neoplasm
OTHER: Restrictive group|OTHER: Liberal group
Pulmonary Gas Exchange During and After Esophageal Carcinoma Surgery (PaO2/FiO2 Ratio), At the given time point, 10 minutes after beginning of the Lewis Tanner procedure and 6 hours after, arterial oxygen partial pressure (PaO2), inspired oxygen fraction (FiO2), and the PaO2/FiO2 ratio will be measured. The results of Pa02/FiO2 ratio will be compared between two groups for each time point separately., 10 minutes, 6 hours|Creatinine Values During and After Esophageal Carcinoma Surgery, At the given time points, 10 minutes after beginning of the Lewis Tanner procedure and 6 hours after, creatinine blood levels will be measured. The results will be compared between two groups for each time point separately., 10 minutes, 6 hours|Lactate Values During and After Esophageal Carcinoma Surgery, At the given time points, ten minutes after beginning of the Lewis Tanner procedure and six hours after procedure, blood levels of the lactate will be measured and compared between two groups for each time point separately., 10 minutes, 6 hours|Changes in Lactate Levels During Esophageal Carcinoma Surgery Using Restrictive or Liberal Fluid Management., At the given time points, ten minutes after beginning of the Lewis Tanner procedure and six hours after procedure, blood levels of the lactate will be measured and compared inside the same group (liberal or restrictive)., 10 minutes, 6 hours
Duration of Surgery, Total time of Lewis-Tanner procedure will be measured and compared between two groups., End of surgery.|Total Volume of Administered Intraoperative Fluid, Total volume of intraoperatively given fluid according to the protocol will be measured and compared between two groups., End of surgery
A convenience sample of 16 patients admitted to the Department of Thoracic surgery University Hospital Centre Zagreb and scheduled for esophageal carcinoma surgery were enrolled prospectively in the study between June 2011 and August 2012.

Patients were randomly allocated into two groups, one of which received ≤ 8ml/kg/h of intraoperative fluid ("restrictive group") and another that received \> 8 ml/kg/h of fluid ("liberal group").

Patients were excluded if they were younger than 18 years; if they had severe lung disease, chronic renal insufficiency, or a physical status classification \> III on the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) scale; or if it was impossible to perform epidural catheter placement or thoraco-phreno-laparotomy.

All patients underwent esophagectomy carried out according to the Lewis-Tanner approach.

Data on arterial oxygen partial pressure (PaO2), inspired oxygen fraction (FiO2), and the ratio PaO2/FiO2 were collected 10 min after anesthesia was induced and again 6 h after surgery. Data on the metabolic markers creatinine and lactate were collected 10 min after anesthesia induction and 6 h after surgery.

ANOVA tests were performed to determine significant differences in mean values between study groups. Independent-sample t-tests were used to test differences in mean values between the restrictive and liberal groups for each of the two sets of measurements separately (10 minutes after anesthesia induction and 6 hr after surgery). P \< 0.05 was considered significant.