Genotype-guided Treatment in Newly Diagnosed PTCL
This study includes Phase I and Phase II stages. Phase I is an open-label trial to confirm RP2D of oral targeted agents in three genetic subtypes. Phase II is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, open-label, controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of genotype-guided targeted agents plus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP-X2) versus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) in patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma.
Peripheral T Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: CHOP+selinexor+5-Azacitidine|DRUG: CHOP+duvelisib+5-Azacitidine|DRUG: CHOP+chidamide+tislelizumab|DRUG: standard CHOP
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) for Phase I, Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) for Phase I of oral targeted agents in each genetic subtypes by traditional "3+3" dose escalation methods, DLT time window (28 days from Cycle 2)|Complete response rate (CRR) for Phase II, Percentage of participants with complete response was determined on the basis of investigator assessments according to 2014 Lugano criteria., End of treatment visit (6-8 weeks after last dose on Day 1 of Cycle 6 [Cycle length=21 days])
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of the first documented day of disease progression or relapse, using 2014 Lugano criteria, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., Baseline up to data cut-off (up to approximately 2 years)|Overall survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause., Baseline up to data cut-off (up to approximately 2 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., From enrollment to study completion, a maximum of 4 years
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) is a heterogeneous disease with dismal outcomes. Standard CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone) chemotherapy is still the most widely used front-line treatment of PTCL except Brentuximab-CHP application in anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL). The CR rate ranges from 31%-56% in different studies with different PTCL histology compositions. With the exception for ALCL-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive, the 5-year overall survival (OS) rate is approximately 30%-40% for most subtypes of PTCL patients in current situation, remaining as the unmet medical needs in this disease. Based on genetic subtypes in PTCL, and our previous study exploring targeted agents plus CHOP based on genetic mutations (Guidance-03 study), we conducted this multicenter, prospective, randomized, open-label, controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of genotype-guided targeted agents plus CHOP (CHOP-X2) versus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) in patients with PTCL. It includes phase I and phase II stages. Patients will receceived stardard CHOP for the first cycle and then obtain the genetic subtypes from tumor NGS befor Cycle 2. In phase I, recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of oral targeted agents will be confirmed by traditional "3+3" dose escalation methods. In phase II, patients will receive standard CHOP for the first cycle and then 1:1 be randomized to CHOPX2 or CHOP regimen in each genetic subtypes.