Neoadjuvant Pazopanib in Renal Cell Carcinoma
This study will be a single arm phase II clinical trial of 8 weeks of daily, oral neo-adjuvant pazopanib prior to nephrectomy in 39 evaluable patients with histologically confirmed localized renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pazopanib
Response Rate, Determine the objective response rate (CR+PR) using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 at 8 weeks after neoadjuvant treatment with pazopanib in patients with locally advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Evaluation of Target Lesions using RECIST 1.1 Criteria:

Complete response (CR)-Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph node (LN) target or no must have decreased in short axis to \<10mm.

Partial response (PR)-At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of the target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., 8 weeks after neoadjuvant treatment
Recurrence Free Survival (RFS), Estimate recurrence free survival (RFS) following neoadjuvant treatment with pazopanib followed by nephrectomy, specifically reporting the 1 year and 2 year rate estimates with their 95% confidence intervals., 2 years|Number of Participants Who Needed an Altered Surgical Approach After Treatment With Pazopanib, Determine if neoadjuvant treatment with pazopanib alters the planned surgical approach of the urologist, per documented radiographic (CT) response., 14 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Related to Treatment., Identify any safety issues in subjects treated with pazopanib, neoadjuvantly, followed by nephrectomy. Number of patients that had adverse events reported that had an attribution of; possible, probable, or definite that are graded a 3 or higher according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0).

Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated.

Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age appropriate instrumental activities of daily living Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care activities of daily living.

Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to adverse event., 9 weeks
The primary objective of this study is to determine the objective response rate Complete Response + Partial Response(CR+PR) associated with neoadjuvant pazopanib at 8 weeks as defined via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1). The investigators will also estimate the recurrence free survival (RFS), specifically the 1 and 2 year rates, with recurrence defined via RECIST1.1, and characterize the safety issues. Finally, this study also includes a number of exploratory analyses designed to evaluate potential correlations between RFS and; serum levels of cytokine and angiogenesis factor (CAF).