Development and Validation of a Prediction Model for AKI Following Cisplatin-Based HIPEC in Patients With Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian cancer is the most lethal malignant tumor of the female reproductive system. Cytoreduction surgery(CRS) combined with chemotherapy is the primary method for treating ovarian cancer, and complete tumor resection is an important means to improve prognosis. It has been demonstrated that the use of cisplatin for hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) following CRS can significantly improve the prognosis of some patients with ovarian cancer. However, HIPEC with cisplatin can lead to acute kidney injury (AKI), a serious complication that can seriously affect the patient's short- and long-term prognosis. NCCN guidelines recommend the use of sodium thiosulfate in all patients receiving HIPEC. This study intends to retrospectively collect clinical characteristics of patients to establish a prediction model for kidney injury, with a view to screening those at high risk of kidney injury for use of sodium thiosulfate for nephrotoxicity rescue in cisplatin HIPEC.
Ovarian Cancer|AKI - Acute Kidney Injury
PROCEDURE: Hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy
Model prediction Probability, Using the constructed clinical prediction model, the patient's baseline characteristics were input, and the model would output the probability of the patient developing AKI., Up to 7 days within CRS-HIPEC|AUC (Area Under Curve), The AUC value of the model was calculated using the ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) Curve., Up to 7 days within CRS-HIPEC
The incidence of AKI., The AKI would be diagnosed according to KDIGO 2012 criteria., Up to 7 days within CRS-HIPEC
Ovarian cancer is the most lethal malignant tumor of the female reproductive system. Cytoreduction surgery(CRS) combined with chemotherapy is the primary method for treating ovarian cancer, and complete tumor resection is an important means to improve prognosis. It has been demonstrated that the use of cisplatin for hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) following CRS can significantly improve the prognosis of some patients with ovarian cancer. However, HIPEC with cisplatin can lead to acute kidney injury (AKI), a serious complication that can seriously affect the patient's short- and long-term prognosis. NCCN guidelines recommend the use of sodium thiosulfate in all patients receiving HIPEC. This study intends to retrospectively collect clinical characteristics of patients to establish a prediction model for kidney injury, with a view to screening those at high risk of kidney injury for use of sodium thiosulfate for nephrotoxicity rescue in cisplatin HIPEC.