5-Fluorouracil Followed by Interferon-alfa-2b in Previously-treated Metastatic Gastrointestinal, Kidney, or Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the combination of a 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and interferon, which is able to stimulate the immune system to kill cancer cells, will help to increase tumor shrinkage in previously-treated metastatic gastrointestinal, kidney, or lung Cancer.
Gastrointestinal Cancer Metastatic|Renal Cell Cancer Metastatic|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil and Interferon
Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival (PFS) was calculated as the time (months) from date of the start of treatment to the date of first observed disease progression (per standard Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years. The actual date of tumor assessments was used for this calculation. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Assessed up to 2 years
Number of Responses, Radiographic studies to evaluate for response were done at 8 weeks (after 1 cycle). Standard RECIST response criteria were utilized. Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT scan: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., up to 2 years.|Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by radiographic imaging: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., up to 2 years|Median Duration of Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by radiographic imaging: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up tp 2 years|Median Survival, Median survival was measured from date of entry on study until date of death, up to 2 years
Interferon with continuous infusion 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) regimens have shown response rates ranging from 0-43% in various cancers. Monthly bolus 5-FU + interferon-alfa-2b has not undergone formal phase II testing. In a small pilot study, a 5 consecutive day schedule of 5-FU and interferon-alfa-2b resulted in the limiting toxicities of diarrhea and mucositis. A more limited schedule was recommended. Therefore, it is reasonable to examine such a schedule. In the current study, 5-FU will be followed by interferon-alfa-2b daily for 3 days to attempt to benefit from both the biochemical and immunologic mechanisms described above.