O6-benzylguanine and Carmustine in Treating Patients With Stage IA-IIA Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of carmustine given together with O(6)-benzylguanine in treating patients with stage I or stage II cutaneous T-cell lymphoma that has not responded to previous treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells
Recurrent Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage I Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage II Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: O6-benzylguanine|DRUG: carmustine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Percent decrease of AGT in CTCL skin lesions, obtained from tissue samples, Point and interval estimates of response using the binomial distribution will be obtained using data from patients with measurable or evaluable disease. If responses occur, then the mean and median duration of response will be determined. Statistical significance will be determined using the t test for analysis of continuous data., Baseline to 6 weeks|MTD of carmustine estimated as the dose level which is one level below where >= 2 DLT are observed, Toxicities will be recorded and tabulated. Additional point and interval estimates for the MTD will be obtained using the methods of logistic regression of the proportion of patients experiencing a dose-limiting toxicity of grade \>= 2 and by conventional regression of the mean dose-limiting toxicities on dose level., 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the kinetics of AGT depletion in CTCL skin lesions. II. To determine the toxicity of low dose BCNU plus O6BG.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of carmustine.

Patients receive O6-benzylguanine IV over 1 hour followed by topical carmustine once every 2 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of carmustine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Patients are followed for 6 weeks.