Phase 3 Study of Rucaparib as Switch Maintenance After Platinum in Relapsed High Grade Serous or Endometrioid Ovarian Cancer (ARIEL3)
Patients enrolled into this study will be stratified into 3 groups based on gene mutations identified in their tumor tissue. The purpose of this study is to evaluate patient response to maintenance treatment with rucaparib versus placebo. Response to treatment will be analyzed based on homologous recombination (HR) status of tumor samples.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Rucaparib|DRUG: Placebo
Disease Progression According to RECIST Version 1.1, as Assessed by the Investigator, or Death From Any Cause (Investigator Progression Free Survival as Per invPFS), Progression-free survival by Investigator (invPFS) is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression, according to RECIST v1.1 criteria as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Progressive disease is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of measurable lesions, an unequivocal increase in existing non-measurable lesion(s), or the appearance of unequivocal new lesion(s)., Every 12 calendar weeks (within 7 days prior is permitted) after start of treatment until treatment discontinuation due to disease progression. Total follow-up was up to approximately 3 years.
Disease Progression According to RECIST v1.1, as Assessed by Independent Radiology Review (IRR), or Death From Any Cause (irrPFS), To evaluate PFS by RECIST v1.1, as assessed by independent radiology review (IRR)., Every 12 calendar weeks (within 7 days prior is permitted) after start of treatment until treatment discontinuation due to disease progression. Total follow-up was up to approximately 8.2 years.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of death (due to any cause). Patients who are still alive were censored on the date of their last available visit or last date known to be alive., All patients were followed for survival up to approximately 8.2 years.|Time to a 4-point Decrease in the Disease-related Symptoms - Physical (DRS-P) Subscale of the FOSI-18, The National Comprehensive Cancer Network-Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (NCCN-FACT) FACT-Ovarian Symptom Index (FOSI-18) is a questionnaire, for completion by patients, designed to assess the impact of cancer therapy on ovarian cancer-related symptoms and is based on numerical point scoring of symptoms. The DRS-P subscale of the questionnaire is specifically designed to assess physical symptoms of ovarian cancer and evaluate changes in the subscale point score in individual assessments over time. This study looked at the time to a 4-point reduction in subscale score as an indicator of improvement in disease-related physical symptoms on cancer therapy., Screening, Day 1 of each treatment cycle, Treatment Discontinuation visit, and 28-day Follow-up visit. Total follow-up was up to approximately 6.4 years.|Time to an 8-point Decrease in the Total Score of the FOSI-18, The National Comprehensive Cancer Network-Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (NCCN-FACT) FACT-Ovarian Symptom Index (FOSI-18) is a questionnaire, for completion by patients, designed to assess the impact of cancer therapy on ovarian cancer-related physical, emotional and treatment-related symptoms, and is based on numerical point scoring of symptoms. The questionnaire is designed to evaluate changes in the total score in individual assessments over time. This study looked at the time to an 8-point reduction in the total score as an indicator of improvement in disease-related symptoms on cancer therapy., Screening, Day 1 of each treatment cycle, Treatment Discontinuation visit, and 28-day Follow-up visit. Total follow-up was up to approximately 6.4 years.|Individual Model Parameter Estimates of Rucaparib and Covariates Identification, Concentration summary statistics, Study data collection occurred over approximately 7 months.
Rucaparib is an orally available, small molecule inhibitor of poly-adenosine diphosphate \[ADP\] ribose polymerase (PARP) being developed for treatment of ovarian cancer associated with homologous recombination (HR) DNA repair deficiency (HRD). Clinical data have shown that ovarian cancer patients with and without evidence of a gBRCA mutation benefit from treatment with a PARP and that maintenance treatment with a PARP inhibitor following a response to platinum-based treatment increases PFS in patients with ovarian cancer. While patients with a BRCA mutation derived the most benefit, patients without evidence of a BRCA mutation also derived significant benefit.

Patients enrolled into this study will be stratified into 3 groups based on tumor HRD status. The purpose of this study is to identify which of these groups of patients will most likely benefit from treatment with rucaparib. It is anticipated that rucaparib will provide therapeutic benefit and increase PFS in patients with HRD associated with a BRCA gene mutation or other HR gene alteration.