Avelumab in Combination With Fluorouracil and Mitomycin or Cisplatin and Radiation Therapy in Treating Participants With Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects of avelumab and how well it works in combination with fluorouracil and mitomycin or cisplatin and radiation therapy in treating participants with muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as avelumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, mitomycin, and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy beams to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving avelumab with chemotherapy and radiotherapy may work better in treating participants with muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
Bladder Carcinoma Infiltrating the Muscle of the Bladder Wall|Stage II Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Urethral Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Urethral Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Urethral Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Avelumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Mitomycin|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Proportion of Participants With Complete Response (At 6 Months), Patients enrolled will have non-measurable disease based on imaging at baseline. Patients will be assessed for a response after 6 months of treatment using the results of a biopsy and cytology test. A complete response (CR) is defined as having a negative biopsy and negative urine cytology at 6 months from registration after finishing of concurrent RT and immunotherapy. Imaging of abdomen and pelvis confirming no systemic disease within 4 weeks of cystoscopy will be completed.

The proportion of patients reporting a CR is reported here with confidence intervals for the true success proportion using the binomial distribution., At 6 months from registration
Adverse Events Per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0), The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. The number of patients reporting a grade 3+ adverse event regardless of attribution is reported here., Up to 12 months|Patient-reported Outcomes (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC] Quality of Life Questionnaire [QLQ]-30, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item patient-reported questionnaire. 28 of the 30 items are measured on a 1-4 scale (1=not at all; 4=very much) with the remaining two items (overall health and overall quality of life) scored on a 1-7 numeric analogue scale (1=very poor; 7=excellent). The recall period for the EORTC QLQ-C30 is one week.

Changes from baseline will be statistically tested using paired t-tests, and standardized response means (mean of the change from baseline scores at a given cycle, divided by the standard deviation of the change scores) will be interpreted (after applying Middel's (2002) adjustment) using Cohen's (1988) cut-offs: \<0.20 = trivial; 0.20-\<0.50 = small; 0.50-\<0.80 = moderate; and \>=/0.80 = large. Correlation between outcomes will employ Pearson and/or Spearman correlations at individual time points., Baseline to 12 months|Patient-reported Outcomes (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC] EORTCQOL-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer Module [BLM]30, EORTC QLQ-BLM30 is a 30-item questionnaire for patients with muscle invasive bladder cancer (T2, T3, T4a and T4b). The muscle-invasive bladder cancer module contains additional items assessing urostomy problems, problems associated with the use of a catheter, and body image.

Changes from baseline will be statistically tested using paired t-tests, and standardized response means (mean of the change from baseline scores at a given cycle, divided by the standard deviation of the change scores) will be interpreted (after applying Middel's (2002) adjustment) using Cohen's (1988) cut-offs: \<0.20 = trivial; 0.20-\<0.50 = small; 0.50-\<0.80 = moderate; and \>=/0.80 = large. Correlation between outcomes will employ Pearson and/or Spearman correlations at individual time points., Baseline to 12 months|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to the time of progression or death. This study will not use RECIST criteria to evaluate response or progression. The patients enrolled will have non-measurable disease on imaging and response will be evaluated with biopsy or cytology. Progression is defined as progression in T stage, N stage or M stage both clinically or radiologically. Histological confirmation of metastatic disease is at the discretion of the treating provider. The median time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to time of first documentation of progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Recurrence-free Survival, Recurrence-free survival is defined as the time from registration to the time of recurrence or death. Recurrence is defined as having histologically proven first appearance of muscle invasive bladder cancer, clinical evidence of metastatic disease, or treatment with radical cystectomy or radiation to the bladder, or death due to any cause after they were confirmed remission at 6 month evaluation.

The median time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From documented complete response to the first documentation of recurrence, assessed up to 12 months
Relationship of PD-L1 (SP263 and SP142), CD8+ by Immunohistochemistry, Association of Bim (BCL-2-interacting mediator of cell death) expression will be evaluated at using the baseline tissue specimen and explored in relation to 6 months post-registration response and subsequently in relation to other clinical outcomes such as tumor response and adverse event incidence using two-way tables and analyzed using Fisher's exact tests., Up to 12 months|Tumor Mutational Burden With Response to Concurrent Chemo- Radiation and Immunotherapy, Association of Bim expression will be evaluated at using the baseline tissue specimen and explored in relation to 6 months post-registration response and subsequently in relation to other clinical outcomes such as tumor response and adverse event incidence using two-way tables and analyzed using Fisher's exact tests. Expression of immune signatures by RNA-seq expression (using the baseline tissue specimen) will be evaluated at baseline and explored in relation to clinical outcomes such as progression-free survival, tumor response, and adverse event incidence using two-way tables and box plots and analyzed using Fisher's exact tests or logistic regression methods, as appropriate., Up to 12 months|Evaluate Whether Concurrent Chemoradiation and Immunotherapy After Maximal TURBT is Associated With a Decrease in Circulating Bim+CD11ahighPD-1+CD8+ T-cells and MDSCs., Association of Bim expression will be evaluated at using the baseline tissue specimen and explored in relation to 6 months post-registration response and subsequently in relation to other clinical outcomes such as tumor response and adverse event incidence using two-way tables and analyzed using Fisher's exact tests. Expression of immune signatures by RNA-seq expression (using the baseline tissue specimen) will be evaluated at baseline and explored in relation to clinical outcomes such as progression-free survival, tumor response, and adverse event incidence using two-way tables and box plots and analyzed using Fisher's exact tests or logistic regression methods, as appropriate., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the complete response rate of concurrent chemotherapy radiation treatment combined with avelumab for patients with muscle invasive bladder cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity (adverse event profile) of concurrent chemotherapy radiation treatment combined with avelumab.

II. To evaluate quality of life (QoL) at 1 year of concurrent chemotherapy radiation treatment combined with avelumab.

III. To evaluate progression-free survival and relapse-free survival at 1 year with concurrent chemotherapy radiation treatment combined with avelumab.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore biomarkers that may predict response to avelumab in the muscle invasive population.

II. To evaluate the association of tumor mutational burden with response to concurrent chemo- radiation and immunotherapy.

III. To evaluate whether concurrent chemoradiation and immunotherapy after maximal transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) is associated with a decrease in circulating Bim+CD11a\^high PD-1+CD8+ T-cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs).

OUTLINE:

Participants receive avelumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes every 14 days for a total of 10 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 29 days after the first dose of avelumab, participants receive either fluorouracil IV on days 1-5 and 16-20 during radiation therapy (RT) and mitomycin IV on day 1 of course 3, or cisplatin IV starting on day 1 of courses 3-5 for up to 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, 6, 9, and 12 months.