Therapy for High-Risk HPV 16-Positive Oropharynx Cancer Patients
Combination immune checkpoint inhibitor and DNA vaccine will result in clearance of HPV DNA biomarkers (oral and/or plasma) for patients with persistent HPV-16 E6/E7 DNA (HPV biomarker) after treatment with curative intent.
HPV Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oropharynx Cancer|HPV-Related Carcinoma
DRUG: MEDI0457|DRUG: Durvalumab
Number of participants in whom there is clearance of Human Papiloma Virus (HPV) biomarkers post-intervention, Up to 5 years
Time to Progression, Time until progression, followed for up to five years, among patients with detectable HPV DNA when treated with the durvalumab/MEDI0457 versus durvalumab monotherapy versus observation., Up to 5 years|Safety of Study Drugs, Adverse events will be reviewed to determine the safety of durvalumab and MEDI0457 in the adjuvant setting. Observed Adverse events and toxicities will be tabulated by treatment group, type and grade. AEs and other toxicities will be graded using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 (CTCAE)., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug
Clearance of HPV Measured by DNA in participants with HPV E6/E7-specific and MANA-specific T-cell response, Clearance of HPV as measured by DNA in oral rinses and/or plasma (milliliters) in participants with HPV E6/E7-specific and mutation-associated neoantigen (MANA)-specific T-cell responses., Up to 5 years|Clearance of HPV Measured by DNA in participants with HPV E6/E7-specific IgG, Clearance of HPV as measured by DNA in oral rinses and/or plasma (milliliters) in participants with HPV E6/E7-specific IgG, Up to 5 years
Objectives:

Primary Objectives:

To determine whether combination immune checkpoint inhibitor, alone or together with a DNA vaccine will result in clearance of HPV biomarkers for patients at risk of disease progression.

Secondary Objective(s):

1. To evaluate the time to progression among patients with detectable HPV DNA when treated with the durvalumab/MEDI0457 versus durvalumab monotherapy versus observation.
2. To assess the toxicity of durvalumab and MEDI0457 in the adjuvant setting.

Exploratory Objective(s):

1. To determine whether anti-PD-L1 alone or together with an HPV DNA vaccine will enhance HPV E6/E7-specific and/or mutation-associated neoantigen (MANA)-specific T cell responses and whether these responses correlate with enhanced clearance of HPV as measured by DNA in oral rinses and/or plasma.
2. To determine whether anti-PD-L1 alone or together with an HPV DNA vaccine will enhance HPV 16 E6/E7-specific IgG and whether these responses correlate with enhanced clearance of HPV as measured by DNA in oral rinses and/or plasma