Testing Shorter Duration Radiation Therapy Versus the Usual Radiation Therapy in Patients With High Risk Prostate Cancer
This phase III trial compares stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), (five treatments over two weeks using a higher dose per treatment) to usual radiation therapy (20 to 45 treatments over 4 to 9 weeks) for the treatment of high-risk prostate cancer. SBRT uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method may kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period of time. This trial is evaluating if shorter duration radiation prevents cancer from coming back as well as the usual radiation treatment.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Metastasis-free survival (MFS), Based on conventional imaging. MFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method (Kaplan 1958). A confidence interval approach will be used adjusting for stratification factors. If the one sided 95% upper confidence limit of hazard ratio (HR) \< 1.35, then the null hypothesis of inferiority will be rejected. If the 95% upper confidence limit excludes HR=1.35, then the null hypothesis of inferiority will be rejected. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to obtain unadjusted and adjusted HRs and 95% confidence intervals for the treatment effects., From randomization to the date of distant metastasis, or death from any cause, assessed up to 15 years
Failure-free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and treatment arms compared using the stratified log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine hazard ratios and to assess the effects of stratification factors and other covariates of interest, such as age, race, androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) adherence, T stage, Gleason score, and performance status on outcomes., From randomization to the date of distant metastasis, or death from any cause, assessed up to 15 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and treatment arms compared using the stratified log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine hazard ratios and to assess the effects of stratification factors and other covariates of interest, such as age, race, ADT adherence, T stage, Gleason score, and performance status on outcomes., From the date of randomization to the date of death or last known follow-up date, with patients alive at the last known follow-up time treated as censored, assessed up to 15 years|MFS, Based on molecular imaging. Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and treatment arms compared using the stratified log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine hazard ratios and to assess the effects of stratification factors and other covariates of interest, such as age, race, ADT adherence, T stage, Gleason score, and performance status on outcomes., From randomization to the date of distant metastasis, or death from any cause, assessed up to 15 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be graded using National Cancer Institute's (NCI's) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5. Counts of all AEs by grade will be provided by treatment arm., Up to 15 years|Urinary incontinence, Up to 5 years|Urinary irritative/obstructive, Up to 5 years|Bowel domains of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26), Up to 5 years|Fatigue, Measured by the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-Fatigue, Up to 5 years|Cost, Measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-COST., Up to 1 year
Patient-reported outcomes, The EPIC-26 sexual domain will be assessed as an exploratory endpoint but following the analysis plan specified for the EPIC-26 urinary and bowel domains., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare metastasis-free survival, determined using conventional imaging, between men with high-risk prostate cancer randomized to ultrahypofractionation (stereotactic body radiation therapy \[SBRT\]) to those randomized to moderate hypofractionation and conventional fractionation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare physician-reported toxicity as measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5 between treatment arms.

II. To determine if ultrahypofractionation is non-inferior to moderate hypofractionation and conventional fractionation with respect to patient-reported urinary function (assessed by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite \[EPIC\]-26 urinary domains).

III. To determine if ultrahypofractionation is non-inferior to moderate hypofractionation and conventional fractionation with respect to patient-reported bowel function (assessed by EPIC-26 bowel domain).

IV. To compare patient-reported fatigue (assessed by Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System \[PROMIS\]-Fatigue) between treatment arms.

V. To compare patient-reported treatment burden (assessed by COmprehensive Score for financial Toxicity \[COST\]) between treatment arms.

VI. To compare failure-free survival between treatment arms. VII. To compare metastasis-free survival based on molecular imaging between treatment arms.

VIII. To compare overall survival between treatment arms.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare patient-reported sexual function (assessed by EPIC-26 sexual domain) between treatment arms.

II. To compare patient-reported quality of life (assessed by European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire \[EQ-5D-5L\]) between treatment arms.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo SBRT for a total of 5 treatments over 2 weeks. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on study.

ARM II: Patients undergo external beam radiation treatment (EBRT) for 20-45 treatments over 4 to 9 weeks. Patients also undergo CT and/or MRI on study.

Patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years.