Genetic Study of Families With High Frequency of Hodgkin Lymphoma
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) is a relatively rare disorder with known familiar aggregation (i.e. HL in more than one child, or parent and child). Because affected individuals in familial HL are genetically related, the existence of such families has long been considered as evidence in support of a genetic basis of HL susceptibility. However, it is largely unknown which genetic variations are responsible for recurring HL in families. Because the effects of genetic variants are likely to be strong in familial HL, identification of such variations will potentially reveal biological pathways critical to the pathogenesis of HL.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

* To perform genome-wide sequencing of families with recurring Hodgkin lymphoma cases (affected as well as non-affected family members) to identify potential disease-causing germline genetic variations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

* To describe demographic and clinical features of the affected families.
Hodgkin Lymphoma
Germline genetic variations, Whole exome sequencing of affected and unaffected individuals in these families will be performed. Genetic variants potentially related to HL will be identified on the basis of its co-segregation with HL disease status (e.g., unique variants in individuals affected by HL would be considered as risk variants). Family members without HL (regardless of any other history of malignancy) will be considered as control and be compared against members with HL., Once, within 1 month of enrollment
This study entails a clinical interview and submission of a peripheral blood or saliva sample for non-tumor DNA. Participants diagnosed with HL at outside institutions will be requested to sign a release form to allow the outside institution to send their pathology report confirming their HL diagnosis. If available, previously banked tumor tissue samples will be utilized to assess genetic alterations related to HL. Detailed history will be obtained (e.g., demographics, environmental exposures, cancer risk factors, and family pedigree) to facilitate the analysis of phenotype-genotype correlations, taking into account potential confounding factors.

Investigators will examine the germline and possibly the tumor DNA of each individual participant and use the data from all participants to determine if a gene change is related to HL.