Contributions of a Paramedical Approach in the Prevention and Treatment of Side Effects Associated With Radical Prostatectomy
The paramedic urology team at Martinique University Hospital has developed a "personalized rehabilitation oncosexology program for patients undergoing radical prostatectomy (RP) for localized prostate cancer". The aim of this project is to assess the effectiveness of this program by comparing the sexual quality of life 1 year after surgery between patients participating and those who do not.
Prostatic Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Oncosexology program
Evaluation of sexual Quality of Life: Questionnaire, Administration of sexual of life questionnaire (SEAR for self-esteem and couple relationship), Before the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of sexual function: Questionnaire, Administration of sexual function questionnaire (IIEF-type validated questionnaires), Before the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of sexual Quality of Life: Questionnaire, Administration of sexual of life questionnaire (SEAR for self-esteem and couple relationship), 1 Month after the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of sexual function: Questionnaire, Administration of sexual function questionnaire (IIEF-type validated questionnaires), 1 Month after the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of sexual Quality of Life: Questionnaire, Administration of sexual of life questionnaire (SEAR for self-esteem and couple relationship), 12 months after the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of sexual function: Questionnaire, Administration of sexual function questionnaire (IIEF-type validated questionnaires), 12 months after the radical prostatectomy
Evaluation of quality of life in its multidimensional aspect, Administration of quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLC C30 questionnaires), Before the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of quality of life for localized forms of prostate cancer, Administration of QLQ-PR25 questionnaire (specific module intended for localized forms of prostate cancer. It is complementary to QLQ-C30 and better suited to measure the side effects of treatment.), Before the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of quality of life in its multidimensional aspect, Administration of quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLC C30 questionnaires), 12 Month after the radical prostatectomy|Evaluation of quality of life for localized forms of prostate cancer, Administration of QLQ-PR25 questionnaire ((specific module intended for localized forms of prostate cancer. It is complementary to QLQ-C30 and better suited to measure the side effects of treatment.), 12 Month after the radical prostatectomy
80% of patients undergoing radical prostatectomy report urinary incontinence and erectile dysfunction \[Johanssen et al. 2011. Scandinavian Prostate Cancer Group Study\]. In the West Indies, the incidence of prostate cancer is one of the highest in the world (World-standardized incidence in Martinique is 164.5 versus 88.8 per 100,000 person-years in Metropolitan France). Over 2007-2014 an average 530 new cases of prostate cancer were diagnosed each year in Martinique, representing 55% of all male cancers \[Regional estimates report Public Health France, January 2018\]. The prostate is a symbol of male vulnerability \[French Association of Urology-Global Market Research and Public Opinion Specialist, 2006\]. For other authors, virility is above all a cultural representation, and the "crisis of virility", a recomposition of male identity. Surgery on a sexual organ can alter body image and masculinity. According to Colson et al., patients treated for prostate cancer and their partners clearly place sex in first place in the importance of quality of life domains.