Efficacy and Safety of Disitamab Vedotin Plus Pyrotinib or Naratinib in HER2-positive Breast Cancer Patients With Brain Metastasis
Basis: Brain metastasis is very common in breast cancer, and HER2 positivity is a risk factor for high incidence of brain metastasis, with approximately 50% of HER2+ MBC cases experiencing brain metastasis. The reason for this is that as the efficacy of HER2-targeted therapy improves, the survival of these patients significantly extends, leading to an increase in the occurrence rate of brain metastasis events in the late stage of MBC. In the systemic treatment of HER2+ breast cancer brain metastasis, various HER2-targeted drugs have been explored, but none have achieved satisfactory therapeutic effects. Therefore, it is imperative to explore new treatment options. ADC drugs have shown some efficacy in brain metastasis patients, and as a domestically developed ADC drug, trastuzumab vedotin has demonstrated good anti-tumor effects. The treatment model combining trastuzumab vedotin with small molecule TKIs has been rarely reported, so we are attempting to use the treatment model of trastuzumab vedotin combined with pyrotinib or neratinib to explore its efficacy and safety in patients with HER2-positive brain metastasis.

Method: The plan is to recruit HER2-positive breast cancer patients with brain metastasis and use the treatment of trastuzumab vedotin combined with pyrotinib or neratinib (specific treatment drugs to be selected during the study).

Procedure: All subjects will undergo screening, treatment, and follow-up periods, strictly adhering to relevant GCP regulations during the treatment process.

Expectations: Through this study, preliminary efficacy and safety data of trastuzumab vedotin combined with pyrotinib or neratinib treatment will be provided for patients with HER2+ brain metastatic BC.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Disitamab Vedotin plus pyrotinib or naratinib
Progression-free survival, It is an indicator of the long-term efficacy of the drug., The time from randomization to the first documented tumor progression or death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
Objective Response Rate, The proportion of patients with the best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)., 4 weeks|Disease Control Rate, The proportion of patients with tumor shrinkage or stability maintained for a certain period, including cases of CR, PR, and stable disease (SD), 4 weeks|Overall survival, It is an indicator of the long-term efficacy of the drug., the time from randomization to death from any cause，whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.
Treatment Plan After patient screening, patients will receive treatment with trastuzumab injection plus either pyrotinib maleate tablets or neratinib maleate tablets, with each cycle lasting 14 days until disease progression. Trastuzumab Injection: Intravenous infusion, initial loading dose of 2 mg/kg, administered via intravenous infusion over 30-90 minutes (usually recommended around 60 minutes), administered on day 1 of each cycle, with each cycle lasting 14 days. Pyrotinib Maleate Tablets: 400 mg, taken orally once daily, within 30 minutes after a meal, at the same time every day. Taken continuously, with each cycle lasting 14 days. If a patient misses a dose of pyrotinib, it should not be made up for, and the next dose should be taken as scheduled. Neratinib Maleate Tablets: 240 mg, taken orally once daily with a meal, at the same time every day. The neratinib tablet should be swallowed whole (it should not be chewed, crushed, or split before swallowing). Taken continuously, with each cycle lasting 14 days. If a patient misses a dose of neratinib, it should not be made up for, and the next dose should be taken as scheduled. Note: The choice between pyrotinib maleate tablets or neratinib maleate tablets for treatment should be based on the patient's previous treatment history as decided by the investigator. Treatment medication should be continued until disease progression or the occurrence of intolerable toxic reactions.

Study Steps 1) Screening Period (Visit 1: -14 to -1 days, approximately 2 weeks): Subjects will sign an informed consent form during Visit 1 and undergo a series of examinations (see Table 1. Treatment Flowchart). Based on the examination results and inclusion/exclusion criteria, the investigator will determine if the subject meets the inclusion criteria and does not meet the exclusion criteria. 2) Treatment Period (Visit 2 to disease progression, 1 visit every 2 cycles): Subjects will receive treatment with trastuzumab injection plus pyrotinib maleate tablets plus capecitabine tablets on the experimental Day 0, with each cycle lasting 21 days, until disease progression. During this period, a series of examinations will be conducted every 2 cycles (see flowchart for visits 2 to N). The investigator will evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the treatment based on the subject's examination results. 3) Survival Follow-up Period (1 follow-up every 3 months after withdrawal from the study): After patients withdraw due to disease progression or other endpoint events, a telephone follow-up will be conducted every 3 months until the patient's death or loss to follow-up. Detailed records of disease progression, related treatments, and survival information should be documented.