Gynaecology Exercise and Mindfulness Study
The aim of this study is to explore the feasibility and effectiveness of conducting a mindfulness and home-based walking and strength training program on fatigue, psychological outcomes and quality of life for gynecological cancer survivors. The intervention consists of a 8 week mindfulness and home based walking and strengthening program for gynecology survivors. It will be delivered through a specifically designed app. The aim would be to gradually increase exercise and mindfulness levels so participants start to achieve the recommended levels of activity per week.

Participants will be recruited via cancer Charites and their service users either directly and through social media (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter). Both groups will receive an intervention either mindfulness alone or mindfulness and exercise. Assessments will be taken at baseline (0 weeks) and post intervention (8 weeks). Both groups will complete the same assessments at the same time-points.
Gynecologic Cancer|Uterus Cancer|Ovary Cancer|Cervical Cancer|Vaginal Cancer|Vulvar Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness and exercise|BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness
Feasibility of eligibility and enrollment, Number of eligible participants, and the proportion of those eligible that enrolled will be assessed to evaluate the feasibility of eligibility and enrollment., 12 months|Retention rate in study as feasibility, Number and proportion of participants completing all assessments., 8 weeks|Feasibility as assessed by rate of attrition, The number of participants dropping out after start of intervention for any reason will be assessed to evaluate attrition rate., 8 weeks|Feasibility as assessed by adherence, Will be assessed by frequency and duration of practicing of exercise and mindfulness (recorded in a log via app)., 8 weeks
Fatigue, The Functional Assessment of Chronic Therapy- Fatigue (FACIT-F) subscale will be used a 13- item questionnaire that uses a 5 point Likert scale. The lower the score on this scale indicates the greater the fatigue with scores less than 20 representing severe fatigue and scores greater than 45 as normal., Week 0 and 8|Evaluate the Quality of Life, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy General (FACT-G) is a 28- item rated scale. It assesses physical, social, emotional and functional wellbeing. Higher scores in this questionnaire indicate better quality of life., Week 0 and 8|Psychological outcomes, The psychological outcomes will be assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). This questionnaire has 14 questions, 7 each for assessing anxiety and depression. A HADS score of greater than 11 is more defining of anxiety and depression, with a reduction of 3 points indicating a clinical improvement., Week 0 and 8|Sleep, The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) a 19 items questionnaire that measures 7 domains of sleep scored on a 0-3 scale over 1 month will be used. The questionnaire gives a score that ranges from 0-21 with the higher the score the worse the sleep quality., Week 0 and 8|Mindfulness, The 24 item Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire Short Form (FFMQ-SF) is a 5 point Likert Scale which assess mindfulness in daily life. It measures 5 sub-scales: observing, describing, acting with awareness, non-judgement of inner experience and non-reacting to inner experience. The higher the score the greater the mindfulness., Week 0 and 8|Physical activity, International physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ) short form will be used to evaluate the effects on levels of activity, Week 0 and 8
Treatment modalities can be effective in managing and treating gynecology cancers but may lead to unwanted long term side effects. Some of which include fatigue, changes in mood and sleep disturbance. All of which can have an effect on quality of life. Both exercise and mindfulness would appear to show a positive effect on managing some of these symptoms. However, not only does ambiguity continue around the effect of these interventions on symptoms of cancer but continues to be a lack of evidence for certain types of cancer such as gynecology. Furthermore, combining interventions that individually are effective may enhance effectiveness when used together and the delivering these online may reach a wider population. The evidence for this is also lacking within the literature. Therefore this study aims to assess the feasibility of delivering these interventions through an online platform to assess not only the acceptability but also effect on clinical outcomes.

Participants will be recruited through contact via cancer charities and online (Social media), they will self refer to the team and will be assessed for eligibility. If eligible and interested participant information sheet will be sent electronically and time given (one week) to consider study. Contact will be made with participant after this time and if interested a link to electronic consent will be sent. On receiving the completed consent another link will be sent to participant for completion of baseline outcome measures. The outcome measures assessed include feasibility, fatigue, physical activity level, mood (anxiety/depression), sleep, quality of life and mindfulness. Following randomization both groups will be given instructions on how to download app and reporting of activity. Both groups will be contacted through weekly phone calls to monitor their progress. Once 8 weeks have been completed a link will be sent to participants to complete the post-intervention outcome measures.