Genetic Risk Assessment for Cancer Education and Empowerment (GRACE) Project
GRACE is a randomized 3-arm trial to determine the comparative effectiveness of two remote cancer communication interventions: 1) a targeted generic print (TP) or 2) a tailored telephone-based counseling and navigation intervention (TCN). Post-award, the target sample size was revised to (n=642) with NIH permission.
Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Telephone Counseling & Navigation (TCN)|BEHAVIORAL: Mailed Targeted Print (TP)|OTHER: Usual Care (UC)
Medically Verified Cancer Genetic Risk Assessment Uptake at 6 Months, Participants reported whether they had sought cancer CGRA (i.e. genetic counseling and/or testing) in surveys at the 6-month follow-up. Participants who reported receiving a CGRA were asked to provide written consent allowing research staff to obtain document of receipt of the genetic services., 6 months following the interventions for TP and TCN, and 6 months following the baseline survey for the UC arm.
Medically Verified Cancer Genetic Risk Assessment Uptake at 12 Months, Participants reported whether they had sought cancer CGRA (i.e. genetic counseling and/or testing) in surveys at the 12-month follow-up. Participants who reported receiving a CGRA were asked to provide written consent, allowing research staff to obtain documents of receipt of the genetic services., 12 months following the interventions for TP and TCN, and 12 months following the baseline survey for the UC arm.|Decisional Conflict for CGRA: SURE Scale, Questionnaire: Decisional conflict associated with the CGRA decision will be measured separately with 4 items using the SURE Scale (Sure of myself; Understand information; Risk-benefit ratio; Encouragement). Range from 0-4, with 0 indicating high decisional conflict., 1 month following the interventions for TP and TCN, and 1 months following the baseline survey for the UC arm.|Cancer Genetic Risk Assessment Intention, Questionnaire: One item will measure future intention to get a cancer genetic risk assessment within the next 6 weeks. Responses for this item ranged from 1 (not at all) to 5 (extremely likely)., 1 month following the interventions for TP and TCN, and 1 months following the baseline survey for the UC arm.
There is increasing evidence that activated and engaged patients who are equipped with necessary skills and information are more likely to follow through with recommended care and have better health outcomes at reduced costs. Identification of individuals at increased risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) is crucial for cancer survivors and their families to benefit from biomedical advances in cancer prevention, early detection, treatment and survivorship. The primary purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of two remote interventions aimed at promoting cancer genetic risk assessment (CGRA) for HBOC. The randomized controlled trial will have 3 arms: usual care (UC) vs. targeted generic print (TP) vs. tailored telephone counseling and navigation intervention (TCN).