High-dose Chemotherapy+G-CSF in Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Mobilization in Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This study was a multi-center, randomized, prospective study. The purpose is to clarify that high-dose VP-16+G-CSF has better mobilization efficiency and less toxic and side effects compared with high-dose CTX+G-CSF, and minimize mobilization failure, so as to provide convenient and high-quality mobilization programs for clinical practice and enable more patients to enter the transplantation stage smoothly.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Main purpose, Compared with the literature data, The primary efficacy endpoint was the difference in the proportion of patients who reached the target CD34+ cells ≥5×106/kg and CD34+ cells ≥5×106/kg within 3 days of monotherapy between the study group and the control group., Enrollment is expected to last for one year, followed up for two years.
Autologous peripheral blood hematopoietic stem cell mobilization: the two regiments were VP-16 1.2g/m2+rhG-CSF 10ug·kg-1·d-1 and CTX 3.0g/m2+rhG-CSF 10ug·kg-1·d-1; After high-dose chemotherapy, RHG-CSF 5ug/kg Bid was injected subcutaneously until the end of stem cell collection when the white blood cell count decreased to the minimum and began to rise steadily, and the platelet count was ≥50×109/L. Vp-16 was used as pure liquid continuously pumped for 24h. Dexamethasone 10mg was given before use, and blood pressure was monitored during use. During the use of CTX, it should be hydrated and alkalized, and mesic sodium (total amount 1.0-1.2 times CTX, divided into three static drops) should be used. Apheresis was performed once a day from the 5th day of RHG-CSF application, and the circulating blood volume was 2-3 times of the blood volume each time, and apheresis was performed at most 3 times. The percentage of CD34+ cells in the collection was determined by FCM, and the volume of the collection, the total number of nucleated cells per kg body weight and the number of CD34+ cells were recorded. For some patients whose apheresis is not up to the standard, they can be mobilized again after 1 month of rest, and chemotherapy +rhG-CSF mobilization or rhG-CSF+ ploxafo steady-state mobilization can be used.