Mechanism of Action Study for Psoriasis
The objective of this study is to compare the mechanism of action between adalimumab and methotrexate in subjects with psoriasis.
Psoriasis
DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Adalimumab (Humira)
Biologic Activity Endpoints, Histologic and Immunohistochemistry endpoints; Relative messenger RNA gene expression (normalized to HARP); and Gene Arrays., Weeks 0, 1, 2, 4 and 16
Clinical Endpoints for Psoriasis: PASI 75, PASI 75 is the percent of subjects who experience an improvement in PASI (Psoriasis Area and Severity Index) score of at least 75% from their baseline PASI score., Weeks 0 and week 16|Clinical Endpoints for Psoriasis: Physician's Global Assessment (PGA) Clear or Almost Clear (PGA 0-1), Week 0 and Week 16|Clinical Endpoints for Psoriasis: % Body Surface Area, Week 0 and week 16|Clinical Endpoints for Psoriasis: Target Lesion Score, The lesion score of a single psoriatic plaque selected at baseline. Total range is 0 - 12 with 0 being clear and 12 representing the most severe disease. The target lesion score is composed of scale, erythema, and induration, each parameter is scored 0 (clear) through 4 (very severe). Totals are summed for target lesion score. S+E+I = TLS, Week 0 and Week 16|Clinical Endpoints for Psoriasis: Photography Completed, Week 0 and Week 16
Additional Gene Analysis (Ongoing), A single, long-term follow-up visit will be done for all available subjects for additional pharmacogenetic analysis. The goal in collecting DNA from psoriasis patients is to determine if individual subjects have gene variants associated with increased incidence of psoriasis. The investigators plan on analyzing variants using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis by high-throughput DNA sequencing. This patient genetic information may allow us to correctly interpret data collected about gene expression levels in affected or non-affected skin. Additionally genetic typing may lead to cogent personalized health care (PHC) strategies for the identification of psoriasis drug responders/non-responders, patients who achieve durable disease remission post-treatment, and/or pharmacodynamic markers, as examples., long-term follow-up visit 4- 6 years post end of study
Both methotrexate and adalimumab are FDA-approved drugs for the treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis. The two treatments, methotrexate and adalimumab, both show efficacy for psoriasis, however their profiles differ. In the CHAMPION Study, more adalimumab-treated, moderate to severe psoriasis patients achieved a PASI 75 after 16 weeks compared to those treated with methotrexate (80% vs. 36%). The reason for this difference is poorly understood. No direct comparative mechanism of action studies in psoriasis patients between methotrexate and adalimumab (or any tumor necrosis factor blocker) has been reported.

With etanercept, another tumor necrosis factor blocker, the in vivo mechanism has been studied with some scientific rigor. These studies demonstrate that etanercept down regulates multiple pro-inflammatory pathways (as shown in Table 1 of the protocol).

To date, there are no similar studies with adalimumab or methotrexate.

In order to understand the molecular and cellular basis for the differential clinical efficacy of adalimumab and methotrexate, it is essential to compare their mechanisms of action in psoriatic plaques. Biopsies will be performed, and we will study biomarkers in this proposal with immunohistochemistry, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and gene arrays.