Nutrition and Exercise Trial: Improving Diet and Physical Activity Patterns in Overweight Cancer Survivors
This randomized phase II trial will enroll overweight cancer survivors. Subjects in both groups will be educated to follow a diet pattern similar to what is recommended by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the American Institute for Cancer Research (DGA/AICR) but one group will also receive 18 ounces of lean beef for incorporation into a healthy diet. Subjects will be encouraged to exercise regularly and activity will be monitored throughout the study. Nutrition and exercise may help cancer survivors successfully maintain improved dietary patterns, body composition, and physical activity efforts and consumption of beef may favorably impact lean body mass and specific nutritional outcomes.
Cancer Survivor|Overweight
OTHER: Dietary Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Adherence to either the DGA/AICR group or the DGA/AICR + Beef group, Participants will keep both 7 day diet records periodically through out the study as well as a daily log of beef consumption, Up to 12 months|Change in body composition, Change in body composition will be assessed by dual X-ray absorptiometry (iDXA), Up to 12 months|Change in blood pressure, Trained personnel will use a sphygomanometer to assess blood pressure, Baseline up to 12 months|Change in body mass index (BMI), Weight and height will be combined to report BMI in kg/m\^2., Baseline up to 12 months|Change in dietary carotenoid intake, Assessed by Raman spectroscopy, Baseline up to 12 months|Change in blood carotenoids, Assessed by High Pressure Liquid Chromatography, Up to 12 months|Change in physical performance assessed by timed performance-related mobility tasks, Physical performance will be measured using the 40 M walk test, Baseline up to 12 months|Change in physical performance, Assessed by a standardized stair climb test, Up to 12 months|Dietary intake patterns, Will be assessed using diet logs maintained throughout the intervention and graphical food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). This FFQ automatically calculates the Healthy Eating Index 2010. Will use previous 30-day intake for all FFQs to assess dietary patterns. To determine protein balance, will use a 7-day diet record prior to a 24-hr urine collection., Up to 6 months|Adherence to classes, Descriptive statistics will be generated using attendance forms, Up to 12 months|Change in fasting glucose, A fasting blood sample will be used to measure glucose at three time points, Up to 12 months|Change in lipoprotein profiles, A fasting blood sample will be used to assess serum lipoprotein profile, Up to 12 months|Daily physical activity (steps per day), Each participants daily FitBit data will be downloaded to a secure spreadsheet, up to 12 months
Health related quality of life, Measured at all three time points using the Health Related Quality of Life (HR-QOL) questionnaire, Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility and compliance with a the Dietary Guidelines for Americans/American Institute for Cancer Research (DGA/AICR) healthy dietary pattern and a beef + DGA/AICR healthy dietary pattern in cancer survivors.

II. To determine the impact of dietary interventions on body composition, clinical outcomes, and physical performance.

III. To quantify the impact of the two dietary interventions on cardiometabolic biomarkers of health.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive DGA/AICR-based dietary intervention for 6 months consisting of 12 education sessions over 60 minutes every other week, fruit, vegetable, and herb harvesting 1-2 times per week for 2 hours, wearing a FitBit during physical activity, and remote health coaching over 10 minutes for 12 weeks.

ARM II: Patients receive DGA/AICR-based dietary intervention as in Arm I and consume 11-18 ounces of lean beef each week for 6 months.

Clinical and physical activity assessments will take place at baseline, after the intervention and at 12 months.