Virtual Agent Feasibility in Oncology Patients (NTT Data)
The purpose of this study is to compare the use of a virtual agent vs. a human agent when onboarding oncology patients over the telephone to Remote Patient Monitoring (RPM) devices. RPM devices are instruments that a patient can use to measure their own weight and vital signs. Both the virtual and human agents will be available by telephone to instruct the patient on how to use the RPM devices to measure weight, blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and oxygen saturation. Patients will be randomized to either the virtual or human agent, have assessments of their medical and oncological history, overall well-being, body measurements, and vital signs, and will complete questionnaires about their experience.
Lung Cancer
DEVICE: Virtual agent|OTHER: Human agent
Usability of virtual agent vs. human agent for onboarding patients to RPM devices as assessed by the System Usability Scale (SUS), The SUS is a questionnaire that assesses perceived usability. It includes 10 five-point items with alternating positive and negative tone. The final score is a number 0-100 with a higher score indicating better usability., Day 1, Day 2, Day 3
Effectiveness of RPM devices when onboarded by virtual agent vs. human agent as assessed by a significant difference in measured weight collected by the study coordinator and the participant using the RPM devices compared across both arms., A significant different is defined as more than a 25% difference from the value measured by the study or clinic staff., Day 1, Day 2, Day 3|Effectiveness of RPM devices when onboarded by virtual agent vs. human agent as assessed by a significant difference in measured blood pressure collected by the study coordinator and the participant using the RPM devices compared across both arms., A significant different is defined as more than a 25% difference from the value measured by the study or clinic staff., Day 1, Day 2, Day 3|Effectiveness of RPM devices when onboarded by virtual agent vs. human agent as assessed by a significant difference in measured heart rate collected by the study coordinator and the participant using the RPM devices compared across both arms., A significant different is defined as more than a 25% difference from the value measured by the study or clinic staff., Day 1, Day 2, Day 3|Effectiveness of RPM devices when onboarded by virtual agent vs. human agent as assessed by a significant difference in measured temperature collected by the study coordinator and the participant using the RPM devices compared across both arms., A significant different is defined as more than a 25% difference from the value measured by the study or clinic staff., Day 1, Day 2, Day 3|Effectiveness of RPM devices when onboarded by virtual agent vs. human agent as assessed by a significant difference in measured oxygen saturation collected by the study coordinator and the participant using the RPM devices compared across both arms., A significant different is defined as more than a 25% difference from the value measured by the study or clinic staff., Day 1, Day 2, Day 3|Description of the patient experience when using a virtual agent in the context of teaching a patient as assessed by the patient experience survey., The patient experience survey includes 3 open-ended questions about experience with the training process, input on using monitoring devices at home, and any other important information for the researchers to know. Descriptive analysis will be conducted within each arm., Day 3|Identification of opportunities to improve the use of a virtual agent in the context of teaching a patient as assessed by the patient experience survey., The patient experience survey includes 3 open-ended questions about experience with the training process, input on using monitoring devices at home, and any other important information for the researchers to know. Descriptive analysis will be conducted within each arm., Day 3
The purpose of this study is to compare the use of a virtual agent vs. a human agent when onboarding oncology patients over the telephone to Remote Patient Monitoring (RPM) devices. RPM devices are instruments that a patient can use to measure their own weight and vital signs. Both the virtual and human agents will be available by telephone to instruct the patient on how to use the RPM devices to measure weight, blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and oxygen saturation. Patients will be randomized to either the virtual or human agent, have assessments of their medical and oncological history, overall well-being, body measurements, and vital signs, and will complete questionnaires about their experience.