Expansion Trial for Axitinib In Head And Neck Cancer
This study will be a prospective, single-institution, single-arm phase II study of Axitinib in patients with unresectable recurrent and metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The subjects will be started on treatment with 5 mg of Axitinib twice a day continuously, with subsequent dose escalation to 7 mg and then 10 mg twice a day in the absence of grade 2 or worse toxicities. This will be followed by clinical and/or radiologic response assessment after 8 weeks and subsequently every 2 months until disease progression or intolerable toxicity.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Axitinib
Number of Evaluable Patients Alive at 6 Months, Evaluable defined as any participant who receives at least one cycle of Axitinib. Number of evaluable patients and percentage of patients alive at 6 months is reported., 6 Months after treatment initiation
Median Overall Survival Time, median will be calculated by Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 2.5 years|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time, Median will be calculated by Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 2.5 years|Best Overall Response, Tabulation of best response measured by Choi. Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD) or Progression (PD) at 16 weeks. CR is defined as no new lesions and the disappearance of all lesions. PR is defined as a decrease in size of ≥ 10% or a decrease in tumor density (HU) ≥ 15% on CT (Computerized Tomography), no new lesions and no obvious progression of non-measurable disease, 16 Weeks|The Number of Patients That Experience Grade 3 or Worse Toxicities, Assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.03. For any treatment-related toxicity that occurred at any grade with a frequency greater than 10% in the overall study population, grade 3 or worse toxicities are shown here., Duration of treatment and up to 28 days after treatment discontinuation
This study will be a prospective, single-institution, single-arm phase II study of Axitinib in patients with unresectable recurrent and metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The subjects will be started on treatment with 5 mg of Axitinib twice a day continuously, with subsequent dose escalation to 7 mg and then 10 mg twice a day in the absence of grade 2 or worse toxicities. This will be followed by clinical and/or radiologic response assessment after 8 weeks and subsequently every 2 months until disease progression or intolerable toxicity.