Testing Docetaxel-Cetuximab or the Addition of an Immunotherapy Drug, Atezolizumab, to the Usual Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy in High-Risk Head and Neck Cancer
This phase II/III trial studies how well radiation therapy works when given together with cisplatin, docetaxel, cetuximab, and/or atezolizumab after surgery in treating patients with high-risk stage III-IV head and neck cancer the begins in the thin, flat cells (squamous cell). Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. The purpose of this study is to compare the usual treatment (radiation therapy with cisplatin chemotherapy) to using radiation therapy with docetaxel and cetuximab chemotherapy, and using the usual treatment plus an immunotherapy drug, atezolizumab.
Oropharyngeal p16INK4a-Negative Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Docetaxel|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Survey Administration
Disease-free survival (Phase II), Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each arm. Their distributions will be compared between treatment arms with a one-sided log rank test., From date of randomization until date of local-regional recurrence, distant metastasis or death due to any cause, assessed up to 7 years|Overall survival (Phase III), Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each arm. Their distributions will be compared between treatment arms with a one-sided log rank test. Multivariate analysis will be performed using the Cox proportional hazards model., From date of randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 7 years
Local-regional failure, The cumulative incidence method will be used to estimate rates, and the failure rates for the experimental arms will be compared against the control using a failure-specific log rank test., From date of randomization until date of local-regional recurrence, assessed up to 7 years|Distant metastasis, The cumulative incidence method will be used to estimate rates, and the failure rates for the experimental arms will be compared against the control using a failure-specific log rank test., From date of randomization to date of distant metastasis, assessed up to 7 years|Toxicity, Adverse events will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Rates of grade 3+ adverse events overall will be compared between arms by Chi-square test, or Fisher's exact test., From start of treatment to death or last follow-up|Patient-reported outcome, symptom burden, Time to recovery of baseline total symptom severity from the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory - Head and Neck. The cumulative incidence method will be used to estimate the event rates, and the event rates between arms will be compared using a cause-specific log rank test. The Fine-Gray subdistribution hazards model may be applied to further explore outcomes by treatment arm and other covariates., Time from randomization to a first recovery within at least one MID unit of total symptom severity compared to the baseline (reference) score|Quality of life, Quality of life change from baseline at 1-year post RT, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT) Trial Outcome Index (TOI). FACT TOI is a validated efficient summary index of physical/functional outcomes, and disease site-specific items, which is highly reliable and sensitive to change in performance status rating. A constrained longitudinal data analysis model will be fitted with all the time points (discrete), the treatment factor and its interaction. The secondary non-inferiority patient-reported outcome hypothesis will be tested using a confidence interval approach., Baseline and 1 year post radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To select the better docetaxel-based experimental arm to improve disease-free survival (DFS) over the control arm of radiation and cisplatin. (Phase II) (COMPLETE AS OF 20-MAR-2020) II. To determine if the combination of docetaxel-cetuximab and intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) is superior in terms of overall survival (OS) compared to standard cisplatin and IMRT in the adjuvant treatment of pathologic high risk, human papillomavirus (HPV)-negative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). (Phase III) III. To determine if the combination of atezolizumab, cisplatin, and IMRT is superior in terms of OS compared to standard cisplatin and IMRT in the adjuvant treatment of pathologic high risk, HPV-negative HNSCC. (Phase III)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare disease-free survival (DFS) between each experimental arm and the control arm. (Phase III) II. To determine whether each experimental arm improves local-regional disease control and the rate of distant metastasis. (Phase III) III. To compare acute toxicity profiles between each experimental arm and the control arm. (Phase III) IV. To compare late toxicity profiles at 1, 3, and 5 years after treatment. (Phase III) V. To assess long term DFS and OS between each experimental arm and the control arm. (Phase III) VI. To compare symptom burden, as measured by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory - Head and Neck (MDASI-HN) (primary patient reported outcome \[PRO\]), and quality of life, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H\&N) (secondary PRO), between each experimental arm and the control arm. (Phase III)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future translational research. (Phase III)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms - Phase II (Arms 1, 2 or 3) and for Phase III (Arms 1, 3 or 4).

ARM 1: Patients undergo intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) five days a week for 6 weeks and receive concurrent cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours once weekly for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM 2: Patients undergo IMRT as in Arm I and receive concurrent docetaxel IV over 60 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED AS OF 20-MAR-2020)

ARM 3: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 120 minutes on week 1 and over 60 minutes once weekly on weeks 2-7. Patients undergo IMRT as in Arm I and concurrently receive docetaxel once weekly for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM 4: Patients undergo IMRT QD five days a week for 6 weeks and receive concurrent cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours once weekly for 6 weeks. Starting 1 week before IMRT, patients also receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes every 3 weeks for up to 8 doses (weeks -1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 21) in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo collection of blood samples during screening and throughout the study and may undergo computed tomography (CT) scans and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and biopsy as clinically indicated on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.