Clofarabine for Relapsed or Refractory T-Cell or B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL)
This research is being done to develop new treatment for non-hodgkin's lymphoma in subjects whose cancer has returned or resisted treatment with chemotherapy. The investigational drug clofarabine is being used in this study. An investigational drug is one that has not been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
Lymphoma, B-Cell|Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
DRUG: CLOFARABINE
Phase I Maximum Tolerated Dose, Maximum Tolerated Dose for Clofarabine. Cohorts of 3 patients each will receive doses of clofarabine increased in increments as follows: 4, 6, 8, 10, 12,...etc mg/m2/day for 5 days. The dose level immediately below the MTD will be used to treat patients in the Phase II part of the study. Starting dose of 4 mg/m2., days 1 -28, maximum 6 cycles|Phase II Overall Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 5 years
Toxicity, Number of Participants with Toxicity, 5 years
The safety profile of clofarabine appears acceptable within the target populations studied to date in the clinical studies, with numerous responses observed in heavily pre-treated patients with relapsed/refractory ALL or AML. Dose escalation of clofarabine in patients with solid tumors and lymphoproliferative disorders has been limited because grade 3 and 4 myelosuppression was considered acceptable in patients with acute leukemia, provided that hematologic recovery occurred within 6 weeks of therapy , and dose escalation has proceeded as high as 40 mg/m2 in this patient population. Furthermore, no responses were observed in a recent trial in which patients with relapsed CLL were treated with clofarabine 2 mg/m2, an indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder indicating that low doses are likely to be ineffective in patients with aggressive NHL. (Personal Communication with ILEX Products, INC.)

This Phase I/II study will evaluate escalating doses of clofarabine in patients with relapsed and refractory diffuse large cell B-cell NHL starting at a dose of 4 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days and repeated every 28 days for a maximum of 6 cycles. This dosing regimen should be evaluated in this patient population because there is no standard therapy at relapse and grade 3 and 4 myelosuppression is frequently observed with traditional NHL salvage. Additionally, patients will receive granulocyte colony stimulating factors at the discretion of the investigator. Antifungal and antibacterial prophylaxis will be administered to minimize the risk of infection.