Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy - Prostate Cancer
There are several different treatment schedules being used across the world for treatment of prostate cancer with radiation therapy. In order to determine the best radiation treatment for this disease, a study is being performed by the doctors at the Princess Margaret Hospital. This study will try to measure the effectiveness and side effects of an increased dose of radiation to the prostate that is also given over a shorter number of weeks than is usually done. In order to try to reduce the possible side effects of the radiation therapy the treatment will be given using special techniques to shield as much of your normal body tissues as possible. This method of treatment is called conformal intensity modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT.
Prostatic Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: conformal intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)
To determine feasibility and late toxicity of administering 66 Gy in 22 fractions over 4.5 weeks (using conformal IMRT treatment techniques) to the prostate and adjacent tissues in patients with localized prostate ca, at each post treatment follow-up for up to 3 years
To evaluate acute toxicity of therapy, weekly during RT|To evaluate local control as assessed by prostate biopsy at 2.5 years, 2.5 years|To evaluate time to disease progression, 5 years
There are several different treatment schedules being used across the world for treatment of prostate cancer with radiation therapy. In order to determine the best radiation treatment for this disease, a study is being performed by the doctors at the Princess Margaret Hospital. This study will try to measure the effectiveness and side effects of an increased dose of radiation to the prostate that is also given over a shorter number of weeks than is usually done. In order to try to reduce the possible side effects of the radiation therapy the treatment will be given using special techniques to shield as much of your normal body tissues as possible. This method of treatment is called conformal intensity modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT.