An Efficacy Study of MORAb-009 in Subjects With Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to investigate the activity of MORAb-009 when added to a standard regimen of gemcitabine in patients with previously untreated unresectable stage 3 or 4 pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: MORAb-009|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Overall Survival (OS), This measure was defined as the time (in months) from the date of randomization to the date of death, whatever the cause. The primary endpoint was analyzed when 110 events (deaths) were observed. In the absence of death confirmation or for subjects alive at the time of analysis, the survival time will be censored at the date of the last study follow-up., 1-21 Months
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first observation of disease progression (clinical or radiological) or death due to any cause. Progression is defined, using RECIST, as a measurable increase in the smallest dimension of any target or non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, since baseline. If progression or death is not observed, the PFS time will be censored at the date of the last tumor assessment without evidence of progression prior to the date of initiation of further anticancer treatment., 1-21 Months|Best Overall Response Rate, Best overall response is the number of participants with a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), as classified by independent blinded review of the CT or MRI images, based on RECIST 1.0. A CR is the disappearance of all target lesions. PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum longest diameter. Progressive Disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Stable disease (SD) is neither CR, PR or PD., Baseline to response up to 21 months
The purpose of this study is to investigate the activity of MORAb-009 when added to a standard regimen of gemcitabine in patients with previously untreated unresectable stage 3 or 4 pancreatic cancer.