PRIMARY TESTICULAR LYMPHOMA
742 / 5.000 A 57-year-old male: Denies chronic degenerative, allergic, traumatic, transfusional, or surgical complications. He denies a family history of testicular cancer or abnormalities in testicular descent.

The patient presented with an enlarged right testicle that had been present for 1 month. He saw his family doctor, who prescribed antibiotic and analgesic treatment, without improvement, and was referred to our service. Upon examination, the right testicle was palpable, nontender, slightly enlarged, indurated, with nodulations measuring 0.5 cm in diameter, and free spermatozoa.

The left testicle was normal.

He underwent radical orchiectomy, which revealed renal testicular lymphoma.
Testicular Lymphoma
Mortality, Describe the mortality in primary testicular lymphoma, 3 months
A 57-year-old male: Denies chronic degenerative, allergic, traumatic, transfusional, or surgical complications. He denies a family history of testicular cancer or abnormalities in testicular descent.

The patient presented with an enlarged right testicle that had been present for 1 month. He saw his family doctor, who prescribed antibiotic and analgesic treatment, without improvement, and was referred to our service. Upon examination, the right testicle was palpable, non-tender, slightly enlarged, indurated, with nodulations measuring 0.5 cm in diameter, and free spermatozoa.

The left testicle was normal.

He underwent radical orchiectomy, which revealed renal-testicular lymphoma.

On the first postoperative day, the patient began to have stools with malignant cells and discontinuous invasion of the umbilical cord.

He was evaluated by the Gastroenterology department, who indicated the performance of an endoscopy, which revealed a 6 cm bleeding gastric ulcer. A biopsy was taken and a diffuse B-cell lymphoma was detected.

He was evaluated by the Gastroenterology department, who indicated the performance of an endoscopy, which revealed a large lesion.

On the first postoperative day, the patient began to have stools with malignant cells and discontinuous invasion of the umbilical cord.

He was evaluated by the Gastroenterology department, who indicated the performance of an endoscopy, which revealed a large lesion.

The patient continued to have melena and grade IV anemia. He was referred to pathology, where he was found to have OMS. He showed no improvement despite blood transfusions. He died. Immunohistochemistry for both testicular lesions and on the third postoperative day.