Association of Thoraco-mediastinal Radiotherapy With Maintenance Immunotherapy Treatment With Atezolizumab
Investigate the role of consolidative radiotherapy treatment at the thoraco-mediastinal level in the patient suffering from lung microcytoma - extensive disease and treated with chemo-immunotherapy with atezolizumab, in association with maintenance therapy with atezolizumab.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Thoracic radiotherapy|DRUG: Atezolizumab 1200 mg e.v. q21
Evaluate the efficacy of the association between radiotherapy and immunotherapy, The local recurrence rate of the disease at one year will be evaluated, with the aim of considering a % greater than 49.9% as unacceptable, assuming that with the experimental treatment object of this study a % of local recurrences of 30% can be achieved. We will therefore test the hypothesis of a local recurrence rate \>50% vs the hypothesis of a local control \<30%. Assuming a power of 80% and a one-sided significance level of 5%, it will be necessary to enroll 37 patients; if 13 or fewer local recurrences are observed, the study will be considered positive., 60 months
Measuring the tolerability, The treatment will be considered feasible and non-toxic if severe toxicity values are found ≥ G3 similar or not higher than previous studies that used thoraco-mediastinal radiotherapy for consolidation after chemotherapy in the setting of small cell lung cancer - Extensive disease.

In the present study, considering the use of modern radiotherapy techniques (IMRT or VMAT), the association of immunotherapy with thoracic radiotherapy in the maintenance phase will be considered feasible if an overall toxicity rate ≥ G3 \< 20%, a respiratory toxicity grade ≥ G2 \<10%, a respiratory toxicity grade ≥ G3 \<5% is found. Toxicity will be evaluated according to the CTCAE V5.0 scale., 60 months
Prospective phase II study on patients affected by extensive-stage small cell lung cancer. The traditional treatment of lung microcytoma-extensive disease consists in platinum and etoposide-based chemotherapy. Radiotherapy of consolidation at the thoracic mediastinal level after chemotherapy may have an impact on survival and can be offered to patients in response to chemotherapy. Studies have recently shown that the addition of immunotherapy with atezolizumab to traditional chemotherapy improves survival compared to placebo. However, the use of consolidation radiotherapy was not permitted in the study thoracic level. Therefore the objective is to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of the thoracic radiotherapy-immunotherapy association in the maintenance phase with atezolizumab of the treatment of lung microcytoma - extensive disease treated with chemo-immunotherapy.