A New Approach in Laser Surgery Using the Regenerative Solution in Children Diagnosed With Vascular Pathology
Laser treatment (LT) is the first-line treatment for Vascular Pathology. However even when LT is based on the selective photothermolysis it causes the first-degree burns. While being typically benign by affecting only the epidermis, or outer layer of skin, the burn site is remaining red, dry, and very painful. As Haemoblock contains nanoparticles of silver and is known for both bactericidal and bacteriostatic effects, it likely decreases the potential for infection postoperatively. Furthermore, after fibrin replaces the superficial structure "Hemoblock-albumin", the polyacrylate matrix is plasmolyzed which initiates the cascade of signals required for the tissue regeneration processes. Objective of the study was to examine the effect of the Regenerative Solution "Hemoblock" in lowering postoperative complications in children diagnosed with Vascular Pathology undergoing a laser surgery if delivered with transdermal patches.
Vascular Diseases|Vascular Malformation|Capillary Malformation-Arteriovenous Malformation|Port-Wine Stain|Sturge-Weber Syndrome|Vascular Tumor
DRUG: Haemoblock|OTHER: Placebo
Preventing negative outcomes of postoperative infection, Validated scales, Early postoperative period and at 3 weeks
Preventing prolonged functional recovery, Validated scales, Early postoperative period and at 3 weeks
Preventing likelihood of mental health issues, Validated scales, Early postoperative period and at 3 weeks
Laser treatment (LT) is the first-line treatment for Vascular Pathology. However even when LT is based on the selective photothermolysis it causes the first-degree burns. While being typically benign by affecting only the epidermis, or outer layer of skin, the burn site is remaining red, dry, and very painful. As Haemoblock contains nanoparticles of silver and is known for both bactericidal and bacteriostatic effects, it likely decreases the potential for infection postoperatively. Furthermore, after fibrin replaces the superficial structure "Hemoblock-albumin", the polyacrylate matrix is plasmolyzed which initiates the cascade of signals required for the tissue regeneration processes. Objective of the study was to examine the effect of the Regenerative Solution "Hemoblock" in lowering postoperative complications in children diagnosed with Vascular Pathology undergoing a laser surgery if delivered with transdermal patches.