S0432 Tipifarnib in Treating Older Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This randomized phase II trial is studying 4 different tipifarnib regimens to compare how well they work in treating older patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Tipifarnib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: tipifarnib
Total response rate, defined as the proportion of patients who achieve CR or PR, Any of the regimens considered in this trial would be considered sufficiently promising for further study if it increased the true total response rate of 30%, but not sufficiently promising if it produced a true total response rate of only 10%., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test whether any or all of four different regimens of R115777 (tipifarnib) is sufficiently effective therapy for previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in patients of age 70 or older to warrant Phase III investigation. Additionally, to allow increased access for patients to an agent that appears promising in this patient population.

II. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of these regimens in this group of patients.

III. To investigate in a preliminary manner the relationship of cytogenetics with response to R115777 (tipifarnib) and assess whether karyotype represents a potential prognostic factor among older AML patients who are not candidates for chemotherapy and are treated with R1157777.

IV. To collect specimens for future correlations (e.g. RAS and downstream targets) to be identified at a later date.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-21. ARM II: Patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-7 and 15-21. ARM III: Patients receive tipifarnib as in arm I, but at a lower dose. ARM IV: Patients receive tipifarnib as in arm II, but at a lower dose.

In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Patients who achieve a complete remission (CR) receive up to 3 additional courses beyond CR. Patients in CR who develop recurrent disease after the completion of therapy are eligible to receive tipifarnib again.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for 3 years.