TIP Regimen Combined With Triplizumab Neoadjuvant Therapy for Locally Advanced Penile Cancer
Primary Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of TIP (paclitaxel + ifosfamide + cisplatin) combined with Toripalimab as a neoadjuvant treatment in locally advanced penile cancer
Penile Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel + Ifosfamide + Cisplatin & Toripalimab
ORR, Objective Response Rate (ORR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria., 6 weeks
pCR, Percentage of Participants With Pathologically Complete Response, 12 weeks|EFS, Event-free survival, EFS, 2 months|OS, Overall Survival, 6 months|Adverse events, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE), 2 months
Penile cancer is a rare malignant tumor, which often occurs in the inner plate of the prepuce and glans. Squamous cell carcinoma is the most common pathological type. Lymph node metastasis is a crucial factor that leads to poor prognosis of penile cancer. The 5-year OS of penile cancer patients without lymph node metastasis is 90%. Still, it goes down sharply in patients with inguinal lymph node metastasis and pelvic lymph node metastasis, which is 50% and 0%, respectively. Using neoadjuvant chemotherapy to treat patients with locally advanced penile cancer (T4, any N stage, or any T stage, N3) may improve their prognosis. TIP (Paclitaxel + Ifosfamide + Cisplatin) regimen is the first-line neoadjuvant treatment recommended by NCCN guidelines. PD-1 is an immune checkpoint molecule on the surface of T cells. In recent years, immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1 have shown good efficacy in a variety of tumors. Some phase II / III clinical trials have shown that PD-1 inhibitors can improve the prognosis of patients with lung squamous cell carcinoma, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, and cervical cancer. Previous studies have found that PD-L1 is highly expressed in 40% - 60% of penile cancer, suggesting that penile cancer patients may benefit from immunotherapy. The management of penile cancer with lymph node metastasis is difficult, especially for the N2-3 stage. This phase II study aims to explore an effective combination therapy for locally advanced penile cancer. 25 patients need to be enrolled.TIP \& toripalimab will be administered every 21 days until surgery, evidence of disease progression, or onset of unacceptable toxicity.