AR and ER Imaging in Metastatic Breast Cancer
Knowledge of breast cancer estrogen receptor (ER) expression is of major importance in treatment-decision making. Patients with ER-positive tumors can be treated with anti-oestrogen therapy, which has relatively few side effects compared to chemotherapy. Whole-body tumor ER-expression can be visualized by 18F-fluoroestradiol PET imaging (FES-PET). In addition to ER, the androgen receptor (AR) is a potential new target in breast cancer. PET imaging with 18F-fluorodihydrotestosterone (18F-FDHT) may allow visualization of tumor AR-expression. In the current study we will perform FES-PET and FDHT-PET in metastatic breast cancer patients and evaluate the concordance with concurrent biopsies. Molecular imaging of tumor AR- and ER-expression may well be of value for future treatment decision-making.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
OTHER: FDHT-PET scan|OTHER: FES-PET scan|OTHER: CT-scan|OTHER: Bone scintigraphy|OTHER: Tumor biopsy
Sensitivity/ specificity, The concordance between PET (with 18F-FDHT and 18F-FES), and immunohistochemistry (for AR and ER) on concurrent (within 8 weeks) tumor biopsy will be evaluated., within two months
Accuracy, The number of lesions detected on PET imaging compared to CT-scan and bone scintigraphy., within six weeks|Inter- and intra-patient variation, Inter- and intra-patient variation in tumor FDHT and FES-uptake will be calculated., within six weeks|Inter-observer variation, Inter-observer variation in FES PET and FDHT PET results in two independent observers., approximately two months
Knowledge of breast cancer estrogen receptor (ER) expression is of major importance in treatment-decision making. Patients with ER-positive tumors can be treated with anti-oestrogen therapy, which has relatively few side effects compared to chemotherapy. Whole-body tumor ER-expression can be visualized by 18F-fluoroestradiol PET imaging (FES-PET). In addition to ER, the androgen receptor (AR) is a potential new target in breast cancer. PET imaging with 18F-fluorodihydrotestosterone (18F-FDHT) may allow visualization of tumor AR-expression. In the current study we will perform FES-PET and FDHT-PET in metastatic breast cancer patients and evaluate the concordance with concurrent biopsies. Molecular imaging of tumor AR- and ER-expression may well be of value for future treatment decision-making.