Imatinib Mesylate or Dasatinib in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
This randomized phase IIB trial studies imatinib mesylate at two different doses and dasatinib to see how well they work in treating patients with previously untreated chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia. Imatinib mesylate or dasatinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive
DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: Imatinib Mesylate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Molecular Response Rate at 12 Months, Median value of baseline bcr-abl/bcr ratio from pretreatment was used as the baseline value for assessing each patient's molecular response. Molecular response criteria were: 1) not failed treatment on or before 12-month evaluation; 2) met criteria for hemalotogic response; 3) bcr-abl/bcr ration at 12-months must be 10,000 times smaller than the pretreatment ratio., pretreatment and after 12 months of treatment
Hematologic Response, Hematologic response assesses whether patients' blood counts return to normal, 1 month after starting treatment|2-year Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was measured from the date of registration to study until death from any cause with observations censored at the date of last contact for patients last known to be alive., Every three months for the first year, every six months in years 2 and 3, and annually for years 4 and 5|Two Year Relapse-free Survival, Relapse-free survival is measured from the date of documented (possibly unconfirmed) hematologic complete remission until loss of hematologic complete remission or death from any cause. Observations are censored at the date of last contact for patients last known to be alive with report of loss of hematologic complete remission., every 3 months for the first year, every six months for years 2 and 3, annually for years 4 and 5|Toxicity, Number of patients with Grade 3-5 adverse events that are related to study drug by given type of adverse event, Patients were assessed for adverse events monthly every 4 weeks for the first year, every 6 months for years 2 and 3, and annually for years 4 and 5.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the molecular response rates, as measured by the decrease in breakpoint cluster region-Abelson murine leukemia viral oncogene homolog 1 (BCR-ABL) transcripts after 12 months of treatment, in patients with previously untreated chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in chronic phase who are treated with either dasatinib 100 mg/day or imatinib (STI571, Gleevec) (imatinib mesylate) 400 mg/day.

II. To test whether increasing the dose of imatinib (STI571, Gleevec®) from 400 mg/day to 800 mg/day increases the rate of molecular response, as measured by the decrease in BCR-ABL transcripts after 12 months of treatment, in patients with previously untreated CML in chronic phase.

III. To estimate rates of cytogenetic and hematologic responses to imatinib 400 mg/day, imatinib 800 mg/day, and dasatinib 100 mg/day.

IV. To evaluate in a preliminary manner the prognostic effects of derivative (der)(9) and der(22) chromosomal deletions for response in CML patients treated with imatinib and dasatinib.

V. To investigate in a preliminary manner changes in gene expression at relapse or progression compared to pre-treatment.

VI. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of the three treatment regimens.

VII. To evaluate, in a preliminary manner, the overall survival and relapse-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO twice daily (BID). Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive dasatinib PO BID. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 15 years.