eMOTION: Examining Affective Mechanisms in Physical Activity Engagement
This early-phase trial will test intervention strategies to influence affective mechanisms underlying physical activity and determine whether changes in those mechanisms result in change in physical activity behavior among inactive adults who are overweight or obese.
Physical Inactivity|Overweight or Obesity|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity Goals mHealth Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: TYPE/CONTEXT enhancement|BEHAVIORAL: SAVOR enhancement
Physical Activity: Step Count, Daily steps will be calculated from minute-level accelerometer data. Fitbit Versa 3 smartwatches with internal accelerometers are worn for the duration of the study period, except while bathing or charging. Only days with sufficient wear time (defined as ≥ 10-hours of valid data, where no more than 20-minutes per hour has a consecutive step count of zero) are used for analysis., Daily total for weeks 1-19|Physical Activity: Minutes, Daily minutes of light, moderate, and vigorous physical activity will be calculated from minute-level accelerometer data. Fitbit Versa 3 smartwatches with internal accelerometers are worn for the duration of the study period, except while bathing or charging. Only days with sufficient wear time (defined as ≥ 10-hours of valid data, where no more than 20-minutes per hour has a consecutive step count of zero) are used for analysis., Daily total for weeks 1-19
Affective Response, Event-contingent ecological momentary assessment (EMA) check-ins sent to the smartwatch during physical activity measure affective response. Event-contingent EMA are triggered when Fitbit sensors detect physical activity via moving average heart rate. A ≥30-minute buffer separates the first and second EMA during a single physical activity bout. A maximum of two event-contingent EMA will be sent within any given 60-minute period. Participants are asked to safely pause their activity to answer seven items about their affective response using a 5-point bipolar Likert Scale. Five items (Energetic-Fatigued, Happy-Discouraged, Relaxed-Tense, Excited-Bored, Satisfied-Frustrated) are drawn from Russell's Circumplex Model of Affect; one (Good-Bad) represents core affective valence; and one (Proud-Embarrassed) represents self-conscious emotion., Max 2 per 60-min physical activity period during weeks 2-9 and weeks 12-19|Affectively-Charged Motivations, Affectively-charged motivations for physical activity are measured during the morning goal session via REDCap. A text message alerts participants to complete the morning goal session on their smartphone. A single item from the Attraction-Antipathy subscale of the AFFEXX measures affectively-charged motivation by asking, "How do you feel about doing physical activity today?". Participants select a response using a Visual Analogue Scale ranging from 0 (Dread) to 100 (Excited)., Up to once daily for weeks 2-9 and weeks 12-19|Anticipated Affect, Anticipated affect is measured during the morning goal session via REDCap. A text message alerts participants to complete the morning goal session on their smartphone. A single item asks, "How do you expect to feel during physical activity today?". Participants select a response using a Visual Analogue Scale ranging from 0 (Miserable) to 100 (Thrilled)., Up to once daily for weeks 2-9 and weeks 12-19|Implicit Attitudes, The single-category Implicit Association Test (IAT) will ask participants to match to a conceptual target such as sedentary behavior (e.g., sitting, lying) or physical activity (e.g., walking, running) to affective attributes (e.g., good/bad).If the participant has a strong automatic association between the attribute and conceptual target, then the reaction time will be shorter (representing a favorable implicit attitude). A real-time audibly prompted IAT will be triggered on participants' smartphones in the morning on days a physical activity session is planned (with four reminders sent once every hour if incomplete)., Up to once daily for weeks 2-9 and weeks 12-19
This ORBIT model phase 1 trial will examine whether affective mechanisms (1) can be experimentally manipulated in real-world settings; and (2) mediate the relationship between interventions and physical activity behavior. A novel physical activity intervention will be optimized by efficiently disentangling the effects of its core component and two enhancement components on affective mechanisms associated with physical activity engagement.