Impact of DMSO Concentrations on Hematopoietic Recovery After Autologous HSC Transplantation.
The main aim of the study was to evaluate the clinical impact of different DMSO concentrations in cryopreservation mixture (5%, 7.5%, 10%) on reconstitution of hematopoiesis after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Multiple Myeloma|Lymphomas|Leukemias
PROCEDURE: Cryopreservation of HSCs using 5% DMSO concentration|PROCEDURE: Cryopreservation of HSCs using 7,5% DMSO concentration|PROCEDURE: Cryopreservation of HSCs using 10% DMSO concentration
The median time to neutrophils recovery after autoHSC transplantation., The first from 3 consecutive days, on which absolute neutrophil count in peripheral blood will be higher than 0.5 G/L
The median time to platelets recovery after autoHSC transplantation., The first from 3 consecutive days, on which platelet count in peripheral blood will be higher than 20 G/L, without platelet transfusion 7 days prior.|Adverse reactions related with transplantation procedure, 24 hours after transplantation
The procedure of autologous hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation requires cryopreservation of HSCs. Addition of DMSO (dimethyl sulfoxide) is necessary to secure the viability of such cells, but this cryoprotectant is potentially toxic to stem cell recipient. The concentrations of DMSO in cryopreservation mixture vary strongly between protocols in different transplant centers. Usually, the HSCs are stored in mixtures containing 10% DMSO, but there is no sufficient evidence that this concentration of DMSO is indeed optimal.

The main aim of the study is to evaluate the clinical impact of reduction of DMSO concentration in cryopreservation mixture on engraftment after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 150 consecutive patients will be randomly assigned to one of three study arms (50 patients each). HSCs obtained by leukapheresis will be cryopreserved in three concentrations of DMSO: 5%, 7.5%, 10%, respectively. Evaluation of the mixtures will be carried out by monitoring reconstitution of hematopoiesis and the frequency the side effects in patients. The most important aspect of our evaluation will be the speed of neutrophil recovery after transplantation (defined by the first day, when absolute neutrophil count in peripheral blood will be higher than 0.5 G/L). The investigators will also evaluate the toxicity of cell suspension by monitoring the frequency of infusion-related adverse events (like nausea or vomiting) during infusion and 24 hours after transplantation.