Intermittent Treatment With Degarelix of Patients Suffering From Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this uncontrolled, multi-center, open-label trial was to investigate the feasibility of using degarelix as intermittent androgen deprivation (IAD) therapy in the treatment of prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Degarelix 240 mg / 80 mg
Median and Between Participant Variability of Time to Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) >4 ng/mL During the First Cycle of Intermittent Androgen Deprivation (IAD) After 7 Monthly Injections of Degarelix Induction Treatment, Blood samples for analyses of serum PSA levels were collected at the Screening Visit, and every two months during the course of the trial, and at the End-of-Trial Visit. Analyses were performed using chemiluminometric immunoassay., Up to 24 months after end of induction period
Percentage Change in PSA Serum Levels From Baseline to the Last Visit of the Induction Period During the First Cycle of IAD, 7 months|Median and Between Participant Variability of Time to Return to Testosterone >0.5 ng/mL (Above Castration Level) During the First Cycle of IAD After 7 Monthly Injections of Degarelix Induction Treatment, Blood samples for analyses of serum testosterone levels were collected at the Screening Visit, Month 4 and 7 of the induction period of Cycle 1 and the corresponding visits of any additional treatment cycles, every two months during the off-treatment period(s), and at the End-of-Trial Visit. Analyses were performed using Liquid-Liquid Extraction and Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry/Mass Spectrometry., Up to 24 months after end of induction period|Number of Participants With Testosterone ≤0.5 ng/mL at the Last Visit of the Induction Period During the First Cycle of IAD, 7 months|Quality of Life, as Assessed by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Prostate Module (EORTC QLQ-PR25), During the Induction Treatment and Off-treatment Periods During the First Cycle of IAD, The EORTC QLQ-PR25 employs a modular approach towards assessing cancer patients´ health-related Quality of Life (QoL) and assesses urinary, bowel, and sexual symptoms and functioning, and the side-effects of hormonal treatment. It consists of 25 questions distributed on six domains (number of items per domain, ranges from x to y: urinary symptoms (8, 0-100), bother due to use of incontinence aid (1, 0-100), bowel symptoms (4, 0-100), hormonal treatment-related symptoms (6, 0-100), sexual activity (2, 0-100), and sexual functioning (4, 0-100). All raw domain scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores reflecting either more symptoms (urinary, bowel, hormonal treatment-related symptoms) or higher levels of activity or functioning (sexual)., Up to 31 months|Sexual Function, as Assessed by the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) Scale, During the Induction Treatment and Off-treatment Periods During the First Cycle of IAD, The IIEF scale addresses the relevant domains of male sexual function (i.e. erectile function, orgasmic function, sexual desire, intercourse satisfaction and overall satisfaction). The IIEF scale is psychometrically sound, and has been linguistically validated in multiple languages. The IIEF scale demonstrates the sensitivity and specificity for detecting treatment-related changes in patients with erectile dysfunction. It consists of the following domains (number of items per domain; ranges from x to y: erectile function (6; 1-30), orgasmic function (2; 0-10), sexual desire (2; 2-10), intercourse satisfaction (3; 0-15) and overall satisfaction (2; 2-10). For all domains, a higher score represents a better sexual function., Up to 31 months|Number of Participants With Markedly Abnormal Values in Vital Signs and Body Weight During One or More Cycles of Degarelix IAD Treatment, This outcome measure included incidence of markedly abnormal changes in blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), pulse, and body weight. The table presents the number of participants with normal baseline and at least one post-baseline markedly abnormal value during the trial., Up to 3 x 31 months|Number of Participants With Markedly Abnormal Values in Safety Laboratory Variables During One or More Cycles of Degarelix IAD Treatment, This outcome measure included incidence of markedly abnormal changes in safety laboratory values. The table presents the number of participants with normal baseline and at least one post-baseline markedly abnormal value during the trial. ULN=Upper limit of normal., Up to 3 x 31 months
The participants received one or more treatment cycles of seven monthly degarelix doses during the induction period(s). The off-treatment period(s) started when prostate-specific antigen (PSA) ≤4 ng/mL and lasted up to 24 months based on PSA levels. A visit was scheduled on a monthly basis during the induction treatment periods, and every two months during the off-treatment periods. During the off-treatment periods, degarelix treatment was re-initiated when PSA \>4 ng/mL. The maximum of degarelix IAD treatment cycles that a participant could receive was limited to three.