Two Stage Study of Combination of Chemotherapy, SHR-1210 and/or Decitabine for Relapsed/Refractory PMBCLs
This is a two stage, Phase I/II clinical trial for patients with relapsed or refractory primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (rrPMBCL). In the first stage, the participants will receive GVD (Gemcitabine, Vinorelbine and Doxorubicine) chemotherapy and PD-1 antibody (SHR-1210) treatment. The safety and efficacy of combined regimen will be evaluated. If deemed safe and efficacious, the investigators will proceed to the second stage of the study. In the second stage, the participants will receive GVD chemotherapy and SHR-1210 treatment with low-dose Decitabine priming. The safety and feasibility of combined regimens will be evaluated in phase I study. The feasibility will be accessed.
Primary Mediastinal Large B-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: GVD chemotherapy|DRUG: SHR-1210
Number of Subjects with treatment-related adverse events (AEs), Incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events graded according to the NCI CTCAE v4.03., Up to 120 days after last administration of SHR-1210|Objective response rate (ORR), The antitumor efficacy of the combination treatments as measured by ORR was determined using the International Working Group 2007 criteria for malignant lymphoma (J Clin Oncol. 2007 Feb 10;25(5):579-586). Clinical response of progressive disease (PD), stable disease (SD), partial remission (PR), or complete remission (CR) will be determined at each assessment. ORR is defined as the sum of CR and PR., Enrolled patients will be followed until death, withdrawal from study, or until 2 years.
Complete response (CR) rate, The CR rate will be estimated as the proportion of patients with response, with a 95% exact confidence interval., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Median progression-free survival (PFS) time, PFS time was measured from study entry to the first documentation of disease progression or death. Disease progression was determined using the International Working Group 2007 criteria for malignant lymphoma., Patients will be followed until disease progression, death, withdrawal from study, or until 2 years.|Median overall survival (OS) time, OS time was measured from the study entry to the date of death., Patients will be followed until death, withdrawal from study, or until 2 years.
This is a two stage, Phase I/II clinical trial for patients with relapsed or refractory primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (rrPMBCL). In the first stage, the participants will receive GVD (Gemcitabine, Vinorelbine and Doxorubicine) chemotherapy and PD-1 antibody (SHR-1210) treatment. The safety and efficacy of combined regimen will be evaluated. If deemed safe and efficacious, the investigators will proceed to the second stage of the study. In the second stage, the participants will receive GVD chemotherapy and SHR-1210 treatment with low-dose Decitabine priming. The safety and feasibility of combined regimens will be evaluated in phase I study. The feasibility will be accessed.