Study of Radiotherapy Combined With Albumin Bound Paclitaxel and Nedaplatin for Locally Advanced NSCLC
This phase II randomized study is to investigate the efficacy and toxicity of fractional thoracic radiotherapy combined with albumin bound paclitaxel and nedaplatin twice a week in the treatment of locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer compared with weekly chemotherapy.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: chest radiation(IMRT)|DRUG: Concurrent chemotherapy twice a week|DRUG: Concurrent chemotherapy once a week
local control rate, To assess the efficacy of albumin bound paclitaxel twice a week in terms of local control rate for all patients, 2 years
Progression-free Survival, To assess the efficacy of albumin bound paclitaxel twice a week compared with once a week in terms of progression-free survival, 2 Years|Overall Survival(OS), To assess the efficacy of albumin bound paclitaxel twice a week compared with once a week in terms of overall survival, 2 Years|Response Rate(RR), To assess the efficacy of albumin bound paclitaxel twice a week compared with once a week in terms of response rate, 2 years|Distant metastasis rate, To assess the efficacy of albumin bound paclitaxel twice a week compared with once a week in terms of distant metastasis rate, 2 years|rate of grade 3-4 radiation esophagitis, 1 year|rate of grade 3-4 radiation pneumonitis, 1 year
This phase II randomized study is to investigate the efficacy and toxicity of fractional thoracic radiotherapy combined with albumin bound paclitaxel and nedaplatin twice a week in the treatment of locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer compared with weekly chemotherapy.

Radiotherapy:

All patients will receive intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) once a day, 5 days a week. The first stage: DT 3000 cGy / 6 FX; the second stage, DT 3500 cGy / 7 FX. Or: the first segment: DT 4000 cGy / 10 FX; the second segment DT 2400 cGy / 6 FX. The interval between two stages of radiotherapy was 4 weeks.

Concurrent chemotherapy:

The patients were randomly divided into two groups and received one of the following concurrent chemotherapy regimens:

Group A: during the same period of radiotherapy, 30 mg / m2 albumin bound paclitaxel was intravenously infused twice a week for 0.5 hours, and nedaplatin 10 mg / m2 twice a week for 0.5 hours.

1. When the radiotherapy dose was 3000 cGy / 6 FX + DT 3500 cGy / 7 FX, the infusion time was D1, D4, D8 of the first stage of radiotherapy; D1, D4, D8 of the second stage of radiotherapy.
2. When the radiotherapy dose was 4000 cGy / 10 FX + DT 2400 cGy / 6 FX, the infusion time was D1, D4, D8, D11 of the first stage radiotherapy, and D1, D4, D8 of the second stage radiotherapy.

Group B: during the same period of radiotherapy, albumin bound paclitaxel (50 mg / m2) was intravenously infused once a week for 0.5 hours; nedaplatin (25 mg / m2) was intravenously infused once a week for 0.5 hours. The infusion time was D1, D8 of the first radiotherapy and D1, D8 of the second radiotherapy.