Phenelzine Sulfate and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer With Progressive Disease After First-Line Therapy With Docetaxel
This phase II trial studies how well giving phenelzine sulfate together with docetaxel works in treating patients with prostate cancer that is growing, spreading, or getting worse after first-line therapy with docetaxel. Phenelzine sulfate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Phenelzine sulfate may also help docetaxel work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving phenelzine sulfate together with docetaxel may kill more tumor cells.
Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostatic Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy of Prostate|DRUG: Docetaxel|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Phenelzine Sulfate
Proportion of Patients Who Experience a PSA (Prostate-Specific Antigen) Decline of at Least 30%, PSA response: A ≥ 30% reduction from baseline within 12 weeks of initiation of therapy (confirmed on a second measurement at least 3 weeks later)., Within 12 weeks
Duration of Progression Free Survival After Initiation of Combination Phenelzine and Docetaxel Therapy, Progression free survival is calculated as the time from Day 1 of Combination therapy to first evidence of progression (by PSA, Measureable Disease, or Clinical Progression). For subjects who did not meet progression criteria, date of new therapy or date of death was used. Outcome is reported as mean., Up to 6 years|Frequency of MAOA (Monoamine Oxidase A) Overexpression in CRPC (Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer) Tumors That Are Progressing on Docetaxel, Reported as Number of participants with MAOA expression greater than 5%., Baseline|HIF-1alpha Expression in CTC (Circulating Tumor Cells) as a Potential Measure of MAO Activity, Up to 6 years|MAOA Expression in CTC (Circulating Tumor Cells) and Comparison to Biopsy MAOA Expression, A Pearson's correlation will be used to correlate tumor biopsy MAOA expression and circulating tumor cells MAOA expression., Up to 6 years|Maximum Change in PSA, Measured from Day 1 of Combination therapy to PSA at 12 Weeks on therapy (or earlier if subject not on therapy for 12 weeks)., 12 weeks (or earlier in patients who discontinued early)|Response Rate in Measurable Disease by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) Criteria, Response in measurable disease is defined as a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (as described by RECIST 1.1)., Up to 6 years|Time to Death From All Causes, Time to death is calculated from Day 1 of Combination therapy to death from any cause., Up to 6 years|Toxicity of the Regimen, Number of participants who experienced an Adverse Event. Detail of Adverse Events is reported in the Adverse Event Section, Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients who experience a prostate specific antigen (PSA) decline of at least 30% within 12 weeks of initiation of combination therapy when phenelzine (phenelzine sulfate) is added to docetaxel in patients who have evidence of progression on standard docetaxel.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine duration of progression free survival after initiation of combination phenelzine and docetaxel therapy.

II. To determine the response rate in measurable disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria after initiation of combination phenelzine and docetaxel therapy.

III. To report the maximum change in PSA from baseline to 12 weeks (or earlier in patients who discontinue early) by waterfall plot after initiation of combination phenelzine and docetaxel therapy.

IV. To determine the toxicity of the combination regimen in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) previously treated with docetaxel.

V. To determine time to death from all causes. VI. To determine the frequency of monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) overexpression in CRPC tumors that are progressing on docetaxel.

VII. To compare the level of MAOA expression in primary diagnostic tissue (e.g. biopsy or radical prostatectomy) with CRPC tumors that are progressing on docetaxel.

VIII. To correlate MAOA overexpression in CRPC tumors with response to combination study treatment.

IX. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future molecular correlative studies.

X. To validate MAOA assessment in circulating tumor cells. XI. To assess correlation with tissue expression of MAOA. XII. To measure hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha expression and other potential biomarkers in circulating tumor cells as a potential measure of MAO activity.

TERTIARY OUTCOMES:

I. To measure expression of lysine-specific histone demethylase 1 (LSD1) in CRPC tumors that are progressing on docetaxel and correlate with the endpoints described in the primary objective and secondary objectives I, II, III, and V.

II. To conduct gene expression studies in CRPC tumors that are progressing on docetaxel and correlate them with and correlate with the endpoints described in the primary objective and secondary objectives I, II, III and V.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of phenelzine sulfate.

Patients receive phenelzine sulfate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -7 to -4, and then twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 21. Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.