Mobile Health Application Developed for Cervical Cancer
The main purpose of this research is to evaluate the effect of the nursing care that participants receive with the mobile health application for cervical cancer on raising awareness about cervical cancer. The study conducted through the mobile health application developed to raise awareness about cervical cancer; It is thought that it is important in terms of raising awareness of participants, easing the work-time burden of health personnel in this period, and reducing the cost of health care through early diagnosis and treatment, and will set an example for future studies. Positive outputs from the mobile application will allow the application to be used on national and international platforms.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mobile application usage
Mobile Health Application questionnaire: "There is "NO" difference in the mean scores of Cervical Cancer and Pap Smear Test Health Belief Model Scale between women who received, In the nursing care given with the mobile health application for cervical cancer, in the experimental and control groups, 2 months|Mobile Health Application questionnaire: "There is "YES' difference in the mean scores of Cervical Cancer and Pap Smear Test Health Belief Model Scale between women who received, the nursing care given with the mobile health application for cervical cancer, in the experimental and control groups, 2 months
In the face-to-face health care system, especially due to the pandemic period, the problem of personnel need to provide health care can be solved with mobile health applications; thus, mobile health applications can indirectly help workforce problems. Mobile applications allow the provision of high quality, useful services with less energy and cost to large audiences. In addition, mobile health applications allow patients to be followed remotely, allowing patients to access health services wherever, whenever and as often as they want. It is stated that well-structured mobile applications have a positive impact on the health sector. In this context, it is seen that the use of mobile applications in primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare services is becoming increasingly common all over the world.

In researches planned study, it is aimed to develop a mobile application in Turkish in order to raise awareness about cervical cancer and to evaluate its effectiveness. In the content of the mobile application to be developed, information about cervical cancer such as information about cervical cancer, symptoms, findings, diagnosis, screening, treatment, practical explanations with video, frequently asked questions about the subject; It is planned to have interim notifications, reminders, pay attention warning messages. There are a limited number of practices related to cervical cancer awareness in the world. In Turkey, there is no e-health mobile application for cervical cancer awareness. Unlike the applications in the world; In the application, which is aimed to be developed in this study, there is an area where the participants can ask questions to the researcher from the "Request Support" section and there is a field. The information provided by mobile health applications was found to be educational, appropriate, original and on-site, and it was found useful to be reliable. Studies have shown that mobile health applications contribute to positive health outcomes.

The study conducted through the mobile health application developed to raise awareness about cervical cancer; It is thought that it is important in terms of raising the awareness of participants, easing the work-time burden of health personnel in this period, and reducing the cost of health care through early diagnosis and treatment, and will set an example for future studies. Positive outputs from the mobile application will allow the application to be used on national and international platforms.