Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Stage IV or Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with stage IV or recurrent nasopharyngeal cancer. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Recurrent Lymphoepithelioma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Lymphoepithelioma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx
DRUG: pazopanib hydrochloride|OTHER: pharmacological study|PROCEDURE: computed tomography
Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate (CBR) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST ver 1.0) and assessed by CT or MRI. CBR includes 1) Complete response (CR): disappearance of all lesions; 2) partial response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and 3) stable disease (SD): non-PR and non progressive disease., 12 weeks of treatment
Response Rate (PR), Per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST v1.0) and assessed by MRI or CT: Partial response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and non-PD (PD: progressive disease) of non-target lesions., 12 weeks of treatment|Progression-free Survival, Progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by RECIST Committee. The sample proportion and associated 95% confidence interval will be reported., From the date of enrollment to the date of first documented progression or death, whichever occurs first, or to the date when the patient was last known to be alive, up to 3 years.|Overall Survival, From date of enrollment to the study to the date of death from any cause or to the date when the patient was last known to be alive, up to 3 years.|Toxicity Profile: Percentage of Participants With Significant (Grade 3/4) Related Adverse Event (AE), The frequencies of grade 3/4 related toxicities were recorded among all participants, and the percentage of participants who experienced significant AEs were reported., From the time of first treatment with pazopanib hydrochloride to up to 30days after completion of treatment|Pharmacodynamic Study: Tumor Blood Flow at Baseline, Dynamic-contrast enhanced computed tomography (DCE-CT) was performed at baseline and Day 28, tumor blood flow was measured.19 of 33 patients had evaluable DCE-CT data., Pretreatment|Pharmacodynamic Study: Tumor Blood Flow on Day 28, DCE-CT was performed on Day 28 and tumor blood flow was measured. 19 of 33 patients had evaluable DCE-CT data., 28 days post treatment|Pharmacokinetic Study: Percentage of Participants With Trough Concentration at Steady State (Day 28) Above 15 µg/mL, Pazopanib pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated on Day 1 and Day 28 (steady state). Trough concentration of pazopanib was measured on Day 28 with blood sampling at zero (pre dose), 0.5 hr, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 24 hrs after Day 28 dose., Day 28 of treatment|Pharmacokinetic Study: AUC0-24h/Dose on Day 1, AUC 0-24h/dose were measured on day 1 for 26 evaluable participants. Blood sampling is done at zero (pre-dose), 0.5 hr, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 hrs after the first dose., Day 1 of treatment|Pharmacokinetic Study: Area Under Curve (AUC) 0-24h/Dose on Day 28, AUC 0-24h/dose were measured on day 28 for 26 evaluable participants. Blood sampling was done at zero (pre dose), 0.5 hr, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 24 hrs after day 28 dose., Day 28 of treatment|Pharmacokinetic Study: Volume of Distribution (Vd/F/Dose) on Day 1, Volume of distribution (Vd/F/dose) were measured on day 1 for 26 evaluable participants. Blood sampling was done at zero (pre dose), 0.5 hr, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 hrs after first dose., Day 1 of treatment|Pharmacokinetic Study: Volume of Distribution at Steady State (Vss/F/Dose) on Day 28, Volume of distribution at steady state (Vss/F/Dose) were measured on day 28 for 26 evaluable participants. Blood sampling was done at zero (pre dose), 0.5 hr, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 24 hrs after day 28 dose., Day 28 of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of pazopanib hydrochloride in patients with stage IV or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

II. Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug. III. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients. IV. Determine the effect of this drug on angiogenesis inhibition using dynamic contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan.

V. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of this drug in these patients. VI. Correlate the effect of this drug on angiogenesis inhibition with the clinical benefit rate and pharmacokinetics.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 12 months.