Stem Cell Transplant With or Without Tbo-filgrastim in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma or Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well stem cell transplant with or without tbo-filgrastim works in treating patients with multiple myeloma or non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Eliminating the use of tbo-filgrastim after transplant may still help maintain a similar time to discharge.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Tbo-filgrastim|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Number of days to discharge, Will compare days to discharge readiness between the two groups., Up to 60 days
Median days post autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (auto HSCT) to neutrophil engraftment, Will be defined as absolute neutrophil count \> 500 x 10\^9/L x 3 days. Day of engraftment is the first of the 3 days of absolute neutrophil count \> 500 x 10\^9/L., Up to 60 days|Median days post auto HSCT to platelet engraftment, Will be defined as date platelet greater than or equal to 20 x 10\^9 /L without a platelet transfusion within the last 7 days., Up to 60 days|Incidence of engraftment syndrome, Will be defined by the Maiolino Criteria. Will be summarized by treatment arm and compared using a chi-square test, Up to 60 days|Median number of febrile days during the auto HSCT inpatient stay, Will be summarized by treatment arm and compared using Wilcoxon rank sum tests, Up to 60 days|Median number of days of febrile neutropenia during the auto HSCT inpatient stay, Will be summarized by treatment arm and compared using Wilcoxon rank sum tests., Up to 60 days|Median number of documented infections treatment during the auto HSCT inpatient stay, Will be defined as a positive blood culture not ultimately deemed to be due to a contaminant, Up to 60 days|Median number of antibiotic days during the auto HSCT inpatient stay, Will be summarized by treatment arm and compared using Wilcoxon rank sum tests., Up to 60 days|Median number of days on corticosteroids, Will be summarized by treatment arm and compared using Wilcoxon rank sum tests., Up to 60 days|Number of post discharge granulocyte colony-stimulating factor administrations through day +60 post auto HSCT, Will be summarized by treatment arm and compared using Wilcoxon rank sum tests., Up to 60 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To demonstrate non-inferiority in the number of days to discharge readiness after a granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) + plerixafor-mobilized autologous stem cell transplant in patients receiving versus not receiving post-transplant growth factor support.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare days to absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \> 500, days to platelet engraftment, febrile days, days of febrile neutropenia, documented infections, and number of antibiotic days in patients receiving versus not receiving post-transplant growth factor support.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate immunological recovery (lymphocyte number including CD 3/4 and CD3/8 T cell subsets) at day + 60 in patients receiving versus not receiving post-transplant growth factor support.