Combined MEK, STAT3 and PD-1 Inhibition in Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
The purpose of this research is to test whether a combination treatment of Trametinib, Retifanlimab, and Ruxolitinib (TR\^2) will reduce tumor size in patients with metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Retifanlimab
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The RP2D of combination therapy of trametinib, ruxolitinib and retifanlimab (TR\^2) therapy will be determined as the maximum tolerated dose of combination treatment (in mg) as assessed by treating physician using the NCI-CTCAE Version 5.0., Up to 6 months
Incidence of Treatment-Related Toxicity, The incidence of treatment-related dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and Grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs) in study participants receiving combination TR\^2 therapy will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, per physician discretion., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the elapsed time from study treatment initiation to death or date of censoring. Participants alive or those lost to follow-up will be censored at the last date known to be alive. OS rate will be reported as the percentage of participants still alive after start of treatment., Up to 3 years|Percentage of Participants Achieving Overall Response, Overall response will be determined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response to combination TR\^2 treatment. Response will be assessed by treating physician using the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1., Up to 2 years
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (PDAC) remains a major therapeutic challenge due to its innate and acquired chemoresistance. Three major contributors to therapeutic resistance that have been difficult to overcome in PDAC are mutations in the KRAS oncogene, the presence of a dense desmoplastic stroma that acts as a barrier to drug delivery and effector immune cell infiltration, and the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) that renders the tumor innately resistant to immunotherapy.

The Merchant and Datta labs at the University of Miami (UM) has extensively studied the targeting of downstream effectors of oncogenic RAS. They have shown that mitogen-activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase inhibition (MEKi) results in reciprocal activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling, which confers therapeutic resistance and continued PDAC cell growth. Combined inhibition of Janus kinases (JAK)/STAT3 (STAT3i) and MEKi overcomes therapeutic resistance following RAS inhibition that is mediated through parallel feedback loop activation.

They have also identified a novel mechanism showing that combined MEKi and STAT3i also inhibits tumor fibrosis and enhances CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) infiltration to the tumor while downregulating immunosuppressive regulatory T cells (Tregs) and myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in the TME, resulting in reduced tumor burden and improved survival in genetically engineered mouse models of PDAC.

Furthermore, they have shown that the anti-tumor effects of MEKi and STAT3i are T-cell dependent. This change in the TME, however, is accompanied by sustained PD-L1/PD-1 and cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) expression. The preliminary results further demonstrate that combined MEKi and STAT3i with PD-1 inhibition can harness the effects of immune checkpoint inhibitors for an enhanced anti-tumor response.

Based on many years of preclinical investigation, this triplet combination appears to be a promising option and this clinical trial will tests its safety and effectiveness in patients with metastatic PDAC.