Allogeneic CD19 CAR-T Cells for the Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
CD19 CAR-T has been widely developed in patients with R/R ALL and has also been generally recognized by the industry. In 2017, the U.S. FDA approved Novartis's CD 19 CAR-T product Kymriah for the treatment of R/R ALL. However, these CAR-T cells are constructed from patients' autologous T cells, and the production and preparation time is long; on the other hand, most patients have received multiple chemotherapy before CAR-T treatment, and the quantity and quality of T cells often cannot meet the needs of clinical treatment. It is also an important factor leading to the failure of CAR-T cell therapy, which limits the large-scale clinical application of CAR-T.

T cells derived from healthy donors are not only sufficient in quantity and quality guaranteed, but also available at any time. In December 2020, lancet reported a clinical study of 19 patients receiving allogeneic CAR-T cell ALL. 14 patients were evaluated as CR/CRi (67%) 28 days after treatment, and the median sustained remission time was 4.1 moon. Allogeneic CAR-T cells are safe and effective for the treatment of ALL, and their clinical application range is expected to improve the remission rate and survival rate of patients with R/R ALL.
Relapse Leukemia|Refractory Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic CD19 CAR-T cells
CRR, Complete remission rate, From data of enrollment until the first documented progression of disease, up to 2 years.
OS, Overall survival rate, From admission to the end of follow up, up to 2 years.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells enable T cells to recognize and kill tumor cells that express specific antigens through genetic engineering. CD19 is expressed on the membrane surface of pre-B cells and mature B cells, but not on the surface of T cells and normal granulocytes. It is an ideal therapeutic target for B cell-derived tumors. A large number of previous studies have confirmed that CD19 CAR-T cells are a safe and effective method for the treatment of ALL. In 2018, New England Journal published the long-term follow-up data of CD19 CAR-T for relapse/refractory (R/R) ALL, 53 patients with r/r ALL who received a single infusion of CD19 CAR-T The response efficiency (CR+PR) reached 98%, of which about 83% of CR patients, with a median survival time of 12.9 months; greatly improved the remission rate and survival rate of r/r ALL patients.

Nowadays,CD19 CAR-T has been widely developed in patients with R/R ALL and has also been generally recognized by the industry. In 2017, the U.S. FDA approved Novartis's CD CAR-T product Kymriah for the treatment of R/R ALL. However, these CAR-T cells are constructed from patients' autologous T cells, and the production and preparation time is long; on the other hand, most patients have received multiple chemotherapy before CAR-T treatment, and the quantity and quality of T cells often cannot meet the needs of clinical treatment. It is also an important factor leading to the failure of CAR-T cell therapy, which limits the large-scale clinical application of CAR-T.

T cells derived from healthy donors are not only sufficient in quantity and quality guaranteed, but also available at any time. In December 2020, lancet reported a clinical study of 19 patients receiving allogeneic CAR-T cell ALL. 14 patients were evaluated as CR/CRi (67%) 28 days after treatment, and the median sustained remission time was 4.1 moon. Allogeneic CAR-T cells are safe and effective for the treatment of ALL, and their clinical application range is expected to improve the remission rate and survival rate of patients with R/R ALL.