Laboratory Study Using Samples From Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Treated on Clinical Trial CASE-2507
RATIONALE: Studying samples of blood and tissue from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about changes that occur in DNA and RNA and identify biomarkers related to cancer.

PURPOSE: This laboratory study is looking at biomarkers in tumor tissue and blood samples from patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
GENETIC: DNA analysis|GENETIC: RNA analysis|GENETIC: fluorescence in situ hybridization|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|GENETIC: mutation analysis|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|GENETIC: reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Predictive value of T790M mutation status of the second biopsy (before maintenance therapy on CASE-2507) on progression-free survival (PFS), At the time of the second biopsy or surgical procedures|Difference of PFS between those with and without T790M mutation, At the time of the second biopsy or surgical procedures|Difference of clinical response rate between T790M mutation statuses, At the time of the second biopsy or surgical procedures|Predictive value of mutation status on clinical response, At the time of the second biopsy or surgical procedures|Association between T790M mutation and baseline clinical-pathological factors and smoking status, At the time of the second biopsy or surgical procedures
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Identify mutations in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in non-small cell lung cancer specimens from clinical trial CASE-2507.
* Investigate EGFR DNA copy-number changes.
* Determine abnormalities of other pathways, such as the c-MET and PI3K pathways as potential mechanisms of resistance.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

DNA and RNA are extracted from tumor samples. Genomic DNA is analyzed using real-time PCR/ reverse transcriptase PCR analysis and/or FISH analysis in order to study resistance mechanisms such as secondary EGFR mutations and the c-MET and PI3K pathways. RNA is analyzed using TaqMan quantitative PCR in order to determine the copy number of EGFR expressed in these tissues. Peripheral blood samples are used to isolate peripheral blood mononuclear cells positive for epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM).