Pilot Study of Stomach Cancer Early Detection and Prevention With Endoscopy
Screening esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD )provides three distinct opportunities to decrease gastric cancer (GC) morbidity and mortality. has potential to discover cancer in early stages before the onset of symptoms, leading to higher rates of survival. Second, premalignant lesions such as adenomatous polyps, intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia can be discovered and removed with local resection, akin to polypectomies during screening colonoscopies, preventing the development of cancer. Third, EGD discovery and treatment of active Helicobacter pylori (HP) infection of the stomach provides an opportunity for primary prevention of GC.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
Acceptability and feasibility of EGD-SC measured by Linear Scale, To achieve the goal of assessing feasibility of EDG-SC as well as estimates of effect size needed to determine sample size and power for the planned study, the investigator will collect data on the number of participants contacted, number eligible, and number who agree to EGD-SC., Pre-Study Screening Day -30 to day0
Number of participants with AE's will be measured by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) Version 5.0, Adverse events (AEs) will be evaluated and graded using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) Version 5.0, From the time of consent to through five calendar days after screening/treatment
Acceptability and feasibility of EGD-SC measured by Linear Scale, Linear Scale eligible for the study. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to assess the participants responses to EGD., Pre-Study Screening Day -30 to day 0
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of EGD-SC.

The secondary objectives are:

1. Estimate Median added time needed for EGD at the time of routine screening colonoscopy
2. Estimate the frequencies of adverse events
3. Estimate the percentage of pre-cancer and cancerous lesions including H. pylori infection, chronic atrophic gastritis, IM, dysplasia and GC among this high GC risk population
4. Investigate whether high-risk racial/ethnicity groups have different likelihood of uptake of EGD, and whether the likelihood is associated with patient beliefs, attitudes and knowledge of GC, perceptions of risk, motivators and barriers, and sociocultural factors, as well as patient preference and satisfaction with EGD-SC