Effect of Radiation on Tissue for Delayed Breast Reconstruction
The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of radiation therapy following mastectomy on skin and blood vessels and to use information gathered to determine an ideal time for breast reconstruction after radiation.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Skin and blood vessel procedures
To evaluate cellular and histologic changes in mastectomy skin over time following completion of radiation therapy., 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 months post radiation therapy; 3, 6, 12 months post reconstruction
To evaluate the vascular density of the skin and perfusion changes following radiation therapy., 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 months post radiation therapy; 3, 6, 12 months post reconstruction
To evaluate changes in internal mammary vessel structure and flow characteristics over time following completion of radiation therapy., 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 months post radiation therapy; 3, 6, 12 months post reconstruction
In the setting of post-mastectomy radiation therapy delayed autologous reconstruction, favored by many attempts to avoid complications encountered with radiating the immediately reconstructed breast. The timing of delayed reconstruction is however not known. The goal of this proposal is to study the gross, structural and vascular changes in radiated mastectomy skin in addition to possible structural and flow changes of the underlying internal mammary vessels over time. We plan to use these objective findings as a basis for determining an ideal time frame for delayed autologous breast reconstruction.

Sequential mastectomy skin specimens will be obtained from 20 patients undergoing post-mastectomy radiation therapy over a 24 month period and these specimens will be evaluated histologically. These same patients will also undergo serial examinations and photographic documentation of gross skin changes. Skin perfusion will be assessed by laser Doppler imaging and internal mammary vessel structure, and flow characteristics will be assessed by color Doppler sonography.

Based on these studies, we will elucidate short and long term changes in radiated breast skin, showing inflammatory, structural and perfusion patterns that can be correlated with optimal conditions for reconstruction. This has the potential to dramatically change practice patterns of delayed reconstruction for many reconstructive surgeons and more importantly restore what patients loose with mastectomy in a consistent, timely fashion. There is also potential for improved outcomes of delayed breast reconstruction by decreasing the number of reconstructions performed too soon after completion of radiation.