Study of Safety and Efficiency of the Use of Neutral Argon Plasma in Cyto-reduction of Miliary Implants in the Peritoneal Surface.
Neutral argon plasma vaporization shows little damage to normal tissue and allows a complete removal of tumor tissue, that is, without leaving any cell debris viable tumor.

Our primary objective is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of neutral argon plasma on peritoneal implants with different dosimetry in vivo and ex vivo.
Peritoneal Carcinomatosis
DEVICE: Use of plasma of neutral argon
Pathological evaluation, Pathological evaluation, in the Pathological Anatomy service of the University Hospital Reina Sofía, of both samples of peritoneum and evaluation of the presence of cells tumors and degree of tissue destruction, after performing the procedure according to the indications of the "Interventions" section.

The specimens will be fixed in formaldehyde for about 48 hours and cut and fixed in paraffin. They will be stained with hematoxylin and eosin according to protocol, after being cut in the area of greatest macroscopic lesion produced by the device. It will be used microscopy and optical micrometer to measure the depth of vaporization of the tissue, as well as damage to adjacent healthy tissue.

Depth is measured from a line parallel to the surrounding tissue to the point deeper tissue evaporation. As all quadrants will include tumor implants, they will also have flat tissue without tumor and it will be which the depth is measured from., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.
Evaluation of mesentery vascular damage and damage to the intestinal serosa., Evaluation of mesentery vascular damage and damage to the intestinal serosa. It will be evaluated in-vivo and it will be analyzed by a third party on video., During the surgery and through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Morbidity associated with treatment., Evaluation of morbidity associated with treatment. Using CTCAE scale v4.0 30 days after the intervention. We will pay special attention to events associated with hemoperitoneum, intestinal fistulas or intestinal perforations., 30 days after the intervention|Mortality associated with treatment., Evaluation of mortality associated with treatment. Using CTCAE scale v4.0 30 days after the intervention. We will pay special attention to events associated with hemoperitoneum, intestinal fistulas or intestinal perforations., 30 days after the intervention|Global morbidity., Evaluation of global morbidity using CTCAE v 4.0 scale., Within the 30 days post-intervention|Global mortality., Evaluation of global mortality using CTCAE v 4.0 scale., Within the 30 days post-intervention
Neutral argon plasma vaporization shows little damage to normal tissue and allows a complete removal of tumor tissue, that is, without leaving any cell debris viable tumor.

Our primary objective is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of neutral argon plasma on peritoneal implants with different dosimetry in vivo and ex vivo.