A Trial to Evaluate Two Schedules of MS275 in Combination With 5AC in Elderly Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
This research is being done to help us learn how to best use new drugs which may be active against acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Two study drugs will be tested: 5AC (5-azacitidine) and entinostat. 5AC improves blood counts in 50 - 60% of patients with MDS and has also shown promise in AML. Entinostat has undergone early testing in patients with MDS and AML. It has decreased the blast count in some patients' blood and bone marrow and has improved the blood counts in some patients. The combinations of these two classes of drugs are well tolerated and appear to work well together in laboratory tests.

A recent study at Johns Hopkins University administered 5AC and entinostat in an overlapping schedule to patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL), and AML. The impressive results from this study have led to another phase II trial to further examine this drug combination versus 5AC alone in these patients. In this study, we want to see how the timing of when 5AC and entinostat are given affects the magnitude of the disease response.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Entinostat days 3, 10|DRUG: 5AC|DRUG: Entinostat days 10,17
To estimate the major response rate in patients with AML who are ≥ 60 years old and unable to tolerate or decline cytotoxic chemotherapy or patients who have relapsed despite one prior regimen., Up to 15 cycles (420 days)|To estimate the overall response rate following treatment in patients with AML ≥ 60 years old who are unable to tolerate or decline cytotoxic chemotherapy or those who have relapsed despite one prior regimen., Up to 15 cycles (420 days)
To identify changes in gene promoter methylation and gene expression in response to combination therapy and compare the dynamics and kinetics of these alterations in promoter methylation and gene re-expression in the two different dosing schedules., Up to 15 cycles (420 days)|To evaluate the effect of entinostat on the induction of hyperacetylation of histones from peripheral blood and/or bone marrow samples., Up to 15 cycles (420 days)|To evaluate changes in DNA damage in response to combination therapy using gammaH2AX determination by western blotting., Up to 15 cycles (420 days)|To evaluate the pharmacodynamics of 5AC and entinostat when given at either dosing schedule and to evaluate these in relation to pharmacokinetic and clinical outcomes., Up to 15 cycles (420 days)|To evaluate duration of response., Up to 15 cycles (420 days)
1. To estimate the major response rate (complete and partial responses by the International Working Group (IWG) response criteria) in patients with AML who are \>= 60 years old and unable to tolerate or decline cytotoxic chemotherapy or patients who have relapsed despite one prior regimen and are treated with (a) 5AC 50mg/m2 subcutaneously/intravenously for 10 days on days 1 - 10 of a 28 day cycle given in combination with entinostat 8 mg (flat dose) administered orally on days 3 and10 of each cycle or (b) the same regimen of 5AC with entinostat given on days 10 and 17.
2. To estimate the overall response rate (complete, partial, and hematologic improvement- major by IWG criteria) following treatment with two different dose schedules of 5-Azacytidine and entinostat in patients with AML \>= 60 years old who are unable to tolerate or decline cytotoxic chemotherapy or those who have relapsed despite one prior regimen.

The secondary objectives of the study are:

1. To identify changes in gene promoter methylation and gene expression in response to combination therapy with 5AC and entinostat and compare the dynamics and kinetics of these alterations in promoter methylation and gene re-expression in the two different dosing schedules.
2. To evaluate the effect of entinostat on the induction of hyperacetylation of histones from peripheral blood and/or bone marrow samples.
3. To evaluate changes in DNA damage in response to combination therapy using gammaH2AX determination by western blotting.
4. To evaluate immune parameters after exposure to 5AC and entinostat when given at either dosing schedule and to evaluate these in relation to clinical outcomes.
5. To evaluate duration of response.