Plasma ctDNA in Patients Undergoing Diagnostic Colonoscopy
When the DNA inside of human cells undergoes certain alterations (mutations), the cells may develop into a cancer. The cancer cells may shed this DNA into the blood stream. This circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) can be detected by very sensitive, specialized laboratory tests. Measurement of ctDNA has been shown to be useful for following patients with known cancer. It has also been found in the circulation of some patients with early stage cancer. The purpose of this study is to examine blood specimens for the presence of ctDNA in individuals without known cancer who are scheduled to undergo a screening or diagnostic colonoscopy in order to see if the ctDNA test can detect a cancer or precancerous condition at a very early stage before the patient becomes symptomatic. The results of this study should help define the role of ctDNA in the detection of early stage colon cancer and to define how sensitive it is (i.e. how well it picks up cancer when it is present) and how specific it is (i.e. how often is ctDNA found in patients with benign diseases or no abnormalities).
Colon Cancer|Colon Adenomas|Colon Polyps
Utility of plasma ctDNA measurements to detect colon cancer or precancerous conditions., Correlation between plasma ctDNA results and any pathology found at time of diagnostic colonoscopy. Determination of true positive, false positive and predictive values for using ctDNA measurements to detect colon cancer and precancerous conditions., 1 year
Determination of incident rate of new colon or other cancers in patients who underwent initial measurement of ctDNA, Subjects will be contacted yearly to obtain follow-up information regarding the development of colon or other cancer in order to see if the initial ctDNA measurement detected the cancer before it became clinically apparent., 5 years
After the participants have undergone the informed consent process, they will have 30 milliliters (approximately two tablespoons) of blood drawn. This will be done prior to their scheduled screening or diagnostic colonoscopy. If the patient has indicated a desire to receive the results of their test, they will receive a written description, as will their primary care physician. The patients will be contacted yearly for up to 5 years by the study staff to learn whether they have been found to have a diagnosis of colon or other cancer.