Acupuncture Intervention for AYA With Cancer
The aim of the study is to innovatively extend acupuncture research in adult oncology to adolescents and young adults (AYA) by piloting a tailored acupuncture protocol for pain management in AYA in the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP's) Center for Integrative Health.
Palliative Care
OTHER: Acupuncture
Acceptability of use of Acupuncture for pain management of AYA and associates, Number of participants who report satisfaction and intention for future use through a qualitative semi-structured interview. ("How satisfied were you with the number of acupuncture sessions you received over the course of the study?"...."how likely would you be to continue to receive acupuncture in the future?"), 15 weeks|Number of acupuncture sessions completed, Number of sessions participants complete and time between sessions, which will be logged by research team for feasibility., 15 weeks|Number of participant-reported barriers to participating in acupuncture sessions for AYA who opt in, Number of participants who report barriers to participation during qualitative semi-structured interview for feasibility. ("How difficult or inconvenient did you find going to your acupuncture appointment over the course of these past 10 weeks to be?"), 15 weeks|Incidence of patient-reported adverse events of AYA who opt in to acupuncture relative to those who opt out, Limited report of acupuncture-related side effects which will be logged as patient reported outcomes ("did you experience any adverse events?") post-acupuncture sessions. Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, change from baseline in pain scores., 15 weeks
Acupuncture as a pain management tool, To determine the preliminary efficacy of acupuncture for pain management of AYA. Compared to AYA who opt out, AYA who receive acupuncture will report, from baseline to post-treatment: reduced severity of pain, improvement in QOL, reduced pain interference, and symptom-related distress through a questionnaire., 15 weeks
Acupuncture is an integrative medicine (IM) with a growing evidence base that is often incorporated into comprehensive pain management in adult oncology. However, it is under-utilized and under-researched in pediatric oncology, especially with adolescents and young adults (AYA). Acupuncture is a promising palliative therapy to manage pain and improve quality of life (QOL) of AYA. AYA are underserved and typically endure more morbidity and longer treatments than younger patients. More than half report at least three debilitating cancer-related symptoms and their QOL is significantly lower compared to norms, with symptoms being the greatest contributor to poor QOL. Not surprisingly, AYA identify pain management as an unmet need, leading a majority of AYA to want information on IM or seek it for treatment. Given the potential benefit of acupuncture for addressing unmet needs of AYA by reducing physical suffering, and the established difficulty with pain management using conventional methods, there is a critical need to establish the efficacy of acupuncture for pain management in AYA. The few studies that have evaluated acupuncture in pediatric oncology, demonstrating it to be safe, accepted, and associated with symptom relief are uncontrolled, retrospective, and/or unprotocolized, and none focus on AYA. To establish the evidence base for acupuncture in AYA oncology, research is needed to determine and test optimal acupuncture protocols.