The Impact of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy on Survival Outcomes in Patients With Variant Histologies Bladder Cancer Who Underwent Radical Cystectomy
The World Health Organization 2016 bladder tumor classification reported that the diagnosis of variant histology has increased from 6% to 33% in the last 2 decades, and there is an increasing interest in investigating the effects on disease management, treatment options, and survival outcomes in bladder tumors with variant histology. In bladder tumors, variant histology is known to be more aggressive and has a worse prognosis than pure urothelial cancer, and most cases are muscle invasive at diagnosis. Neoadjuvant cisplatin-containing combination chemotherapy is known to improves overall survival in patients with urothelial cancers. However, it is unclear whether patients with non-pure urothelial cancer (variant) histology will also benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The investigators aimed to evaluate the role of Neoadjuvant cisplatin-containing combination chemotherapy in the final treatment plan and its impact on survival in patients with bladder cancer who were diagnosed with variant histology in the radical cystectomy specimen.
Bladder Cancer|Bladder Cancer Stage I|Bladder Cancer Stage II
DRUG: Cisplatin
Change in survival outcomes at postoperative 2-year follow-up in patients with variant histology who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy before radical cystectomy., 2 years from radical cystectomy surgery
Factors associated with worse survival outcomes in cox-regression analysis at 2-year follow-up of all patients with variant histology who underwent radical cystectomy., 2 years from radical cystectomy surgery
The World Health Organization 2016 bladder tumor classification reported that the diagnosis of variant histology has increased from 6% to 33% in the last 2 decades, and there is an increasing interest in investigating the effects on disease management, treatment options, and survival outcomes in bladder tumors with variant histology. In bladder tumors, variant histology is known to be more aggressive and has a worse prognosis than pure urothelial cancer, and most cases are muscle invasive at diagnosis. Neoadjuvant cisplatin-containing combination chemotherapy is known to improves overall survival in patients with urothelial cancers. However, it is unclear whether patients with non-pure urothelial cancer (variant) histology will also benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The investigators aimed to evaluate the role of Neoadjuvant cisplatin-containing combination chemotherapy in the final treatment plan and its impact on survival in patients with bladder cancer who were diagnosed with variant histology in the radical cystectomy specimen.