Plant-based Diets and Risk of Cancer in the Adventist Health Study-2
The Adventist Health Study-2 is a long-term study, exploring the links between lifestyle, diet, and disease outcomes among Seventh-day Adventists. More than 96,000 church members from the U.S. and Canada are participating in the current study, AHS-2, conducted by researchers at the Loma Linda University School of Public Health.
Cancer, Breast|Cancer, Colorectal|Cancer, Prostate
Incident cases of breast cancer among subjects with documented dietary habits., Incident cases of breast cancer as found by linkage with state cancer registries will allow calculation of hazard ratios comparing extreme quintiles of dietary intakes. The focus is on meats, soy, and dairy intakes., Linkage with state cancer registries occurs periodically for 9 years, with first linkage at year 04 of study enrolment.
Incident cases of prostate cancer among subjects with documented dietary intakes., Incident cases of prostate cancer as found by linkage with state cancer registries will allow calculation of hazard ratios comparing extreme quintiles of dietary intakes. The focus is on meats, soy, and dairy intakes., Linkage with state cancer registries occurs periodically for 9 years, with first linkage at year 04 of study enrolment.
Incident cases of colorectal cancer among subjects with documented dietary habits., Incident cases of colorectal cancer as found by linkage with state cancer registries will allow calculation of hazard ratios comparing extreme quintiles of dietary intakes. The focus is on meats, soy, and dairy intakes., Linkage with state cancer registries occurs periodically for 9 years, with first linkage at year 04 of study enrolment.
The Adventist Health Study-2 (AHS-2) is a large national cohort of 96,000 Seventh-day Adventists in the U.S. and Canada. The study is searching for associations between diet and risk of common and medium frequency cancers (breast, prostate, colorectal, lung, uterus, pancreas, melanoma of skin). This cohort is unusual in that about half are vegetarian, many eat soy at Asian levels, and many have very low or absent dairy intake while others eat normal amounts of dairy. Thus observations on these people, many of whom have contrasting dietary habits, may provide insights about diet and cancer, so supporting dietary changes that could be readily adopted by many.