BCAA in Patients Undergoing Gastric Cancer Surgery
Older patients undergoing gastric cancer resection, at higher risk due to insufficient preoperative muscle mass, are more susceptible to SRML under surgical stress. This not only affects limb muscles but also impacts swallowing muscles, contributing to increased postoperative complications and mortality rates. Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) has emerged as a multidisciplinary approach to facilitate postoperative recovery. This study aims to optimize oral nutrition under the ERAS model to observe its impact on SRML. BCAA is essential for skeletal muscles. However, there is limited research on the oral BCAA, whether before or after surgery, concerning SRML and its associated complications. The study entails an 18-month randomized controlled trial with 200 participants. One hundred individuals will take BCAA daily 5 to 14 days before surgery. After surgery, they can progress to a clear liquid diet around postoperative day five while continuing BCAA until 30 days postoperatively. The other one hundred participants will not receive BCAA. The study aims to investigate whether oral BCAA can reduce SRML, muscle loss, and decrease swallowing muscle strength, with observations on postoperative complications and outcomes within one year.
Perioeprative Muscle Loss
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: BCAA|OTHER: patient not administered BCAA
the occurrence of surgical related muscle loss, examined the surgical related muscle loss occurence, before surgery to postoperative day 7
Surgical Related Muscle Loss (SRML) is a prevalent complication following surgery, defined by a 10 percent or more reduction in muscle mass in at least one arm and one leg muscle by the seventh day postoperatively. Older patients undergoing gastric cancer resection, at higher risk due to insufficient preoperative muscle mass, are more susceptible to SRML under surgical stress. This not only affects limb muscles but also impacts swallowing muscles, contributing to increased postoperative complications and mortality rates. Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) has emerged as a multidisciplinary approach to facilitate postoperative recovery. This study aims to optimize oral nutrition under the ERAS model to observe its impact on SRML. BCAA is essential for skeletal muscles. However, there is limited research on the oral BCAA, whether before or after surgery, concerning SRML and its associated complications.

The investigators entails an 18-month randomized controlled trial with 200 participants. One hundred individuals will take 3160 mg of BCAA daily 14 days before surgery. After surgery, they can progress to a clear liquid diet around postoperative day five while continuing BCAA until 30 days postoperatively. The other one hundred participants will not receive BCAA. The study aims to investigate whether oral BCAA can reduce SRML, muscle loss, and decrease swallowing muscle strength, with observations on postoperative complications and outcomes within one year.

Regarding the swallowing measurement, high-resolution impedance manometry, the most accurate tool for assessing swallowing muscle strength, will be used. The ultrasound will also be used to investiagte the muscle loss. We will also investigate the genome associated BCAA study.