A Study of NPX267 for Subjects With Solid Tumors Known to Express HHLA2/B7-H7
NPX267 is an antibody drug targeting the inhibitory receptor for B7-H7 (HHLA2) which may control evasion of the immune response in tumors. The goal of this clinical trial is to learn whether NPX267 is safe and tolerable in patients whose cancers are known to express HHLA2 including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutant non-small cell lung cancer. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* what is an appropriate dose to be given to patients?
* are the side effects of treatment manageable?

Participants will be evaluated for participation in the study. Patients who are treated will receive an intravenous infusion of NPX267 every three weeks if their disease has not progressed. Patients will be closely monitored by the treating physician.
Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: NPX267
Incidence of dose limiting toxicity, Number of subjects with dose limiting toxicity, from first dose through 21 days|Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, Number and type of adverse events categorized by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, up to 12 weeks from first dose|Number of subjects with tumor response in tumors expressing B7-H7/HHLA2, The proportion of subjects with complete or partial responses or stable disease as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria, up to 12 weeks from first dose
Area under the concentration curve (AUC) of NPX267, Measurement of plasma concentration over time for exposure to NPX267, Following dosing on day 1, day 22, and day 43 (day 1 of 21-day treatment cycles)|Half-life in circulation (T1/2) of NPX267, Measurement of the clearance of NPX267 from plasma over time, Following dosing on day 1, day 22, and day 43 (day 1 of 21-day treatment cycles)|Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of NPX267, Following dosing on day 1, day 22, and day 43 (day 1 of 21-day treatment cycles)|Overall survival, Average length of survival for treated patients, From first dose until death from any cause through 30 months|Immunogenicity of NPX267, Number of participants with anti-drug antibodies, From first dose through one year
Change in biomarkers of activity, Exploratory analysis of biomarkers from collected tumor and blood samples, From first dose through one year
This trial is divided into two parts. The first part (dose escalation) will test different doses of drug to find a dose for part two. In the second part (dose expansion), more patients will be tested to see if the drug has an effect on patient's tumors.

Throughout the study, data will be collected to characterize the clinical activity of the drug. Samples of blood will be taken to help in an understanding of how the drug behaves in the body by assessing the amount of drug in the blood over time (pharmacokinetics), and changes in blood components (pharmacodynamics and safety). Tumor imaging by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be done about every nine weeks to assess NPX267 impact on tumor growth.