Study of Vadastuximab Talirine (SGN-CD33A; 33A) in Combination With Azacitidine in Patients With Previously Untreated Higher Risk MDS
This is a phase 1/2 study to evaluate the combination of vadastuximab talirine (SGN-CD33A; 33A) and azacitidine in subjects with previously untreated International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) Intermediate-2 or high risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: vadastuximab talirine|DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Placebo (for 33A)
Phase 1 Outcome Measure: Recommended Dose of Vadastuximab Talirine for the Phase 2 Portion of the Study, A recommended dose of vadastuximab talirine was not identified in Phase 1 due to study termination. Number of dose delays and reductions are reported in lieu of a dose recommendation., Up to 1 year|Phase 2 Outcome Measure: Overall Response Rate for the Phase 2 Portion of the Study, N/A - End point not assessed
Safety of the Combination of Vadastuximab Talirine and Azacitidine Measured by the Number of Participants With Adverse Events and Laboratory Abnormalities, As defined by the number of participants with adverse events and laboratory abnormalities. Participants are included only once per row, even if the participant experienced multiple events applicable to the category., Up to 1 year|Complete Response Rate (CR), Study did not progress to Phase 2. A comparison between the 2 arms (Phase 2) of the CR rate, as defined by the 2006 IWG criteria for MDS., N/A - End point not assessed|Hematologic Improvement (HI) Rate, Study did not progress to Phase 2. A comparison between the 2 arms (Phase 2) of the HI rate, as defined by the 2006 IWG criteria for MDS., N/A - End point not assessed|Duration of Response (DOR) Rate, Study did not progress to Phase 2. A comparison between the 2 arms (Phase 2) of the time from first observation of response (CR, PR, or Marrow CR) to disease progression/relapse or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., N/A - End point not assessed|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Study did not progress to Phase 2. A comparison between the 2 arms (Phase 2) of the time from first dose of study medication to first documentation of disease progression/relapse, or to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., N/A - End point not assessed|Rate of Transformation to Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Study did not progress to Phase 2. A comparison between the 2 arms (Phase 2) of the rate of transformation to AML after initiation of study therapy., N/A - End point not assessed|Overall Survival (OS), Study did not progress to Phase 2. A comparison between the 2 arms (Phase 2) of the time from first dose of study medication to death due to any cause., N/A - End point not assessed
In the phase 1 portion of the study, escalating doses of 33A will be evaluated in combination with azacitidine, and a dose of 33A will be selected to proceed to phase 2. The phase 2 portion of the study is randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled; it is designed to compare the overall response rate (ORR) between 2 study arms.