Dasatinib In Combination With Trastuzumab And Paclitaxel In First Line Treatment Of Her2-Positive MBC Patients
This is a single-arm, open-label, phase I/II study. In the phase I, patients with Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2) positive MBC will be treated with paclitaxel, trastuzumab and increasing doses of dasatinib to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) and Recommended Phase II Dose (RPD) of the combination. Once the RPD has been identified, 48 patients will be treated at that dose to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the combination in the phase II.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) Within the First Cycle of Dasatinib in Combination With Trastuzumab and Paclitaxel (Phase I), DLT was defined as the occurrence of any of the following adverse events or abnormal laboratory value (graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03), assessed as possibly, probably or definitively related to study drugs, occurring within the first cycle of study treatment: Need of any dose modification within the first cycle due to toxicity, grade 3 or 4 neutropenia complicated with fever ≥38.5° C or infection, grade 4 neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count (ANC)\<0.5x1000000000/L) of at least 7 days duration, grade 3 thrombocytopenia complicated by hemorrhage, grade 4 thrombocytopenia, any grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity, grade 3 non-hematologic toxicities except nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea that can be controlled by appropriate medical intervention or prophylaxis, inability to resume dosing for cycle 2 at the current dose level within 14 days due to treatment related toxicity., Up to cycle 1|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Dasatinib in Combination With Trastuzumab and Paclitaxel (Phase I), MTD is determined by testing increasing doses of dasatinib on dose escalation cohorts 3 to 6 patients per dose level. MTD reflects the highest dose tested in which a DLT is experienced by 0 out of 3 or 1 out of 6 patients among the dose levels, Up to cycle 1|Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of Dasatinib in Combination With Trastuzumab and Paclitaxel (Phase I)., The RP2D was decided by the investigators taken into consideration the information obtained in the study and based on the MTD. To define the RP2D, information about toxicity observed during the full treatment were taken into consideration (relative dose intensity and toxicity observed)., Up to cycle 1|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1) criteria. ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) out of the patients who had measurable disease at baseline. Per RECIST, Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) is defined as an \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Through study treatment, an average of 24 months
The Number of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events (AE), Safety was assessed by standard clinical (blood pressure, pulse and body temperature, electrocardiogram (ECG), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)) and laboratory tests (hematology: hemoglobin, platelet count, red blood cells (RBC), white blood cells (WBC) with differential (neutrophils) and absolute lymphocyte count, and serum chemistry: alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin, creatinine, sodium, potassium, magnesium, phosphate and calcium). Adverse events grade were defined by the NCI CTCAE v 4.03., Through study treatment, an average of 24 months|To Evaluate the Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1) criteria. CBR is defined as the percentage of patients with a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) plus stable disease lasting at least 6 months out of the efficacy population. Per RECIST, CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as an \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Through study treatment, an average of 24 months|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from the date of the first dose to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease. For patients not known to have objectively-determined progressive disease, TTP will be censored at the date of the last objective progression-free assessment. For patients who receive subsequent systemic anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from the study treatment) prior to objective disease progression, TTP will be censored at the date of last objective progression-free assessment prior to the initiation of post-discontinuation systemic anticancer therapy., Through study treatment, an average of 24 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of the first dose to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease or death from any cause. For patients not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who do not have objectively-determined progressive disease, PFS will be censored at the date of the last objective progression-free assessment. For patients who receive subsequent systemic anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from the study treatment) prior to objective disease progression or death, PFS will be censored at the date of last objective progression-free assessment prior to the initiation of post-discontinuation systemic anticancer therapy., Through study treatment, an average of 24 months|Response Duration (RD), Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1) criteria. RD is defined as the time from the date when the measurement criteria are met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (whichever status is recorded first) until the date of first observation of disease progression or death occurred. Per RECIST, CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; PR is defined as an \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. For responding patients not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who do not have progression, RD will be censored at the date of last visit with adequate assessment. For responding patients who receive subsequent anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from the study treatment) prior to progression, RD will be censored at the date of last visit with adequate assessment prior to the initiation of post-discontinuation anticancer therapy., Through study treatment, an average of 24 months|Dasatinib Maximun Plasma Concentration (Cmax) Value (Pharmacokinetics (PK) Phase I), To assess the influence of the concomitant administration of paclitaxel and trastuzumab on dasatinib PKs, we compared dasatinib exposures alone (first PK occasion: day 2 of cycle 1) or combined (second PK occasion: day 18 on cycle 1).

The mean profiles of dasatinib plasma concentrations were determined by dose and PK occasion., Cycle 1 day 2 and day 18|Dasatinib Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve (AUC) Value (Pharmacokinetics (PK) Phase I), To assess the influence of the concomitant administration of paclitaxel and trastuzumab on dasatinib PKs, we compared dasatinib exposures alone (first PK occasion: day 2 of cycle 1) or combined (second PK occasion: day 18 on cycle 1).

The area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 8 hours post dose (AUC0-8) were calculated in all treated patients, as the dasatinib plasmatic half-life is very short and concentrations at 24 hours post dose could only be quantified in some patients., Cycle 1 day 2 and day 18|Phosphorylated SRC (p-SRC) Protein Expression Change in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells After 8 Hours of Treatment (Phase II), Sequential peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) on Cycle 1 Day 1 before treatment and 8 hours (h) after treatment (0h and 8h) were assessed to explore changes in the expression of p-SRC proteins measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). For ELISA analyses, a duplicate of 100 µg of the extract was used to detect p-SRC (Tyr416). ELISA is a plate-based assay technique designed for detecting and quantifying proteins. The instrumentation used for protein signal-detection is an absorbance spectrophotometer (AS), which measures Absorbance (A). A is the quantity of light absorbed by a sample. As different compounds absorb light at different wavelengths, an AS can be used to distinguish compounds by analyzing the pattern of wavelengths absorbed by a given sample. Additionally, the amount of light absorbed is directly proportional to the concentration of absorbing compounds in that sample, so an AS can also be used to determine concentrations of compounds in the sample., Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours|Phosphorylated AKT (p-AKT) Protein Expression Change in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells After 8 Hours of Treatment (Phase II), Sequential peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) on Cycle 1 Day 1 before treatment and 8 hours (h) after treatment (0h and 8h) were assessed to explore changes in the expression of p-AKT proteins measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). For ELISA analyses, a duplicate of 100 µg of the extract was used to detect p-AKT (Ser473). ELISA is a plate-based assay technique designed for detecting and quantifying proteins. The instrumentation used for protein signal-detection is an absorbance spectrophotometer (AS), which measures Absorbance (A). A is the quantity of light absorbed by a sample. As different compounds absorb light at different wavelengths, an AS can be used to distinguish compounds by analyzing the pattern of wavelengths absorbed by a given sample. Additionally, the amount of light absorbed is directly proportional to the concentration of absorbing compounds in that sample, so an AS can also be used to determine concentrations of compounds in the sample., Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours|Phosphorylation Status of Phosphorylated SRC (p-SRC) in Skin After Treatment (Phase I), p-SRC was analyzed in the skin biopsies taken at cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and 8 hours, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1, only in patients accepting to participate.

A semi-quantitative H-score (or "histo" score) determined by the estimation of the percentage of tumour cells positively stained with low, medium, or high staining intensity. The final score is determined after applying a weighting factor to each estimate. The formula used is H-score = (low %) × 1 + (medium %) × 2 + (high %) × 3, and the results ranged from minimum 0 to maximum 300.

Aim: to confirm the mechanism of action identified in preclinical models where the combination of dasatinib and trastuzumab show a statistically significant reduction in the phosphorylated levels of SRC., Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours, cycle 1 day 4 and cycle 2 day 1|Phosphorylation Status of Phosphorylated SRC (p-SRC) in Skin After Treatment (Phase II), p-SRC was analyzed in the skin biopsies taken at cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and 8 hours, only in patients accepting to participate.

A semi-quantitative H-score (or "histo" score) determined by the estimation of the percentage of tumour cells positively stained with low, medium, or high staining intensity. The final score is determined after applying a weighting factor to each estimate. The formula used is H-score = (low %) × 1 + (medium %) × 2 + (high %) × 3, and the results ranged from minimum 0 to maximum 300.

Aim: to confirm the mechanism of action identified in preclinical models where the combination of dasatinib and trastuzumab show a statistically significant reduction in the phosphorylated levels of SRC., Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours|Phosphorylation Status of Phosphorylated AKT (p-AKT) in Skin After Treatment (Phase I), p-AKT was analyzed in the skin biopsies taken at cycle 1, day 1 at 0 hours and 8 hours, and cycle 2 day 1, only in patients accepting to participate.

A semi-quantitative H-score (or "histo" score) determined by the estimation of the percentage of tumour cells positively stained with low, medium, or high staining intensity. The final score is determined after applying a weighting factor to each estimate. The formula used is H-score = (low %) × 1 + (medium %) × 2 + (high %) × 3, and the results ranged from minimum 0 to maximum 300.

Aim: to confirm the mechanism of action identified in preclinical models where the combination of dasatinib and trastuzumab show a statistically significant reduction in the phosphorylated levels of AKT, Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours and cycle 2 day 1|Phosphorylation Status of Phosphorylated AKT (p-AKT) in Skin After Treatment (Phase II), p-AKT was analyzed in the skin biopsies taken at cycle 1, day 1 at 0 hours and 8 hours, only in patients accepting to participate.

A semi-quantitative H-score (or "histo" score) determined by the estimation of the percentage of tumour cells positively stained with low, medium, or high staining intensity. The final score is determined after applying a weighting factor to each estimate. The formula used is H-score = (low %) × 1 + (medium %) × 2 + (high %) × 3, and the results ranged from minimum 0 to maximum 300.

Aim: to confirm the mechanism of action identified in preclinical models where the combination of dasatinib and trastuzumab show a statistically significant reduction in the phosphorylated levels of AKT, Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours|Phosphorylation Status of Phosphorylated ERK (p-ERK) in Skin After Treatment (Phase I), p-ERK was analyzed in the skin biopsies taken at cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and 8 hours, cycle 1 day 4 at 8 hours, and cycle 2 day 1 at 8 hours, only in patients accepting to participate.

A semi-quantitative H-score (or "histo" score) determined by the estimation of the percentage of tumour cells positively stained with low, medium, or high staining intensity. The final score is determined after applying a weighting factor to each estimate. The formula used is H-score = (low %) × 1 + (medium %) × 2 + (high %) × 3, and the results ranged from minimum 0 to maximum 300.

Aim: to confirm the mechanism of action identified in preclinical models where the combination of dasatinib and trastuzumab show a statistically significant reduction in the phosphorylated levels of ERK, Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours, cycle 1 day 4 at 8 hours and cycle 2 day 1 at 8 hours|Phosphorylation Status of Phosphorylated ERK (p-ERK) in Skin After Treatment (Phase II), Phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases (p-ERK) 1 and 2 expression were analyzed in the skin biopsies taken at the cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and 8 hours, only in patients accepting to participate.

A semi-quantitative H-score (or "histo" score) determined by the estimation of the percentage of tumour cells positively stained with low, medium, or high staining intensity. The final score is determined after applying a weighting factor to each estimate. The formula used is H-score = (low %) × 1 + (medium %) × 2 + (high %) × 3, and the results ranged from minimum 0 to maximum 300.

Aim: to confirm the mechanism of action identified in preclinical models where the combination of dasatinib and trastuzumab show a statistically significant reduction in the phosphorylated levels of ERK, Cycle 1 day 1 at 0 hours and at 8 hours|Number of Participants With Correlation Between Lymphocytosis and Efficacy., Efficacy (ORR, CBR, TTP, RD and PFS) was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1) criteria, and were correlated Lymphocytes, that were measured in the weekly hematology analyses performed within the first cycle., Cycle 1
Eligible patients will be enrolled and treated with 4-week cycles of trastuzumab 2 mg/kg IV weekly (following a loading dose of 4 mg/kg in cycle 1) and paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 weekly x 3 weeks followed by a rest period of 7 days. Dasatinib will be administered orally in two dose levels 100 and 140 mg once daily (a -1 dose level is included just in case dose de-escalation is needed). Treatment will be repeated on Day 1 of a 28-day cycle in all patients (both in the phase I as in the phase II) until radiographic or symptomatic progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. Only in the phase I and in all patients included in every different dose level, the first cycle will last 38 days.

Primary Objective:

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RPD) of dasatinib in combination with fixed doses of trastuzumab and paclitaxel in HER2-positive MBC patients (Phase I).
* To determine the efficacy, measured by objective response rate (ORR) in HER2-positive MBC patients with measurable disease (Phase II).

Secondary Objective(s):

* To characterize the safety of the combination (in both phase I and phase II).
* To evaluate the Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Time to Progression (TTP), Progression Free Survival (PFS) and Response Duration (RD) (in the phase II).
* To evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of the combination (in the phase I and selected patients in the phase II if necessary).
* To evaluate molecular characteristics that may be predictive of the activity (or lack of) and any correlation between the biological activity of the study treatment and the disease outcome.

Exploratory objective:

• To explore the correlation between the lymphocytosis and efficacy.

Sample Size:

Phase I: following the 3+3 rule, a minimum of 6 and a maximum of 12 patients will be recruited.

Phase II:Assuming 10% drop-out rate, 48 patients are required to enter the study.

The duration of the study, from first patient visit to last patient visit will be approximately 42 months.