Proton Versus Photon Therapy in Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Dosimetric studies suggest that radiotherapy with protons has a potential to reduce side effects compared to treatment with photons for patients with anal carcinoma (AC). There are so far no studies comparing these treatment techniques in a randomised setting. The aim of this study is to compare side effects following photon therapy versus proton therapy within the framework of a randomised controlled trial.
Anal Cancer Squamous Cell
RADIATION: Proton radiotherapy|RADIATION: Photon radiotherapy
Acute grade >2 hematological side effects, Acute hematological side effects will be assessed by weekly full blood cell counts during radiotherapy and the first three weeks after treatment completion. Side Grade \>2 acute GI and haematological side-effects during therapy and up to three weeks after the end of treatment. Thereafter, every six weeks for up to three months after treatment. Results will be graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NTCAE) v5.0 scoring system.

Haematological adverse events will also be assessed by registering febrile episodes during an after treatment as well as the frequency of chemotherapy dose reduction or delayed chemotherapy., Treatment start until three months after treatment
Acute grade >2 gastrointestinal side effects, Acute side-effects from the gastrointestinal tract are assess the NTCAE v5.0 scoring system by using. Patient reported side effects are assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), disease specific quality of life questionnaire for anal cancer, (QLQ-ANL27).

During radiotherapy, daily reported symptoms will be investigated by a newly developed symptom scale, Radiotherapy related symptom assessment scale (RSAS). The questionnaire includes 13 items specific for current diagnose. The RSAS is a validated instrument for assessing symptom intensity and distress in patients with different cancer disease undergoing radiotherapy, with psychometric properties within the expected range. Answering categories ranges from not at all to a great deal (1-4)., Treatment start until three months after treatment|Acute side effects from skin, Acute side-effects from skin are assessed by using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NTCAE) v5.0 scoring system. Patient reported side effects are assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), disease specific questionnaire, QLQ-ANL27.

During radiotherapy, daily reported symptoms will be investigated by a newly developed symptom scale, Radiotherapy related symptom assessment scale (RSAS). The questionnaire includes 13 items specific for current diagnose. The RSAS is a validated instrument for assessing symptom intensity and distress in patients with different cancer disease undergoing radiotherapy, with psychometric properties within the expected range. Answering categories ranges from not at all to a great deal (1-4)., Treatment start until three months after treatment|Acute side effects from the genitourinary tract, Acute side-effects from the genitourinary tract are assessed by scoring of genitourinary symptoms, pain by using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NTCAE) v5.0 scoring system. Patient reported side effects are assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), disease specific questionnaire, QLQ-ANL27.

During radiotherapy, daily reported symptoms will be investigated by a newly developed symptom scale, Radiotherapy related symptom assessment scale (RSAS). The questionnaire includes 13 items specific for current diagnose. The RSAS is a validated instrument for assessing symptom intensity and distress in patients with different cancer disease undergoing radiotherapy, with psychometric properties within the expected range. Answering categories ranges from not at all to a great deal (1-4)., Treatment start until three months after treatment|Pain due to acute radiation reaction, Pain is assessed by using the NTCAE v5.0 scoring system. Patient reported pain is assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), disease specific questionnaire, QLQ-ANL27.

During radiotherapy, daily reported symptoms will be investigated by a newly developed symptom scale, Radiotherapy related symptom assessment scale (RSAS). The questionnaire includes 13 items specific for current diagnose. The RSAS is a validated instrument for assessing symptom intensity and distress in patients with different cancer disease undergoing radiotherapy, with psychometric properties within the expected range. Answering categories ranges from not at all to a great deal (1-4)., Treatment start until three months after treatment|Late side effects from the gastro-intestinal system, Late side effects 1, 2 and 5 years after completion of treatment. Side effects from the gastrointestinal system, are assessed by using the NTCAE v5.0 scoring system. Patient reported side effects are assessed by the EORTCs disease specific questionnaire, QLQ-ANL27., From three months after treatment up to five years after treatment|Late side effects, Late side effects 1, 2 and 5 years after completion of treatment. Side effects from the genitourinary system are assessed by using the NTCAE v5.0 scoring system. Patient reported side effects are assessed by the EORTCs disease specific questionnaire, QLQ-ANL27., From three months after treatment up to five years after treatment|Late side effects from skin, Late side effects 1, 2 and 5 years after completion of treatment. Side effects from the skin are assessed by using the NTCAE v5.0 scoring system. Patient reported side effects are assessed by the EORTCs disease specific questionnaire, QLQ-ANL27., From three months after treatment up to five years after treatment|Assessment of Quality of life (QoL), Patient reported quality of life during and after treatment assessed by • HRQoL will be investigated with the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire, the QLQ-C30, supplemented by the disease specific module (anal-cancer) QLQ-ANL27. • EuroQol (EQ-5D) is a generic QoL instrument designed for self-administration. The result could be expressed as a weight with values between zero and one (0-1). Together with information about survival the QoL weight can be expressed as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)., From randomisation up to 5 years|Primary tumour response, Frequency of complete tumour regression after primary treatment, 3-6 months after treatment|Locoregional failure, Time from randomisation until first recurrence, local and/or regional, Up to five years after randomisation|Disease free survival, Time from randomisation until first recurrence, local/regional/systemic or death, Up to five years after randomisation|Overall survival, Time from randomisation until death, Up to five years after randomisation
Cost-utility analysis, Costs and QoL as well as clinical outcome measured as survival time will be considered. The results of the health-economic part of the study will be expressed as cost per quality adjusted life years (QALYs) saved of one intervention in comparison with the other.

All relevant costs should be identified, quantified, and valued. Also indirect costs related to loss of production when patients cannot work due to the disease.

All types of resources associated with the two treatment arms during the follow-up should be considered. E.g. costs for treatment of side-effects, costs for surgery when performed, and travelling costs for patients. Costing will be performed at the end of the study.

For evaluation and analysis of the study results, a relatively simple health-economic model will be developed. This model will be used for evaluation of the two treatment arms from inclusion into the study until 5 years of follow up or death., From randomisation until 5 years or death
Anal carcinoma is a disease in which modern therapy is reasonably successful in achieving tumour control/cure. Both acute and late side effects are substantial. Proton radiotherapy is hypothesised to have the potential to decrease the incidence/severity of some acute side effects from certain organs at risk e.g. bone marrow and intraperitoneal bowel. By sparing the dose to these organs it is also possible that late effects might be less evident. Sparing of the bone marrow may lead to fewer septic events and dose reductions of chemotherapy which may, as a consequence, improve tumour control. The primary aim of this study is to find ways to decrease acute side effects primarily to alleviate some discomfort from the patient during and after a usually painful treatment experience. It has also been concluded by others that reduction of acute side effects is a relevant aim and end point for the evaluation of new treatment techniques and both patient reported and physician reported data are assessed