Efficacy and Safety of Olaparib (MK-7339) With or Without Bevacizumab Compared to Bevacizumab With a Fluoropyrimidine in Unresectable or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer (CRC) (MK-7339-003/LYNK-003)
This is an efficacy and safety study of olaparib alone or in combination with bevacizumab being compared to bevacizumab with a fluoropyrimidine in participants with unresectable or metastatic colorectal cancer who have not progressed following first-line induction. The primary hypotheses are: Olaparib + Bevacizumab is superior to a fluoropyrimidine + Bevacizumab with respect to progression-free survival (PFS) using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR); Olaparib is superior to a fluoropyrimidine + Bevacizumab with respect to PFS using RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR. As of amendment 5 study enrollment is being discontinued and study participants randomized to one of the two experimental arms (olaparib plus bevacizumab or olaparib monotherapy) must discontinue study intervention. Participants who are still on study treatment will no longer have tumor response assessments by BICR.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Leucovorin/ levoleucovorin
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1 as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. PFS using RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR is presented., Up to approximately 30 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The OS is presented., Up to approximately 30 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 30 months|Number of Participants With One or More Adverse Events (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who experienced at least one AE was reported for each arm., Up to approximately 30 months|Number of Participants Discontinuing Study Intervention Due to an AE, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who discontinued study intervention due to an AE was reported for each arm., Up to approximately 30 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of a CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. DOR for participants who had not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions as well as an absolute increase of at least a 5 mm in the sum of diameters. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. DOR assessments will be based on BICR with confirmation. The DOR as assessed using RECIST 1.1 for all participants who experience a confirmed CR or PR will be presented., Up to approximately 30 months
This is an efficacy and safety study of olaparib alone or in combination with bevacizumab being compared to bevacizumab with a fluoropyrimidine in participants with unresectable or metastatic colorectal cancer who have not progressed following first-line induction. The primary hypotheses are: Olaparib + Bevacizumab is superior to a fluoropyrimidine + Bevacizumab with respect to progression-free survival (PFS) using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR); Olaparib is superior to a fluoropyrimidine + Bevacizumab with respect to PFS using RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR. As of amendment 5 study enrollment is being discontinued and study participants randomized to one of the two experimental arms (olaparib plus bevacizumab or olaparib monotherapy) must discontinue study intervention. Participants who are still on study treatment will no longer have tumor response assessments by BICR.