Treatment With Tucatinib in Patients With an Isolated Brain Progression of a Metastatic Breast Cancer
The overall survival of patients with metastatic breast cancer has steadily improved over the past decades, mainly due to advances in systemic treatment. Despite these advances, the development of brain metastases remains a serious and devastating complication that decreases quality of life and increases morbidity and mortality. The HER2CLIMB randomized study demonstrated that adding the investigational drug tucatinib to the standard treatment trastuzumab and capecitabine improved both progression-free survival and overall survival in people diagnosed with human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer, previously treated with trastuzumab, pertuzumab, and T-DM1. In patients with brain metastases, the 1-year progression-free survival was 25% in the tucatinib group and 0% in the placebo group.

These results suggest that tucatinib may be a new standard treatment for HER2-positive metastatic disease.

The aim of the non-randomized phase II study, InTTercePT, is to evaluate the effectiveness of adding tucatinib to trastuzumab and pertuzumab in the event of cerebral progression, after the end of local treatment.
Metastatic Breast Cancer With a Isolated Brain Progression
DRUG: Tucatinib|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Hormone therapy|DRUG: Pertuzumab/ Trastuzumab
Progression-Free Survival, The progression-free survival is defined as the proportion of patients with an objective tumor progression by imaging, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first at 6 months from inclusion. Progression will be determined locally by the investigator through the use of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) in case of lesions identified at baseline. For patients without any evidence of evidence at inclusion, the progression will be defined as an appearance of a new lesion (measurable or not measurable)., 6 months
Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as the time interval between the date of inclusion in the study and the date of death (all causes). Patients not known to have died at the time of analysis will be censored at the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive, Throughout study completion, up to 18 months|Brain Progression-Free Survival, Brain Progression-Free Survival is defined as the time interval between the date of inclusion in the study and the date of documented progression of the brain metastases. Tumor progression will be evaluated according to RECIST v1.1, as determined by investigator assessment, or as the appearance of a lesion for patients in complete response (CR) at the brain level at the inclusion. Patients who have not progressed at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of the latest date of assessment from their last evaluable RECIST assessment., Throughout study completion, up to 18 months|Overall brain metastasis response, In patients who are not in CR at the brain level after local treatment: Overall brain metastasis response is defined as the best overall response of the brain metastases during the study. Brain metastases response will be evaluated according to RECIST v1.1, as determined by investigator assessment., Throughout study completion, up to 18 months|Incidence of treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Adverse Events will be graded according to National Cancer Institute-common terminology criteria for adverse events (NCI-CTCAE) v5.0, Throughout study completion, up to 18 months
The overall survival of patients with metastatic breast cancer has steadily improved over the past decades, mainly due to advances in systemic treatment. Despite these advances, the development of brain metastases remains a serious and devastating complication that decreases quality of life and increases morbidity and mortality. More than a third of patients with HER2-positive breast cancer develop brain metastases during the course of the disease. For patients with isolated brain progression, local treatment is recommended whenever possible (stereotaxic radiosurgery and / or surgery) as well as the continuation of systemic treatment previously initiated even if the evidence of a benefit is weak.

After local treatment these patients will have a higher risk of progression (cerebral and systemic). Therefore, the question of whether systemic treatment should be continued or changed remains an open question.

In a pooled analysis of two phase 1b studies, patients who continued systemic treatment with tucatinib (in combination with T-DM1 or with trastuzumab and capecitabine) after treatment directed to the central nervous system demonstrated a better prognosis than that of patients who stopped tucatinib.

The HER2CLIMB randomized study demonstrated that adding the investigational drug tucatinib to the standard treatment trastuzumab and capecitabine improved both progression-free survival and overall survival in people diagnosed with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, previously treated with trastuzumab, pertuzumab, and T-DM1. In patients with brain metastases, the 1-year progression-free survival was 25% in the tucatinib group and 0% in the placebo group.

These results suggest that tucatinib may be a new standard treatment for HER2-positive metastatic disease.

We anticipate that adding tucatinib to the trastuzumab / pertuzumab regimen will control brain metastases, prolong progression-free survival, and improve patient quality of life.

The aim of the non-randomized phase II study, InTTercePT, is to evaluate the effectiveness of adding tucatinib to trastuzumab and pertuzumab in the event of cerebral progression, after the end of local treatment.