A Study to Evaluate Efficacy and Safety of Epoetin Beta (NeoRecormon®) in Anemic Participants With Breast Cancer Undergoing Chemotherapy
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneous (SC) epoetin beta in anemic participants with breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy.
Anemia
DRUG: Epoetin Beta
Percentage of Participants With Response to Treatment Based on Hemoglobin Levels, Response was defined as increase of hemoglobin levels by at least 2 grams per deciliter (g/dL) as compared to baseline or the achievement of hemoglobin level of 12 g/dL after 12 weeks of treatment in the absence of red blood cells transfusion., Week 12
Change From Baseline in Hemoglobin Levels After 12 Weeks of Study Treatment in Participants According to the Hemoglobin Level at Baseline, Participants were distributed into 2 subgroups. One subgroup contained participants who had hemoglobin (Hb) level less than (\<) 10 g/dL and other subgroup contained participants who had hemoglobin level greater than or equal to (≥) 10 g/dL but \<11 g/dL (10≤ Hb \<11 g/dL)., Baseline, Week 12|Change From Baseline in Hemoglobin Levels After 12 Weeks of Study Treatment in Participants According to Chemotherapy at Baseline, Participants were distributed into 3 subgroups. First subgroup contained participants who received adjuvant chemotherapy. Second subgroup contained participants who received metastatic 1st or 2nd line chemotherapy. Third subgroup contained participants who received metastatic 3rd line chemotherapy., Baseline, Week 12|Change From Baseline in Hemoglobin Levels After 12 Weeks of Study Treatment in Participants According to the Time Spent on Chemotherapy at Baseline, Participants were distributed into 2 subgroups. One subgroup contained participants who had spent \<6 months on chemotherapy and other subgroup contained participants who had spent 6 months or more on chemotherapy., Baseline, Week 12|Overall Mean Change From Baseline in Hemoglobin Levels After 12 Weeks of Study Treatment, Baseline, Week 12|Percentage of Participants With an Increase From Baseline in Hemoglobin Levels of At Least 1 g/dL After 4 Weeks, Baseline, Week 4|Mean Time Needed to Increase Hemoglobin Level by At Least 1 g/dL, Time to increase in hemoglobin level by at least 1 g/dL was defined as the time between the start of treatment and an increase in hemoglobin level by at least 1 g/dL compared to baseline hemoglobin level. Time to response was estimated using Kaplan Meier method., Baseline up to Week 12|Quality of Life Assessment Using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Anemia (FACT-An) Questionnaire Scores, FACT-An comprised of 2 subscales ('Fatigue' and 'Non-fatigue') of 20-items. All questions were rated on a scale from 0 to 4, where higher scores indicate improved quality of life. The 'Fatigue' subscale consists of 13 questions with score range from 0-52; 'Non-fatigue' subscale consists of 7 questions with score range from 0-28. Total FACT-An score was transformed to a 0-100 scale (instead of 0-80 scale) to get better perception of the participant's quality of life indicator., Baseline, Week 12
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneous (SC) epoetin beta in anemic participants with breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy.