Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Bladder or Kidney Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects of giving gemcitabine, doxorubicin, and paclitaxel together with carboplatin in treating patients with advanced bladder or kidney cancer and impaired kidney function.
Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: paclitaxel
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the safety and toxicity of dose-dense carboplatin plus paclitaxel on a weekly schedule given in sequence after gemcitabine and doxorubicin in patients with renal impairment and metastatic or locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium.
* Observe the outcome of this sequential systemic chemotherapy in these patients, or following surgical resection as adjuvant therapy in patients in whom poor renal function precludes the use of cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of carboplatin.

Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 10 minutes and doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes for 5 doses on weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is given subcutaneously on days 3 through 10 of each 2-week course. On week 11, patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin IV over 1 hour weekly for 12 weeks.

Each cohort of 3 patients is entered on sequentially increasing doses of carboplatin. If any patient experiences dose limiting toxicity (DLT), then 6 patients are entered at that dose level. If 3 patients experience DLT at any dose level, the maximum tolerated dose has been surpassed and a total of 6 patients are treated at the previous level.

Patients are evaluated at week 16 and at end of study.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 18-30 patients accrued into this study over 9-15 months.