Magnetic Resonance Guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound in Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Treatment
The primary purpose of this protocol is to assess the ExAblate 2100 MR guided high intensity focused ultrasound device as an intervention for treatment of advanced stage pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: ExAblate 2100
Measure acceptable ablation percentage, Feasibility of ablation, as measured by the number of patients with acceptable ablation percentage. Acceptable ablation percentage is defined as ≥50% of the targeted volume appearing ablated on post-treatment imaging. Ablation will be deemed feasible if at least seven of the ten patients have an acceptable ablation percentage, Immediately after MRgFUS treatment|Total frequency and severity of adverse events, Safety of ablation, as measured by the total frequency and severity of adverse events. Adverse events will be categorized and grade for severity according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 5.0. Ablation will be deemed safe if there are no treatment-related serious adverse events, and no more than five moderate or mild treatment-related adverse events, among the ten patients during follow up., 24 months
Assess Pain Response assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Reduction in pain level, as measured by:

a. a decline in pain score after one week of at least 2 points, or a pain score \< 4 out of 10, as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory. Ablation will be deemed pain reducing if at least five of the ten patients have pain reduction., Baseline, 1 week, and monthly for 24 months following treatment|Assess Pain Response assessed by morphine equivalent daily dose (MEDD), Reduction in pain level will be measured by a decline after one week in morphine equivalent daily dose (MEDD) of 25%. Ablation will be deemed pain reducing if at least five of the ten patients have pain reduction., Baseline, 1 week, and monthly for 24 months following treatment|Evidence of ablation-induced inflammation, Evidence of ablation-induced inflammation, defined as post-ablation increases in histologic and/or blood measures of inflammation markers, as measured by either:

1. an increase in tumor infiltrating CD8+ T cells
2. a decrease in immune suppressive cells (Tregs, macrophages) in the tumor
3. an increase in immune activation signatures (including interferon gamma) in the tumor as measured by RNAseq
4. a change in immune profile in the circulating immune cells (PBMCs) to reflect an activated immune response (e.g. activated T or B cells, reduction in immune suppressive cells or cytokines) Ablation will be deemed inflammation-inducing if at least five of the ten patients show at least a 50% increase in inflammation on at least 2 of the 4 markers, 1week
Primary Objective: The primary endpoints for this study will be 1) feasibility of ablation and 2) safety of ablation.

Secondary Objective: 1.)Pain reduction after ablation. 2.) Evidence of inflammation at ablation site based on histology, or in blood after ablation