Nivolumab With Standard of Care Chemotherapy for Peripheral T Cell Lymphomas
This regimen aims to become the first line treatment for peripheral T cell lymphoma, using nivolumab with the standard of care chemotherapy.
Peripheral T Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Prednisolone|DRUG: Oncovin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Hydroxydaunorubicin
Efficacy: Complete Response Rate, Efficacy will be measured according to 2017 RECIL criteria. Responses will be assessed by the investigator and will be based on PET/CT scan to be obtained after 6 cycles of induction chemotherapy., up to 100 days post transplant
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Toxicity analysis of nivolumab will be summarized by dose and severity as assessed by the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and relationship to study drug or the amount of grade 4-5 non-hematologic toxicities., up to 100 days after last dose of nivolumab|Efficacy: Overall Response Rate, Efficacy will be measured according to 2017 RECIL criteria. Responses will be assessed by the investigator and will be based on PET/CT scan to be obtained after 6 cycles of induction chemotherapy. Complete response (CR), complete disappearance of all target lesions and Deauville score 1-3. Partial response (PR), ≥30% decrease in the sum of longest diameters of target lesions but not a CR and Deauville score 4-5. Stable disease (SD), \<30% decrease or ≤ 20% increase in the sum of longest diameters of target lesions. Progressive disease (PD), \>20% increase in the sum of longest diameters of target lesions, For small lymph nodes measuring \< 15 mm post-therapy, a minimum of 5 mm increase in longest diameter to \> 15 mm, or new lesions., up to 100 days post transplant|Efficacy: Progression Free Survival Rate, Efficacy will be measured according to 2017 RECIL criteria. Responses will be assessed by the investigator and will be based on PET/CT scan to be obtained after 6 cycles of induction chemotherapy., up to 2 years after completion of treatment|Efficacy: Event Free Survival, Efficacy will be measured according to 2017 RECIL criteria. Responses will be assessed by the investigator and will be based on PET/CT scan to be obtained after 6 cycles of induction chemotherapy. Events defined as start of new treatment, progression, or death., up to 2 years after completion of treatment|Immune-related Predictors of Response, We assessed PD-L1 expression using immunohistochemistry on pre-treatment tumor tissue. The outcome of measurement was complete response yes vs. no. Using logistic regression, we assessed if the percentage of PDL1+ cells was predictive of achieving a complete response., Within 6 months of treatment
Patients in this study will receive nivolumab in combination with the standard of care dose-adjusted EPOCH (etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide) for six 21 day cycles. Patients will then have an autologous stem cell transplant or continue to receive maintenance therapy with nivolumab.