A Study of Efficacy and Safety of LAG525 in Combination With Spartalizumab, or With Spartalizumab and Carboplatin, or With Carboplatin, in Patients With Advanced Triple-negative Breast Cancer
The main purpose of this study was to assess the antitumor activity of three combinations: i) LAG525 + spartalizumab; ii) LAG525 + spartalizumab + carboplatin, and iii) LAG525 + carboplatin in participants with advanced triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) in first or second line therapy.
Triple-negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: LAG525|DRUG: PDR001|DRUG: Carboplatin
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Per Investigator's Assessment According to RECIST v1.1, Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 based on investigator's assessment. The 95% CIs were computed using two-sided exact binomial method.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 14 months
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Per Investigator's Assessment According to RECIST v1.1, CBR is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response (BOR) of confirmed CR or PR, or stable disease (SD) lasting 24 weeks or longer, according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. The 95% CI were computed using two-sided exact binomial method.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to approximately 14 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Per Investigator's Assessment According to RECIST v1.1, DOR is the time between the first documented response (CR or PR) and the first documented progression or death due to underlying cancer based on RECIST1.1 and as per investigator's assessment. The DOR distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and the 95% confidence intervals using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley. If progression or death did not occur, the participant was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

Progression: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From first documented response up to disease progression or death due to underlying cancer, whichever occurs first, up to approximately 14 months|Time to Response (TTR) Per Investigator's Assessment According to RECIST v1.1, TTR is the time from date of randomization to first documented response of CR or PR based on investigators' assessment and according to RECIST 1.1. Median TTR was summarized using descriptive statistics.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From date of randomization to first documented response (CR or PR), up to approximately 14 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as time from date of randomization to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via investigator's assessment according to RECIST 1.1. PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment if no PFS event was observed prior to the analysis cut-off date or before the start of the new anticancer therapy date, whichever is earlier. The PFS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence intervals were calculated using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., From date of randomization to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, up to approximately 14 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. If a participant was not known to have died, then OS was censored at the latest date the participant was known to be alive (on or before the cut-off date). The OS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence intervals were calculated using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley, From date of randomization to date of death due to any cause, up to 18 months|Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameter, Area Under the Plasma Concentration Versus Time Curve From Time 0 to 504 Hours (AUC0-504h) of LAG525, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUC0-504h was defined as the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 504h., Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Cmax of LAG525, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Cmax is the maximum observed plasma LAG525 concentration, Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, AUClast of LAG525, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUClast is the area under the curve (AUC) from time zero to the last measurable concentration sampling time (tlast) of LAG525, Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Tmax of LAG525, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Tmax is the time to reach maximum LAG525 serum concentration. Actual time of sample collection was used (not the nominal time point as per scheduled assessment), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, AUC0-504h of PDR001, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUC0-504h was defined as the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 504h., Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Cmax of PDR001, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Cmax is the maximum observed PDR001 serum concentration, Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, AUClast of PDR001, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUClast is the area under the curve (AUC) from time zero to the last measurable concentration sampling time (tlast) of PDR001, Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Tmax of PDR001, Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Tmax is the time to reach maximum PDR001 serum concentration. Actual time of sample collection was used (not the nominal time point as per scheduled assessment), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, 1 hour (hr) post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, 1 hr post end of infusion, 168 hr, 336 hr and 504 hr post-infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 3. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, AUC0-4h of Carboplatin (Total Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUC0-4h was defined as the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 4h (determined as total platinum)., Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Cmax of Carboplatin (Total Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Cmax is the maximum observed carboplatin plasma concentration (determined as total platinum), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, AUClast of Carboplatin (Total Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUClast is the area under the curve (AUC) from time zero to the last measurable concentration sampling time (tlast) of carboplatin (determined as total platinum), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Tmax of Carboplatin (Total Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Tmax is the time to reach maximum carboplatin plasma concentration (determined as total platinum). Actual time of sample collection was used (not the nominal time point as per scheduled assessment), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, AUC0-4h of Carboplatin (Ultrafilterable Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUC0-4h was defined as the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 4h (determined as ultrafilterable platinum)., Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Cmax of Carboplatin (Ultrafilterable Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Cmax is the maximum observed carboplatin plasma concentration (determined as ultrafilterable platinum), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, AUClast of Carboplatin (Ultrafilterable Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. AUClast is the area under the curve (AUC) from time zero to the last measurable concentration sampling time (tlast) of carboplatin (determined as ultrafilterable platinum), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|PK Parameter, Tmax of Carboplatin (Ultrafilterable Platinum), Blood samples were collected at the indicated time points for PK analysis. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Tmax is the time to reach maximum carboplatin plasma concentration (determined as ultrafilterable platinum). Actual time of sample collection was used (not the nominal time point as per scheduled assessment), Cycle 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Cycle 3 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours post end of infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|Number of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) at Baseline for LAG525, Number of participants who had an ADA positive result at baseline for LAG525, Baseline|Number of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) on Treatment for LAG525, Number of participants who were treatment-induced ADA positive for LAG525 (post-baseline ADA positive with ADA-negative sample at baseline) and treatment-boosted ADA positive for LAG525 (post-baseline ADA positive with titer that was at least the fold titer change greater than the ADA-positive baseline titer), From Cycle 1 to Cycle 7 (Day 1 pre-infusion) and end of treatment, assessed up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) at Baseline for PDR001, Number of participants who had an ADA positive result at baseline for PDR001., Baseline|Number of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) on Treatment for PDR001, Number of participants who were treatment-induced ADA positive for PDR001 (post-baseline ADA positive with ADA-negative sample at baseline) and treatment-boosted ADA positive for PDR001 (post-baseline ADA positive with titer that was at least the fold titer change greater than the ADA-positive baseline titer), From Cycle 1 to Cycle 7 (Day 1 pre-infusion) and end of treatment, assessed up to 2.8 years
This was an open-label, Phase II, randomized, multicenter study to assess the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetic characteristics of the following three combinations: LAG525 + spartalizumab (PDR001) (Arm 1), LAG525 + spartalizumab (PDR001) + carboplatin (Arm 2), and LAG525 + carboplatin (Arm 3) in participants with advanced triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) which progressed after adjuvant or one prior line of systemic therapy for metastatic disease.

Participants were assigned to one of the three treatment arms in a ratio of 1:1:1. In protocol amendment 3 (released on 28-Mar-2019), enrollment to treatment Arm 1 (LAG525 + spartalizumab) was prematurely closed due to a higher discontinuation rate due to progressive disease and all subsequent enrolled patients were randomized to Arms 2 and 3 only, in a ratio of 1:1.

Study treatment continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, pregnancy, investigator/participant decision, start of a new anti-neoplastic therapy, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up, death, or study was terminated by the sponsor. The investigator might decide to stop carboplatin after 6 cycles, even if the above criteria were not met. Participants who continued to derive clinical benefit from the treatment based on the investigator's evaluation following their completion of this trial might receive post-trial access (PTA) i.e. rollover protocol or a post-study drug supply (PSDS).

The end of study was defined as the earliest occurrence of one of the following: (1) all participants had died or (2) discontinued from the study, or (3) another clinical study became available that could continue to provide study treatment in this participant population and all ongoing participants were eligible to be transferred to that clinical study.