Safety and Efficacy of Donor T-lymphocytes Depleted ex Vivo of Host Alloreactive T-cells (ATIR) in Patients With a Hematologic Malignancy Who Received a Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation From a Haploidentical Donor
The purpose of this study is to determine whether ATIR is safe and effective in reducing transplant-related mortality and improving overall survival, when infused in patients with a hematologic malignancy following a T-cell depleted stem cell graft from a related haploidentical donor.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
BIOLOGICAL: ATIR
Transplant-related Mortality (TRM), TRM is defined as death due to causes other than disease relapse or progression, or other causes which are unrelated to the transplantation procedure (e.g. accident, suicide). The TRM rate is displayed as a function of time using the Kaplan-Meier method. The TRM rate at 6 months post HSCT is estimated from this analysis., At 6 months post HSCT
Immune Reconstitution, Immunophenotyping on peripheral blood samples by means of flow cytometry assessment of immune subsets was done if the absolute lymphocyte count was higher than 0.1×10E9/l, Up to 24 months post HSCT|Relapse-related Mortality (RRM), Defined as death due to disease relapse or disease progression. The Kaplan-Meier analysis resulted in estimates and 95% confidence intervals (CI)s., 6, 12 and 24 months post HSCT|Overall Survival (OS), Defined as the time from HSCT until death from any cause. The Kaplan-Meier analysis resulted in estimates and 95% CIs., 6, 12 and 24 months post HSCT|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from HSCT until relapse, disease progression, or death, whichever occurs first. The Kaplan-Meier analysis resulted in estimates and 95% CIs., 6, 12 and 24 months post HSCT|Number of Participants With Viral, Fungal, and Bacterial Infections., Up to 24 months post HSCT|Number of Participants With Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD), Up to 24 months post HSCT
Study CR-AIR-007 is an exploratory, open-label, multicenter study. After signing informed consent, patients will receive a hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) from a related, haploidentical donor, followed by infusion with ATIR between 28 and 32 days after the HSCT (or later if required by the patient's medical condition). Patients will receive ATIR as a single infusion at a dose of 2x10E6 viable T-cells/kg. All patients treated with ATIR will be followed up until 12 months after the HSCT. Assessments will be performed at weekly visits from the day of ATIR infusion until 8 weeks after ATIR infusion, at monthly visits from 3 until 6 months after the HSCT, every 2 months from 6 until 12 months after the HSCT, and every 6 months from 12 until 24 months after the HSCT.