Informing the Adaptation of a CHW Model to Facilitate Lung Cancer Screening for the Chinese Community
The purpose of this study is to test if our Community Health Worker program can help at-risk NYC Chinese community members participate in shared decision making and lung cancer screening (if appropriate) and compare it to the help provided by written materials.
Lung Cancer Screening|Current or Past Cigarette Smoker
BEHAVIORAL: Surveys|BEHAVIORAL: Navigation|BEHAVIORAL: Focus groups|BEHAVIORAL: In-depth interviews
(Pre-Pilot Phase) Increased uptake in SDM and LCS, To determine whether participation in the interventions leads to increased completion of SDM and LCS with LDCT., 2 years|(Pilot Phase) Increased uptake in SDM and LCS, To determine whether participation in the interventions leads to increased completion of SDM and LCS with LDCT., 2 years
The study first used qualitative methods to inform the adaptation of a CHW model to facilitate lung cancer screening completion in an extremely high-risk group, NYC Chinese livery drivers who smoke or who quit within the past 15 years. A series of focus groups with Chinese livery drivers who smoke, a series of in-depth interviews with livery base management and staff, primary care physicians (PCPs), clinic directors, hospital CFOs, heads of financial services and counseling, and heads of radiology facilities serving the Chinese community were conducted to explore barriers and factors related to cancer screening. Findings were used to develop adapted intervention materials, including a CHW Manual for Facilitating Shared Decision Making and Lung Cancer Screening. Once adaptation is complete, the researchers will conduct a pre-pilot to refine the adapted CHW intervention materials. The researchers will then conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the feasibility of the refined CHW model (intervention) versus written materials (control) to facilitate SDM and LCS (when appropriate) in an extremely high-risk group, NYC Chinese livery drivers eligible (by USPTSF criteria) for LCS. Feasibility results will be used to inform the planning and design of large scale RCTs, targeting Chinese drivers, as well as other driver populations in NYC and throughout the U.S., and other high risk Chinese smoking populations in other occupations (e.g. restaurant work, construction). The study is currently in the pre-pilot phase and expects to launch the pilot phase by the summer of 2020. Due to the effects of the COVID-19 crisis, the researchers have extended the pre-pilot participation time frame to 12 months. The study population has also indicated concern to attend doctor's appointments for SDM/LCS during COVID-19. As such, MSK is extending the study time frame to an additional 6 months. . CHWs will also be hosting health education workshops at community organizations, family associations, and public libraries. These workshops will be conducted in English, Mandarin, and Cantonese and cover topics including smoking cessation and lung cancer screening.