Evaluation of Proteome Multimarker Panel With Multiple Reaction Monitoring as a Surveillance for Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Most current guidelines recommend hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) surveillance with ultrasound and alpha feto-protein (AFP) every 6 months for individuals with risk factors. However, the sensitivity of ultrasound for HCC detection is significantly reduced, especially in high-risk cirrhotic patients. In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of multiple reaction monitoring (MRM)-based multimarker panel as a surveillance tool for HCC. During two surveillance periods (starting from the time of voluntary consent and 6 months later), participants receive ultrasound, AFP, and MRM-based multimarker panel analysis. Patients who are suspected of HCC based on one of three tests undergo a contrast-enhanced CT scan within 6 weeks. After 6 months from the second surveillance period, the investigators re-evaluate the development of HCC using contrast-enhanced CT and AFP. The diagnostic accuracy of MRM-based multimarker panel is compared to ultrasound and AFP.
Liver Cirrhosis
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: multiple reaction monitoring (MRM)-based multimarker panel
HCC detection rate, HCC detection using each surveillance modality/Total HCC cases, Up to 2 years
Early HCC detection rate, Early HCC (BCLC stage 0 or 1) detection using each surveillance modality/Total early HCC cases, Up to 2 years|False referral rate, False-positive case of each surveillance modality/Total false-positive and false-negative results, Up to 2 years|Positive predictive value, True-positive case of each surveillance modality/Total positive cases, Up to 2 years
Most current guidelines recommend hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) surveillance with ultrasound and alpha feto-protein (AFP) every 6 months for individuals with risk factors. However, the sensitivity of ultrasound for HCC detection is significantly reduced, especially in high-risk cirrhotic patients. In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of multiple reaction monitoring (MRM)-based multimarker panel as a surveillance tool for HCC. During two surveillance periods (starting from the time of voluntary consent and 6 months later), participants receive ultrasound, AFP, and MRM-based multimarker panel analysis. Patients who are suspected of HCC based on one of three tests undergo a contrast-enhanced CT scan within 6 weeks. After 6 months from the second surveillance period, the investigators re-evaluate the development of HCC using contrast-enhanced CT and AFP. The diagnostic accuracy of MRM-based multimarker panel is compared to ultrasound and AFP.