Clinical Study of Microdosing Carboplatin in Lung or Bladder Cancer
Carboplatin kills cancer cells mainly through induction of DNA damage (drug-DNA adducts). The goal of this clinical trial is to determine if chemoresistance to carboplatin can be identified by measuring carboplatin-induced DNA monoadducts, the precursor of Pt-DNA diadducts or crosslinks, from subtherapeutic drug doses given prior to the initiation of chemotherapy. We hypothesize that low levels of carboplatin-DNA monoadducts and rapid drug-DNA adduct repair correlate with chemoresistance. A highly sensitive technology, called accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS), will be used to measure carboplatin-DNA monoadducts from patient samples. AMS can measure C-14 at the attomole level in specimens of milligram size. In this study, patients will receive one non-toxic "microdose" (defined as 1/100th the therapeutic dose) of C-14-labeled carboplatin. Blood specimens will be drawn for determination of carboplatin-DNA monoadduct formation and repair in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), and pharmacokinetics (PK) will be determined from serum ultrafiltrate. In patients microdosed prior to providing tumor samples, a few milligrams of leftover tumor biopsy/resection specimens will be analyzed for formation of carboplatin-DNA monoadducts. Patients will subsequently receive carboplatin-based chemotherapy. The levels of microdose-induced carboplatin-DNA monoadducts will be correlated with response to chemotherapy. Some blood and biopsy samples will be assayed by RT-PCR for several putative resistance markers at the mRNA level. Side effects will also be monitored and compared to the AMS data. This trial will also utilize PK, DNA repair and pharmacogenomics data in order to determine some of the underlying chemoresistance mechanisms.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Urinary Bladder Neoplasms
DRUG: Carbon-14-labeled carboplatin
Correlation of carboplatin-DNA monoadducts induced by microdoses of carboplatin with cancer response to carboplatin-based chemotherapy, Imaging studies (including CT, MRI, PET/CT and CXR) and cystoscopy will be performed to evaluate the response. The RECIST 1.1 will be used to determine the cancer response. Tumor response, including complete response (CR, or complete disappearance) or partial response (PR, at least a 30% decrease of target lesion) will be correlated with the patient's carboplatin-DNA monoadduct levels., Patients will be evaluated for response to chemotherapy after they have received 2 to 3 cycles of chemo that is about 6-9 weeks after treatment is started.
Determination of the underlying chemoresistance mechanisms to carboplatin, The half-life of carboplatin and the repair rate of DNA monoadducts (decrease of DNA monoadducts over 24 hours) in PBMC and tumor tissue will be determined and calculated. The ERCC1 expression levels will be determined with quantitative RT-PCR using beta-actin as the internal control. These parameters will be correlated with tumor response (CR or PR) to chemotherapy., The chemoresistance mechanisms will be determined from the time of this microdosing study to the time patients receive 2 to 3 cycles of chemo that is about 6-9 weeks after treatment is started.
Carboplatin kills cancer cells mainly through induction of DNA damage (drug-DNA adducts). The goal of this clinical trial is to determine if chemoresistance to carboplatin can be identified by measuring carboplatin-induced DNA monoadducts, the precursor of Pt-DNA diadducts or crosslinks, from subtherapeutic drug doses given prior to the initiation of chemotherapy. We hypothesize that low levels of carboplatin-DNA monoadducts and rapid drug-DNA adduct repair correlate with chemoresistance. A highly sensitive technology, called accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS), will be used to measure carboplatin-DNA monoadducts from patient samples. AMS can measure C-14 at the attomole level in specimens of milligram size. In this study, patients will receive one non-toxic "microdose" (defined as 1/100th the therapeutic dose) of C-14-labeled carboplatin. Blood specimens will be drawn for determination of carboplatin-DNA monoadduct formation and repair in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), and pharmacokinetics (PK) will be determined from serum ultrafiltrate. In patients microdosed prior to providing tumor samples, a few milligrams of leftover tumor biopsy/resection specimens will be analyzed for formation of carboplatin-DNA monoadducts. Patients will subsequently receive carboplatin-based chemotherapy. The levels of microdose-induced carboplatin-DNA monoadducts will be correlated with response to chemotherapy. Some blood and biopsy samples will be assayed by RT-PCR for several putative resistance markers at the mRNA level. Side effects will also be monitored and compared to the AMS data. This trial will also utilize PK, DNA repair and pharmacogenomics data in order to determine some of the underlying chemoresistance mechanisms.