Development of an Aid to Melanoma Detection Using Artificial Intelligence Algorithms Based on Images From the VECTRA 3D System.
The background to this research is that frequent medical screening of the general population for melanoma is not feasible. The real challenge of this project is to develop an automatic process for detecting any potential melanoma. To this end, the project aims to design an algorithm to build a novel diagnostic aid that makes use of the similarity and disparity of pigmented lesions in the same patient. To achieve this, we need to obtain and structure a large database of images grouping all pigmented lesions per patient according to their similarities as perceived by dermatologists.
Naevi
OTHER: Scanner of the whole body using the VECTRA 3D
development and validation of algorithms to identify lesions clinically suspected of being melanoma by a dermatologist (potentially malignant and/or ugly duckling)., Comparison of the results given by the analysis of the images by 3 dermatologists or by the software. Estimation of sensitivity and specificity thresholds of at least 93% (accuracy level 5%)., from enrollement to until 6 month
concordance rate for malignant annotations, concordance between the malignant yes-no annotations of each of the three dermatologists (2 to 2) will be tested., From enrollement to 6 month after|concordance rate for ugly duckling, concordance between the ugly duckling yes-no annotations of each of the three dermatologists (2 to 2) will be tested., From enrollement to 6 month after|calculation of the proportion of melanomas confirmed by anatomopathology, For each lesion identified as malignant or ugly duckling by the gold standard and removed for histological analysis: calculation of the proportion of melanomas confirmed by pathology., From enrollement to 6 month after
The background to this research is that frequent medical screening of the general population for melanoma is not feasible. The real challenge of this project is to develop an automatic process for detecting any potential melanoma. To this end, the project aims to design an algorithm to build a novel diagnostic aid that makes use of the similarity and disparity of pigmented lesions in the same patient. To achieve this, we need to obtain and structure a large database of images grouping all pigmented lesions per patient according to their similarities as perceived by dermatologists.