Prospective Study of Oncologic Outcomes After Laparoscopic Modified Complete Mesocolic Excision for Non-metastatic Right Colon Cancer [PIONEER Study]
This study is a multi-institutional, prospective, observational study evaluation oncologic outcomes of laparoscopic modified complete mesocolic excision (mCME) on right-sided colon cancer.

The primary outcome of this study is 3 year disease-free survival. Secondary outcome measures include 3 year overall survival, incidence of surgical complications, completeness of mCME, and distribution of metastatic lymph nodes.
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic modified complete mesocolic excision
3 year disease-free survival (DFS), The 3 year disease-free survival is defined as the time from surgery until documented recurrence or death from any cause., DFS will be measured up to three years after surgery, and the last visit is 14th visit after index surgery.
3 year overall survival (OS), The time from surgery until documented death from any cause, Three years after surgery|Incidence of surgical complications, Until four weeks after surgery|Completeness of mCME, A. By reviewing resected surgical specimens based on photographs B. By reviewing the operative field after lymph node dissection and specimen removal based on photographs, Two weeks after surgery|Distribution of metastatic LNs, Lymph nodes retrieved from resected surgical specimens to categorise, Two weeks after surgery
The present study aims to evaluate the oncological outcomes of laparoscopic mCME on right-sided colon cancer. The right side of the colon was defined as the colon from cecum up to the proximal half of the transverse colon. The number of patients needs to get a 90% power is 250. Patients will be enrolled at five leading centers in South Korea. A complete information leaflet will give to the patients during the first consultation, which will correspond to the enrollment day. The preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative period will be in complete accordance with the usual care of the center. The baseline demographics and conditions, as well as the perioperative items and the postoperative occurrences, will be recorded through a prior designed case report form. The follow-up encompasses 13 postoperative consultations: 1month, 3 months, after that every 3 months until 36 months.

The primary outcome of this study is 3-year disease-free survival. Secondary outcome measures include 3-year overall survival, the incidence of surgical complications, completeness of mCME, and distribution of metastatic lymph nodes. Review of resected surgical specimens and the operative field after completion of lymph node dissection will be done based on photographs to assess the quality if surgery.