Neo-TACE-HAIC for High-risk BCLC A Stage HCC (NeoconceptA)
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients is a common disease in the East Asia. Although resection was recommend for early stage (BCLC A stage) patients according to the BCLC (Barcelona clinical liver cancer) system, increasing studies suggested that preoperative transarterial therapy may decrease the recurrence risk for those with high-risk factors. However, the clinical value is still undertermined. Recently, FOLFOX (Oxaliplatin and 5-fluorouracil) based hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) exhibited high response rate for unresectable HCC. Pilot study showed TACE combined HAIC (TACE-HAIC) had better tumor response, with low progression disease rate. Whether TACE-HAIC would improve survival for BCLC A stage patients with high-risk factors is need to further to study. A randomized clinical trial compared neo-TACE-HAIC with surgery versus surgery alone is aimed to answer this question.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: neo-TACE-HAIC+Surgery|PROCEDURE: Surgery alone
Progression-free survival, PFS, PFS was calculated from the date of starting treatment to the date of progression, of disease or death, 36 months
Overall survival, OS, OS was calculated from the date of starting treatment to the date of death., 60 months
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients is a common disease in the East Asia. Although resection was recommend for early stage (BCLC A stage) patients according to the BCLC (Barcelona clinical liver cancer) system, increasing studies suggested that preoperative transarterial therapy may decrease the recurrence risk for those with high-risk factors. However, the clinical value is still undertermined. Recently, FOLFOX (Oxaliplatin and 5-fluorouracil) based hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) exhibited high response rate for unresectable HCC. Pilot study showed TACE combined HAIC (TACE-HAIC) had better tumor response, with low progression disease rate. Whether TACE-HAIC would improve survival for BCLC A stage patients with high-risk factors is need to further to study. A randomized clinical trial compared neo-TACE-HAIC with surgery versus surgery alone is aimed to answer this question.