A Study of the Combination of Cetuximab and Methotrexate in Recurrent or Metastatic Cancer of the Head and Neck
The investigators will perform a randomized phase II study to investigate if the addition of cetuximab to MTX is beneficial for the patient. Because no data on this combination are available the investigators will start with a phase Ib study to investigate the feasibility of the schedule.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Methotrexate
Incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT), In the phase Ib study: toxicity scored with CTC v 4.0\*; incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first 4 weeks after start of the combination, During the first 4 weeks after start of the combination MTX and cetuximab|Progression free survival, In the phase II study: progression free survival (PFS). The analysis of PFS can be performed as soon as the target event (progression or death) has been observed in 98 of the 114 subjects randomized., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) The analysis of OS can be performed as soon as the target event has been observed in 98 of the 114 subjects randomized., Followed up to 12 months after randomization|Response rate (RR), The difference in RR rates between both treatment arms will be analyzed using a stratified Cochran Mantel Haenszel test at a one-sided alpha-level of 0.05. In addition to the response rates in both arms, the odds ratio will be reported together with 90% confidence intervals. The impact of various demographic and disease characteristics (e.g. HPV positivity), on RR will be investigated using an exploratory logistic regression model., Till end of treatment
The addition of cetuximab to cisplatin and 5-FU in recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) showed an improvement of overall survival (OS), progression free survival (PFS) and response rate (RR). However, cisplatin and 5-FU are toxic cytostatics for the vulnerable recurrent or metastatic SCCHN patient. As one of the primary goals in these patients is palliation, in some patients treatment with cisplatin, 5-FU and cetuximab is not feasible owing to a low performance score (PS of 2) or the patient refusal to receive chemotherapy, i.e. cisplatin and 5-FU, possibly influencing quality of life negatively.

Methotrexate is a cytostatic which has shown to have modest activity in recurrent or metastatic SCCHN. The RR is between 14 and 20%, the median PFS is 3 months, and there is no improvement in OS, which is only 6 months. Toxicity of MTX is very low. Patients with a PS of 2 can be treated with MTX. Patients refusing treatment with cisplatin, 5-FU and cetuximab, frequently choose MTX as palliative treatment.

No data are available on the combination of cetuximab and MTX. The investigators will perform a randomized phase II study to investigate if the addition of cetuximab to MTX is beneficial, i.e. an improvement in the PFS, for the patient. Because no data on this combination are available the investigators will start with a phase Ib study to investigate the feasibility of the schedule.