Immunotherapy of Melanoma With Tumor Antigen RNA and Small Inhibitory RNA Transfected Autologous Dendritic Cells
Transfection with siRNA targeting the immunoproteasome alters proteasome-mediated antigen processing by the dendritic cell, generating TAA-derived peptides that we hypothesize, based on preclinical results, will induce enhanced anti-melanoma immune responses. This phase I study, open to subjects with metastatic melanoma, will assess the safety of vaccination with melanoma tumor associated antigen-encoding RNA-transfected mature dendritic cells derived from monocytes that have been either untreated, transfected with control siRNA, or transfected with siRNA targeting the inducible immunoproteasome beta subunits LMP2, LMP7, and MECL1. A combination of RNAs encoding melanoma tumor associated antigens MART-1, tyrosinase, gp100, and MAGE-3 will be utilized for dendritic cell transfection. The vaccine will be administered by intradermal injection in the extremities. Clinical and laboratory toxicities will be characterized for each study arm. As a secondary objective, this phase I study will also assess the anti-melanoma immune responses, as well as clinical responses, induced by vaccination with this dendritic cell-based product.
Metastatic Melanoma|Absence of CNS Metastases
BIOLOGICAL: Proteasome siRNA and tumor antigen RNA-transfected dendritic cells
For this Phase I study, subjects will be evaluated both clinically and with laboratory testing for any signs of toxicity associated with vaccination., 3 months after last vaccination
For each subject, the induction of anti-melanoma immune responses will be assessed by in vitro testing., At least 3 months after final vaccination|For each subject, clinical responses to vaccination will also be assessed., At least 3 months, and up to 5 years
Transfection with siRNA targeting the immunoproteasome alters proteasome-mediated antigen processing by the dendritic cell, generating TAA-derived peptides that we hypothesize, based on preclinical results, will induce enhanced anti-melanoma immune responses. This phase I study, open to subjects with metastatic melanoma, will assess the safety of vaccination with melanoma tumor associated antigen-encoding RNA-transfected mature dendritic cells derived from monocytes that have been either untreated, transfected with control siRNA, or transfected with siRNA targeting the inducible immunoproteasome beta subunits LMP2, LMP7, and MECL1. A combination of RNAs encoding melanoma tumor associated antigens MART-1, tyrosinase, gp100, and MAGE-3 will be utilized for dendritic cell transfection. The vaccine will be administered by intradermal injection in the extremities. Clinical and laboratory toxicities will be characterized for each study arm. As a secondary objective, this phase I study will also assess the anti-melanoma immune responses, as well as clinical responses, induced by vaccination with this dendritic cell-based product.