Study of Cisplatin and Pemetrexed in Combination With Panobinostat in Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to find out if panobinostat taken with cisplatin and pemetrexed can be used safely without increasing side effects and that the combination will have a better effect than platinum-based doublet chemotherapy alone.
Solid Tumors|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DRUG: Panobinostat, Cisplatin, Pemetrexed
Safety and feasibility of oral panobinostat in combination with cisplatin and pemetrexed, Safety assessments will consist of monitoring and recording all adverse events and serious adverse events, the regular monitoring of hematology, blood chemistry and urine values, regular measurement of vital signs and the performance of physical examination. Safety and tolerability will be assessed according to the NCI CTCAE v4., Within ±3 days of the scheduled day of assessment except for adverse events that will be evaluated continuously through the study. The expected time frame for this outcome measure is 18 weeks (or six cycles)
Maximum-tolerated dose as assessed by NCI CTCAE, Version 4.0, Determination of maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be based on cycle 1 toxicities, 3 week cycle; the expected time frame is 18 weeks (or 6 cycles)|Dose-limiting toxicities and toxicity profile as assessed by NCI CTCAE, Version 4.0, Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be based on cycle 1 toxicities., 3 week cycle; the expected time frame is 18 weeks (or 6 cycles)|Exploratory biomarker analysis, Molecular markers predictive for response to panobinostat remain unknown. This trial offers the opportunity to retrospectively study biomarkers and their association with clinical outcomes., Blood specimens will be collected prior to treatment, prior to Cycles 2-6. In addition, a blood specimen will be collected if the patient is removed from the study due to progression of disease. the expected time frame is 18 weeks (or 6 cycles)|Efficacy of oral panobinostat in combination with cisplatin/pemetrexed in an expanded cohort of patients with NSCLC, Response rate will be assessed by CT scan. CT scans will be performed at baseline and every two cycles. The evaluation of response will be based on standard RECIST criteria., CT scans will be performed at baseline and every two cycles; the expected time frame is 18 weeks (or 6 cycles)
The purpose of this phase I study of oral panobinostat plus cisplatin and pemetrexed is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in patients with advanced solid tumors, with an emphasis in non-small cell lung cancer. Another purpose of this study is to find out if oral panobinostat in combination with cisplatin and pemetrexed can be administered safely without significant increase in toxicity and that the combination will increase efficacy compared to platinum-based doublet chemotherapy alone.