Copper-64 SAR Bombesin in PSMA Negative Prostate Cancer (BOP)
This phase 2a study will involve enrolment of men presenting with progression of biopsy proven prostate cancer who require imaging for staging/re-staging of their disease. The participants enrolled will be further sub-stratified into two groups; one group of men with hormone-sensitive disease (cohort A), and a second group of men with castrate-resistant disease being considered for 177Lu-PSMA-617 therapy (Cohort B).
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Copper-64 labelled SAR-Bombesin
Explore the diagnostic potential of 64Cu-SAR-BBN PET In men with rising PSA and negative PSMA PET in the 2 cohorts, sensitivity,specificity and accuracy for the detection of primary cancer in %, 24 months
To assess the diagnostic value of 64Cu-SAR-BBN PET, In the detection of PSMA negative biochemically recurrent or metastatic prostate cancer using a composite standard of truth (biopsy, concurrent imaging and response to targeted therapy), 24 months|To evaluate 64Cu-SAR-BBN PET quantitative findings, (SUV max, SUV mean) and sites of metastatic disease and assess the potential for BBN as a therapeutic agent in men with PSMA negative or low PSMA expression disease., 24 months|To determine the optimal timing for imaging post BBN injection, with a 1 hour and 3 hours image., 24 months
This phase 2a study will involve enrolment of men presenting with progression of biopsy proven prostate cancer who require imaging for staging/re-staging of their disease. The participants enrolled will be further sub-stratified into two groups; one group of men with hormone-sensitive disease (cohort A), and a second group of men with castrate-resistant disease being considered for 177Lu-PSMA-617 therapy (Cohort B).

The study will involve men who are being staged or re-staged for metastatic prostate cancer by their treating doctor. The treating doctor will refer the patient to the nuclear medicine department at St. Vincent's Hospital, Sydney for study enrolment.

Screening and D0 visits will be combined for this study. Standard of care bloods (haematology, biochemistry, eGFR and PSA) will be collected at screening/D0 if the results are not already available from the treating doctor. Prior 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET scan within 3 months will be collected from the treating doctor. The PI will ensure that the bloods and 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET scan are reviewed to establish final eligibility before participant undergoes 64Cu-SAR-BBN injection (200mbq) and imaging.

After screening/Day 0 visit, the participant will undergo two imaging scans at 1 hour and 3 hours after having 64Cu-SAR-BBN administration. Total lesional assessment will be calculated with MIM Encore 6.8.7 (MIM Software, Cleveland) using data from the above time points. Safety assessment will be conducted once the participant is enrolled in the study at screening/Day 0 and 48 hours post 3 hours scan by phone call. All adverse events will be recorded on a case report form as source documentation.