Phytocannabinoids for the Treatment of Chronic Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy in Breast and Colon Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial tests how well phytocannabinoids (cannabidiol \[CBD\] and tetrahydrocannbinol \[THC\]) work in reducing chronic chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) in breast and colon cancer survivors. Neuropathy is the most common neurological symptom reported by cancer patients due to treatment. A variety of pharmacologic treatments have been evaluated to alleviate CIPN symptoms; however, no definitive treatment has been found to successfully treat all the symptoms of CIPN. Therefore, investigators continue to seek other possible treatment options including cannabis. Phytocannabinoids may be a particularly useful intervention for cancer patients given the limited effective treatments for CIPN. In addition, cannabis-based medicines have become tremendously popular as both cancer patients and clinicians are seeking therapies with fewer potential risks of dependency and other side effects. This trial is being done to provide cancer patients and clinicians with reliable information to help guide their use of phytocannabinoids to manage the tremendous distress and pain experienced by many cancer patients, which impacts their long-term quality of life.
Breast Carcinoma|Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Colon Carcinoma
DRUG: Cannabidiol|DRUG: Delta-8-Tetrahydrocannabinol|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Difference in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group (FACT/GOG)-Neurotoxicity (Ntx) subscale scores, The primary analysis will compare difference in scores from the FACT/GOG-Ntx between all groups using analysis of variance, and a repeated measures analysis of variance analysis will be performed. Multivariable mixed-effects regression model which takes possible dependence of longitudinal measurements within each subject into account, will be used. In addition, a paired t-test will be utilized to compare scores between baseline and 8 and 12 weeks of treatment for each group separately., Baseline up to week 12
Quality of life by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) scores, The pre-treatment values recorded from the FACT-G will be considered the baseline scores. A paired T-test will be utilized to compare scores between baseline and 8 weeks of treatment. For comparisons between groups at four specific assessment points (baseline, week 4, week 8, and week 12), a repeated measures analysis of variance analysis will be performed, Up to 12 weeks|Utilization of neuropathic and pain medications, Medication data will initially be analyzed as a dichotomous variable (yes/no) for each medication. These medications may include neuropathic medications (e.g., gabapentin, pregabalin, duloxetine, amitriptyline), Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, acetaminophen, opioid medications (e.g., morphine, oxycodone), or other related medications. Comparisons between the baseline and after-treatment medication status will be analyzed using McNemar's test. Including all the time points in the analysis of any single medication will use Cochran's Q test. The usage of multiple medications will be summarized descriptively to determine the best way to quantify multiple use, such as counts or categorized quantities. McNemar's test will be used to detect change in the level of medication use., Up to 12 weeks|Incidents of adverse events, All adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 6.0. The severe adverse events (SAE) (grade \>= 3) will be tabulated per treatment arm and the difference of SAE will be compared among groups using chi-square test., Up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the ability of CBD and THC:CBD to reduce CIPN symptoms as compared to placebo using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group (FACT/GOG)-Neurotoxicity (Ntx) subscale among breast and colon cancer survivors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the impact of CBD and THC:CBD as compared to placebo on quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy General (FACT-G) among breast and colon cancer survivors with chronic CIPN.

II. Document the utilization of neuropathic and pain medications by cancer patients with chronic CIPN during treatment with CBD and THC:CBD as compared to placebo.

III. Describe the side effects of CBD and THC:CBD treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess neurological symptoms and function with the Neuropathy Pain Scale (NPS), Total Neuropathy Sccore - clinically based (TNSc), quantitative sensory testing (QST), Grooved Pegboard Test (GPT), and Unipedal Stance balance test (USBT) among patients with chronic CIPN treated with CBD and THC:CBD as compared to placebo.

II. Evaluate for predictors of response to CBD and THC:CBD for chronic CIPN.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of CBD and THC. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive CBD orally (PO) on study.

ARM II: Patients receive CBD PO + THC PO on study.

ARM III: Patients receive placebo PO on study.