A Study of RC48-ADC Combined With JS001 for Advanced Extramammary Paget Disease of the Scrotum
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if Disitamab Vedotin combined with Toripalimab works to treat advanced HER2-positive extramammary Paget disease of the scrotum. It will also learn about the safety of this combination. The main questions it aims to answer are: Does this combination reduce tumor volume and delay disease progression? What medical problems do participants have when receving this combination? Participants will: Intravenous using this combination every 3 weeks until disease progression or intolerable adverse reactions occur. Visit the clinic once every 3 weeks for checkups and tests.
Paget Disease, Extramammary|Scrotum Disease
DRUG: Disitamab Vedotin combined with Toripalimab
Objective Response Rate, ORR includes two categories:

Complete Response (CR): All target lesions in the patient have completely disappeared, and no new lesions have appeared for a certain time.

Partial Response (PR): The tumor in the patient has reduced in size by at least 30%, and this reduction has been maintained for a certain period., every 6 weeks,up to 24 weeks
Progression free survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is a clinical endpoint used primarily in oncology to measure the effectiveness of a treatment in delaying the progression of a disease. It is defined as the length of time during which a patient's disease does not get worse after starting a treatment. PFS takes into account the time from the start of treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression, or the patient's death if it occurs before progression., through study completion, an average of 2 year|Adverse events, adverse events, through study completion, an average of 2 year
This study is a multiple-center, phase II clinical trial. Participants with HER2-positive advanced scrotal extramammary Paget's disease who met the eligibility criteria were enrolled after signing an informed consent form. All patients received treatment with 2mg/kg of Disitamab Vedotin and 3mg/kg of Toripalimab intravenous infusion every 3 weeks until disease progression. Follow-up was conducted until disease progression, intolerable adverse reactions, withdrawal of informed consent by the participant, loss to follow-up, or death. The area of the largest lesion on the scrotal skin was measured and clinical tumor imaging assessments were performed using RECIST during the treatment process.