SFRT and SCART in Radiotherapy for Bone Metastases With Soft Tissue
This is a randomized, controlled, prospective phase II, two-arm clinical study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of using either Spatially Fractionated Radiotherapy (SFRT) or Stereotactic Central Ablative Radiotherapy (SCART) for treating the soft tissue components of malignant bone metastases. The study plans to enroll 90 patients with bone metastases accompanied by soft tissue formation, who will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to the SFRT/SCART group or the conventional radiotherapy (CRT) group.The primary endpoint is the objective response rate (ORR). Tumor response to treatment will be assessed every 12 weeks (±7 days) according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). Secondary endpoints include pain relief rate, progression-free survival (PFS), and safety. In addition, adverse events (AEs) will be monitored throughout the study.
Bone Metastases in Subjects With Advanced Cancer
RADIATION: Conventional Radiotherapy (CRT)|RADIATION: SCART (Stereotactic Central Ablative Radiation Therapy ) /SFRT（Spatially Fractionated Radiation Therapy ）
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of patients whose tumor size decreases (partial response) or disappears (complete response) after radiation based on RECIST 1.1. (CR, complete disappearance of the lesion) or partial response (PR, ≥30% reduction in lesion diameter sum) at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post-radiotherapy, evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., 1 year
The pain relief rate, The NRS score is used as an indicator of the treatment response. Complete remission is defined as the absence of pain three months after radiotherapy. Partial remission is defined as the pain score being at least 2 points lower than the initial score (or the daily dosage of narcotic drugs decreasing by more than 20%). The stable state is defined as the change in the pain score not exceeding 1 point (or the change in the daily dosage of narcotic drugs not exceeding 10%). A progressive response is defined as the pain score being at least 2 points higher than the initial score (or the daily dosage of narcotic drugs increasing by more than 20%)., 1 year|Local control rate, Local control rate is defined as the time from the start of radiotherapy to either progression of the target lesion (assessed per RECIST 1.1 criteria) or patient death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 1 year|Adverse event incidence (Safety), Treatment-related adverse events are graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0 (CTCAE 5.0)., 1 year
Bone is a common site for tumor metastasis, with approximately 18.8 out of every 100,000 cancer patients diagnosed with bone metastases each year. Lung cancer, prostate cancer, and breast cancer are the most common primary tumor types leading to bone metastases. Currently, there is limited research on bone metastases accompanied by soft tissue formation. However, such formations have been observed in the majority of bone metastasis cases originating from solid tumors. Conventional radiotherapy regimens for bone metastases often show poor local control over the soft tissue component. Based on above undergrounds, this study is designed to be a random, controlled, prospective phase II, two-arm clinical study. Totally 90 patients with bone metastasis accompanied by soft issue formation will be enrolled and randomized in a 2:1 ratio to the Spatially Fractionated Radiotherapy (SFRT)/ Stereotactic Central Ablative Radiotherapy (SCART) group or the conventional radiotherapy (CRT) group with the primary endpoint being the objective response rate (ORR) of the target lesion at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post-radiotherapy, assessed using RECIST 1.1. Secondary endpoints include pain relief rate, PFS and safety (per CTCAE v5.0). Eligibility criteria include patients aged 18-75 years, ECOG performance status ≤2, and an expected survival of ≥3 months. Those with secondary primary tumors, pathological fracture confirmed by CT or MRI, patients who received radiotherapy to the target lesion prior to enrollment or women who are pregnant or breastfeeding will be excluded. Comprehensive baseline assessments (imaging, pathology, laboratory tests) are conducted pretreatment, with weekly toxicity monitoring during treatment. Efficacy assessments consist of ORR of 3,6,9,12 months and tumor-related pain evaluation. During the course of radiotherapy, patient-reported pain is measured using the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) every week. After the completion of radiotherapy, pain assessments are conducted every 6 weeks. Imaging evaluations are performed every 12 weeks after completion of radiotherapy and include high-resolution MRI, CT of bone metastatic sites. Statistical analysis assumes a one-sided α=0.05, β=0.8, anticipating an ORR of 90% for SFRT/SCART versus 66% for CRT. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of using either Spatially Fractionated Radiotherapy (SFRT) or Stereotactic Central Ablative Radiotherapy (SCART) for treating the bone metastases with soft tissue formation.