Preliminary Efficacy Analysis of 'λ+α' Double-Tract Reconstruction After Laparoscopic Proximal Gastrectomy
The incidence of proximal gastric cancer has increased significantly in recent years. This may be due to weight gain, alcohol consumption, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and precancerous lesions. With a deeper understanding of the pattern of lymph node metastasis and the emergence of anti-reflux procedures, proximal gastrectomy has gradually received clinical attention. For early-stage upper gastric cancer and esophagogastric combination cancer cases that are expected to have a good prognosis, the ideal surgical procedure should be to preserve the distal stomach to improve the quality of life and to choose a reasonable digestive tract reconstruction method to prevent reflux. The anti-reflux effect of various proximal gastrectomy digestive tract reconstruction methods and the advantages and disadvantages of various surgical procedures are controversial, and the recognized ideal reconstruction method has not yet been established. Therefore, based on the stomach's anatomical features and the intercalated jejunum's anti-reflux mechanism, we propose a true dual-channel anastomosis for GI reconstruction, i.e., the "λ+α dual-channel anastomosis". This study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of proximal gastrectomy combined with "λ+α double-channel anastomosis" in the treatment of early gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer|Reflux Esophagitis
PROCEDURE: proximal gastrectomy combined with 'λ+α' double-tract anastomosis
incidence of reflux esophagitis, The percentage (%) of patients developing postoperative reflux esophagitis after surgery in each group., 12 months after surgery
incidence of anastomotic leakage, The percentage (%) of patients developing postoperative anastomotic leakage after surgery in each group., 30 days after surgery|incidence of anastomotic stenosis, The percentage (%) of patients developing anastomotic stenosis after surgery in each group., 12 months after surgery|operative time, The duration, measured in minutes, spent on reconstructing the digestive tract using different reconstruction methods, 1 day after surgery
The incidence of proximal gastric cancer has increased significantly in recent years. This may be due to weight gain, alcohol consumption, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and precancerous lesions. With a deeper understanding of the pattern of lymph node metastasis and the emergence of anti-reflux procedures, proximal gastrectomy has gradually received clinical attention. For early-stage upper gastric cancer and esophagogastric combination cancer cases that are expected to have a good prognosis, the ideal surgical procedure should be to preserve the distal stomach to improve the quality of life and to choose a reasonable digestive tract reconstruction method to prevent reflux. The anti-reflux effect of various proximal gastrectomy digestive tract reconstruction methods and the advantages and disadvantages of various surgical procedures are controversial, and the recognized ideal reconstruction method has not yet been established. Therefore, based on the stomach's anatomical features and the intercalated jejunum's anti-reflux mechanism, we propose a true dual-channel anastomosis for GI reconstruction, i.e., the "λ+α dual-channel anastomosis". This study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of proximal gastrectomy combined with "λ+α double-channel anastomosis" in the treatment of early gastric cancer.