Doxorubicin Hydrochloride, Cyclophosphamide, and Pacltaxel With or Without Trastuzumab in Treating Women With HER2-Positive Node-Positive or High-Risk Node-Negative Breast Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, paclitaxel, and trastuzumab to see how well they work compared to combination chemotherapy alone in treating women with breast cancer that is human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive and has spread to the lymph nodes or high-risk and has not spread to the lymph nodes. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as trastuzumab can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. It is not yet known whether combination chemotherapy is more effective with or without trastuzumab in treating breast cancer.
Breast Adenocarcinoma|HER2 Positive Breast Carcinoma|Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Aromatase Inhibition Therapy|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Tamoxifen Citrate|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab
Duration of DFS, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. A stratified log-rank test will be used to assess whether DFS differs with respect to the addition of trastuzumab to a chemotherapy regimen including AC and paclitaxel. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be reported for relative risks, for DFS at the 5-year point, and for absolute benefit as defined by differences in DFS and OS., Time from registration to first adverse event, assessed up to 15 years
Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. A stratified log-rank test will be used to assess whether OS differs with respect to the addition of trastuzumab to a chemotherapy regimen including AC and paclitaxel. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be reported for relative risks, for OS at the 5-year point, and for absolute benefit as defined by differences in DFS and OS., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 15 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the combination of doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide (AC) followed by weekly paclitaxel with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of disease free survival (DFS). (Stage I) II. To compare the combination of AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of the rate of cardiac events. (Stage I) III. To compare the combination AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the sequential schedule of the combination of AC, weekly paclitaxel, and trastuzumab in terms of DFS. (Stage II) IV. To compare the sequential schedule of the combination of AC, weekly paclitaxel, and trastuzumab with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of DFS. (Stage II) V. To compare the combination AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the sequential schedule of the combination of AC, weekly paclitaxel, and trastuzumab in terms of the rate of cardiac events. (Stage II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the combination of AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the sequential schedule of the combination of AC, weekly paclitaxel, and trastuzumab in terms of overall survival (OS).

II. To compare the combination AC followed by weekly paclitaxel with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of OS.

III. To compare the sequential schedule of the combination AC, weekly paclitaxel, and trastuzumab with the combination of AC followed by the combination of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in terms of OS.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether higher levels of shed ECD (extracellular domain) or autoantibodies to human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)-2 and HER-1 measured in the serum prior to treatment are prognostic for DFS and survival.

II. To determine the concordance of central review of HER-2 overexpression as measured by the HercepTest (DAKO) and Vysis fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).

III. For each treatment arm, levels of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), troponin-T (TnT), troponin-I (cTnI), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), CD40 ligand, and troponin levels will be compared and contrasted.

IV. To determine whether genetic markers are prognostic for cardiac adverse events associated with treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I\*: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) and cyclophosphamide IV over 20-30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour beginning on day 1 of week 13 and continuing weekly for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. NOTE: \*Patients who completed paclitaxel on or after October 25, 2004 may receive trastuzumab for a maximum of 52 weeks either concurrently with paclitaxel or following completion of paclitaxel treatment.

ARM II\*: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel as in arm I. Patients then receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes beginning on day 1 of week 25 and continuing weekly for 52 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. NOTE: \*Patients who completed paclitaxel on or after October 25, 2004 may receive trastuzumab for a maximum of 52 weeks either concurrently with paclitaxel or following completion of paclitaxel treatment.

ARM III: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide as in arm I. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes beginning on day 1 of week 13 and continuing weekly for 12 courses. Patients then receive trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes beginning on day 1 of week 25 and continuing weekly for 40 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Within 5 weeks after completion of paclitaxel, patients may undergo radiotherapy. All postmenopausal estrogen receptor (ER)- or progesterone receptor (PR)-positive patients receive oral tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor once daily for 5 years beginning no later than 5 weeks after the last dose of paclitaxel. Patients may also receive an aromatase inhibitor once daily for 5 years after 5 years of daily tamoxifen. Patients who receive tamoxifen once daily for less than 4.5 years may receive an aromatase inhibitor daily until they have received a total of 5 years of adjuvant hormonal therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, and then annually for 15 years or until disease progression.