A Study of Bemarituzumab Monotherapy and Combination With Other Anti-cancer Therapy in SqNSCLC With FGFR2b Overexpression (FORTITUDE-201)
The primary objectives of this study are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of bemarituzumab monotherapy and combination with other anti-cancer therapies, and to determine the recommended phase 3 dose of bemarituzumab in combination with other anti-cancer therapies.
Squamous-Cell Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Bemarituzumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT): Parts 1 and 4, DLTs were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and included the below if considered by the investigator to be related to study drug, excluding toxicities related to disease progression or intercurrent illness: Grade 3 thrombocytopenia for \> 7 days or with Grade \> 2 bleeding, vomiting/diarrhea for \> 3 days, fatigue; Grade ≥ 3 febrile neutropenia, nausea for \> 3 days; Grade 4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, ophthalmologic AE, laboratory value, vomiting/diarrhea; Grade 5 toxicity (death not due to disease progression). CTCAE Grade 1 = mild, Grade 2 = moderate, Grade 3 = severe, Grade 4 = life-threatening, and Grade 5 results in death., Day 1 to Day 21 of Cycle 1 (each cycle was 21 days)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical trial participants. TEAEs were any AE that started on or after receiving the first dose of investigational product and up to 28 days after the last dose of investigational product or the end of study date, whichever is earlier. Treatment-related TEAEs were those considered possibly related to study treatment by the investigator. Any clinically significant changes in electrocardiograms, vital signs, physical examination with a neurological assessment, clinical laboratory tests, and visual acuity were recorded as TEAEs. A serious TEAE resulted in death, was immediately life threatening, required or prolonged in-patient hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or another medically important serious event. AEs of special interest (AESIs) were ocular events of any CTCAE grade or seriousness occurring up to 100 days after the last dose of bemarituzumab., Day 1 of cycle 1 to 100 days after the last dose of study treatment or end of study date, whichever occurred earlier (Parts 1, 2, and 4 cycle length = 21 days; Part 3 cycle length = 14 days). Median treatment duration was 6.2 weeks.
Area Under the Serum Drug Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to End of Dosing Interval (AUCtau) of Bemarituzumab, Bemarituzumab serum concentrations with values below the limit of quantification were set to zero for analysis. Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters were determined from the time concentration profile using noncompartmental analysis., Parts 1, 2, 3, and 4: Cycles 1 and 2 pre-dose, 0.25, 3, 6, 24, 72, 168, 336, 504 (except Part 3) hours post-dose|Maximum Observed Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Bemarituzumab, Bemarituzumab serum concentrations with values below the limit of quantification were set to zero for analysis. PK parameters were determined from the time concentration profile using noncompartmental analysis., Parts 1, 2, 3, and 4: Cycles 1 and 2 pre-dose, 0.25, 3, 6, 24, 72, 168, 336, 504 (except Part 3) hours post-dose|Observed Concentration at the End of a Dose Interval (Ctrough) of Bemarituzumab, Bemarituzumab serum concentrations with values below the limit of quantification were set to zero for analysis. PK parameters were determined from the time concentration profile using noncompartmental analysis., Pre-dose Cycle 2 Day 1 and Cycle 3 day 1|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved an Objective Response (OR), OR was defined as the best overall response of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) as defined by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1).

CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have had a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. All lymph nodes must have been non-pathological in size (\< 10 mm).

PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Every 6 (+/- 1) weeks from the first dose of bemarituzumab (cycle 1 day 1) up to week 54, then every 12 (+/- 2 weeks), up to the end of the long term follow-up (LTFU) period (median time on study was approximately 21 weeks)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the first documentation of OR (determined by the investigator per RECIST v1.1) until first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first.

DOR was censored at the last evaluable post-baseline tumor assessment prior to subsequent anticancer therapy; otherwise, at date of first documentation of OR (i.e., assigned a one-day interval)., Every 6 (+/- 1) weeks from the first dose of bemarituzumab (cycle 1 day 1) up to week 54, then every 12 (+/- 2 weeks), up to the end of the LTFU period (median time on study was approximately 21 weeks)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants documented to have a CR, PR or stable disease (SD) per RECIST v1.1.

CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have had a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. All lymph nodes must have been non-pathological in size (\< 10 mm).

PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD).

PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every 6 (+/- 1) weeks from the first dose of bemarituzumab (cycle 1 day 1) up to week 54, then every 12 (+/- 2 weeks), up to the end of the LTFU period (median time on study was approximately 21 weeks)|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from date of first dose of investigational product until the first documentation of radiologic disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first, in the absence of subsequent anticancer therapy.

PFS was censored at the last evaluable post-baseline tumor assessment prior to subsequent anticancer therapy; otherwise, at first dose of investigational product. Progression was based on RECIST v1.1 criteria.

PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Participants completed the LTFU for survival every 3 months ± 1 month after the safety follow-up visit (at 28 days after the last dose of bemarituzumab), up to the end of the study. Median time on study was approximately 21 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of investigational product until event of death due to any cause through the analysis cutoff date. Participants still alive were censored at the date last known to be alive through the analysis cutoff date., Participants completed the LTFU for survival every 3 months ± 1 month after the safety follow-up visit (at 28 days after the last dose of bemarituzumab), up to the end of the study. Median time on study was approximately 21 weeks
The primary objectives of this study are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of bemarituzumab monotherapy and combination with other anti-cancer therapies, and to determine the recommended phase 3 dose of bemarituzumab in combination with other anti-cancer therapies.