Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Followed by Polatuzumab Vedotin in Patients With B-cell Non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin Lymphoma
Patients will receive one of two conditioning regimens (BEAM or CBV) before receiving an autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). If patients achieve either complete, partial, or stable response following ASCT, they will receive an IV dose of Polatuzumab Vedotin once every 21 days until they receive 8 doses. After Polatuzumab Vedotin therapy is completed, patients will be followed every 4 months for about 2 years.
B-cell Lymphoma|Burkitt Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Transformed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Richter Syndrome|Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Polatuzumab vedotin
Safety and tolerability, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Polatuzumab vedotin (PV) immunoconjugate therapy post myeloablative conditioning (MAC) and autologous stem cell transplantation (AutoSCT) in patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

Patients receiving 1 dose of Polatuzumab Vedotin will be evaluable for safety. To determine the safety events: Number of participants with treatment-related Grade III or higher adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0.

To determine the occurrence of any Grade ≥ 3 non hematologic toxicity (per CTCAE v.5) which is possibly, probably, or definitely related to polatuzumab vedotin., 1 year
EFS, PFS, and OS, To measure event free survival (EFS), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with B-cell NHL following MAC and AutoSCT and post AutoSCT PV maintenance therapy.

All patients who have completed conditioning and autoSCT will be evaluable for EFS, PFS, and OS. EFS, PFS and OS will utilize Kaplan Meier product limit curve method. Response will be defined for patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who had either measurable or detectable disease at the time of study entry in accordance with the revised IPNHL response criteria (Appendix VI) for patients ≤ 21 years of age and with the Lugano classification (Appendix VII) for patients \> 21 years of age., 2 years|ORR, To measure overall response rate (ORR) of PV in B-cell NHL patients who are in PR or SD post MAC AutoSCT.

Only in patients who are in PR or SD prior to PV and received a minimum of 3 doses will be evaluable. EFS, PFS and OS will utilize Kaplan Meier product limit curve method. Response will be defined for patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who had either measurable or detectable disease at the time of study entry in accordance with the revised IPNHL response criteria (Appendix VI,\[24\]) for patients ≤ 21 years of age and with the Lugano classification (Appendix VII, \[25\]) for patients \> 21 years of age., 2 years
Patients will receive one of two conditioning regimens (BEAM or CBV) before receiving an autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). If patients achieve either complete, partial, or stable response following ASCT, they will receive an IV dose of Polatuzumab Vedotin once every 21 days until they receive 8 doses. After Polatuzumab Vedotin therapy is completed, patients will be followed every 4 months for about 2 years.