Neoadjuvant GTX With Chemoradiation for Pancreatic Cancer (Stage II/III)
This study is for patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer (cancer that involves the local blood vessels so it cannot be removed without cutting major blood vessels) that cannot be treated with surgery. The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and benefit of 6 three week cycles of chemotherapy treatment consisting of gemcitabine, capecitabine and docetaxel (also called 'GTX'). The patients fall into two groups. Group I are those with only venous involvement. Group II patients have arterial involvement and may also have venous involvement. If there is arterial involvement, GTX will be followed by 5 and 1/2 weeks of radiation therapy with gemcitabine and capecitabine. After the chemotherapy and radiation treatment, participants may be able to have surgery to remove any remaining pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer Stage II|Pancreatic Cancer Stage III
DRUG: Neoadjuvant gemcitabine, capecitabine, and docetaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine, capecitabine, docetaxel followed by radiotherapy
To determine the effect of neoadjuvant regimen of GTX on the 2-year disease free survival rate, 2 years
To describe the effect of neoadjuvant GTX regimen on resectability for those with arterial involvement and those with venous involvement, separately, 12 weeks
This study is for patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer (cancer that involves the local blood vessels so it cannot be removed without cutting major blood vessels) that cannot be treated with surgery. The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and benefit of 6 three week cycles of chemotherapy treatment consisting of gemcitabine, capecitabine and docetaxel (also called 'GTX'). The patients fall into two groups. Group I are those with only venous involvement. Group II patients have arterial involvement and may also have venous involvement. If there is arterial involvement, GTX will be followed by 5 and 1/2 weeks of radiation therapy with gemcitabine and capecitabine. After the chemotherapy and radiation treatment, participants may be able to have surgery to remove any remaining pancreatic cancer.