Treatment With AMD3100 (Plerixafor) in Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Multiple Myeloma Patients
This study evaluates the safety of plerixafor and other outcomes that are purely exploratory in nature. One other pre-specified outcome is to evaluate an interval of 10-11 hours between dosing with plerixafor and the beginning of apheresis to determine if there will be at least a 2-fold increase in circulating CD34+ cells. Data from this protocol will assist in the determination of the dosing schedule for future studies.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: G-CSF Plus Plerixafor
Number of Participants in Overall Safety Summary of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), Number of participants with treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) collected from Day 1 (start of G-CSF mobilization) to the day before starting chemotherapy (approximately day 38). AEs were graded by the investigator using the World Health Organization (WHO) Adverse Event Grading Scale and were assessed for severity (mild, moderate, severe) and relatedness to study treatment (5 step scale from 'not related' to 'definitely related')., Day 1 to approximately Day 38 (before start of chemotherapy)
Fold (i.e., Relative) Increase in Peripheral Blood (PB) CD34+ Cells/µL After First Dose of Plerixafor, The fold increase was measured using local lab values and is the ratio of post first dose (pre-apheresis) PB CD34+ cells/µL)/pre-plerixafor dosing PB CD34+ cells/µL), Days 4-5 (first dose of plerixafor to apheresis)|Number of Transplants in Which Participants Achieved Polymorphonuclear Leukocyte (PMN) Engraftment by Day 12 But No Later Than Day 21 Post Peripheral Blood Stem Cell (PBSC) Transplant, Participants were monitored for polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) engraftment as per the local standard of care. The target for engraftment was 12 days after PBSC transplant and no transplant taking longer than 21 days for engraftment., 2 months|Increase in Peripheral Blood (PB) CD34+ Cells From Steady-state Hematopoiesis to Pre-leukapheresis in G-CSF+Plerixafor Treated Participants Compared to Historical Controls Treated With G-CSF Alone or Chemotherapy and G-CSF, A comparison of the effectiveness in mobilizing peripheral blood CD34+ cells between this study's treatment regimen (G-CSF plus plerixafor) to other treatment options: G-CSF alone, and chemotherapy with G-CSF., up to day 8
Median Cumulative Number of CD34+ Cells Collected During Apheresis, Median total number of CD34+ cells collected during apheresis as measured by a central lab., Days 5-8|Number of Transplants in Which Participants Achieved Platelet (PLT) Engraftment by Day 12 But No Later Than Day 21 Post Peripheral Blood Stem Cell (PBSC) Transplant, Participants were monitored for platelet (PLT) engraftment as per the local standard of care. The target for engraftment was 12 days after PBSC transplant and no transplant taking longer than 21 days for engraftment., 2 months|Number of Participants With Durable Engraftment 12 Months After Transplantation, The number of participants maintaining a durable graft 12 months after autologous transplantation. A durable graft is defined as the maintenance of normal blood counts., Approximately 13 months (12 months post-transplant )
Participants with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and multiple myeloma who have undergone prior cyto-reductive chemotherapy and are to be autologously transplanted will be treated with a combination of plerixafor and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilization regimen on the day prior to apheresis. The only change to standard of European care is the addition of plerixafor to a G-CSF mobilizing regimen. Participants will undergo mobilization with G-CSF (10 µg/kg each day) and on each day prior to apheresis will receive plerixafor (240 µg/kg). Participants will undergo apheresis for up to 5 consecutive days in order to collect the target number of (≥ 5\*10\^6) CD34+ stem cells/kg. Participants will be transplanted with cells obtained from the G-CSF and plerixafor mobilization regimen. The number of CD34+ cells mobilized in the peripheral blood from the time of the plerixafor dose to just prior to apheresis and those harvested in the apheresis product will be measured. The number of apheresis sessions required to obtain ≥ 5\*10\^6 CD34+ cells/kg will also be measured. Success of the transplantation(s) will be evaluated by the time to engraftment of poly-morphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and platelets (PLT). Participants will be followed for durability of their transplant for 12 months following transplantation.

This study was previously posted by AnorMED, Inc. In November 2006, AnorMED, Inc. was acquired by Genzyme Corporation. Genzyme Corporation is the sponsor of the trial.