Paclitaxel vs Paclitaxel + Cetuximab in Recurrent - Metastatic Head & Neck Carcinoma After Failure of a 1ยบ Chemotherapy
Treatment of recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) after progression to first line EXTREME-type treatment in patients undergoing maintenance treatment with cetuximab.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cetuximab + Paclitaxel
Progression Free Survival (PFS), The primary endpoint was to select the most effective treatment arm based on the progression-free survival (PFS) reached in each treatment arm. This was defined as the time elapsed from inclusion in the study until the date when disease progression or death (for any cause) was documented., Through study completion. The study was prematurely closed at 19 months due to lack of accrual. The primary endopoint was not analyzed.
Overall Survival, Calculate overall survival (OS) in both arms, Through study completion. The study was prematurely closed at 19 months due to lack of accrual. The secondary endopoint was not analyzed.|Percentage of Objective Response, Calculate the percentage of objective responses (OR), following the new RECIST criteria, obtained in both arms, Through study completion. The study was prematurely closed at 19 months due to lack of accrual. Neither the primary nor the secondary endopoints were analyzed.|Participants With Adverse Events, To perform a descriptive analysis of the adverse events observed in the patients included in the study. Further analysis could not be performed due to early closure of this study due to lack of accrual. Adverse events were registered from study entry until 60 days after receiving the last dose of study drug., The duration of the study (Nineteen months) and until the last patient included completed one year of follow up / died or was lost to FU. Adverse events were registered from study entry until 60 days after receiving the last dose of study drug.|Treatment Compliance, Evaluate treatment compliance rate in both treatment arms, in order to analyze it, the dose intensity would be calculated as the quantity of each of the administered study drugs per unit of time (mg/m2/week) regardless of the treatment arm. To analyze the relative dose intensity, the dose of each administered drug will be divided per a unit of time and the planned quantity of each drug according to the doses described in the protocol., 3 years
Treatment of recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) after progression to first line EXTREME-type treatment in patients undergoing maintenance treatment with cetuximab.