Awake Thoracic Epidural Anaesthesia Versus General Anesthesia for Video Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery
Thoracic procedures are routinely performed under general anesthesia (GA), with one lung ventilation (OLV)by double lumen tube or (GA) in spontaneously breathing patient by TIVA or LMA are usually combined with thoracic epidural analgesia.

However, GA whether mechanically ventilated or spontaneously breathing may have adverse effects including peri-intubation hypoxia, trauma to the upper airway, mechanical ventilation-induced injuries, impaired cardiac performance, neuromuscular problems in OLV and increased risk of pneumonia, and release of proinflammatory mediators in generally.

Recently, awake thoracic epidural anesthesia (ATEA) has been used alone in thoracic procedures The results achieved in early studies have been encouraging. ATEA may eventually provide an alternative method to GA for thoracic procedures that would not only eliminate the need for GA but also facilitate both surgical reconstruction and eventually patient recovery.

Recent studies suggested better clinical outcomes with ATEA, including less intraoperative bleeding, a better control of postoperative pain, early mobilization and short hospital stay, oral intake tolerance, reduction of surgical stress response, reduction of intraoperative cardiac events, improvement of myocardial flow determinants and left ventricular function, and a reduction of complications including pulmonary, thrombotic and infectious events.
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Thoracic epidural anaesthesia video assisted thoracoscopic surgery
Recovery time after intervention of each group, The time of anesthesia recovery, resumption of oral intake,and the length of hospital stay,postoperative recovery index will be used will be used to assess recovery as next Higher scores reflect greater difficulty in post-operative recovery

No Difficulty 1 Little Difficulty \>1 to \<1.5 Moderate Difficulty 1.5 to \<2.5 Considerable Difficulty 2.5 to \<3.5 Extreme Difficulty 3.5 to 5 PoRI Scale and Subscale Scoring System., 7days
Patient agitation and sedation by using richmond agitation-sedation scale(RASS), 1. Observe patient

1. Patient is alert, restless, or agitated. (Score 0 to +4) 2. If not alert, state patient's name and say to open eyes and look at speaker.
2. Patient awakens with sustained eye opening and eye contact. (Score -1)
3. Patient awakens with eye opening and eye contact, but not sustained. (Score -2)
4. Patient has any movement in response to voice but no eye contact. (Score -3) 3. When no response to verbal stimulation, physically stimulate patient by shaking shoulder and/or rubbing sternum.
5. Patient has any movement to physical stimulation. (Score -4)
6. Patient has no response to any stimulation. (Score -5), 4 hourly postoperative.
Incidence of complications, Impaired cardiac performance assessed by Echo and incidence of pneumonia assessed by chest x-ray., 14days
Thoracic procedures are routinely performed under general anesthesia (GA), with one lung ventilation (OLV)by double lumen tube or (GA) in spontaneously breathing patient by TIVA or LMA are usually combined with thoracic epidural analgesia.

However, GA whether mechanically ventilated or spontaneously breathing may have adverse effects including peri-intubation hypoxia, trauma to the upper airway, mechanical ventilation-induced injuries, impaired cardiac performance, neuromuscular problems in OLV and increased risk of pneumonia, and release of proinflammatory mediators in generally.

Recently, awake thoracic epidural anesthesia (ATEA) has been used alone in thoracic procedures The results achieved in early studies have been encouraging. ATEA may eventually provide an alternative method to GA for thoracic procedures that would not only eliminate the need for GA but also facilitate both surgical reconstruction and eventually patient recovery.

Recent studies suggested better clinical outcomes with ATEA, including less intraoperative bleeding, a better control of postoperative pain, early mobilization and short hospital stay, oral intake tolerance, reduction of surgical stress response, reduction of intraoperative cardiac events, improvement of myocardial flow determinants and left ventricular function, and a reduction of complications including pulmonary, thrombotic and infectious events.