Mandala Art and Value Clarification With Parents of Children With Cancer
The research is planned to be conducted with a randomized controlled experimental study. In the research, it is aimed to determine the effect of mandala drawing art and value clarification application based on Watson Human Care Theory on the anxiety and mood of the parents of children with cancer.
Nursing Caries
OTHER: Mandala group|OTHER: Value clarification group
Positive-Negative Affect Scale (PANAS), The scale consists of 20 items, 10 of which are positive and 10 of which are negative, describing various emotions. The scale has 2 sub-dimensions: positive and negative affect., pre-test|Positive-Negative Affect Scale (PANAS), The scale consists of 20 items, 10 of which are positive and 10 of which are negative, describing various emotions. The scale has 2 sub-dimensions: positive and negative affect., 2 or 3 days after pre-test|State Anxiety Inventory (STAI), The State Anxiety Inventory is a 4-point Likert-type scale consisting of 20 items. According to the level of life of individuals; It is answered by marking one of the options such as (1) not at all, (2) a little, (3) a lot, (4) completely., pre-test|State Anxiety Inventory (STAI), The State Anxiety Inventory is a 4-point Likert-type scale consisting of 20 items. According to the level of life of individuals; It is answered by marking one of the options such as (1) not at all, (2) a little, (3) a lot, (4) completely., 2 or 3 days after pre-test
The population of the study consists of the parents of children diagnosed with cancer in the Akdeniz University Hospital Pediatric Hematology and Oncology Clinic. The sample of the study is three groups; intervention 1 group (n:25), intervention 2 group (n:25) and control group (n:25) will consist of a total of 75 parents. A closed envelope system with simple randomization will be used in sample selection.

Intervention 1 group will participate in 2 sessions of individual mandala drawing art activity with the theme of 'Emotions' accompanied by classical or instrumental music. In each session, a mandala will be created. Intervention 2 groups will participate in the value clarification activity by writing 2 sessions individually with the theme of 'Emotions' accompanied by classical or instrumental music. Personal Information Form, State Anxiety Inventory and Positive-Negative Affect Scale were administered to the intervention groups at the first meeting in order to collect pre-test data. To collect post-test data, the State Anxiety Inventory and the Positive-Negative Affect Scale were administered immediately after the second session. No intervention will be made to the control group, the same data collection tools were applied to the intervention groups.

In addition, Iin the second session, the parent was asked to interpret the colors and shapes in the mandala created by the parent and a face-to-face interview was held.