Pilot of Osanetant to Reduce Testosterone in Men With Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on testosterone levels in men with prostate cancer within 28 days of therapy.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Osanetant
To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on the testosterone levels., We will test the ability of Osanetant to suppress testosterone production. A single arm pilot study of Osanetant at 200mg twice daily will be performed. Testosterone levels at baseline will be compared to levels at day 2, 3, 7 ,14, and 28 days of therapy. The overall effect of Osanetant on testosterone levels and the proportion of men achieving castrate levels of testosterone (\<50ng/ml) will be assessed. Additionally, the reversibility of this effect will be assessed by evaluating the testosterone levels at 6-8 weeks posttreatment., 28 days
To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on LH levels., Levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) will be measured at baseline and days 2, 3, 7 ,14, and 28. These will be compared at each time point in order to assess the impact of NK3RA on these hormonal parameters., 28 days|To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on FSH levels., Levels of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) will be measured at baseline and days 2, 3, 7 ,14, and 28. These will be compared at each time point in order to assess the impact of NK3RA on these hormonal parameters., 28 days|To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on estradiol levels, Levels of estradiol will be measured at baseline and days 2, 3, 7 ,14, and 28. These will be compared at each time point in order to assess the impact of NK3RA on these hormonal parameters., 28 days|To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on PSA levels., PSA will be compared at baseline and 28 days of therapy in order to evaluate the end biochemical efficacy of Osanetant on men with prostate cancer undergoing curative intent therapy., 28 days
Primary:

To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on testosterone levels in men with prostate cancer within 28 days of therapy.

Secondary:

* To evaluate the effect Osanetant on pituitary hormones (LH/FSH) and estrogen within 28 days of therapy.
* To evaluate the effect of Osanetant on PSA levels after 28 days (approximately 4 weeks) of therapy.