Pharmacogenomics IND EXEMPT SNP Clinical Study - Abiraterone and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms
The usual approach group, 300 double blind random group separated PC patients currently used the Combined Chemotherapy on ZYTIGA - abiraterone acetate tablet, film coated plus RAYOS - prednisone tablet, delayed release plus ORGOVYX - relugolix tablet, film coated, it will try to look for the relationship between the Abiraterone therapeutic efficacy and the CYP17 SNP Genotyping, and the relationship between the Abiraterone therapeutic safety and the SULT2A1 SNP Genotyping, based on Oxford precisely sequencing drug targets' genes.

The study approach group, 300 double blind random group separated PC patients currently used the Combined Chemotherapy on ZYTIGA - abiraterone acetate tablet plus RAYOS - prednisone tablet, delayed release plus ORGOVYX - relugolix tablet, film coated, it will try to look for the relationship between the Abiraterone therapeutic efficacy and the CYP17 SNP Genotyping, and the relationship between the Abiraterone therapeutic safety and the SULT2A1 SNP Genotyping, based on Oxford precisely sequencing drug targets' genes.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Abiraterone - Usual|DRUG: Abiraterone - Study
Measure and Report Abiraterone Drug Targets' SNP Genotypes which are effectiveness-associated, and which are risk-associated., * Recruit 300 double blind random group separated PC patients currently using the Combined Chemotherapy High Dose on ZYTIGA - Abiraterone plus RAYOS - Prednisone plus ORGOVYX - Relugolix to be the usual approach group.
* Recruit 300 double blind random group separated PC patients currently using the Combined Chemotherapy Low Dose on ZYTIGA - Abiraterone plus RAYOS - Prednisone plus ORGOVYX - Relugolix to be the study approach group.
* Measure above every PC patient specific Abiraterone drug target (CYP17) SNP genotype in his or her WBC cell whole genome DNA with Oxford precisely sequencing.
* Report every PC patient specific CYP17 SNP genotype in whole genome DNA sequence.
* Measure above every PC patient specific Abiraterone drug target (SULT2A1) SNP genotype in his or her WBC cell whole genome DNA with Oxford precisely sequencing.
* Report every PC patient specific SULT2A1 SNP genotype in whole genome DNA sequence., Up to 12 weeks
1. Detect drug target whole gene precision sequence of everyone patient for all 600 recruited double blind prostate cancer patients.
2. Mutually compare everyone patient drug target whole gene precision sequence for a total of 600 recruited double blind prostate cancer patients.
3. Calculate drug target gene SNPs in all 600 recruited double blind prostate cancer patients.
4. Correlate everyone patient drug target gene SNP to everyone patient drug efficacy.
5. Correlate everyone patient drug target gene SNP to everyone patient drug safety.
6. Mutually compare the usual approach group SNPs (300 double blind random group separated prostate cancer patients) with the study approach group SNPs (300 double blind random group separated prostate cancer patients).
7. Confirm the relationship between drug target gene SNPs and drug efficacy.
8. Confirm the relationship between drug target gene SNPs and drug safety.