The Breast Cancer Personalized Nutrition Study
The Breast Cancer Personalized Nutrition (BREACPNT) study will evaluate the effect of a microbiome based personalized diet intervention on control of weight gain, glycemic response, disease outcome and various biomarkers in hormone receptor early breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant endocrine treatment.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Nutrition intervention
To evaluate the efficacy of a personalized diet compared to a standard low fat diet to control body mass as measured by changes in body mass., Body weight changes will be defined as the net body weight gained/lost, 6 months intervention period.
To evaluate the efficacy of the personalized diet compared to a standard low fat diet to control glycemic response., glycemic response control measured by the area under the glucose curve (AUC) during continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) period., 6 months intervention period.
Evaluate disease outcome as measured by disease free survival in study subjects., Disease free survival (DFS), years, 5 years|To investigate microbiome composition and modulation during the diet intervention period and assess if there are differences in modulations between the personalized diets as compared to the standard diet, changes in microbiome compositions, 6 months intervention period.
Weight gain is a common incident in breast cancer survivors. As many as 50-96% of women experience weight gain during treatment. Endocrine treatment was identified as a risk factor for weight gain in several studies. Hence, weight management for breast cancer survivors is important for increasing adherence to therapy and lowering recurrence risk.

The essential role of the gut microbiota in modulating immune and metabolic functions in health and disease is increasingly recognized. Particularly in breast cancer (BC), diet plays an important role in creating a microbiome environment involved in estrogens metabolism. The microbiome directly affects the body's response to food.

The Personalized Nutrition Project, conducted in the Weizmann Institute of Science, showed that individuals vary greatly in their glycemic response to the same food, influenced by the involvement of functional microbial pathways. This study yielded an algorithm capable of accurately predicting personalized postprandial glycemic response (PPGR) to arbitrary meals. These results suggest that individually tailored dietary interventions help maintain normal blood glucose levels and influence microbiome diversity, which, in turn, can control weight changes.

In this phase 2 randomized trial, 200 Hormone receptor (HR) positive breast cancer patients, eligible for adjuvant endocrine therapy will be recruited to the study. Upon recruitment, subjects will provide a stool sample for microbiome analysis and will undergo continuous glucose monitoring for 2 weeks. Thereafter, patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive a personalized diet recommendation or a standard low-fat diet for 6 months. The algorithm is based on patients' microbiome analyses and other blood tests. Patient clinical records will be followed 2-3 times yearly for 5 years for DFS and BC recurrence.