Investigation of the Diagnostic Role of miRNAs in PCa and BPH
Prostate cancer(PCa) is the second most common cause of cancer-related death in men after lung cancer. Diagnostic methods such as measurement of serum Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels used in the clinic still cannot distinguish between benign conditions and prostate cancer, and biopsy is essential for the diagnosis of prostate cancer. Due to the high false-positive rate of PSA, many patients are accidentally biopsied, which carries various risks for patients. Therefore, there is a need for new diagnostic methods to support PSA and the identification of reliable biomarkers for early diagnosis.

microRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that can be detected in body fluids such as urine, blood and serum. In recent years, miRNAs have been nominated as reliable biomarkers that help us make an accurate diagnosis in many diseases, such as cancer. Although various miRNAs have been detected in the sera of prostate cancer patients, there is still little data on which miRNAs can be used as biomarkers.

In this study, investigators aimed to evaluate the expression levels of miR-107, miR-134-5p, miR-149-5p, miR-370-3p and miR-221 in blood as biomarkers capable of distinguishing PCa from benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and will prevent unnecessary biopsies. In addition, they aimed to compare some clinical features such as serum PSA and Gleason Score with serum miRNA levels and determine the relationship between them.
Benign Prostate Hypertrophy(BPH)|Prostate Cancer (Adenocarcinoma)
Evaluation of miRNA expressions, Five different miRNAs will be evaluated in the study: miR-107, miR-134-5p, miR-149-5p, miR-370-3p and miR-221, March 2023
The present study is a prospective study and consists of three work packages. First, clinical evaluations were made and biopsy samples were taken from patients who applied to the urology clinic, had serum PSA levels higher than 4 ng/ML, and were suspected of prostate cancer. Then, a pathological examination of the biopsy samples was performed and the patients were grouped into PCA and BPH. Finally, molecular analyses were performed on blood samples obtained from patients and healthy controls and all obtained data were statistically evaluated.