The Effect of Coconut Oil on Alopecia
İn this study will be conducted to evaluate the effect of coconut oil on alopecia in 86 female breast cancer patients treated at Dr Abdurrahman Yurtaslan Ankara Oncology Training and Research Hospital between 01.02.2025-31.12.2025.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Coconut Oil
National Cancer Instute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE); Alopecia, Grade 1; Hair loss of \<50% of normal for that individual that is not obvious from a distance but only on close inspection; a different hair style may be required to cover the hair loss but it does not require a wig or hair piece to camouflage Grade 2; Hair loss of \>=50% normal for that individual that is readily apparent to others; a wig or hair piece is necessary if the patient desires to completely camouflage the hair loss; associated with psychosocial impact, 1-12 WEEK
Cancer is a disease in which the cells in our body multiply uncontrollably and develop by metastasizing, and the symptoms, course and consequences of the disease can show complex qualities in each patient. Cancer treatments have benefits and harms. One of these side effects is alopecia.

Alopecia due to cancer treatments is a condition of hair loss, partial or complete, usually temporary but rarely permanent.

In chemotherapy-induced alopecia, the hair follicle is damaged due to the pause in the anagen phase and causes the hair to break off spontaneously during activities such as washing and brushing the hair.

Various scales are used in the evaluation of alopecia due to cancer treatments, such as the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Side Effects and the Dean Alopecia Scale.

Some applications are made to prevent and treat alopecia. These include strategies and pharmacological applications to physically reduce the amount of medication given to the hair follicle.

Coconut oil helps regrow damaged hair. It provides essential proteins necessary for hair and softens the scalp and hair.

In the literature, it has been observed that studies showing the effects of coconut oil for the prevention and treatment of alopecia are insufficient. This study will be conducted on 86 breast cancer patients to determine the effect of coconut oil on the development of alopecia.