Chromoendoscopy for Dysplasia Detection in Chronic Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Patients with longstanding ulcerative colitis or crohn's disease in the large bowel have an increased risk of developing cancer. The purpose of this study is to determine if visualizing of the mucosa in details using a dye spray (indigo-carmine) will result in detection of more abnormalities than conventional colonoscopy without dye spray.
Ulcerative Colitis|Crohn's Colitis
PROCEDURE: Colonoscopy with Indigo-Carmine chromoendoscopy|PROCEDURE: Conventional white-light colonoscopy
Prevalence of dysplastic lesions, Number of patients with dysplastic lesions by colonoscopy with chromoendoscopy using Indigo-carmine versus colonoscopy without chromoendoscopy, 12 month
Number and rate of targeted and non-targeted biopsies detecting dysplasia and non-dysplasia, 12 month
Background: Patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn's colitis are at increased risk of colon cancer. The usefulness of chromoendoscopy is debated. Previous studies are either based on magnifying endoscopy or on non-randomized trials. Some guidelines recommend chromoendoscopy with targeted biopsies and some normal colonoscopy with up to 40 random biopsies.

Chromoendoscopy has the ability to identify subtle lesions that are otherwise missed by standard endoscopy. Whether chromoendoscopy with targeted biopsies can replace standard colonoscopy with random biopsies in the surveillance of patients with chronic colitis is unknown.

Aim: In a RCT in surveillance colonoscopies in patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's colitis, we will determine if chromoendoscopy using a dilute solution of Indigo-carmine will improve dysplasia detection rate compared with colonoscopy without chromoendoscopy.

Methods: After informed consent patients undergoing surveillance colonoscopy will be randomized to be examined by the study or control method. The study method will employ a 0.2-0.5% Indigo-Carmine solution sprayed over the colonic and rectal mucosa. The control method will be colonoscopy without Indigo-Carmine chromoendoscopy. In both the study arm and the control arm all subjects will have 32 random biopsies taken (4 from each of 8 defined segments of the colon) and biopsies from suspicious mucosa.