Dosimetric Comparison of Target Volume, Heart and Left Lung in Post Mastectomy Radiotherapy (RT) of Left Sided Breast Cancer by Free Breathing (FB) Versus Deep Inspiration Breath Hold (DIBH) Technique
Breast cancer is a leading cancer among Bangladeshi female. For breast cancer, there are different available treatment options according to the stage of disease. One of the important ones is radiotherapy (RT). Various side effects can occur during and after RT. Among the late side effects, numerous cardiac and pulmonary problems are significant specially in case of left sided breast cancer. In such cases, patients are being cured from cancer but the treatment itself endangering patients' general health and wellbeing by increasing risk of future life threatening cardiac and pulmonary diseases. Studies from around the world have shown that, during RT of left sided breast cancer, holding the breath for certain time after deep inspiration can reduce the radiation doses to heart and left lung without compromising doses to the chest wall. As a result, they can avoid the extra risk of treatment related late toxicities. This study will look at the utility and efficacy of Deep Inspiration Breath Hold (DIBH) RT over free breathing (FB) RT in reducing the heart and left lung doses without compromising the dose to the target volumes in left sided post mastectomy breast cancer patient, which is the main objective of this study.
Carcinoma Breast|Radiation Therapy for Primary Breast Cancer|Radiation Tolerance|Radiation Induced Cardiac Damage|Radiation Induced Lung Injury (RILI)|Radiotherapy; Adverse Effect|Radiotherapy, Adjuvant
RADIATION: Deep inspiration breath hold radiotherapy|RADIATION: Free breathing radiotherapy
Radiation dose to target volume, left lung and heart, Immediately after radiotherapy
Breast cancer is a leading cancer among Bangladeshi female. For breast cancer, there are different available treatment options according to the stage of disease. One of the important ones is radiotherapy (RT). Various side effects can occur during and after RT. Among the late side effects, numerous cardiac and pulmonary problems are significant specially in case of left sided breast cancer. In such cases, patients are being cured from cancer but the treatment itself endangering patients' general health and wellbeing by increasing risk of future life threatening cardiac and pulmonary diseases. Studies from around the world have shown that, during RT of left sided breast cancer, holding the breath for certain time after deep inspiration can reduce the radiation doses to heart and left lung without compromising doses to the chest wall. As a result, they can avoid the extra risk of treatment related late toxicities. This study will look at the utility and efficacy of Deep Inspiration Breath Hold (DIBH) RT over free breathing (FB) RT in reducing the heart and left lung doses without compromising the dose to the target volumes in left sided post mastectomy breast cancer patient, which is the main objective of this study.