Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Patients: Cognitive Toxicity on Survivorship (ACTS)
This study aims to evaluate the prevalence, biological mechanism and survivorship impact of cognitive toxicity among adolescent and young adult (AYA) patients diagnosed with curable cancers. The hypothesis is that cognitive impairment is clinically significant among AYA cancer patients treated with chemotherapy and that there will be detectable structural and functional changes in the brain for this patient group.
Breast Cancer|Lymphoma|Germ Cell Tumor|Cognitive Impairment
Prevalence of cognitive impairment in AYA cancer patients, Compare the prevalence of overall cognitive impairment at 6 months from baseline, between AYA cancer patients and healthy controls. Cognitive impairment is measured by the overall cognitive performance using the objective computer-based Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (Cantab ®)., 6 months post recruitment
Prevalence of impairment in each individual Cantab ® cognitive domain, The objective computer-based Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (Cantab ®) measures the domains attention, memory, executive function, response speed and processing speed., 1 year post recruitment|Prevalence of self-reported cognitive impairment, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognition Function (FACT-Cog) a 37-item questionnaire which measures six cognitive domains: memory, concentration, mental acuity, verbal fluency, functional interference and multitasking ability. The response is based on the perceived cognitive function within the past 7 days using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 as "never" to 4 as "several times a day". The individual subscales scores are summed to determine the FACT-Cog total score, ranging from 0 to 148, with higher scores indicating better cognitive functioning. Self-reported cognitive impairment is measured using the minimal clinically important difference of 10.6 points., 1 year post recruitment|Incidence and trajectory of cancer-related fatigue, Multi-dimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form (MSFI-SF) is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the five domains of fatigue: general, emotional, vigour, physical and mental. The total score of the questionnaire is obtained by subtracting vigor from the sum of all domains. It ranges from -24 to 96, with a higher total score indicating increased fatigue. Cancer-related fatigue is defined using the minimal clinically important difference of 10.8 points., 1 year post recruitment|Extent of symptom burden, Rotterdam Symptom Checklist (RSCL) is used to measure symptom-related distress. It It uses a 4-point Likert-type scales (not at all, a little, quite a bit, very much) and contains 39 items in four domains: physical symptom distress, psychological distress, activity level and overall global life quality. The higher the score, the higher the level of burden or impairment., 1 year post recruitment|Psychosocial outcomes, Pediatrics Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) will be used to measure health-related quality of life in adolescents, with domains to assess both physical and psychosocial health. The psychosocial health summary score ranges from 0-100, whereby a higher score suggests a better HRQOL., 1 year post recruitment|Extent of Financial Distress, The InCharge Financial Distress/Financial Well-Being Scale is an 8-item scale designed to assess perceived financial distress. The score is obtained by summing the number of points of each of the items and dividing the total by 8. The scale ranges from a continuum from 1 to 10 where 1 represents overwhelming financial distress/lowest financial well-being and 10 being no financial distress/highest financial well-being., 1 year post recruitment|Biomarker levels in relation to cognitive impairment, Patients' plasma samples will be assessed for levels of BDNF, hormones and cytokines (IL1b, IL4, IL6) using multiplex immunoassay kits., 1 year post recruitment|Neuroimaging scans, Neuroimaging using MRI (Functional-MRI, Diffusion Weighted, T1-Weighted and T2-Weighted sequences) will be used to determine functional and structural changes in brain such as gray matter volume, which are then correlated to cognitive impairment, 6 months post recruitment|Lifestyle and activity data, Wearable devices will be used to track patients' lifestyle data such as steps per day, intensity and duration of exercise and caloric expenditure., 1 year post recruitment
A prospective longitudinal cohort study will be conducted at National Cancer Centre Singapore (NCCS) and KK Women's and Children's Hospital (KKH) from April 2018 to April 2021. Eligible cancer patients aged between 15-39 years old will be recruited and followed up for a period of 12 months. In addition, healthy individuals will also be recruited into the control arm of the study. The prevalence of cognitive impairment will be assessed via objective cognitive functional assessments in the form of the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (Cantab) test scores and Functional Assessement of Cancer-Therapy Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog v3.0). The overall cognitive performance and post-treatment health issues measured by the assessment tools used would be compared between AYA cancer patients and healthy controls at baseline and 6 months after baseline.

Other post-treatment health issues will be assessed in relation to cognitive impairment with a series of questionnaires including Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form (MFSI-SF) for cancer-related fatigue, the Rotterdam Symptom Checklist (RSCL) for symptom burden, the Paediatrics Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL 4.0) for psychosocial outcomes, InCharge questionnaire for perceived financial distress and a work/education questionnaire respectively.

To enhance the understanding of the biological mechanism behind cognitive impairment, levels of biomarkers and genetic determinants will also be correlated with overall cognitive impairment. Blood plasma samples drawn from patients will be assessed for Brain-derived neutrotrophic factor (BDNF) levels, hormone levels and pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-4, and IL-6 using multiplex immunoassay. MRI scans and relevant neuroimaging techniques will be used to assess structural changes and functional connectivities in brain. Lastly, wearable devices will be utilized to track activity and lifestyle data among AYA cancer patients to investigate on the extent of impact of cognitive impairment and to assess the feasibility of using these wearables devices to personalize symptom management.

Findings from this proposed study will enhance understanding of cognitive toxicity and post-treatment health issues faced by the AYA patient group, which will facilitate the development of effective interventions to better cope with their daily lives.