Addition of Hypofractionated High Dose Radiation in Oligometastatic Disease
This is a 2:1 randomized multicentre open label phase III study of radiation combined with standard systemic treatment compared with systemic treatment alone in oligometastatic (≤5 metastases) NSCLC. Stratification factors: performance status, gender and systemic strategy. The systemic treatment consists of chemotherapy/chemoimmunotherapy or immunotherapy and is given according to local practice. During the first 3 months of systemic treatment, aiming to start around the 2nd cycle is radiotherapy delivered to all known lesions. Preferably with SBRT /SRT/SRS but conventional radiotherapy may also be used. After the first three cycles of systemic treatment, the patients are assessed, and after four cycles, they are continuing maintenance therapy if indicated. The patients are followed with radiology every three months.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Standard systemic therapy + radiotherapy|DRUG: Standard systemic therapy
Overall survival (OS), Time to death, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), Time to progressive disease or death, From date of randomization until the date of first documented systemic progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Local control (LC), Percentage complete, partial remission or stable disease, At 12 months after randomization
This is a 2:1 randomized multicentre open label phase III study of radiation combined with standard systemic treatment compared with systemic treatment alone in oligometastatic (≤5 metastases) NSCLC. Stratification factors: performance status, gender and systemic strategy. The systemic treatment consists of chemotherapy/chemoimmunotherapy or immunotherapy and is given according to local practice. During the first 3 months of systemic treatment, aiming to start around the 2nd cycle is radiotherapy delivered to all known lesions. Preferably with SBRT /SRT/SRS but conventional radiotherapy may also be used. After the first three cycles of systemic treatment, the patients are assessed, and after four cycles, they are continuing maintenance therapy if indicated. The patients are followed with radiology every three months.