Ruxolitinib With Tacrolimus and Methotrexate for the Prevention of Graft Versus Host Disease in Pediatric and Young Adult Patients Undergoing Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplant for Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase II trial tests how well ruxolitinib with tacrolimus and methotrexate work to prevent the development of graft versus host disease in pediatric and young adult patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant for acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or myelodysplastic syndrome. Ruxolitinib is a type of medication called a kinase inhibitor. It works by blocking the signals of cells that cause inflammation and cell proliferation, which may help prevent graft versus host disease (GVHD). Tacrolimus is a drug used to help reduce the risk of rejection by the body of organ and bone marrow transplants by suppressing the immune system. Methotrexate stops cells from making DNA, may kill cancer cells, and also suppress the immune system, which may reduce the risk of GVHD. Giving ruxolitinib with tacrolimus and methotrexate may prevent GVHD in pediatric and young adults undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplants.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Chest Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Methotrexate|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Ruxolitinib Phosphate|DRUG: Tacrolimus
Incidence of adverse events, Defined using the modified Bearman Scale and the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 scale., Up to day +30 post hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT)|Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)-free and relapse-free (GRFS), Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From the date of transplantation to the first time of observing the following events: grade 3-4 acute GVHD, chronic GVHD requiring systemic treatment, relapse, or death, assessed at 1 year post transplantation
Patients receiving planned doses of ruxolitinib (feasibility), Patients who have received at least 80% of planned doses of ruxolitinib are deemed to meet feasibility criteria., At completion of therapy (up to day+100)|Incidence of acute GVHD, Will be graded and staged according to Mount Sinai Acute GVHD International Consortium criteria. Will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 100 days post HCT transplant|Incidence of non-relapse mortality, Defined as death occurring in a patient from causes other than relapse or progression. Will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 100 days post HCT transplant|Incidence of chronic GVHD, Will be evaluated and scored according to National Institutes of Health Consensus Staging. Will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 1 and 2 years post HCT transplant|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From the day of stem cell infusion until death, up to 2 years|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From the date of stem cell infusion to the date of death, disease relapse/progression, whichever occurs first, up to 2 years|incidence of relapse/progression, Will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., From day of stem cell infusion (day 0) to first observation of disease relapse/progression, up to 2 years|Infection rate, Will be reported by site of disease, date of onset, severity and resolution, if any., From day -1 to day 130 post HCT transplant|Incidence of secondary malignancies, From day of stem cell infusion (day 0) to first observation of event of interest, assessed at 1 and 2 years post HCT transplant|Hematologic recovery, donor cell engraftment and immune reconstitution, Assessed using: absolute neutrophil count ≥ 0.5 x 10\^3/uL achieved and sustained for 3 consecutive lab values on different days with no subsequent decline; platelets ≥ 20 K/uL independent of platelet transfusion support; immune reconstitution studies done by flow cytometry., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events during phase II segment, Defined using the modified Bearman Scale and the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 scale., Up to day +30 post HCT transplant|Acute GVHD biomarkers, Up to 2 years|JAK-regulated pro-inflammatory cytokines, Up to 2 years|STAT3 phosphorylation, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if the addition of ruxolitinib phosphate (ruxolitinib) to tacrolimus and methotrexate as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis, is safe in pediatric and young adult patients with hematologic malignancies who are eligible to undergo allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) from a matched donor. (Safety lead-in segment) II. Following a patient safety lead-in, evaluate the efficacy of ruxolitinib, when given as part of reduced intensity HCT from a matched related/unrelated donor, as assessed by 1 year graft-versus-host disease-free and relapse-free (GRFS) rates in pediatric and young adult patients. (Phase II segment)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the cumulative incidence of acute GVHD (aGVHD) and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100-days after transplant.

II. Estimate the cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD (cGVHD) at 1- and 2-years after transplant.

III. Estimate the probabilities of overall and progression-free survival (OS/PFS) at 1- and 2-years after transplant.

IV. Estimate the relapse/progression rate. V. Estimate rate of infection and development of second malignancies including lymphoproliferative disorders at 1- and 2-years post-transplant.

VI. Further evaluate the safety of this regimen by assessing:

VIa. Adverse event type, frequency, severity, attribution, time-course, and duration; VIb. Complications including: infection, and delayed engraftment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize and evaluate hematologic recovery, donor cell engraftment and immune reconstitution by cell count and flow cytometry of lymphocyte subsets.

II. Characterize changes in aGVHD biomarkers (Reg-3alpha, sTNF RI, IL2Ralpha), JAK-regulated pro-inflammatory cytokines (i.e. IL-6, TNFalpha, C-reactive protein \[CRP\], beta2Microglubuolin) and STAT3 phosphorylation (downstream of JAK signaling) over time and by aGVHD status/grade.

III. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ruxolitinib in pediatric and young adult patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ruxolitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) from day -1 to day +100, tacrolimus intravenously (IV) on day -1, and methotrexate IV on days +1, +3, +6, and +11, and undergo HCT on day 0. Patients also undergo chest computed tomography (CT) and echocardiography (ECHO)/multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening and undergo collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days after the last dose of ruxolitinib and at 1 and 2 years post transplant.