The Effect of Web-Based Breast Self-Examination Education
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among women. Reasons such as diagnosing breast cancer at an early stage increases the chances of treatment and survival, and the fact that the masses are largely noticed by the individual themselves, point to the importance of breast self-examination (BSE) . BSE skill is among the nursing skills. When the literature was examined, it was seen that the web-based education method was frequently used for cognitive skills during nursing education, but its use was limited for psychomotor skills training. It was determined that in BSE training, in addition to traditional education, methods such as concept maps and peer-supported education were used, but web-based education methods were not used. It is thought that the study will contribute to the literature in these aspects.
Education|Breast Cancer
OTHER: Web-based breast self examination education
Skill and Knowledge of BSE, Skill and Knowledge of BSE point of the intervention group change after web based education, 2 weeks post intervention|Attitude of Web-Based Education, Attitude of Web-Based Education point of the intervention group change after web based education, 2 weeks post intervention|Self-Directed Learning Skills, Self-Directed Learning Skills point of the intervention group change after web based education, 2 weeks post intervention
Skill and Knowledge of BSE, The intervention group's BSE skill and knowledge score increased after the web-based training., 2 weeks post intervention|Self-Directed Learning Skills, Self-Directed Learning Skills point of the intervention group increased after web based education, 2 weeks post intervention
Due to the recent pandemic, nursing education, like other universities, was conducted web-based. Skills training in nursing, which is an applied education, has also been tried to be provided on a web-based basis. It is stated that the positive attitude towards e-learning increases the quality of education and student success. Additionally, with e-learning, the learner assumes individual learning responsibility. On the other hand, lack of motivation, attention, communication and interaction are the disadvantages of e-learning . Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among women. Reasons such as diagnosing breast cancer at an early stage increases the chances of treatment and survival, and the fact that the masses are largely noticed by the individual themselves, point to the importance of breast self-examination (BSE). BSE skill is among the nursing skills. When the literature was examined, it was seen that the web-based education method was frequently used for cognitive skills during nursing education, but its use was limited for psychomotor skills training. It was determined that in BSE training, in addition to traditional education, methods such as concept maps and peer-supported education were used, but web-based education methods were not used. It is thought that the study will contribute to the literature in these aspects.

Hypotheses of the study;

H1: The BSE knowledge test score of the intervention group after the intervention is higher than the control group.

H2: BSE skill score of the intervention group is higher than the control group. H3: After the intervention, the intervention group's attitude towards web-based education is higher than the control group.

H4: After the intervention, the self-directed learning skills of the intervention group are higher than the control group.

H5: The initiative group's attitude towards web-based education increases after the initiative.

H6: Self-directed learning skills of the initiative group increase after the initiative.