Correlation of Imaging Findings With Clinical Findings and Patient Outcomes in Prostate Cancer
MRI is being increasingly relied upon for detection, staging and management of prostate cancer. In this study patients with risk of prostate cancer will be recommended to have a pelvic MRI prior to the standard biopsy of the prostate and standard treatment of any detected prostate cancer. The results of the MRI will be compared to standard diagnosis techniques to see if cancer can be more accurately detected.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: MRI guided biopsy|PROCEDURE: TRUS biopsy
Number of patients with the most likely diagnosis based on the five-point scale - PIRADS, Prostate imaging reporting and data system (PIRADS) scale: 1. Benign; 2. Probably benign; 3. Indeterminate; 4. Probably malignant; 5. Malignant, Up to two weeks after MRI|Number of patients with true diagnosis based on biopsy pathology, 1. Benign; 2. Probably benign; 3. Indeterminate; 4. Probably malignant; 5. Malignant, Up to two weeks after MRI
biopsy and MRI based diagnosis match in at least 8/10 patients, The score based on the true diagnosis and most likely diagnosis as agreed on by classifiers is the same in at least 80% of patients, Up to two weeks after MRI|Ratio of positive diagnosis as detected by pelvic MRI guided biopsy compared to standard TRUS biopsy, The diagnostic performance of MRI guided biopsy techniques will be compared with standard TRUS biopsy using a single sample of patients undergoing both biopsy techniques. It has been reported that MRI consistently detects a larger number of clinically significant prostate cancers (sensitivity - 0.91 for MRI-guided biopsy vs 0.76 for TRUS biopsy), while avoiding the detection of cancers that are clinically insignificant, as compared to TRUS biopsy., Up to two weeks after MRI
The study team hypothesizes that strategic use of advanced MRI methods will provide a more accurate and less invasive approach for diagnosis and management of prostate cancer. The primary objectives are:

1. To develop advanced MRI methods and optimal MRI protocols for detection, staging, and follow-up of prostate cancer.
2. To evaluate the diagnostic performance of MRI-guided biopsy methods and correlate MRI findings with the pathological grade of cancer.
3. To correlate prostate MRI findings and biopsy results with patient progress and outcomes.
4. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of MRI in disease re-classification in patients on active surveillance.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To apply computer-aided advanced image analytic techniques (Computer-assisted diagnostics- CAD) to extract MRI features of patient clinical scans that correlate with diagnosis and grade of prostate cancer.
2. To study MRI features of lesions that mimic prostate cancer on imaging eg - chronic prostatitis, post treatment changes.
3. To evaluate the impact of MRI in decision making and choice of treatment by physicians and patients.