Open-label Study of Adjunctive GNX Treatment in Children and Adults With TSC-related Epilepsy
This is a Phase 3, global, open-label extension (OLE) study of adjunctive GNX treatment in children and adults with TSC who previously participated in either Study 1042-TSC-3001 or Study 1042-TSC-2001
Tuberous Sclerosis Complex
DRUG: Ganaxolone
Number of participants with adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and withdrawals and dose-reductions due to AEs, Week 1 through Week 160|Number of participants with abnormal vital signs, Week 1 through Week 160|Number of participants with abnormal physical, neurological and developmental examination, Week 1 through Week 160|Number of participants with abnormal 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) findings, Week 1 through Week 160|Number of participants with abnormal clinical laboratory tests, Week 1 through Week 156|Number of participants with abnormal Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS), The C-SSRS is a clinician administered assessment tool that evaluates suicidal ideation and behavior. Number of participants that have an affirmative response to the 5 items for suicidal ideation (1. Wish to be dead, 2. Non-specific active suicidal thoughts, 3. Active suicidal ideation with any methods (not plan) without intent to act, 4. Active suicidal ideation with some intent to act, without specific plan, 5. Active suicidal ideation with specific plan and intent) and/or to the 5 items for suicidal behavior (1. Preparatory acts or behavior, 2. Aborted attempt, 3. Interrupted attempt, 4. Actual attempt, 5. Completed suicide) will be reported. Higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Week 1 through Week 160
Percent change from Baseline in 28-day seizure frequency during open label extension, Seizure frequency will be calculated as the total number of seizures divided by the number of days with seizure data, multiplied by 28., Baseline (Day 1) and Week 1 through Week 52|Percent change from Baseline in 28-day seizure frequency during the long-term treatment, Baseline (Day 1) and Week 1 through Week 52|Number of participants who will be considered as Treatment Responders, Treatment responders are defined as those participants with ≥ 50% reduction from Baseline in seizure frequency during open-label treatment., Week 1 through Week 52|Number of Participants with Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I), The CGI-I is a 7-point Likert scale that the parent(s)/caregiver(s)/legally authorized representative (LAR)(s) and clinician uses to rate the change in overall seizure control, behavior, safety, and tolerability after initiation of the Investigational product (IP) relative to Baseline (prior to treatment with the IP). It was rated as: 1- "very much improved", 2- "much improved', 3- "minimally improved", 4- "no change", 5- "minimally worse", 6- "much worse", and 7- "very much worse". Higher scores indicated worse condition., Week 1 through Week 156|Change from Baseline in quality-of-life scale Short Form-36 (SF-36), The SF-36 is a multi-purpose survey designed to capture participant or parent(s)/caregiver(s)/LAR(s) perceptions of own health and well-being. The SF-36 has 36 items grouped in 8 dimensions: physical functioning, physical and emotional limitations, social functioning, bodily pain, general, and mental health, which are the weighted sums of the questions in each section. Each scale is directly transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight. Higher scores represent better health-related quality-of-life., Baseline (Day 1) and Week 1 through Week 52|Change from Baseline in percentage of Seizure-Free Days during treatment, based on seizure type, Baseline (Day 1) and Week 1 through Week 52|Change from Baseline in Caregiver Global Impression of Change in Seizure Intensity/Duration (CGI-CSID), The CGI-CSID is a 7-point Likert scale in which the parent(s)/caregiver(s)/LAR(s) assesses change in seizure intensity and/or duration after initiation of investigational product relative to Baseline (prior to treatment with investigational product). The scale ranges from 1- very much improved, 2- much improved, 3- minimally improved, 4- no change, 5- minimally worse, 6- much worse, and 7- very much worse. Higher scores indicate worse condition., Baseline (Day 1) and Week 1 through Week 156
This is a Phase 3, global, open-label extension (OLE) study of adjunctive GNX treatment in children and adults with TSC who previously participated in either Study 1042-TSC-3001 or Study 1042-TSC-2001