Changes in the Microenvironment of HPV-induced Head and Neck Cancers in West Indies and Metropolitan Population
Retrospective observational comparative and multicentric study of the microenvironment of HPV-induced head and neck cancers, with comparison between West Indies and Metropolitan populations, and therapeutic implications. This assessment is carried out by in situ multiparametric study with multiple immunofluorescence staining for cluster of differentiation 3, cluster of differentiation 4, cluster of differentiation 8, PROGRAMMED DEATH-1, PROGRAMMED DEATH-L1, PROGRAMMED DEATH-L2, cytokeratin and cluster of differentiation 68 and automated reading. HPV genotypes will be characterized. Learning these techniques will allow me to promote them in West Indies on my way back, and they may be applicable to other HPV-induced cancers.
Immunotherapy
BIOLOGICAL: Immunotherapy
Description of tumoral microenvironment with multiparametric study by immunofluorescence comparing West Indies population and metropolitan population and the stratification of patients regarding RNAscope staining intensity and HPV genotype., Automated reading of results by software Inform (Perkin©)., 12 months
The secondary outcome measures are: - interpretation of RNAscope results and comparison between West Indies and Metropolitan population, - evaluation of RNAscope staining intensity to define subgroups, Automated reading of results by software Inform (Perkin©)., 12 months
Global annual incidence of head and neck (HN) cancers is high. It is even a greater concern in West Indies compared to other American countries. Most represented histological type is squamous carcinoma and several risk factors are involved , including tobacco exposure. Moreover, it is now clear that Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is a causal factor in the development of HNSCCs : as many as 5 to 10% of tumors are induced by HPV in the world, and it is responsible of 25,9% of HN tumors. HPV 16 is the most involved (87%). However, HPV epidemiology is different in West Indies with the implication of various genotypes. Detection of HPV infection can be achieved through several methods such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or RNAscope, which is a new reliable precise technique which reflects the transcriptional activity of the virus. The differences between the genotype of HPV involved within both populations need to be consider to better identify therapeutic targets.Studying the microenvironment may allow a better understanding of anti-tumoral immunity and may help patient selection in order to achieved better responses to immunotherapy.