Varlitinib in Combination With Capecitabine for Advanced or Metastatic Biliary Tract Cancer
This protocol for Varlitinib is developed for the treatment of Biliary Tract Cancer. Varlitinib (also known as ASLAN001) is a small-molecule, adenosine triphosphate competitive inhibitor of the tyrosine kinases - epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)2, and HER4. Varlitinib may be beneficial to subjects with cancer by simultaneous inhibition of these receptors. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of Varlitinib in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of Biliary Tract Cancer. Treatment groups are Varlitinib+capecitabine and Placebo + capecitabine
Biliary Tract Cancer
DRUG: Varlitinib|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Placebo (for Varlitinib)
Objective Response Rate (ORR) - Part 1, Part 1: The ORR was defined as the number (%) of subjects with ≥ 1 visit response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Data obtained up until progression, or until last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, was included in the assessment of ORR, regardless of whether subjects discontinued treatment or received a subsequent therapy prior to progression. Best overall RECIST Response (BOR) was calculated based on the overall visit responses from each RECIST assessment, i.e. the best response a subject had following randomization and prior to RECIST progression or the last evaluable assessment in the absence of RECIST progression. Categorization of BOR was based on the RECIST criteria using the following response categories: CR, PR, stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD) and not evaluable (NE)., Data obtained up until progression, or until last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, regardless of whether subjects discontinued treatment or received a subsequent therapy prior to progression, up to 2 years.|Progression-free Survival (PFS) - Part 1, Part 1: Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from randomization (or starting treatment for the Safety Lead-in) until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of disease progression) regardless of whether the subject withdrew from randomized therapy or received another antitumor therapy prior to disease progression. Subjects who did not experience disease progression or died at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the latest date of assessment from their last evaluable RECIST assessment. However, if the patient progressed or died after ≥ 2 missed visits (12 weeks ± 5 days maximum), the subject was censored at the time of the latest evaluable RECIST assessment. The PFS time was based on the scan/assessment dates rather than visit dates., Time from randomization until date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in absence of disease progression) regardless of whether subject withdrew from randomized therapy or received another antitumor therapy prior to PD, up to 2 years.
Object Response Rates (ORR) - Safety Lead-In, The ORR rate was defined as the number (%) of subjects with ≥ 1 visit response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Data obtained up until progression, or until last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, was included in the assessment of ORR, regardless of whether subjects discontinued treatment or received a subsequent therapy prior to progression. In all study parts, the primary assessment of ORR was based on the Full Analysis Set (FAS)., Data obtained up until progression, or until last evaluable assessment in absence of progression, regardless of whether subjects discontinued treatment or received a subsequent therapy prior to progression, up to 2 years.|Overall Survival (OS) - Part 1, Part 1: Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause. Any subject not known to have died at the time of the data cut-off was censored based on the last recorded date on which the subject was known to be alive., Time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause, up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) - Safety Lead-In, Part 1: Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause. Any subject not known to have died at the time of the data cut-off was censored based on the last recorded date on which the subject was known to be alive., Time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause, up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DoR) - Part 1, Part 1: Duration of response (DoR) was defined as the time from the date of first documented response until the date of documented PD or death in the absence of disease progression. The end of the response should have coincided with the date of disease progression or death from any cause used for the PFS endpoint.

For Part 1, DoR was calculated based on data from the ICR of radiological data., Time from the date of first documented response until the date of documented PD or death in the absence of disease progression, up to 2 years|Disease Control Rate DCR - Part 1, Part 1: DCR rate was defined as the number (%) of subjects with ≥ 1 visit response of CR or PR, or with SD for a minimum of 12 weeks (± 5 days) from randomization. Data obtained up until progression, or until last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, were included in the assessment of DCR, regardless of whether subjects discontinued treatment or received a subsequent therapy prior to progression. For all study parts, the primary assessment of DCR was based on the FAS.

For Part 1, DCR was calculated based on data from the ICR, Number (%) of subjects with ≥ 1 visit response of CR or PR, or with SD for a minimum of 12 weeks (± 5 days) from randomization.|Tumor Size - Part 1, Part 1: The percentage change from baseline in tumor size at Week 12 (%ΔTSWk12) was a secondary endpoint for Part 1 and was used to present waterfall plots of the target lesion data in the Evaluable for Response (EFR) Population, Week 12|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Laboratory Tests- Safety Lead-in, Clinical laboratory tests (hematology, clinical chemistry, urinalysis) - Number of Participants with Clinically Significant Laboratory Tests., Subject screening visit to 28 days post last study drug administration|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Laboratory Tests - Part 1, Clinical laboratory tests (hematology, clinical chemistry, urinalysis) - Number of Participants with Clinically Significant Laboratory Tests., Subject screening visit to 28 days post last study drug administration|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Change in Vital Signs and Physical Examinations - Safety Lead-In, Number of participants with clinically significant change in vital signs (blood pressure \[diastolic and systolic\], heart rate, respiratory rate, body temperature) and physical examination., Subject screening visit to 28 days post last study drug administration|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Change in Vital Signs and Physical Examinations - Part 1, Number of participants with clinically significant change in vital signs (blood pressure \[diastolic and systolic\], heart rate, respiratory rate, body temperature) and physical examination., Subject screening visit to 28 days post last study drug administration|Number of Participants With ECG Parameters of Interest - Safety Lead-In, Number of participants with ECG parameters of interest: Max. on-treatment QTcF Value: \>450 to 480 msec, max. on-treatment QTcF Value: \>480 to 500 msec, max. on-treatment QTcF Value: \>500 msec, max. on-treatment QTcB Value: \>450 to 480 msec, max. on-treatment QTcB Value: \>480 to 500 msec, max. on-treatment QTcB Value: \>500 msec, max. QTcF CFB Value: \>30 to 60 msec, max. QTcF CFB Value: \>60 msec, max. QTcB CFB Value: \>30 to 60 msec, max. QTcB CFB Value: \>60 msec., Subject screening visit to 28 days post last study drug administration|Number of Participants With ECG Parameters of Interest - Part 1, Number of participants with ECG parameters of interest: Max. on-treatment QTcF Value: \<=450 msec, max. on-treatment QTcF Value: \>450 to 480 msec, max. on-treatment QTcF Value: \>480 to 500 msec, max. on-treatment QTcF Value: \>500 msec, max. on-treatment QTcB Value: \<=450 msec, max. on-treatment QTcB Value: \>450 to 480 msec, max. on-treatment QTcB Value: \>480 to 500 msec, max. on-treatment QTcB Value: \>500 msec, max. QTcF CFB Value: \<=30 msec, max. QTcF CFB Value: \>30 to 60 msec, max. QTcF CFB Value: \>60 msec, max. QTcB CFB Value: \<=30 msec, max. QTcB CFB Value: \>30 to 60 msec, max. QTcB CFB Value: \>60 msec., Subject screening visit to 28 days post last study drug administration|ECOG Performance Status - Part 1, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance was clinically graded based on the following:

Grade 0 = Normal activity. Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction.

Grade 1 = Symptoms, but ambulatory. Restricted in physically strenuous activity, but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature (e.g., light housework, office work).

Grade 2 = In bed \< 50% of the time. Ambulatory and capable of all self-care, but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours.

Grade 3 = In bed \> 50% of the time. Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours.

Grade 4 = 100% bedridden. Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self- care. Totally confined to bed or chair.

Grade 5 = Death, Subject screening visit to 28 days post last study drug administration
Part 1 of study(Phase 2) is planned to have 120 patients and anticipated completion on July 2019. Recruitment completed.

Part 2 of study(Phase 3) is planned to have 350 patients and anticipated completion on Dec 2022. Not yet recruiting.