Effects of Bright-light Exposure Combined With Specific Exercise Training (BEST) Program in Patients With Cancer
This study plans to investigate the effectiveness of six-week light exposure combined with an exercise training program on improving sleep-wake rhythm, physical and mental symptoms, quality of life, one-year recurrence rate, and one-year survival rate of patients with lung and esophageal cancer.
Lung Neoplasm|Esophageal Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Daylight exposure combine walking|BEHAVIORAL: Stretching exercise
Sleep-wake rhythm, Using Actigraph to measure sleep-wake rhythm. The parameter including 24-h correlation coefficient(r24), in bed less than out of bed dichotomy index (I \< O), midline estimating statistic of rhythm (MESOR), and amplitude...etc., Baseline|Sleep-wake rhythm, Using Actigraph to measure sleep-wake rhythm. The parameter including 24-h correlation coefficient(r24), in bed less than out of bed dichotomy index (I \< O), midline estimating statistic of rhythm (MESOR), and amplitude...etc., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 6th week|Sleep-wake rhythm, Using Actigraph to measure sleep-wake rhythm. The parameter including 24-h correlation coefficient(r24), in bed less than out of bed dichotomy index (I \< O), midline estimating statistic of rhythm (MESOR), and amplitude...etc., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 12th week|Sleep-wake rhythm, Using Actigraph to measure sleep-wake rhythm. The parameter including 24-h correlation coefficient(r24), in bed less than out of bed dichotomy index (I \< O), midline estimating statistic of rhythm (MESOR), and amplitude...etc., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 6th month|Sleep-wake rhythm, Using Actigraph to measure sleep-wake rhythm. The parameter including 24-h correlation coefficient(r24), in bed less than out of bed dichotomy index (I \< O), midline estimating statistic of rhythm (MESOR), and amplitude...etc., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 12th month
Subjective sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI), The scale consists of 19 questions covering collective sleep quality, sleep latency, total sleep hours, sleep habits, sleep disturbance, use of sleeping drugs, and daytime functioning.

The PSQI score is calculated from the above seven facets. The score of each facet was 0-3 points, and the total score was 0-21 points. A score greater than 5 indicates that the total quality of sleep is poor., Baseline|Subjective sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI), The scale consists of 19 questions covering collective sleep quality, sleep latency, total sleep hours, sleep habits, sleep disturbance, use of sleeping drugs, and daytime functioning.

The PSQI score is calculated from the above seven facets. The score of each facet was 0-3 points, and the total score was 0-21 points. A score greater than 5 indicates that the total quality of sleep is poor., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 6th week|Subjective sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI), The scale consists of 19 questions covering collective sleep quality, sleep latency, total sleep hours, sleep habits, sleep disturbance, use of sleeping drugs, and daytime functioning.

The PSQI score is calculated from the above seven facets. The score of each facet was 0-3 points, and the total score was 0-21 points. A score greater than 5 indicates that the total quality of sleep is poor., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 12th week|Subjective sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI), The scale consists of 19 questions covering collective sleep quality, sleep latency, total sleep hours, sleep habits, sleep disturbance, use of sleeping drugs, and daytime functioning.

The PSQI score is calculated from the above seven facets. The score of each facet was 0-3 points, and the total score was 0-21 points. A score greater than 5 indicates that the total quality of sleep is poor., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 6th month|Subjective sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI), The scale consists of 19 questions covering collective sleep quality, sleep latency, total sleep hours, sleep habits, sleep disturbance, use of sleeping drugs, and daytime functioning.

The PSQI score is calculated from the above seven facets. The score of each facet was 0-3 points, and the total score was 0-21 points. A score greater than 5 indicates that the total quality of sleep is poor., Change from baseline sleep-wake rhythm at 12th month|Objective sleep quality: total sleep time, Using actigraph to measure total sleep time (min/night), Baseline|Objective sleep quality: total sleep time, Using actigraph to measure total sleep time (min/night), Change from baseline total sleep time at 6th week|Objective sleep quality: total sleep time, Using actigraph to measure total sleep time (min/night), Change from baseline total sleep time at 12th week|Objective sleep quality: total sleep time, Using actigraph to measure total sleep time (min/night), Change from baseline total sleep time at 6th month|Objective sleep quality: total sleep time, Using actigraph to measure total sleep time (min/night), Change from baseline total sleep time at 12th month|Objective sleep quality: sleep onset latency, Using actigraph to measure sleep onset latency (min/night), Baseline|Objective sleep quality: sleep onset latency, Using actigraph to measure sleep onset latency (min/night), Change from baseline sleep onset latency at 6th week|Objective sleep quality: sleep onset latency, Using actigraph to measure sleep onset latency (min/night), Change from baseline sleep onset latency at 12th week|Objective sleep quality: sleep onset latency, Using actigraph to measure sleep onset latency (min/night), Change from baseline sleep onset latency at 6th month|Objective sleep quality: sleep onset latency, Using actigraph to measure sleep onset latency (min/night), Change from baseline sleep onset latency at 12th month|Objective sleep quality: sleep efficiency, Using actigraph to measure sleep efficiency (percentage), Baseline|Objective sleep quality: sleep efficiency, Using actigraph to measure sleep efficiency (percentage), Change from baseline sleep efficiency at 6th week|Objective sleep quality: sleep efficiency, Using actigraph to measure sleep efficiency (percentage), Change from baseline sleep efficiency at 12th week|Objective sleep quality: sleep efficiency, Using actigraph to measure sleep efficiency (percentage), Change from baseline sleep efficiency at 6th month|Objective sleep quality: sleep efficiency, Using actigraph to measure sleep efficiency (percentage), Change from baseline sleep efficiency at 12th month|Objective sleep quality: wake after sleep onset, Using actigraph to measure wake after sleep onset (min/night), Baseline|Objective sleep quality: wake after sleep onset, Using actigraph to measure wake after sleep onset (min/night), Change from baseline wake after sleep onset at 6th week|Objective sleep quality: wake after sleep onset, Using actigraph to measure wake after sleep onset (min/night), Change from baseline wake after sleep onset at 12th week|Objective sleep quality: wake after sleep onset, Using actigraph to measure wake after sleep onset (min/night), Change from baseline wake after sleep onset at 6th month|Objective sleep quality: wake after sleep onset, Using actigraph to measure wake after sleep onset (min/night), Change from baseline wake after sleep onset at 12th month|Anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS), The scale consists of seven items each for anxiety and depression. Each item of the anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and the depression subscale (HADS-D) was scored on a 4-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much so). Higher scores indicated higher anxiety or depression levels., Baseline|Anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS), The scale consists of seven items each for anxiety and depression. Each item of the anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and the depression subscale (HADS-D) was scored on a 4-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much so). Higher scores indicated higher anxiety or depression levels., Change from baseline anxiety and depression at 6th week|Anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS), The scale consists of seven items each for anxiety and depression. Each item of the anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and the depression subscale (HADS-D) was scored on a 4-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much so). Higher scores indicated higher anxiety or depression levels., Change from baseline anxiety and depression at 12th week|Anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS), The scale consists of seven items each for anxiety and depression. Each item of the anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and the depression subscale (HADS-D) was scored on a 4-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much so). Higher scores indicated higher anxiety or depression levels., Change from baseline anxiety and depression at 6th month|Anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, HADS), The scale consists of seven items each for anxiety and depression. Each item of the anxiety subscale (HADS-A) and the depression subscale (HADS-D) was scored on a 4-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 3 (very much so). Higher scores indicated higher anxiety or depression levels., Change from baseline anxiety and depression at 12th month|Quality of life (European Organization for Research and Treatment of cancer quality of life questionnaire), This questionnaire measures the general quality of life of cancer patients. There are 30 questions in total, including questions on physical functioning (5 questions), role function (2 questions), emotional functioning (4 questions),and cognitive functioning (2 questions), as well as, overall quality of life and health status (2 questions). And common symptoms such as fatigue (3 questions), pain (2 questions), nausea and vomiting (2 questions), dyspnea, insomnia, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea, and financial problems (one question each)., Baseline|Quality of life (European Organization for Research and Treatment of cancer quality of life questionnaire), This questionnaire measures the general quality of life of cancer patients. There are 30 questions in total, including questions on physical functioning (5 questions), role function (2 questions), emotional functioning (4 questions),and cognitive functioning (2 questions), as well as, overall quality of life and health status (2 questions). And common symptoms such as fatigue (3 questions), pain (2 questions), nausea and vomiting (2 questions), dyspnea, insomnia, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea, and financial problems (one question each)., Change from baseline quality of life at 6th week|Quality of life (European Organization for Research and Treatment of cancer quality of life questionnaire), This questionnaire measures the general quality of life of cancer patients. There are 30 questions in total, including questions on physical functioning (5 questions), role function (2 questions), emotional functioning (4 questions),and cognitive functioning (2 questions), as well as, overall quality of life and health status (2 questions). And common symptoms such as fatigue (3 questions), pain (2 questions), nausea and vomiting (2 questions), dyspnea, insomnia, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea, and financial problems (one question each)., Change from baseline quality of life at 12th week|Quality of life (European Organization for Research and Treatment of cancer quality of life questionnaire), This questionnaire measures the general quality of life of cancer patients. There are 30 questions in total, including questions on physical functioning (5 questions), role function (2 questions), emotional functioning (4 questions),and cognitive functioning (2 questions), as well as, overall quality of life and health status (2 questions). And common symptoms such as fatigue (3 questions), pain (2 questions), nausea and vomiting (2 questions), dyspnea, insomnia, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea, and financial problems (one question each)., Change from baseline quality of life at 6th month|Quality of life (European Organization for Research and Treatment of cancer quality of life questionnaire), This questionnaire measures the general quality of life of cancer patients. There are 30 questions in total, including questions on physical functioning (5 questions), role function (2 questions), emotional functioning (4 questions),and cognitive functioning (2 questions), as well as, overall quality of life and health status (2 questions). And common symptoms such as fatigue (3 questions), pain (2 questions), nausea and vomiting (2 questions), dyspnea, insomnia, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea, and financial problems (one question each)., Change from baseline quality of life at 12th month|Recurrent rate, Chart review to determine whether cancer has recurred for participant one year after diagnosis., 12th month after recruitment|Survival rate, Chart review to determine whether participant survived one year after diagnosis., 12th month after recruitment
This study plans to investigate the effectiveness of six-week light exposure combined with an exercise training program on improving sleep-wake rhythm, physical and mental symptoms, quality of life, one-year recurrence rate, and one-year survival rate of patients with lung and esophageal cancer.

Two groups, parallel, randomly assigned clinical trials, long-term follow-up, repeated measurement (pre-test, 6th week, 12th week, 6th month, 12th month, five times in total), and a design of single center recruitment. The experimental group receiving an intervention comprised six weeks of light exposure combined with exercise training. The active control group receiving six weeks of stretching exercise. With a double-blind study design of participant blind and outcomes assessor blind, subjects were recruited from the thoracic surgery clinic and thoracic surgery ward of a medical center in northern Taiwan.