Phase 2 Study of S-1 in Advanced or Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether S-1 is effective in slowing tumor activity in participants with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer who have not had chemotherapy. The study is also looking at the safety of S-1.
Locally Advanced or Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: S-1
Overall Tumor Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with objective evidence of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) and was based on the best overall response across all cycles for each participant. Tumor response was assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST). For target lesions response, CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions for at least 3 weeks and PR was defined as at least a 30% reduction in the sum of the longest diameters of the target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters for at least 6 weeks. For non-target lesions, CR was defined the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level for at least 6 weeks., From first dose of study medication until disease progression, permanent discontinuation of study treatment, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years 5 months
Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with objective evidence of CR, PR or stable disease (SD) determined according to RECIST. For target lesions, stable disease was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD) taking as a reference the smallest sum of the longest diameters since the treatment started for at least 6 weeks. For non-target lesions, stable disease was defined a persistence of greater than or equal to (\>=) 1 non-target lesions and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits for at least 6 weeks., From first dose of study medication until disease progression, permanent discontinuation of study treatment, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years 5 months|Duration of Response (DR), DR was calculated as date of first progressive disease (PD) or death, date after the first response of CR or PR minus date of first CR or PR plus 1. Participants who did not die and were without progressive disease were censored at last evaluable tumor response assessment. Analysis was performed by Kaplan-Meier method., From first dose of study medication until disease progression, permanent discontinuation of study treatment, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years 5 months|Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), TTP was calculated as date of first PD minus date of first dose of study medication plus 1. Participants without progressive disease were censored at last evaluable tumor response assessment. Analysis was performed by Kaplan-Meier method., From first dose of study medication until disease progression, permanent discontinuation of study treatment, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years 5 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was calculated as date of death minus date of first dose of study medication plus 1. In the absence of death confirmation, OS was censored at the date of last study follow-up. Analysis was performed by Kaplan-Meier method., From first dose of study medication until disease progression, permanent discontinuation of study treatment, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years 5 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as date of first PD or date of death minus date of first dose of study medication plus 1. Participants who did not die and were without PD were censored at their last evaluable tumor response assessment. Analysis was performed by Kaplan-Meier method., From first dose of study medication until disease progression, permanent discontinuation of study treatment, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years 5 months|Number of Participants With Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) Score - Shift From Baseline Score to Final Assessment Score, KPS classified participant's as per their functional impairment. The KPS ranged from 0percent (%) to 100%, (100= no signs of disease, 90% = few symptoms or signs of disease, 80%=some symptoms or signs, 70% = not capable of normal activity or work, 60% = can take care of most personal requirements, 50% = requires frequent medical care, 40% = disabled, 30% = severely disabled, hospital admission indicated but no risk of death, 20% = very ill, requires supportive measures or treatment, 10% = moribund, rapidly progressive fatal disease processes, and 0% = death), where higher values represented better outcomes. Participants with baseline KPS \>=70% were included in study. Final assessment was the participant's last assessment. Participants with available data were only presented in the below data table., Baseline, at end of treatment (up to 2 years 5 months)|Change From Baseline in Pain Intensity, Pain intensity was graded from 0 (least possible pain) to 100 (worst possible pain) on a visual analog scale (VAS). The higher score on VAS scale indicated more pain. Final assessment was the last assessment of participant's., Baseline, at end of treatment (up to 2 years 5 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical event in a participants administered any dose of a study medication which may or may not have a causal relationship with the use of the study medication. An SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death, life-threatening, required initial or prolonged in-patient hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, or considered as medically important event., From the first dose of study medication up to 30 days after the last dose of study medication, or until additional antitumor therapy had been introduced, whichever came first (approximately up to 2 years 6 months)
Locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer is relatively unresponsive to chemotherapy. This is true for the nucleoside analogue gemcitabine, with a response rate of approximately 10%, as well as for 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Even when gemcitabine is combined with other chemotherapeutic drugs or biological agents, the overall tumor response rate remains basically unchanged. S-1 is a new generation oral fluoropyrimidine that combines Tegafur (5-fluoro-1-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-2,4(1H,3H)-pyrimidinedione \[FT\]), an oral prodrug of 5-FU, with two modulators, Gimeracil (5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine \[CDHP\]), which inhibits 5-FU degradation by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibition, and Oteracil potassium (Oxo), which inhibits 5-FU phosphorylation in the digestive tract. This combination of 3 compounds is designed to achieve enhanced antitumor activity while decreasing gastrointestinal toxicity.