Topical Fluorescent Nanoparticles Conjugated Somatostatin Analog for Suppression and Bioimaging Breast Cancer
Breast cancer is a communal malignant disease between Saudi females, with a popularity of 21.8%. Since binding to somatostatin receptors (SSTR) induces no immunogenicity in vivo, somatostatin analog (veldoreotide) (VELD) may be suitable for delivering anti-cancer drugs to target and bioimaging the cancer cells. This work aimed to deliver CdS/ZnS core-shell type quantum dots with carboxylic acid-functionalized (QDs-COOH) which is bioimaging and anticancer nanoparticles decorated VELD as SSTR agonist with anti-cancer activity in the form of topical cream to be deposited deep in the breast periphery.
Breast Cancer|Skin Cancer|Skin Diseases
DRUG: Quantum dots coated with veldoreotide|DRUG: Topical approved placebo
Growth inhibition was measured using the sulforhodamine B-based assay., QDs-VELD have anticancer activity. This study will be determined by measuring the growth inhibition of anticancer activity for QDs-VELD., 6 months|Amount of QDs-VELD fluorescent QDs-VELD in the breast periphery due to the fluorescence of QDs using flow cytometry., The bioimaging effect for scintigraphy of breast cancer., 6 months|Growth inhibition was measured by visual determination of breast cancer cells., QDs-VELD have anticancer activity. This study will be determined by measuring the growth inhibition of anticancer activity for QDs-VELD., 6 months
Stable topical quantum dots coated veldoreotide, Stability test will be studied for dosage forms. The test will carried out by standing the products on shelf life for three months. The stability test will be recorded using high performance liquid chromatography each thee days., three months
QDs-COOH will be conjugated to the N terminal of phenylalanine of VELD when the reaction proceeded at pH 7. Topical cream will be adapted to deliver the conjugated system for maximum deposition through breast cancer cells using emulsion technology. The formulated nanoparticles and cream will be characterized for size using dynamic light scattering, drug-polymer interaction using FTIR, and morphology using SEM. Cellular uptake, permeability and cell viability study of the successful system of interest will be studied in cell culture models using different breast cell lines. Moreover, the in vivo study will also proceed on rats induced breast cancer. Finally, the nanoparticles loaded in a topical cream will be applied with clinical trial approvement on the human breast cancer for bioimaging and treating breast cancer. This work is to present a novel formulation for treatment and bioimaging of breast cancer which can deliver safely to the patients in a high dose to the affected tumor cells.