Prehabilitation for Colorectal Cancer Patients With Low Functional Capacity and Malnutrition
Despite multi-modal prehabilitation (nutrition, exercise, and psychosocial interventions), 60% of older elective colorectal cancer surgery patients with poor physical function were unable to reach a minimum preoperative 400m six-minute walking distance (6MWD), a prognostic cut-point. Compared to the patients that attained \>400m 6MWD preoperatively, twice as many of \<400m patients were malnourished. Malnutrition has long been associated with worse functioning (e.g., physical, immune). The investigators hypothesize that for nutritionally deficient patients, the etiology for their poor physical function is malnutrition. Correction of malnutrition alone might thus be sufficient to achieve a 400m 6MWD before surgery and improve patient outcomes.
Prehabilitation|Malnutrition|Physical Functional Performance
BEHAVIORAL: Nutrition|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
Preoperative six-minute walking distance, Physical function will be measured with the six-minute walking test (6MWT). Patients will be instructed to walk back and forth along a 20m hallway, and the distance covered in 6 minutes (6MWD) will be recorded (meters)., from date of baseline assessment until date of surgery, an average of 4 weeks, recorded in meters
Adherence to the exercise intervention, Adherence will be monitored by use of logbooks and a smart watch (FitBit), which records daily steps., from date of baseline assessment until date of surgery,an average of 4 weeks, recorded in steps|Adherence to the nutrition intervention, Adherence to dietary targets (energy intake) will be carefully monitored by weekly in-person or virtual visit using 24hr recalls and supplement counts (energy consumption as compared to prescribed energy targets), from date of baseline assessment until date of surgery, an average of 4 weeks, recorded in % of prescription adherence|Adherence to the nutrition intervention, Adherence to dietary targets (protein intake) will be carefully monitored by weekly in-person or virtual visit using 24hr recalls and supplement counts (protein consumption as compared to prescribed protein targets), from date of baseline assessment until date of surgery, an average of 4 weeks, recorded in % of prescription adherence
The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial of nutrition prehabilitation alone vs nutrition prehabilitation with supportive exercise in patients with malnutrition and 6MWD \<400m before elective colorectal surgery. The primary objective, and therapeutic target, will be achievement of minimal clinical important difference for the 6MWD (14m for within group comparisons and 19m between groups). Ability to adhere to the interventions will be monitored. The findings of this study will guide optimal treatment for this vulnerable population by exploring the role of nutrition alone vs. nutrition with exercise to optimize surgical outcomes.