CO(Mbined Therapy of Malignant) S(Alivary Gland tu)M(Ours With)I(MRT and) c(Arbon Ions): COSMIC
The COSMIC trial is a prospective, mono-centric, phase II trial evaluating toxicity and efficacy in the combined treatment with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and carbon ion (C12) boost. Primary endpoint is mucositis ≥ CTC°3, secondary endpoints are local control, disease-free survival, and toxicity. Planned accrual of the trial includes 54 patients with histologically proved (≥R1-resected, inoperable or Pn+) salivary gland malignancies. Treatment consists of 24 GyE carbon ions (8 fractions) and 50 Gy IMRT (2.0 Gy/ fraction).
Malignancy|Salivary Glands|Tumor
RADIATION: carbon ion boost
mucositis ≥ CTC°3, 6-8 weeks post completion of treatment
local control, to evaluate local control at 3 years post RT, 3 years post RT|acute toxicity, evaluation of acute radiation effects (other than mucositis CTC°C) 6-8 weeks post completion of treatment, 6-8 weeks post completion of treatment|late toxicity, to evaluate radiation late effects, 3 years post radiotherapy|disease-free survival, to evaluate disease-free survival at 3 years post radiotherapy, 3 years post treatment
Local control in malignant salivary gland tumours is dose dependent. High local control rates in adenoid cystic carcinomas could be achieved by highly conformal radiotherapy techniques and particle (neutron/ carbon ion) therapy. Considering high doses are needed to achieve local control, all malignant salivary gland tumours probably profit from the use of particle therapy, which in case of carbon ion treatment, has been shown to be accompanied by only mild side-effects.

Methods/ design:

The COSMIC trial is a prospective, mono-centric, phase II trial evaluating toxicity in the combined treatment with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and carbon ion (C12) boost in 54 patients with histologically proved (≥R1-resected, inoperable or Pn+) salivary gland malignancies. Patients receive 24 GyE carbon ions (8 fractions) and IMRT (2.0 Gy/ fraction).

Study objectives:

Incidence of mucositis ≥ CTC°3 will be assessed as the primary endpoint of the trial, local control, disease-free survival, toxicity (incl. mucositis CTC °I-II and late toxicity at 3 years post RT)