Sorafenib and Ifosfamide in Treating Patients With High-Grade Soft Tissue Sarcoma or Bone Sarcoma That Can Be Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ifosfamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving sorafenib together with ifosfamide may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects of giving sorafenib together with ifosfamide and to see how well it works in treating patients with high-grade soft tissue sarcoma or bone sarcoma that can be removed by surgery.
Sarcoma
DRUG: sorafenib|DRUG: Ifosfamide
Using PET/CT Scan to Measure Safety, Toxicity, and Efficacy of Neoadjuvant Sorafenib Tosylate and Ifosfamide in Patients With Resectable High-grade Soft Tissue or Bone Sarcoma., After cycle 1, a limited PET/CT scan of the affected site will be performed to assess response to sorafenib treatment alone. After cycle 3, prior to surgery, a limited PET/CT scan of the affected site will be performed to assess response to the combination sorafenib and ifosfamide treatment., Participants were followed for duration of study, an average of 1 year.
Local and Distant Recurrence-free Survival, conclusion of study
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Assess the safety, toxicity, and efficacy of neoadjuvant sorafenib tosylate and ifosfamide in patients with resectable high-grade soft tissue or bone sarcoma.

Secondary

* Assess the long-term efficacy or impact of therapy in these patients, in terms of the duration of local recurrence-free survival, distant recurrence-free survival, and disease-specific survival.

OUTLINE:

* Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-14 in course 1. Patients then receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-28 and ifosfamide IV continuously on days 1-7 in courses 2 and 3. Treatment repeats every 14-28 days\* for 3 courses.

NOTE: \*Course 1 is 14 days in duration; courses 2 and 3 are 28 days in duration.

* Surgery: At least 1 week after the completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo surgery.
* Adjuvant therapy: Beginning ≥ 3 weeks after surgery, patients who respond to neoadjuvant therapy receive oral sorafenib twice daily for 6 months. Patients also receive 2 courses of ifosfamide as in courses 2 and 3 of neoadjuvant therapy.