A Study of Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab (MK-7684A) in Relapsed/Refractory Hematological Malignancies (MK-7684A-004, KEYVIBE-004)
The purpose of the study is to determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab (MK-7684A) in hematological malignancies. This study will also evaluate the overall response rate (ORR), the duration of response (DOR), and disease control rate (DCR) following administration of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab. In addition, this study will characterize pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of vibostolimab (MK-7684).
Hematological Malignancies
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab/vibostolimab coformuation
Number of Participants with a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT is defined as an event with toxicity including the type, severity, time of onset, time of resolution, and the probable association with study treatment that are not due to pre-existing conditions as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0 (CTCAE 5.0). Number of participants who experience a DLT per CTCAE 5.0 will be reported., Up to approximately 6 weeks|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a preexisting condition that is temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product, is also an adverse event. The number of participants who experience an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a preexisting condition that is temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product, is also an adverse event. The number of participants discontinued from the study treatment due to an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 24 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a response as defined by the specific disease criteria of the hematological malignancy. The percentage of participants who experience a response will be presented., Up to approximately 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is the time from response (R) to progression/death (P/D). The DOR will be presented., Up to approximately 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a Complete Response (CR), a Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD). The percentage of participants who experience a CR, a PR, or SD will be presented., Up to approximately 24 months|Lowest Plasma Concentration (Ctrough) of Vibostolimab, Ctrough is the lowest concentration reached by a drug before the next dose is administered. Blood samples collected predose will be used to determine Ctrough of Vibostolimab., Predose at Cycles 1, 2, 4, 8, and every 12 weeks afterwards (up to ~2 years). Cycle = 3 weeks|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Vibostolimab, Cmax is the maximum concentration of the drug observed in plasma. Blood samples collected post dose will be used to determine Cmax of Vibostolimab., Postdose: after end of infusion (up to ~10 minutes) at Cycles 1 and 8. Cycle = 3 weeks
The purpose of the study is to determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab (MK-7684A) in hematological malignancies. This study will also evaluate the overall response rate (ORR), the duration of response (DOR), and disease control rate (DCR) following administration of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab. In addition, this study will characterize pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of vibostolimab (MK-7684).