Oral Lactobacillus Rhamnosus TCELL-1 and Colorectal Cancer
Emerging evidences have shown that gut microbiota have played roles in the modulation of chemotherapy agents for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Probiotics are gut microbiota beneficial to human body. However, little was known about the role of probiotics for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Lactobacillus rhamnosus TCELL-1 is a kind of probiotics which were isolated from the gut mucosa of healthy Taiwanese. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of Lactobacillus rhamnosus TCELL-1 upon staged III colorectal cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy.
Staged III Colorectal Cancer Receiving Adjuvant Chemotherapy
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Oral Lactobacillus rhamnosus TCELL-1
Changes in quality of life assessed by (WHOQOL)-BREF Taiwan version, THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION QUALITY OF LIFE (WHOQOL)-BREF Taiwan version, 1 year|Changes in quality of life assessed by EORTC QLQ-CR30, EORTC QLQ-CR30, 1 year|Chinese version of EORTC quality of life questionnaire(QLQ)-C30, 1 year|The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-G version 4, 1 year|Changes in FACT-F version 4 at each post-treatment visit compared to baseline, 1 year|Changes of irritable bowel symptoms, The irritable bowel symptoms will be evaluated with the Rome IV criteria of irritable bowel disease, 1 year
Change of fecal microbiota features, Fecal microbiota composition, 1 year|Change of fecal metabolites, Fecal metabolites such as acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, isobutyric acid, valeric acid and isovaleric acid, 1 year|Incidence of adverse events, The adverse events of the probiotics, 1 year|The change of body weight, Changes of body weight from baseline to post-treatment visits, 1 year|Change of serum cytokines, Interleukin (IL)-1, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, interferon (IFN)-γ, tumor necrotic factor (TNF)-α3, 1 year|The presence of bacteremia, The presence of probiotics-related bacteremia, 1 year
Emerging evidences have shown that gut microbiota have played roles in the modulation of chemotherapy agents for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Probiotics are gut microbiota beneficial to human body. However, little was known about the role of probiotics for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Lactobacillus rhamnosus TCELL-1 is a kind of probiotics which were isolated from the gut mucosa of healthy Taiwanese. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of Lactobacillus rhamnosus TCELL-1 upon staged III colorectal cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy.