Consultation, Advice, and Tailored Support (CATS) for Cancer Survivors
The objectives of this pilot clinical trial are: 1) To evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of a new approach to smoking cessation induction treatment in cancer survivors with low social resources, and 2) To assess the effectiveness of said treatment for key events in the process of smoking cessation.
Smoking Cessation|Social Stress
BEHAVIORAL: Social Support|DRUG: NRT Sampling
Accrual Percentage, Accrual percentage = (number participants enrolled / number individuals contacted about study participation) multiplied by 100, Day 0 baseline|Retention, Retention percentage = (number with complete assessments at end of study / number participants enrolled) multiplied by 100, Through study completion, number of assessments at Day 60 follow-up|Acceptability, Total score on the Treatment Acceptability and Preferences measure (Sidani et al., 2009). This is a 4-item measure with each item scored on a scale from 0 to 4. Total scores are computed as the mean of the 4 individual items, so total scores range from 0 to 4. Higher scores indicate a better outcome, as they reflect greater acceptability of the treatment provided in this clinical trial., Day 60 follow-up
This is a pilot (Phase II) randomized clinical trial with randomization in a 1:1 ratio. The control group will receive a brief consultation (10-15 minutes via phone) about free or low-cost resources that may help them address unmet social support needs. Additionally, a written directory of a range of social support resources will be delivered to them via mail. The treatment group will receive the aforesaid intervention plus brief advice to quit smoking (10-15 minutes via phone). Additionally, a written summary of the benefits of smoking cessation, evidence-based approaches to quit, and the basics of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) will be provided via mail. The treatment group will also receive a free, 2-week supply of nicotine patches and lozenges delivered via mail. As a pilot, this study focuses on the outcomes of feasibility (i.e., accrual and retention) and acceptability (e.g., participants' perceptions of appropriateness and effectiveness) as opposed to efficacy (though this is also important). The emphasis on smoking cessation induction (that is, the inducement or promotion of a quit attempt) is an important aspect of the study design and is appropriate for smokers across the continuum of motivation to quit.