Adrenal Myelolipomas Case Series
Six cases (72 years old female patient, 63 years old male patient, 57 years old female patient, 61 years old female, 72 years old female and 56 years old female) of clinically and radiologically suspected cases of symptomatic adrenal myelolipoma are discussed here. All cases described, presented with flank pain radiating which was suspected as adrenal mass by Computed Tomography (CT) evaluation. All six cases were histopathologically confirmed as adrenal myelolipoma and managed by laparoscopic surgical excision.
Adrenal Myelolipoma
Mortality, Mortality in surgery., 6 months
The management in all cases was by laparoscopic adrenalectomy with transperitoneal approach. Several retrospective and comparative studies addressed the advantage of minimally invasive adrenalectomy specifically consistent in less postoperative pain, improved patients' satisfaction, shorter hospital stay and recovery time when compared to open adrenalectomy.

The laparoscopic transabdominal lateral adrenalectomy is currently the most widely used approach.

All our cases were managed by this technique. In our cases initial peritoneal access is achieved 2cm inferior to the right/left costal margin in the midclavicular line, a pressure of 15mmHg is used for CO2 insufflation. Optical access 10-12mm trocar for the endoscope is placed in the pararectal line 5cm above the umbilicus. Under direct vision, the second 10- 12 mm trocar is placed medially to the first one. The third trocar (5mm) is inserted 3 cm above the anterior superior iliac spine in the anterior axillary line. The fourth trocar (5mm) is inserted at the subcostal angle. The key factor for an adequate exposure is an effective dissection of the Toldt fascia. Vascular structures are ligated with Hem-O-Lock and subsequent dissection of the adrenal gland with ultrasonic energy. The adrenal is extracted through a Gibson-type incision, a Penrose drain was left in all cases with its removal upon discharge of the patient.