Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Brain Tumors With Chemotherapy and Radiation Using Cells Modified for Chemoprotection and an Experimental Drug to Decrease the Tumor Cell Resistance to Chemotherapy
Cure rates for patients with high grade glioma remain disappointing, in part because tumor cells are often resistant to chemotherapy, and because using higher doses of chemotherapy causes damage to normal blood cells. This trial is designed to try to overcome both of these barriers. The idea is to make tumor cells more sensitive to a chemotherapy agent, Temozolomide, by using 06Benzylguanine (06BG). In addition, patients will have a portion of their blood cells modified by the insertion of a chemotherapy resistance gene which may help protect blood cells from damage by the combination of the Temozolomide and 06BG.
Glioblastoma Multiforme (WHO Grade IV)|Anaplastic Astrocytoma (WHO Grade III)
DRUG: 06Benzylguanine|GENETIC: MGMT P140K|DEVICE: Meltenyi CliniMacs
To assess the safety and feasibility of infusing autologous PBSC transduced with MSCV-MGMTP140K construct, using the fibronectin component CH-296 to assist gene transfer., 5 years
Assess the efficiency of gene transfer and durability of transgene expression in this clinical setting., 5 years|Assess the degree of chemotherapy resistance in transduced cells, and the ability to enrich the population of transduced stem cells with subsequent courses of chemotherapy., 5 years
The use of temozolomide (TEM) both during and after irradiation is a promising new approach for the treatment of patients with high-grade glioma. However, this treatment is limited by tumor cell resistance and therapy-related hematologic toxicity. To overcome TEM resistance, in this study we will add the chemotherapy sensitizing drug O6-Benzylguanine (BG). To overcome hematologic toxicity, patients will receive autologous hematopoietic stem cells transduced with a chemotherapy resistance gene designed to protect these cells from subsequent therapy with this drug combination.

The potential benefit of using transduced blood stem cells is the possibility for dose escalation of TEM, since hematologic toxicity has heretofore limited higher doses. Transduction will be accomplished with a retroviral vector carrying MGMTP140K, which codes for a mutated form of the resistance protein methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT). Successful transduction of hematopoietic cells with MGMTP140K makes them resistant to the toxic effects of both TEM + BG. Repeated doses of these drugs should therefore result in an increase in the percentage of transduced (and thus protected) blood stem cells, thus reducing the likelihood of hematologic toxicity with further therapy. Accordingly, patients who are tolerating therapy well and who have laboratory evidence of chemoprotection will receive intrapatient dose escalation of TEM + BG during courses 2-6.

Eligible patients must be between 5 and 55 years of age and have newly-diagnosed high-grade glioma (anaplastic astrocytoma or glioblastoma multiforme) which cannot be completely resected. No prior therapy other than surgery is allowed, and patients must have adequate performance status and organ function as defined in the protocol.