Testing the Addition of BMS-986016 (Relatlimab) to the Usual Immunotherapy After Initial Treatment for Recurrent or Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial tests the addition of BMS-986016 (relatlimab) to the usual immunotherapy after initial treatment for nasopharyngeal cancer that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Relatlimab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. The usual approach of treatment is initial treatment with chemotherapy such as the combination of cisplatin (or carboplatin) and gemcitabine, along with immunotherapy such as nivolumab. After the initial treatment is finished, patients may continue to receive additional immunotherapy. Carboplatin is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works in a way similar to the anticancer drug cisplatin, but may be better tolerated than cisplatin. Carboplatin works by killing, stopping or slowing the growth of tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Gemcitabine is a chemotherapy drug that blocks the cells from making deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and may kill cancer cells. Giving BMS-986016 in addition to the usual immunotherapy after initial treatment may extend the time without the tumor cells growing or spreading longer than the usual approach in patients with recurrent or metastatic nasopharyngeal cancer.
Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Gemcitabine|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Relatlimab
Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be assessed in both treatment arms and will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The comparison of PFS distributions between treatment arms will be performed using the log-rank test. Additional analyses of treatment effect will be performed using Cox models with the stratification factors included as a fixed covariates, as well as other tumor and patient characteristics, listed below. Median PFS and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for each arm will be estimated with the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. Multivariable analysis will be performed using a Cox proportional hazards model and relevant patient and tumor characteristics (country \[Asian sites versus (vs.) Non-Asian sites\], keratinizing squamous carcinoma, gender, age, and baseline Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\]). Hazard ratios and their respective 85% lower confidence bound, and 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Time from randomization to progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, assessed up to 6 years
Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and between-arm differences will be assessed using the log-rank test. Median OS and the corresponding 95% CIs using log-log transformation to survival function for each arm will be estimated with the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Time from randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 6 years|Tumor response, Will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v 1.1). Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine hazard ratios (cause-specific hazard ratios in the case of endpoints with competing risks) and to assess the effects of covariates of interest. Fine-Gray sub-distribution hazards Cox model will be used to complement the competing risk analyses., Up to 6 years|Locoregional failure, Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine hazard ratios (cause-specific hazard ratios in the case of endpoints with competing risks) and to assess the effects of covariates of interest. Fine-Gray sub-distribution hazards Cox model will be used to complement the competing risk analyses., Up to 6 years|Distant metastasis, Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine hazard ratios (cause-specific hazard ratios in the case of endpoints with competing risks) and to assess the effects of covariates of interest. Fine-Gray sub-distribution hazards Cox model will be used to complement the competing risk analyses., Up to 6 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0). Counts of all AEs by grade will be provided by treatment arm. Counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst grade AE experienced by the patient by treatment arm. The rate of patients with at least 1 grade 3 or higher AE will be compared between the treatment arms using a chi-square test for proportions and confidence intervals for rate difference will be computed using Miettinen-Nurminen (score) method, Up to 6 years|Post-induction plasma EBV DNA as a prognostic biomarker, Will be defined as a binary biomarker (detectable: \>= 1 copies/mL vs. undetectable: 0 copies/mL). Biomarker effect HRs from multivariable Cox models, including key tumor and patient characteristics will also be reported., Up to 6 years|Pre-induction plasma EBV DNA vs. progressive disease (PD) during induction treatment, Will include all patients treated with concurrent (induction) treatment and a binary biomarker based on pre-induction plasma EBV DNA (\< 2000 vs. ≥2000 copies/mL). PD rates during induction for each biomarker subgroup will be computed assuming a binomial distribution and compared between biomarker subgroups using a chi-square test. Multivariable Cox models, including key tumor and patient characteristics will also be included., Up to 6 years|Persistent plasma EBV DNA vs. PFS, Will examine the association between persistent EBV DNA after induction treatment and PFS. Only randomized patients with positive pre-induction plasma EBV DNA will be included (\~90-95%). Patients will be classified into "EBV DNA positive to negative" and "EBV DNA consistently positive" based on the pre-induction and post-induction EBV DNA. Multivariable Cox models, including key tumor and patient characteristics will also be included., Up to 6 years
Post-induction EBV DNA as a predictive biomarker, Will be assessed of the predictive role of post-induction EBV DNA on on PFS and OS will be performed using the binary biomarker. Cox proportional hazards model with treatment arm, binary biomarker, and its interaction will be used for these analyses. Treatment effect hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals will be reported. Adjusted HR estimates will be obtained after adding key patient and tumor characteristics., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if adding BMS-986016 (relatlimab) to nivolumab maintenance therapy shows a signal of improved progression-free survival (PFS) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 in patients who do not progress following treatment with platinum-gemcitabine-nivolumab combination in the first-line treatment of recurrent and/or metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma (R/M NPC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if adding BMS-986016 (relatlimab) to nivolumab maintenance improves overall survival (OS) compared to nivolumab maintenance alone.

II. To compare patterns of failure (local-regional relapse and distant metastasis) between treatment arms.

III. To determine if adding BMS-986016 (relatlimab) to nivolumab maintenance improves objective response, duration of response, and disease control rate compared to nivolumab maintenance alone.

IV. To evaluate the tolerability of nivolumab-BMS-986016 (relatlimab) maintenance and assess and compare toxicity between arms based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0) criteria.

V. To evaluate baseline plasma Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA (\< 2000 copies/mL versus \[vs.\] \>= 2000 copies/mL) as a prognostic biomarker.

VI. To validate post-induction plasma EBV DNA (detectable \[\>= 1 copies/mL\] vs. undetectable \[0 copies/mL\]) as a prognostic biomarker.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future translational science studies.

II. To assess post-induction plasma EBV DNA (detectable \[\>= 1 copies/mL\] vs. undetectable \[0 copies/mL\]) as a predictive biomarker.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, cisplatin IV or carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood sample collection during screening and on study.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients who do not progress radiologically are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT or MRI on study. Patients also undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/CT or bone scan as clinically indicated.

ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and relatlimab IV over 30-90 minutes. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT or MRI on study. Patients also undergo PET/CT or bone scan as clinically indicated.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months in years 3-5, and then annually.