Feasibility of Delivering an Avatar Life-review Intervention to Support Patients With Active Cancer
The objective of the study is to determine the feasibility and acceptability of an integrated art and technology, storytelling, life review platform for patients with active cancer. The VoicingHan project is an avatar storytelling platform designed for patients with advanced cancer receiving palliative care at Virginia Commonwealth University's Massey Cancer Center. VoicingHan supports terminally ill patients by using oral storytelling as an artistic medium to facilitate patients' interactive performances. Movement-based, creative expression has been shown to reduce stress and depression. By projecting movement-based actions onto an avatar, this can serve as a tool to express emotional distress, address satisfaction with care, and view cancer in a different light.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Avatar Life Review
Portion of successfully completed sessions, The total number of sessions completed in compliance with the required protocol divided by the total number of sessions attempted, 2 months|Patient's perceived benefits of intervention, The research coordinator will conduct an open-ended interview to assess patients' perception of intervention components and identify possible factors influencing feasibility. Questions will address feasibility of setup time, study procedure, and level of comfort, 15 minutes|The ability to recruit patients to participate in the Avatar Therapy intervention, Feasibility of recruitment efforts will be determined by the proportion of patients that are enrolled divided by the number of patients contacted and approached to participate., 2 months
Determine length of time required to set-up the technology, length of setup time as determined when first entering the outpatient room to the arrival of the patient, 10 minutes|Determine the average time per session for each participant, Length of session as determined by the start of participant's arrival to their departure., 60 minutes|Determine the number of intervention sessions needed per patient, Participants will complete a 3 item brief survey administered by the research coordinator at the end of each session to determine if patients would benefit from another avatar session. Each item is rated on a five-point Likert scale from "1= Not at all to "5= A lot/Extremely" with higher scores indicating greater patient satisfaction., 5 minutes
Life reviews have been used in palliative care to help individuals integrate memories into a meaningful whole, providing a balanced view of the past, present and future. Life review is also an evaluative process, enabling participants to examine how memories contribute to the meaning of their life.

VoicingHan, the software program that will be used in this study, provides an illusion that the Avatar is speaking, allowing users to observe their stories in real time, potentially encouraging deeper reflection and memory retrieval. The technology uses motion capture (MoCap) to translate human movement into a digital platform. MoCap offers several advantages: lightweight, sensitive to minute movement, and user-friendly.

Patients will select avatars from different age groups during their sessions, allowing them to retrieve specific, positive memories of different lifetime periods and facilitating a more candid autobiographical memory. Creative expression may serve as a vehicle for patients with a life limiting illness in finding purpose and creating a sense of meaning. The integration of art and technology into a storytelling, life-review platform through means of engaging the physical, psychological, and spiritual domains will support patients to contemplate their own mortality.