Pioglitazone Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Stage IA-IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This pilot phase II trial studies how well pioglitazone works in treating patients with stage IA-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer. Pioglitazone hydrochloride may slow the growth of tumor cells and may be an effective treatment for non-small cell lung cancer.
Stage IA Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IB Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIA Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIB Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pioglitazone Hydrochloride|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Percent Change in Ki-67 by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), Changes in the expression levels of Ki-67 will be plotted graphically, and percent change in expression levels will be formally assessed using the paired t-test or the Wilcoxon signed rank test, if the assumptions of the t-test (i.e. normality) are not met., Baseline and at the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment
Change in Apoptosis Assessment (e.g., Caspase-3), Changes in the expression levels (or grades) from baseline (prior to intervention) to post-intervention (resected tumor sample) will be plotted graphically as well as formally assessed using the McNemar's tests (for categorical variables) or Wilcoxon signed rank tests (for continuous variables) respectively., Baseline and at the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Change in Levels of Serum CA-153, Each participant's pre- and post serum levels of CA-153 will be graphically represented and the mean levels analyzed using a paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test, if the assumptions of the t-test are not met., Baseline and at the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Change in Levels of Serum CRP, Each participant's pre- and post serum levels of CRP will be graphically represented and the mean levels analyzed using a paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test, if the assumptions of the t-test are not met., Baseline and at the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Gene Expression Analysis of RNA From Bronchial Brush Cells, For the gene expression profiles obtained from the data from normal bronchial brush cells, each participant's pre- and post gene expression will be graphically represented and the mean expression levels analyzed using a paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test, if the assumptions of the t-test are not met., Up to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Incidence of Adverse Events Graded According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, To evaluate the adverse events profile, the maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each participant and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine the overall patterns. The number and severity of adverse events (both regardless of attribution as well as those that are at least possibly, probably, or definitely related) will be tabulated and summarized., Up to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Number of Participants With Clinical Response, Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors ( RECIST) Version 1.1, Clinical response rates will be summarized. Complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions (TL) and each target lymph node (LN) must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0cm. Partial Response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of the non-nodal TR and the short axis of the target LN with the baseline sum diameters (BSD) as reference. Progression (PD) is at least 1 new malignant lesion or LN whose short axis increased to \>1.5 cm or at least a 20% increase in the sum of TL diameters with the minimum sum of diameters as reference., Up to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Number of Participants With Complete Pathologic Response, Complete pathologic response was defined as no viable residual tumor cells. Acellular residual mucin pools also considered a pathologic complete response., Up to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Percent Change in Cyclin D1, Changes in the expression levels from baseline (prior to intervention) to post intervention (resected tumor sample) will be plotted graphically., Baseline to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Percent Change in MUC1, Changes in the expression levels from baseline (prior to intervention) to post intervention (resected tumor sample) will be plotted graphically., Baseline to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Percent Change in p21, Changes in the expression levels from baseline (prior to intervention) to post intervention (resected tumor sample) will be plotted graphically., Baseline to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Percent Change in PPARy, Changes in the expression levels from baseline (prior to intervention) to post intervention (resected tumor sample) will be plotted graphically., Baseline to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Percent Change in SUVmax From the PET Scan, The percent change from pre to post-intervention in SUV max values will be summarized using descriptive statistics and simple graphical plots., Baseline to the time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment|Pre-intervention SUV of PET Scan, The pre- and post-intervention SUV will be summarized using descriptive statistics and simple graphical plots., Baseline|Post-intervention SUV of PET Scan, The pre- and post-intervention SUV will be summarized using descriptive statistics and simple graphical plots., Time of surgery, after 42 days of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the mechanism(s) of action of pioglitazone as a candidate chemopreventive agent for lung cancer by investigating the effects on Ki-67 defined in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumor tissue.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effects of pioglitazone on multiple markers listed below:

* Tumor tissue: caspase-3, cyclin D1, p21/Waf1, peroxisome proliferative activated receptor, gamma (PPARγ), mucin 1 (MUC1).
* Premalignant tissue: Ki-67, caspase-3, PPARγ.
* Histologically normal tissue: Ki-67, PPARγ. II. To evaluate the toxicity and safety of pioglitazone in this patient population.

III. To analyze the expression of serum markers that are affected by pioglitazone.

IV. To describe the effects of limited treatment with pioglitazone on tumor metabolic activity as determined by FDG-PET (assessed before and after a minimum of 2 weeks of treatment).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pioglitazone hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 14-42 days. Patients then undergo surgery.