Feasibility of Addressing Sexual Dysfunction in Women with Breast and Gynecologic Cancers with a Novel Mobile Application
The purpose of this study is to identify breast and gynecologic cancer patients with sexual dysfunction, to measure sexual dysfunction with the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) and to provide Patients with the opportunity during this six-month period to follow up with a healthcare provider to discuss the sexual dysfunction needs and to see if a medical intervention can be of aid.
Sexual Dysfunction
BEHAVIORAL: Rosy app
Change in sex related personal distress as assessed by the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI), FSFI is a 19-item instrument that measures 6 domains of sexual function: Desire, Arousal, Lubrication, Orgasm, Satisfaction, and Pain. This uses a Likert-type scale, with scores ranging from 0 to 5, except for questions 1, 2, 13, and 16, which are scored from 1 to 5. The total score ranges from 2.0 to 36.0, with higher scores indicating better functioning., Baseline, 6 months|Change in sexual dysfunction as assessed by the Social Determinants of Health (SDOH) questionnaire, score ranges from 0 to 10, higher score showing worse outcome, Baseline, 6 months
Change in sex related personal distress as assessed by the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) in ethnic minority groups, FSFI is a 19-item instrument that measures 6 domains of sexual function: Desire, Arousal, Lubrication, Orgasm, Satisfaction, and Pain. This uses a Likert-type scale, with scores ranging from 0 to 5, except for questions 1, 2, 13, and 16, which are scored from 1 to 5. The total score ranges from 2.0 to 36.0, with higher scores indicating better functioning., end of study (6 months after baseline)|Change in sex related personal distress as assessed by the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) in sexual and gender minority groups, FSFI is a 19-item instrument that measures 6 domains of sexual function: Desire, Arousal, Lubrication, Orgasm, Satisfaction, and Pain. This uses a Likert-type scale, with scores ranging from 0 to 5, except for questions 1, 2, 13, and 16, which are scored from 1 to 5. The total score ranges from 2.0 to 36.0, with higher scores indicating better functioning., end of study (6 months after baseline)|Change in sex related personal distress as assessed by the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) in unpartnered women, FSFI is a 19-item instrument that measures 6 domains of sexual function: Desire, Arousal, Lubrication, Orgasm, Satisfaction, and Pain. This uses a Likert-type scale, with scores ranging from 0 to 5, except for questions 1, 2, 13, and 16, which are scored from 1 to 5. The total score ranges from 2.0 to 36.0, with higher scores indicating better functioning., end of study (6 months after baseline)
The purpose of this study is to identify breast and gynecologic cancer patients with sexual dysfunction, to measure sexual dysfunction with the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) and to provide Patients with the opportunity during this six-month period to follow up with a healthcare provider to discuss the sexual dysfunction needs and to see if a medical intervention can be of aid.