Short-term and Long-term Outcomes of Colorectal Cancer Treated With Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction Surgery : a National Registry-based Study
Natural orifice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES) has gained widespread recognition among scholars and has gradually been promoted and popularized around the world. However, the development of NOSES is still in the exploratory stage and there is a lack of strong evidence from evidence-based medicine to support its feasibility and safety, which has greatly affected its clinical application and development. Based on this, at the call of Professor Xishan Wang, the Chinese NOSES Alliance conducted a large retrospective clinical study involving multiple centers. By summarizing the NOSES cases of nearly 100 centers in China, the study aims to clarify the current status of NOSES surgery in China. Additionally, a comprehensive analysis and summary was conducted by combining the basic information of NOSES patients, perioperative data, postoperative pathological data, and follow-up information to further demonstrate the safety and feasibility of NOSES in the treatment of colorectal cancer. This study also provides more real and objective evidence-based medicine support for the promotion and development of NOSES surgery.
Colorectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Natural orifice specimen extraction
Rate of short-term complication, Rate of complications occurred within 30 days after surgery, 30 days after surgery
Operative duration, Total time of the operation, 7 days|Intraoperative blood loss, Estimated blood loss during the surgery, 7 days|Time to first flatus after surgery, Time to first flatus after surgery, 7 days|Time to first stool after surgery, Time to first stool after surgery, 7 days|Length of stay after surgery, Length of stay after surgery, 7 days|3-year disease free survival, 3-year disease free survival, 3 year|3-year overall survival, 3-year overall survival, 3 year
Natural orifice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES) has gained widespread recognition among scholars and has gradually been promoted and popularized around the world. However, the development of NOSES is still in the exploratory stage and there is a lack of strong evidence from evidence-based medicine to support its feasibility and safety, which has greatly affected its clinical application and development. Based on this, at the call of Professor Xishan Wang, the Chinese NOSES Alliance conducted a large retrospective clinical study involving multiple centers. By summarizing the NOSES cases of nearly 100 centers in China, the study aims to clarify the current status of NOSES surgery in China. Additionally, a comprehensive analysis and summary was conducted by combining the basic information of NOSES patients, perioperative data, postoperative pathological data, and follow-up information to further demonstrate the safety and feasibility of NOSES in the treatment of colorectal cancer. This study also provides more real and objective evidence-based medicine support for the promotion and development of NOSES surgery.