Treatment of Relapsed and/or Chemotherapy Refractory Advanced Malignancies by CART133
RATIONALE: Placing a tumor antigen chimeric receptor that has been created in the laboratory into patient autologous or donor-derived T cells may make the body build immune response to kill cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying genetically engineered lymphocyte therapy in treating patients with Relapsed and/or Chemotherapy Refractory Advanced Malignancies.
Liver Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Brain Tumor|Breast Cancer|Ovarian Tumor|Colorectal Cancer|Acute Myeloid and Lymphoid Leukemias
BIOLOGICAL: anti-CD133-CAR vector-transduced T cells
Occurrence of study related adverse events, defined as \>= Grade 3 signs/symptoms, laboratory toxicities, and clinical, Until week 24
Anti-tumor responses to CART-133 cell infusions, up to 24 weeks
in vivo existence of CART133, 1 year
I. Determine the safety and feasibility of the chimeric antigen receptor T cells transduced with the anti-CD133 (cluster of differentiation antigen 133 ) vector (referred to as CART-133 cells).

II. Determine duration of in vivo survival of CART-133 cells. RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) analysis of whole blood will be used to detect and quantify survival of CART-133 TCR (T-cell receptor) zeta:CD137 and TCR zeta cells over time.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. For patients with detectable disease, measure anti-tumor response due to CART-133 cell infusions.

II. To determine if the CD137 transgene is superior to the TCR zeta only transgene as measured by the relative engraftment levels of CART-133 TCR zeta:CD137 and TCR zeta cells over time.

III. Estimate relative trafficking of CART-133 cells to tumor in bone marrow and lymph nodes.

IV. For patients with stored or accessible tumor cells determine tumor cell killing by CART-133 cells in vitro.

V. Determine if cellular or humoral host immunity develops against the murine anti-CD133, and assess correlation with loss of detectable CART-133 (loss of engraftment).

VI. Determine the relative subsets of CART-133 T cells (Tcm, Tem, and Treg).