Comparison of Sequential Therapies With Sunitinib and Sorafenib in Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
The clinical benefits of sunitinib and sorafenib have been demonstrated in patients with cytokine-refractory metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Sunitinib has also been shown to improve progression free survival and overall survival in a comparative study with interferon-alpha. When sunitinib is used as first-line molecular-targeted therapy, switching to sorafenib is one of the treatment options after disease progression. Reversely, when sorafenib is used as first-line molecular-targeted therapy, sunitinib is used as second-line therapy. The goal of cancer treatment is cure, and if cure is not possible, it is to prolong survival. In this study, sunitinib or sorafenib will be administered as first-line molecular-targeted therapy and treatment switched to the other test drug, sorafenib or sunitinib, when disease progression is detected to assess which treatment sequence produces longer progression free survival and offers a better safety profile (causing fewer adverse events). The purpose of this trial is to compare progression free survival of first line sunitinib versus sorafenib, and that of two treatment sequences, i.e. sunitinib followed by sorafenib versus sorafenib followed by sunitinib.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Sorafenib-sunitinib|DRUG: Sunitinib-sorafenib
Progression free survival in first-line treatment, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression of the first line treatment or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months., Time of progression in first line treatment
Total progression free survival (PFS) in first-line and second-line treatments, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression of the second line treatment or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months., Time of progression in second line treatment
The clinical benefits of sunitinib and sorafenib have been demonstrated in patients with cytokine-refractory metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Sunitinib has also been shown to improve progression free survival and overall survival in a comparative study with interferon-alpha. When sunitinib is used as first-line molecular-targeted therapy, switching to sorafenib is one of the treatment options after disease progression. Reversely, when sorafenib is used as first-line molecular-targeted therapy, sunitinib is used as second-line therapy. The goal of cancer treatment is cure, and if cure is not possible, it is to prolong survival. In this study, sunitinib or sorafenib will be administered as first-line molecular-targeted therapy and treatment switched to the other test drug, sorafenib or sunitinib, when disease progression is detected to assess which treatment sequence produces longer progression free survival and offers a better safety profile (causing fewer adverse events). The purpose of this trial is to compare progression free survival of first line sunitinib versus sorafenib, and that of two treatment sequences, i.e. sunitinib followed by sorafenib versus sorafenib followed by sunitinib.