Clinical Application of Super-resolution Ultrasound(SR-US) Imaging in Solid Tumors
It has well accepted that tumor angiogenesis present aberrant vascular architecture and functional abnormalities, which is associated with tumorigenesis, tumor propagation and progression. By locating, separating and tracking microbubbles, the recently introduced and upgraded Ultrasound Localization Microscopy (ULM) surpassed classical wave diffraction limit. However, the acquisition of structural and functional parameters of microcirculation in vivo for ULM is still confined by the compromise between the resolution and penetration depth. The relatively long acquisition time induced the difficulty of motion correction potentially, which hampers the preclinical to clinical application in organs with distinct tissue motion such as the liver. Therefore, we take the lead in studying human liver lesion microvasculature, which remains a challenge for noninvasive, quantitative and functional intravital imaging especially due to its deep-seated location and strong motion. We developed a Super-resolution Ultrasound (SR-US) imaging technique based on ULM to assess its feasibility of visualizing and quantifying microvasculature in human organs.
Neoplasms, Liver|Neoplasms Malignant|Neoplasm Metastasis|Ultrasound|Microvessels
Perfusion index, The product of the average speed of microbubbles in region of interest (ROI) and the ROI area, 30 minutes|Vessel diameter, To describe the diameters of the tiniest blood vessels that can be explored, 30 minutes|Vessel density, To describe the ratio of the number of blood vessels in the tumor to the cross-sectional area of the tumor, 30 minutes|Vessel density ratio, The ratio of blood vessel density between the core and peripheral areas of the tumor, 30 minutes|Mean flow velocity, The average velocity in the region of interest, 30 minutes|Distance metric, The ratio of the total length of the curve path to the straight line distance from the beginning to the end of the curve, 30 minutes|Perfusion ratio, Perfusion ratio of tumor core to peripheral area, 30 minutes
In this study, 7 indexes were obtained by ultrasonic acquisition. These 7 indicators are used to describe and evaluate the microvessels in the tumor, so as to achieve the early identification and diagnosis of the tumor, and to monitor the growth of the tumor for a long time and evaluate the treatment of the tumor. This is not available with other ultrasound devices.

Based on contrast-enhanced ultrasound, this technology can provide information of smaller blood vessels, which will certainly contribute to the early diagnosis and real-time evaluation of solid tumors during treatment, and play an important role in clinical application.