A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of CyPep-1 in Combination With Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Advanced or Metastatic Cancers
This Phase 1b/2a study will assess the efficacy, safety, and pharmacodynamics of CyPep-1 when administered directly into measurable tumor lesions in combination with the anti-PD-1 antibody pembrolizumab. Additionally, the study will assess anti-tumor effects of CyPep-1 on injected lesions and non-injected target lesions identified at baseline, as well as local and systemic immunological effects of CyPep-1 in combination with pembrolizumab.
Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Advanced Breast Cancer|Advanced Melanoma
DRUG: CyPep-1|DRUG: Pembrolizumab 25 MG/ML [KEYTRUDA®]
Incidence, frequency, and seriousness of TEAEs, 2 weeks|Incidence of DLTs, 6 weeks|ORR based on radiological assessment according to the RECIST v1.1, 8 weeks
PFS, 8 weeks|OS, 3 months
Treatment with immune modulating agents may result in long lasting anti-tumor responses in patients with cancer. However, only a subset of patients obtains durable remission. Treatment strategies that aim at recruiting tumor antagonizing cellular components of the immune system holds great promise.

CyPep-1 is a chemically synthesized peptide with oncolytic properties. It selectively targets cancer cells based on their altered molecular composition, and removes the surrounding cell membrane. This releases tumor neoantigens to the microenvironment and potentially induces an anti-tumour immune response.

Preclinical studies show that CyPep-1 can synergize with anti-PD-1 antibody treatment in terms of decreased tumor volumes and prolonged Overall Survival (OS), highlighting the possible clinical utility of CyPep-1 in the combination setting with ICIs.

This is an open-label, multi-center, non-randomized Phase 1b/2a study. The Phase 1b portion of the study (ie, the first 6 patients enrolled) will confirm the recommended CyPep-1 dose of 20 mg every 2 weeks (Q2W) in combination with pembrolizumab 400 mg every 6 weeks (Q6W). The patients from the Phase 1b portion will continue to the Phase 2a portion of the study (approximately 90 patients in total will be enrolled, with 30 patients per arm). The Phase 2a portion of the study will have 3 arms including patients with advanced or metastatic HNSCC, melanoma, or TNBC and will assess the efficacy, safety, and pharmacodynamics of CyPep-1 (20 mg Q2W) when administered directly into measurable tumor lesions in combination with the anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibody pembrolizumab (400 mg Q6W).