Safety Study for a Gamma Delta T Cell Product Used With Low Dose Radiotherapy in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic NSCLC or Solid Tumors With Bone Metastases
This is a clinical trial studying intravenous infusions of allogeneic gamma delta T cells after receiving low dose radiotherapy in participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer or solid tumors with bone metastases to evaluate the safety and efficacy of combining immunotherapy with radiation therapy.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer|Bone Metastases From Solid Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: KB-GDT-01
Number of participants with Adverse Events (AE) and/or Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) as a Measurement of Safety and Tolerability of KB-GDT-01 in Combination with LDRT, DLT, defined as the occurrence or start of a clinically significant Grade 3 or greater AE (per CTCAE v5.0) occurring during the DLT assessment period that cannot be attributed to disease progression, intercurrent illness, or concomitant medication., From the first infusion of study drug until Day 40 or 30 days after the last study drug infusion, whichever occurs later
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Investigator assessed ORR per RECIST v1.1. ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete or partial response., From first study drug infusion through to Month 24|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Investigator assessed PFS per RECIST v1.1. PFS is defined as the time from first study drug infusion until the first evidence of disease progression or death., From first study drug infusion until the first evidence of disease progression, death or Month 24.|Overall Survival (OS), Investigator assessed OS per RECIST v1.1. OS is defined as the time from first study drug infusion to death., From first study drug infusion until death or Month 24.|Time to Progression (TTP), Investigator assessed TTP per RECIST v1.1. TTP is defined as the time from first study drug infusion until first evidence of disease progression., From first study drug infusion until first evidence of disease progression or Month 24.|Time to Treatment Response (TTR), Investigator assessed TTR per RECIST v1.1. TTR is defined as the time from first study drug infusion until first evidence of disease response., From first study drug infusion until first evidence of disease response or Month 24.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Investigator assessed DCR per RECIST v1.1 DCR is defined as the percentage of participants with complete response, partial response or stable disease., From first study drug infusion until first evidence of disease response or stable disease or Month 24.
In this clinical trial, or 'study', participants with locally advanced or metastatic, non-small cell cancer (NSCLC) or solid tumors with bone metastases, will receive KB-GDT-01, an allogeneic (cells from healthy donors) gamma delta T-cell product. All participants will receive KB-GDT-01 as intravenous infusions in combination with radiotherapy.

After being informed about the study and its potential risks, during the 28-day screening period, all consented participants will have laboratory tests, assessments, tumor scans, and a tumor biopsy.

Cytokine release syndrome symptoms and other potential adverse effects, will be monitored during the dose limiting toxicity period.

The study will be conducted in 2 parts, with the same number of visits in each part.

In Part 1 Dose Escalation, the study will attempt to identify the best dose with the lowest incidence of adverse effects (AE) and try to identify if the KB-GDT-01 is working (effectiveness). In Part 2 Dose Expansion the best dose will be further investigated for AE and effectiveness. There will be up to 36 participants in Part 1 and up to 21 additional participants in Part 2 of the study.

The total treatment period of the study drug protocol will be completed in 31 days. Participants will then attend clinic visits during a 30-day short-term follow-up period, with a subsequent long-term follow-up period up to 12 months.