Radiotherapy Combined With Oxaliplatin and Fluorouracil Followed By Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced, Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving radiation therapy together with oxaliplatin and fluorouracil followed by gemcitabine works in treating patients with locally advanced, unresectable pancreatic cancer. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Oxaliplatin may also make the tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Giving radiation therapy with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer
RADIATION: radiation therapy|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride
1-year survival rate, 1-year survival will be considered "success". The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. If more than 1 patients is lost to follow-up, we will use Kaplan-Meier estimates for the 6-month and 12-month overall survival rates. 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according the approach of Duffy and Santner., At 1 year
Survival time, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Confirmed tumor response, defined to be a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart, Up to 6 months|Time to disease progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 3 years|Duration of response, Date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the date progression is documented, assessed up to 3 years|Time to treatment failure, Time from the date of randomization to the date at which the patient is removed from treatment due to progression, toxicity, or refusal, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the 1-year survival rate in patients with locally advanced, unresectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas treated with concurrent external beam radiotherapy, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil followed by gemcitabine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine overall survival, time to disease progression, and confirmed response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

II. Determine toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5.5 weeks. Beginning concurrently with radiotherapy, patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1, 15, and 29 and fluorouracil IV continuously for 5.5 weeks. Beginning 4-6 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment with gemcitabine repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.