Evaluation of Performance Characteristics of Capsule Endoscopy With PillCam UGI Capsule Compared to Standard Endoscopy
This study is to examine the benefits of newly designed capsule with enhanced frame rate and wide angle compared to standard endoscopy, which may help enhance detecting esophageal diseases that otherwise may have been out of vision in the standard endoscopy, ultimately decreasing healthcare costs.
Barrett Esophagus
DEVICE: Pill cam|OTHER: EGD
The overall diagnostic accuracy of capsule endoscopy in predicting the presence and extent of Barrett's esophagus in comparison to standard esophagogastroduodenoscopy, The ability to accurately predict the presence of Barrett's esophagus by capsule endoscopy and standard EGD will be measured., 1 year
Incidence of Treatment related adverse events of capsule endoscopy in comparison to standard esophagogastroduodenoscopy, Wireless capsule endoscopy is generally considered safe. Potential risks resulting from capsule endoscopy are reported low and may include discomfort while swallowing, accidental aspiration and capsule retention leading to small bowel obstruction and perforation. the investigator will measure tolerability of capsule endoscopy as well as standard endoscopy using visual analogue scale., 1 year
This is a pilot, single center, prospective, tandem study. All veteran patients with Barrett's esophagus scheduled for an upper EGD at Veterans Affairs Medical Center (Kansas City, MO, USA) for check-up of BE will be asked to swallow the pillcam prior to an EGD. A member of the research team will approach a potential subject to discuss participation in the study, including background of the proposed study, inclusion and exclusion criteria, benefits and risks of the procedures and follow-up. If this is of interest to the subject, the informed consent form is discussed and presented. The subject must sign the consent form prior to enrollment. This form will have prior approval of the study site's Institutional Review Board (IRB). Failure to obtain informed consent renders the subject ineligible for the study

Eligible subjects at the participating institution who meet the inclusion criteria for this study will be offered the opportunity to participate in this clinical trial. To ensure that subjects are approached for potential study participation without bias, a Subject Screening Log will be maintained. This Log will track the basic demographic information of each subject approached for clinical trial inclusion and the resulting reason for exclusion from the clinical study if applicable.

The duration of the study is expected to be approximately 12 months. Enrollment of Study patients will cease when approximately 20 patients have been enrolled.