Pelvic Physical Therapy for Sexual Dysfunction in Gynecologic Oncology Survivors
The purpose of this research study is to investigate the use of pelvic physical therapy for gynecologic cancer survivors who report sexual dysfunction. Physical therapy experts believe that a full 10-week regimen is necessary for true improvement of symptoms. Investigators aim to see if this tense regimen is feasible for survivors. Investigators also aim to see if patients have an improvement in their sexual function and quality of life.
Gynecologic Cancer|Sexual Dysfunction
OTHER: Control Arm|OTHER: Physical Therapy Arm|OTHER: European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30)|OTHER: Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI)|OTHER: Exit Interview
Accrual to Study Intervention, Accrual is the number of participants that screen positive for sexual dysfunction, are eligible for entry into the study and consent to participate in the study., At baseline|Number of Participants Retained to Study Intervention, Retention is participants' attendance of pelvic physical therapy visits., 3 months after completion of physical therapy.|Adherence to Study Intervention, Adherence is the number of enrolled participants completing the interevention., 3 months after completion of physical therapy.
Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) Questionnaire, The questionnaire is comprised of six domains: desire \[two items\], arousal \[four items\], lubrication \[four items\], orgasm, satisfaction, pain \[three items each\]. Score range is 1 to 5. The FSFI total score is the sum of the 6 domain/subscale scores and has a maximum score of 36. Higher scores indicate better functioning. At each time point, 2-sample t-tests or Wilcoxon rank sum tests will be used to compare sexual function between groups. If feasible, mixed effects models with random intercept will be used to compare sexual function between groups over time. Intervention groups, visits, and intervention groups by visits will be included in the model. Contrasts will be used to compare sexual function between groups at each time point., At time of randomization, 3 months after randomization and 3 months after completion of physical therapy regimen|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire, The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire will be completed three times during study intervention and is patient reported to assess sexual function and health-related quality of life. Score range is 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/ healthy level of functioning; a high score for the global health status /quality of life represents a high quality of life; a high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems. At each time point, 2-sample t-tests or Wilcoxon rank sum tests will be used to compare sexual function between groups. If feasible, mixed effects models with random intercept will be used to compare sexual function between groups over time. Intervention groups, visits, and intervention groups by visits will be included in the model. Contrasts will be used to compare sexual function between groups at each time point., At time of randomization, 3 months after randomization and 3 months after completion of physical therapy regimen
Primary Objective(s): To determine the feasibility of an intensive pelvic physical therapy intervention with gynecologic cancer survivors reporting sexual dysfunction. Feasibility will be determined by accrual, retention, and adherence.

Secondary Objective(s):

* To demonstrate preliminary efficacy of the pelvic physical therapy intervention on sexual function in gynecologic cancer survivors. Sexual function will be measured three times: at time of randomization (T0), after completion of the 10-week pelvic physical therapy regimen - 3 months after randomization (T1), and 3 months after T1 (T2).
* To demonstrate preliminary efficacy of the pelvic physical therapy intervention on health-related quality of life in gynecologic cancer survivors. Quality of life will be measured at three times (T0) at time of randomization, (T1) after completion of the 10-week pelvic physical therapy regimen - 3 months after randomization, and (T2) 3 months after T1