Structured Follow-up Intervention on Glucose Status After Pancreatic Cancer Surgery
The primary aim of the present study is to examine the effect of a "structured follow-up intervention" to be performed in the first three months after PD on blood glucose. The exploratory aim of the study is to examine the effect of the "structured follow-up intervention" to be performed in the first three months after PD on patient outcomes (mortality, rehospitalization and having surgery, wound site complications, bile leakage, delayed gastric emptying, pancreatic fistula, myocardial infarct, cardiac arythmia, pneumonia, intraabdominal abscess, bleeding and pain) and the quality of life. The secondary aim of the study is to evaluate the factors affecting glucose levels in three months after PD by using data mining. Data mining will allow evaluation of all the factors affecting glucose levels by using detailed blood glucose predictors obtained through continuous glucose monitoring after PD. The study has a single-center, randomized, controlled, single-blind design. The study sample will include 40 patients with PD. The allocation ratio will be 1:1. Since being diagnosed as diabetes before surgery is an important variable, block randomization will be performed depending on whether the patients have the diagnosis of diabetes.
Pancreas Cancer|Diabetes
BEHAVIORAL: structured follow-up intervention
HbA1c, HbA1c, Three months|fasting blood glucose, fasting blood glucose, Three months|mean glucose, As a continuous glucose monitoring system, Decxom G6 will be utilized and blood glucose levels of the patients will be monitored for three months., Three months|glucose standard deviation, As a continuous glucose monitoring system, Decxom G6 will be utilized and blood glucose levels of the patients will be monitored for three months., Three months|glucose variance coefficient, As a continuous glucose monitoring system, Decxom G6 will be utilized and blood glucose levels of the patients will be monitored for three months., Three months|GMI-glucose management indicator, As a continuous glucose monitoring system, Decxom G6 will be utilized and blood glucose levels of the patients will be monitored for three months., Three months|time spent at the target glucose value (Time in range), As a continuous glucose monitoring system, Decxom G6 will be utilized and blood glucose levels of the patients will be monitored for three months., Three months
rehospitalization/having surgery, rehospitalization/having surgery, Three months|wound site complications, wound site complications outcome will be collected from clinical data record, Three months|post-operative complications, bile leakage, delayed gastric emptying, pancreatic fistula, myocardial infarct, cardiac arrythmia, pneumonia, intraabdominal abscess, bleeding outcomes as complications will be collected from clinical data record, Three months|pain, Visual Analog Score for pain will be assessed. Pain will be assessed between 1-10 point; 1-no pian, 10-severe pain, Three months|quality of life-EORTC QOL-C30, Also quality of life of the patients will be assessed with European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQQ-C30) Version 3.0. All functional scales and individual item scores are transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher values indicating a higher functioning in functional scales and an increased presence of symptoms in symptom scales.

Dear reviewer, there EORTC have 5 functional scales (physical functioning, role. functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning, social functioning), global health status sub-scale, 9 symptom scales (fatigue, nause and vomiting, pain, dsypnoea, insomnia, apptite loss, constipation, diarhoea, financial difficulties). If we give each subscale, so much secondary outcomes and confused will be. Therefore we can not give each subscale as secondary outcomes., Three months|quality of life-PAN26, Quality of life of pancreas cancer aspect will be assessed with PAN26. All functional scales and individual item scores are transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher values indicating a higher functioning in functional scales and an increased presence of symptoms in symptom scales.

Dear reviewer, The QLQ-PAN26 consists of 15 sub-scales (pancreatic pain, bloating digestive symptoms, taste, indigestion, flatulence, weight loss, weakness arms and legs, dry mouth, hepatic symptoms, altered bowel habit, body image, taubled with side-effects, future worries and planning of activities) and 2 functional scales (satisfaction with health care, and sexuality). Because there are so many subsclaes, we prefer only PAN26 quality of lie aspect., Three months
The primary aim of the present study is to examine the effect of a "structured follow-up intervention" to be performed in the first three months after PD on blood glucose. The exploratory aim of the study is to examine the effect of the "structured follow-up intervention" to be performed in the first three months after PD on patient outcomes (mortality, rehospitalization and having surgery, wound site complications, bile leakage, delayed gastric emptying, pancreatic fistula, myocardial infarct, cardiac arythmia, pneumonia, intraabdominal abscess, bleeding and pain) and the quality of life. The secondary aim of the study is to evaluate the factors affecting glucose levels in three months after PD by using data mining. Data mining will allow evaluation of all the factors affecting glucose levels by using detailed blood glucose predictors obtained through continuous glucose monitoring after PD. The study has a single-center, randomized, controlled, single-blind design. The study sample will include 40 patients with PD. The allocation ratio will be 1:1. Since being diagnosed as diabetes before surgery is an important variable, block randomization will be performed depending on whether the patients have the diagnosis of diabetes.