Temozolomide and Ascorbic Acid in Treating Patients With Recurrent High-Grade Glioma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ascorbic acid when given together with temozolomide in treating patients with high-grade glioma that has come back. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Ascorbic acid contains ingredients that may prevent or slow the growth of high-grade gliomas. Giving temozolomide with ascorbic acid may kill more tumor cells.
Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma|Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: ascorbic acid|DRUG: temozolomide|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Ascorbic Acid in Combination With Temozolomide, Maximum tolerated dose of ascorbic acid in combination with temozolomide, defined as the highest dose tested which results in dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in no more than one of six evaluable patients. Graded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. DLT incidence will be described by dose level., 56 days|Incidence Rates of Adverse Events, Graded According to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The incidence rates of adverse events will be described by dose level. The frequency of occurrence of overall toxicity, categorized by toxicity grades, will be described., Up to 30 days after last administration of study medication
Changes in Serum Levels of Ascorbic Acid Using High-performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) With Coulometric Electrochemical Detection), Correlation of intracellular glutathione (in peripheral blood mononuclear cells) with ascorbic acid levels during therapy with ascorbic acid and temozolomide will be summarized using descriptive statistics to summarize changes over time., Baseline to up to 52 weeks|Using Radiologic Measurements for Tumor Response, The measurement of effect will be based on the Macdonald criteria, Up to 52 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicities and determine the recommended dose of intravenous ascorbic acid given three times weekly in combination with temozolomide in patients with recurrent high grade glioma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in the levels of serum ascorbic acid using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with coulometric electrochemical detection) during therapy with ascorbic acid and temozolomide.

II. Radiographic assessment of disease status after 2 cycles of therapy with ascorbic acid and temozolomide.

III. To evaluate progression-free and overall survival of patients with recurrent high grade glioma treated with therapy with ascorbic acid and temozolomide.

IV. To descriptively examine quality of life (QOL) using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaires (QLQ)-C30 during treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ascorbic acid.

Patients receive ascorbic acid intravenously (IV) over 90-120 minutes three times per week and temozolomide orally days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 2 months for 1 year and then periodically thereafter.