A Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of KW-0761 in Chinese Subjects With Mycosis Fungoides or Sézary Syndrome Previously Treated With Systemic Therapy
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mogamulizumab (KW-0761) in chinese subjects with mycosis fungoides or sézary syndrome previously treated with systemic therapy
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Mogamulizumab
Overall Response Rate, The ORR was defined as the count of subjects who had a confirmed CR or PR, defined as documented CR or PR per Global Composite Response Score that was confirmed by a subsequent observation at least 4 weeks later. Overall Response Rate was determined based on the response in all compartments (lymph nodes, skin, peripheral blood, and viscera), referencing Olsen, 2011 as follows: Complete Response (CR) = complete disappearance of all clinical evidence of disease; Partial Response (PR) = regression of measurable disease; Stable Disease (SD) = failure to attain CR, PR, or PD; Progressive Disease (PD) = PD in any compartment; Relapse = recurrence of disease in prior CR in any compartment., At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) until progression up to 29 months;
Skin disease response rate;, Skin disease will be evaluated using the modified SWAT. The detailed response criteria (CR, PR, PD, SD) is defined in Olsen 2011. Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) will be regarded as response. Response rate is calculated by Subjects who confirmed response/Total subjects, At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) until progression up to 29 months;|Lymth nodes response rate, Lymph nodes status will be evaluated by enhanced computed tomography (CT）. The detailed response criteria (CR, PR, PD, SD) is defined in Olsen 2011. Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) will be regarded as response. Response rate is calculated by Subjects who confirmed response/Total subjects, At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) until progression up to 29 months;|Visceral metastases response rate;, Visceral disease status will be evaluated by enhanced computed tomography (CT）. The detailed response criteria (CR, PR, PD, SD) is defined in Olsen 2011. Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) will be regarded as response. Response rate is calculated by Subjects who confirmed response/Total subjects., At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) until progression up to 29 months;|Blood disease response rate;, The response in blood will be assessed by flow cytometry. The detailed response criteria (CR, PR, PD, SD) is defined in Olsen 2011. Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) will be regarded as response. Response rate is calculated by Subjects who confirmed response/Total subjects., At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) until progression up to 29 months;|Progression Free Survival, PFS is defined as the time from the first day of a treatment until documented progression or death.

Progression was defined based on Olsen (2011)., Up to 32 months.|Duration of response (DOR), The DOR is defined as the time from the date that criteria for CR or PR are met (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that PD or death is objectively documented. Subjects who still continue response at the time of analysis will be censored at the day of their last tumor assessment (from any compartment)., Up to 32 months.|Time to response (TTR), TTR is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date that criteria for CR or PR are met (whichever is first recorded). Subjects who do not meet response criteria will be censored at the day of their last tumor assessment (from any compartment)., Up to 29 months.|Response rate of lymph node evaluated by Lugano 2014., Subjects will be evaluated for response in lymph node based on Lugano 2014 criteria. Disease status will be evaluated by enhanced computed tomography (CT）. The detailed response criteria (CR, PR, PD, SD) is defined in Lugano 2014. Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) will be regarded as response. Response rate is calculated by Subjects who confirmed response/Total subjects., At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) until progression up to 29 months;|Response rate of viscera evaluated by Lugano 2014 criteria., Subjects will be evaluated for response in viscera based on Lugano 2014 criteria. Disease status will be evaluated by enhanced computed tomography (CT）. The detailed response criteria (CR, PR, PD, SD) is defined in Lugano 2014. Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) will be regarded as response. Response rate is calculated by Subjects who confirmed response/Total subjects., At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 28 days) until progression up to 29 months;
To evaluate pharmacokinetics (plasma mogamulizumab concentration) of mogamulizumab., Day 1 (Before infusion and at the end of the infusion), Day 8, Day 15, Day 22, Days 28 in Cycle 1; Day 15, Days 28 in Cycle 2 and 3; Days 28 in Cycle 4, 6, 8, 10, 12; Last visit. Each cycle is 28 days.|To evaluate immunogenicity (anti-mogamulizumab antibody) of mogamulizumab., Day 1, Days 28 in Cycle 1; Days 28 in Cycle 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12; Last visit. Each cycle is 28 days.|To evaluate the effects of skin disease on health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) -Skindex 29., Skindex-29 rates 29 items assessing 3 domains (emotions, symptoms, \& functioning) on a linear scale from 0 (never) to all the time (100). Higher scores = higher impact of skin disease., Day 1, Days 28 in Cycle 1; Days 28 in odd cycles (Cycle 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15…); Last visit. Each cycle is 28 days.|The incidence and frequency of treatment-related adverse events (TEAEs) and drug-related TEAEs as assessed by CTCAE v5.0., An AE can be any unfavorable or unintended signs (including any abnormal laboratory findings), symptoms, or disease that occurred after subject's signing the ICF., Information from the date of the subject's signing the ICF until 90 days after the last dose or initiation of alternative therapy, whichever comes first will be recorded.
This is an open-label, multicenter, single arm study. This study consists of three parts: the Pretreatment Period, the Treatment Period, and the Follow-up Period. Subjects who meet all of eligibility criteria by the screening examination will be enrolled into the study, and start treatment with mogamulizumab within 30 days after obtaining consent. Mogamulizumab will be administered at the dose of 1.0 mg/kg as an intravenous (iv) infusion over at least 1 hour on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of Cycle 1 and on Days 1 and 15 of subsequent cycles. Each treatment cycle is set as 28 days. Subjects will continue the treatment of mogamulizumab until any of the criteria for study withdrawal is met. After stopping treatment, the end-of treatment examination will be conducted within 30 days after the last dose.The primary efficacy analysis will be conducted once all subjects terminate treatment by the confirmation of PD/drug intolerance/unacceptable toxicity or 12 months after the date of the first mogamulizumab administration of the last subject of entire study, whichever comes first.