Effects of Single Agent Niraparib and Niraparib Plus Programmed Cell Death-1 (PD-1) Inhibitors in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Participants
This is a multicenter, open-label, phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of niraparib alone and in combination with PD-1 inhibitors in participants with locally advanced and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The study will consist of 2 stages. In stage 1, participants from Cohorts 1 and 2 will receive niraparib plus PD-1 inhibitor; pembrolizumab and participants from Cohort 3 will receive niraparib alone. In Stage 2, participants from Cohorts 1A and 2A will receive niraparib plus the PD-1 inhibitor, TSR-042 (Dostarlimab).
Neoplasms
DRUG: Niraparib|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: TSR-042 (Dostarlimab)
Stage 1: Cohort 1: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is the percentage of participants with a confirmed best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) in the analysis population where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeters (mm) in the short axis. PR=At least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Tumor assessment was done by the Investigator per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1. Data has been presented for participants with NSCLC whose tumors have high PD-L1 expression (TPS\>=50%). Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 29 months|Stage 1: Cohort 2: Objective Response Rate, ORR is the percentage of participants with a confirmed BOR of CR or PR in the analysis population where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Tumor assessment was done by the Investigator per RECIST v1.1. Data has been presented for participants with NSCLC having PD-L1 expression in tumors (TPS: 1 to 49%). Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 17 months|Stage 1: Cohort 3: Objective Response Rate, ORR is the percentage of participants with a confirmed BOR of CR or PR in the analysis population where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Tumor assessment was done by the Investigator per RECIST v1.1. Data is presented for participants with locally advanced and metastatic squamous NSCLC. Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 6 months|Stage 2: Cohort 1A and Cohort 2A: Objective Response Rate, ORR is the percentage of participants with a confirmed BOR of CR or PR in the analysis population where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Tumor assessment was done by the Investigator per RECIST v1.1. Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 17 months
Stage 1: Cohort 1: Number of Participants With Non-serious Adverse Events (Non-SAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose that results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, is an important medical event(s) as per medical and scientific judgment. Adverse events which were not Serious Adverse Events were considered as Non-Serious adverse events, Up to a maximum of 45 months|Stage 1: Cohort 2: Number of Participants With Non-SAEs and SAEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose that results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, is an important medical event(s) as per medical and scientific judgment. Adverse events which were not Serious Adverse Events were considered as Non-Serious adverse events, Up to a maximum of 17 months|Stage 1: Cohort 3: Number of Participants With Non-SAEs and SAEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose that results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, is an important medical event(s) as per medical and scientific judgment. Adverse events which were not Serious Adverse Events were considered as Non-Serious adverse events, Up to a maximum of 6 months|Stage 2: Cohorts 1A and 2A: Number of Participants With Non-SAEs and SAEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose that results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, is an important medical event(s) as per medical and scientific judgment. Adverse events which were not Serious Adverse Events were considered as Non-Serious adverse events., Up to a maximum of 29 months|Stage 1: Cohort 1: Number of Participants Discontinuing the Study Due to AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. Number of participants discontinuing the study due to AEs have been summarized., Up to a maximum of 45 months|Stage 1: Cohort 2: Number of Participants Discontinuing the Study Due to AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. Number of participants discontinuing the study due to AEs have been summarized., Up to a maximum of 17 months|Stage 1: Cohort 3: Number of Participants Discontinuing the Study Due to AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. Number of participants discontinuing the study due to AEs have been summarized., Up to a maximum of 6 months|Stage 2: Cohorts 1A and 2A: Number of Participants Discontinuing the Study Due to AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. Number of participants discontinuing the study due to AEs have been summarized., Up to maximum 29 months|Stage 1: Cohort 1: Duration of Response, Duration of Response was defined as the time from first documented CR or PR until the subsequently documented disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs earlier; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter (mm) in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters., Up to a maximum of 45 months|Stage 1: Cohort 2: Duration of Response, Duration of Response was defined as the time from first documented CR or PR until the subsequently documented disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs earlier; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters., Up to a maximum of 17 months|Stage 1 : Cohort 3: Duration of Response, Duration of Response was defined as the time from first documented CR or PR until the subsequently documented disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs earlier; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters., Up to a maximum of 6 months|Stage 2: Cohorts 1A and 2A: Duration of Response, Duration of Response was defined as the time from first documented CR or PR until the subsequently documented disease progression by RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs earlier; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters., Up to a maximum of 29 months|Stage 1 : Cohort 1: Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR, PR or SD per RECIST v1.1; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 45 months|Stage 1 : Cohort 2: Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR, PR or SD per RECIST v1.1; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 17 months|Stage 1 : Cohort 3: Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR, PR or SD per RECIST v1.1; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 6 months|Stage 2: Cohorts 1A and 2A: Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR, PR or SD per RECIST v1.1; where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Confidence interval was calculated using binomial exact method., Up to a maximum of 29 months|Stage 1 : Cohort 1: Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Progression was defined using RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the diameter of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to a maximum of 45 months|Stage 1 : Cohort 2: Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Progression was defined using RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the diameter of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to a maximum of 17 months|Stage 1 : Cohort 3: Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Progression was defined using RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the diameter of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to a maximum of 6 months|Stage 2: Cohorts 1A and 2A: Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. Progression was defined using RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of the diameter of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to a maximum of 29 months|Stage 1: Cohort 1: Plasma Concentration of Niraparib Following Combination Therapy of Niraparib and Pembrolizumab, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points., Cycle 1 Day 1(Pre-dose and 30 Minutes, 1 Hour, 2 Hours, 4 Hours, 8 Hours, 96 Hours, 168 Hours Post-dose); Cycles 2, 4, 8 (Pre-dose and 4 Hours Post-dose) (each cycle of 21 days)|Stage 1: Cohort 2: Plasma Concentration of Niraparib Following Combination Therapy of Niraparib and Pembrolizumab, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points., Cycle 1 Day 1 (Pre-dose and 30 Minutes, 1, 2, 4, 8, 24, 168, 336 Hours Post-dose), Cycles 2, 8 (Pre-dose and 4 Hours Post-dose), Cycle 4 (Pre-dose and 30 Minutes, 1, 2, 4, 8, 24, 96, 168, 336 Hours Post-dose) (each cycle of 21 days)|Stage 1: Cohort 3: Plasma Concentration of Niraparib Following Niraparib Monotherapy, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points., Cycle 1 Day 1 (Pre-dose and 4 Hours Post-dose), Cycles 2, 4 and 8 (Pre-dose and 4 Hours Post-dose) (each cycle of 21 days)|Stage 2: Cohorts 1A and 2A: Plasma Concentration of Niraparib Following Combination Therapy of Niraparib and TSR-042 (Dostarlimab), Blood samples were collected at indicated time points., Cycle 1 Day 1 (Pre-dose and 4 Hours Post-dose), Cycles 2, 4 and 9 (Pre-dose and 4 Hours Post-dose) (each cycle of 21 days)
Stage 1: Cohort 1: Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from date of first dose to the date of death due to any cause., Up to a maximum of 45 months|Stage 1: Cohort 2: Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of first dose to the date of death due to any cause., Up to a maximum of 17 months|Stage 1: Cohort 3: Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of first dose to the date of death due to any cause., Up to a maximum of 6 months|Stage 2: Cohorts 1A and 2A: Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of first dose to the date of death due to any cause., Up to a maximum of 29 months
This is a multicenter, open-label, phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of niraparib alone and in combination with PD-1 inhibitors in participants with locally advanced and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The study will consist of 2 stages. In stage 1, participants from Cohorts 1 and 2 will receive niraparib plus PD-1 inhibitor; pembrolizumab and participants from Cohort 3 will receive niraparib alone. In Stage 2, participants from Cohorts 1A and 2A will receive niraparib plus the PD-1 inhibitor, TSR-042 (Dostarlimab).