Benign/Malignant Pulmonary Nodule Classification Based on High-throughput Whole-genome Methylation Sequencing(GM-seq)
Lung cancer is the first cancer in China in terms of morbidity and mortality. The problem of early diagnosis/treatment has always been concerned. The popularization of chest CT (electronic computed tomography) screening makes it possible to detect lung cancer early. However, the diagnosis still needs pathological evidence. It is an ideal choice to obtain pathological evidence through bronchoscope and other minimally invasive means before surgical resection. However, the positive rate of tracheoscopy is still unsatisfactory, which is related to the difficulty of traditional pathological detection in detecting small specimens obtained by tracheoscopy. Liquid biopsy technology based on methylation detection has been used in early cancer screening, but its advantages have not been fully exploited due to the low content of ctDNA (circulating tumor DNA) in the current detection samples. Therefore, through prospective clinical research, the investigators plan to combine the methylation detection technology based on "Whole genome methylation sequencing(GM-seq)" with tracheoscopy, compare the traditional pathological methods with methylation detection on the bronchoscopic samples of lung nodule subjects suspected of early lung cancer, and take the postoperative pathology as the gold standard for judging benign and malignant, to confirm the feasibility and advantages of the new technology.
Pulmonary Nodule, Solitary|Whole-genome Methylation Sequencing
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Whole-genome Methylation Sequencing(GM-seq)
Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC), Area under curve (AUC) of GM-seq data in discriminating malignant nodules from benign nodules., 2 years
Lung cancer is the first cancer in China in terms of morbidity and mortality. The problem of early diagnosis/treatment has always been concerned. The popularization of chest CT (electronic computed tomography) screening makes it possible to detect lung cancer early. However, the diagnosis still needs pathological evidence. It is an ideal choice to obtain pathological evidence through bronchoscope and other minimally invasive means before surgical resection. However, the positive rate of tracheoscopy is still unsatisfactory, which is related to the difficulty of traditional pathological detection in detecting small specimens obtained by tracheoscopy. Liquid biopsy technology based on methylation detection has been used in early cancer screening, but its advantages have not been fully exploited due to the low content of ctDNA (circulating tumor DNA) in the current detection samples. Therefore, through prospective clinical research, the investigators plan to combine the methylation detection technology based on "Whole genome methylation sequencing(GM-seq)" with tracheoscopy, compare the traditional pathological methods with methylation detection on the bronchoscopic samples of lung nodule subjects suspected of early lung cancer, and take the postoperative pathology as the gold standard for judging benign and malignant, to confirm the feasibility and advantages of the new technology.