HRD and Resistance to PAPPi in EOC Patients
The association between homologous recombination (HR) gene mutations and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) status in Chinese epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients has been investigated in previous studies (NCT04190667 and NCT04651920). This study is to investigate the correlation between HRD and the resistance to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) in a Chinese cohort confirmed of epithelial ovarian cancer. The mutated genes, HRD score model and their relationship with the prognosis is the primary endpoint in this study. All enrolled patients will accept PARPi as maintenance therapy after the complete or partial remission of targeted lesions. A multiple panel testing of germline and somatic genes, including BRCA1/2, and HRD score are provided for all participants.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Homologous Recombination Deficiency|Homologous Recombination Repair Gene Mutation|Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitor|Drug Resistance|Progression-free Survival|Overall Survival
GENETIC: Testing of homologous recombination deficiency
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival after the start of PARPi, One year
Overall survival, Overall survival after the start of PARPi, One year|Severe adverse events, Severe adverse events after the start of PARPi, One year
The association between homologous recombination (HR) gene mutations and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) status in Chinese epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients has been investigated in previous studies (NCT04190667 and NCT04651920). This study is to investigate the correlation between HRD and the resistance to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) in a Chinese cohort confirmed of epithelial ovarian cancer. The mutated genes, HRD score model and their relationship with the prognosis is the primary endpoint in this study. All enrolled patients will accept PARPi as maintenance therapy after the complete or partial remission of targeted lesions. A multiple panel testing of germline and somatic genes, including BRCA1/2, and HRD score are provided for all participants.