Doxepin Hydrochloride in Treating Oral Mucositis Pain in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Undergoing Radiation Therapy With or Without Chemotherapy
RATIONALE: Doxepin hydrochloride may be an effective treatment for oral mucositis pain in patients undergoing radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying doxepin hydrochloride to see how well it works compared to placebo in treating oral mucositis pain in patients with head and neck cancer undergoing radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy.
Head and Neck Cancer|Mucositis|Oral Complications of Radiation Therapy|Pain
DRUG: doxepin hydrochloride|OTHER: placebo
Total Pain Reduction (Mouth and Throat), The total pain reduction will be calculated by the (average of mouth and throat) area under the curve (AUC) adjusting for baseline, with time scale replaced by a numerical scale of 1,2,3,4,5,6. The numerical scale will be used rather than the raw time scale in order to give proper weights to more immediate patient-reported mouth pain outcomes after treatment. The AUC will be calculated by proration when there are terminal missing data. If the missing data are intermittent, simple imputation will be applied to calculate the AUC. The question ('On a scale from 0 to 10, what number best describes your MOUTH PAIN due to your radiation treatment now?') used 11-point numerical analog scales (0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain imaginable or possible) scores) to measure pain. The AUCs for the two treatment arms were compared by using the Wilcoxon rank sum test with 95% CIs., Baseline and Day 1
Total Taste of the Oral Rinse, The total taste of the oral rinse will be calculated by the area under the curve (AUC) adjusting for baseline, with time scale replaced by a numerical scale of 1,2,3,4,5,6 , and analyzed in the same way as the primary endpoint. The numerical scale will be used rather than the raw time scale in order to give proper weights to more immediate patient-reported mouth pain outcomes after treatment. The AUC will be calculated by proration when there are terminal missing data. If the missing data are intermittent, simple imputation will be applied to calculate the AUC. The question ('On a scale from 0 to 10, what number best describes the TASTE OF THE ORAL RINSE now?') used 11-point numerical analog scales (0 (acceptable taste) to 10(terrible taste), with higher values representing worse outcome) to evaluate the total taste of the oral rinse. The AUCs for the two treatment arms were compared by using the Wilcoxon rank sum test with 95% CIs., Up to 9 days|Total Stinging or Burning From the Oral Rinse, The total stinging or burning from the oral rinse will be calculated by the area under the curve (AUC) adjusting for baseline, with time scale replaced by a numerical scale of 1,2,3,4,5,6. The numerical scale will be used rather than the raw time scale in order to give proper weights to more immediate patient-reported mouth pain outcomes after treatment. The AUC will be calculated by proration when there are terminal missing data. If the missing data are intermittent, simple imputation will be applied to calculate the AUC. The question ('On a scale from 0 to 10, what number best describes any STINGING OR BURNING FROM THE ORAL RINSE now?') used 11-point numerical analog scales (0 (no stinging or burning) to 10 (worst stinging or burning possible) scores) to total stinging or burning from the oral rinse. The AUCs for the two treatment arms were compared by using the Wilcoxon rank sum test with 95% CIs.The statistical analysis will be the same as the primary analysis., Up to 9 days|Total Drowsiness Increase, The total drowsiness increase will be calculated by the area under the curve (AUC) adjusting for baseline, with time scale replaced by a numerical scale of 1,2,3,4,5,6. The numerical scale will be used rather than the raw time scale in order to give proper weights to more immediate patient-reported mouth pain outcomes after treatment. The AUC will be calculated by proration when there are terminal missing data. If the missing data are intermittent, simple imputation will be applied to calculate the AUC. The question ('On a scale from 0 to 10, what number best describes your DROWSINESS now?') used 11-point numerical analog scales (0 (no drowsiness) to 10 (extreme drowsiness, leading to sleep) scores) to measure total drowsiness increase. The AUCs for the two treatment arms were compared by using the Wilcoxon rank sum test with 95% CIs. The statistical analysis will be the same as the primary analysis., Up to 9 days|Incidence of Using Alternative Analgesics Between 2 and 4 Hours After the Initial Mouthwash, The incidence of utilizing additional analgesics between 2 and 4 hours after the initial mouthwash will be compared between the arms by the Chi-square test ., Up to 9 days|Patient Preference for Continuing Therapy With Oral Doxepin Hydrochloride, After each dose was administered, patients were asked if they would like to continue rinses with that particular agent. The percentage of patients who expressed an interest in continuing therapy are reported below., Up to 9 days
OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to gender, concurrent radiosensitizing chemotherapy (yes vs no), and age (\< 60 years vs ≥ 60 years). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive doxepin hydrochloride oral rinse (swish, gargle, and spit)\* over 1 minute on day 1. Patients may crossover to arm II on day 2.
* Arm II: Patients receive placebo oral rinse (swish, gargle, and spit)\* over 1 minute on day 1.

Patients may crossover to arm I on day 2. The primary and secondary objectives are detailed below.

Primary Objective:

Determine whether doxepin oral rinse is effective in reducing OM-related pain in patients undergoing RT to the oral cavity, as measured by a patient-reported questionnaire at 5,15, 30, 60, 120 and 240 minutes

Secondary Objectives:

1. Assess the adverse event profile of doxepin rinse using a patient-reported questionnaire at 5, 15, 30, 60, 120 and 240 minutes for domains of unpleasant taste, burning or stinging discomfort, and drowsiness.
2. Compare the incidence of using alternative analgesics before 4 hours, between the doxepin oral rinse and placebo arms.
3. Assess patient preference for continued therapy with oral rinse after initial test rinse or after the cross-over phase.

NOTE: \* Patients are instructed to avoid taking medications for mucositis pain 60 minutes before and after study medication.

After completing study therapy, patients have the option to receive doxepin hydrochloride oral rinse every 4 hours as needed during radiotherapy.

Patients complete questionnaires at baseline, and at 5, 15, 30, 60, 120, and 240 minutes after study medication. Patients who choose to continue doxepin hydrochloride oral rinse also complete weekly questionnaires.