Robot-Assisted Ultrasound for Thermal Ablative Therapy in Treating Patients With Small Kidney Masses Undergoing Surgery
This clinical trial studies a type of ultrasound called robot-assisted laparoscopic high-intensity focused ultrasound for performing thermal ablative therapy, or sound wave therapy, in treating patients with small kidney masses undergoing partial removal of the kidney. The robot-assisted ultrasound probe takes images of the kidney to help doctors locate the mass. The probe then uses high frequency sound waves to target and ablate (or destroy) the kidney mass, which may be a cancerous tumor or benign tissue. Surgery is then performed to remove the part of the kidney with the mass. Robot-assisted laparoscopic high-intensity focused ultrasound for thermal ablative therapy may be safer and help doctors see the tumor better when performing kidney surgery.
Renal Carcinoma|Renal Mass
PROCEDURE: Robot-Assisted Laparoscopic Surgery|PROCEDURE: High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound Ablation|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Laparoscopic Surgery|DEVICE: Sonatherm 600i Ultrasonic Lesion Generating System
Planned ablation volume, Ablation area of the kidney mass will be compared to the planned area under histopathologic review. Analyzed using a one-sided one sample T-test., Baseline (day of surgery)|Necrosis volume, Ablation area of the kidney mass will be compared to the planned area under histopathologic review. Analyzed using a one-sided one sample T-test., Baseline (day of surgery)
Tumor response, Up to 4 years|Disease free interval, From the date of treatment to the date of local or distant failure or until date of death, assessed up to 4 years|Time to local failure, From the date of treatment to the time to local failure, assessed up to 4 years|Time to distant failure, From the date of treatment to the time to documented metastatic disease, assessed up to 4 years|Overall success rate, measured as the combination of achieving local control of kidney cancer and demonstration of a favorable safety profile evidenced by enumeration of all adverse events by type, severity, and frequency, Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of laparoscopic high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) for the treatment of localized primary renal cancer to evaluate histological accuracy in successful ablation of the small renal mass, matched with intraoperative targeting.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity of laparoscopic HIFU for patients with primary renal cancer.

II. To evaluate the technical success of laparoscopic HIFU ablation.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo robot-assisted laparoscopic HIFU thermal ablative therapy during partial nephrectomy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 days, 2 weeks, 1 month, 6 months, 12 months, and then annually for up to 3 years.