Adjuvant Tislelizumab Plus Lenvatinib for Patients at High-risk of HCC Recurrence After Curative Resection or Ablation
Though hepatic resection and ablation are the curative treatments for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the 5-years recurrence-free survival is lower than 30%. In recent years, several immune checkpoint inhibitors have been approved in advanced or unresectable HCC. No study about the safety and efficacy of adjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitors for patients with HCC after hepatectomy is reported.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Recurrence|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor
DRUG: Adjuvant tislelizumab plus lenvatinib|DRUG: Adjuvant tislelizumab
Recurrene-free survival, Recurrene-free survival will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between groups are assessed for significance using the log-rank test., 3 years
Overall survival, Overall survival will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between groups are assessed for significance using the log-rank test., 3 years|Adverse events, Adverse events are expressed as number and percentage., 1 years
Hepatic resection and ablation are the best treatments for patients with early stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or selected intermediate or advanced disease. However, the postoperative 5-years recurrent rate is up to 70%, for whom recurrence is a major cause of death. In recent years, several immune checkpoint inhibitors have been approved in advanced HCC by official guidelines. At the same time, four randomizead controlled trials about adjvuant immune checkpoint inhibitors for postoperative HCC are ongoing. A prospective cohort study found adjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitors with or without tyrosine kinase inhibitors may improve recurrence-free survival of patients at high-risk of HCC recurrence after curative resection (DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2023.41.16_suppl.4119. Journal of Clinical Oncology 41, no. 16_suppl. 4119). Therefore, the investigators plan to compare the safety and efficacy of adjuvant Tislelizumab plus lenvatinib to Tislelizumab monotherapy for patients with high-risk factor of HCC recurrence after curative resection and ablation in a multicentric, prospective study.