Perioperative Ostomy Self-Management Telehealth for Cancer Patients and Family Caregivers
This phase II trial studies how well Perioperative Ostomy Self-Management Telehealth (Periop-OSMT) provides patients and their caregivers information about ostomy and ostomy care. Periop-OSMT may help to understand patient preparedness to do ostomy self-care, confidence in doing ostomy self-care, knowledge of ostomy self-care, quality of life, mood, use of medical services, and financial burden.
Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration
Patient and family caregiver (FCG) participation, Assessed by ratio of eligible participants (patient and FCGs) to those enrolled and those who decline participation, reasons for non-participation, number of scheduled study encounters completed, attrition rate between pre- and post-intervention, reasons for attrition/dropout, level of intervention participation including the total number of sessions, number of sessions completed without break-offs, number of break-offs, length (minutes) of sessions, and the ratio of all participants to those who completed \>= 80% of the study., Up to 24 months
Patient reported outcomes, Will be examined pre- and post-intervention, including patient activation, self-efficacy, ostomy-related knowledge, health related quality of life, medical care utilization, and financial burden. Descriptive statistics will be summarized using validated scoring procedures. The data will be used to assess descriptively the trajectory and patterns of outcomes before and after the intervention., Up to 6 months post-discharge|Support person/FCG reported outcomes, Will be examined pre- and post-intervention, including quality of life. Descriptive statistics will be summarized using validated scoring procedures. The data will be used to assess descriptively the trajectory and patterns of outcomes before and after the intervention., Up to 6 months post-discharge|Acceptability of Perioperative Ostomy Self-Management Telehealth, Acceptability will be assessed through qualitative data analysis using the conventional content analysis approach. Data from the tape-recorded interviews are transcribed and analyzed using HyperRESEARCH software. Transcripts will be imported for the development of analytic categories, data coding, and review of coded data. All data will be read repeatedly to achieve immersion and obtain a sense of the whole. Then, data will be read word by word to derive codes. Codes will be then sorted into themes based on links and relationship. Separate investigators will conduct a final validation review of the codes and themes to ensure consistency and clarity across all qualitative data. Data discordantly coded will be discussed for refinement and consensus purposes., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the feasibility and acceptability of the Periop-OSMT as measured by the percentage of patients and support persons/family caregivers (FCGs) who agree to participate; complete \>= 80% of the intervention; and report satisfaction with the intervention (through structured exit interviews).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine the patterns and trajectories for patient outcomes pre- and post-intervention, including patient activation, self-efficacy, ostomy-related knowledge, health related quality of life (HRQOL), medical care utilization, and financial burden.

II. Examine patterns and trajectories for support person/FCG outcomes pre- and post-intervention, including quality of life (QOL).

III. Using qualitative methods, evaluate the acceptability of the intervention as reported by participants.

OUTLINE:

Patients and/or support persons/family caregivers complete Periop-OSMT session in-person or via telephone over 20-40 minutes before surgery and before hospital discharge, and group telehealth session over 1.5-2 hours at weeks 1-3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 post discharge.

After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up for 6 months.