A Registry for Patients Treated on the Clinical Trial TAX 3503
The purpose of this study is to continue follow-up on patients who were treated on the study called TAX 3505 (MSK IRB #07-101). The sponsor of this study, has decided to end the study early, before all patients have completed all planned follow-up tests. As a result, the investigators do not yet know whether hormonal therapy alone, or in combination with docetaxel, is better at preventing prostate cancer recurrence in patients who had a rising PSA after prostatectomy. This study will continue following patients according to a schedule that is similar to that found in the TAX 3503 (MSK IRB #07-101) study in order to answer that question. This study is known as a registry study. The patients' will not receive any treatment as part of this study. Instead, they will be asked to have a blood test performed once every 12 weeks.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: No intervention
progression free survival, For patients treated on TAX3503 that will enable the study to achieve its primary endpoint of comparing the efficacy of its treatment arms as determined by progression-free survival during the period from randomization to progression or death or last followup., 1 year
annotating clinical outcomes, To utilize this registry for the purposes of annotating clinical outcomes to the biospecimens collected under TAX3503., 1 year|overall survival differences, Between the two arms, 1 year
The purpose of this study is to continue follow-up on patients who were treated on the study called TAX 3505 (MSK IRB #07-101). The sponsor of this study, has decided to end the study early, before all patients have completed all planned follow-up tests. As a result, the investigators do not yet know whether hormonal therapy alone, or in combination with docetaxel, is better at preventing prostate cancer recurrence in patients who had a rising PSA after prostatectomy. This study will continue following patients according to a schedule that is similar to that found in the TAX 3503 (MSK IRB #07-101) study in order to answer that question. This study is known as a registry study. The patients' will not receive any treatment as part of this study. Instead, they will be asked to have a blood test performed once every 12 weeks.