A Study of Aflibercept Versus Placebo With FOLFIRI in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Previously Treated With an Oxaliplatin Chemotherapy
Primary Objective:

To evaluate the improvement in progression-free survival (PFS) of aflibercept versus placebo in participants with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with FOLFIRI as second-line treatment for metastatic disease.

Secondary Objectives:

To compare the overall survival (OS) in the 2 treatment arms. To compare the overall response rate (ORR) in the 2 treatment arms. To assess the safety profile of the 2 treatment arms. To assess immunogenicity of intravenous (IV) aflibercept in selected centers.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Aflibercept|DRUG: Placebo
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time interval from the date of randomization to the date of first observation of either tumor progression or death due to any cause. Tumor assessment was performed by Independent Review Committee (IRC) as per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.0. Progression was defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to smallest sum of diameters on-study or absolute increase and at least 5 mm, progression of existing non-target lesions, or presence of new lesions. PFS was calculated by Kaplan-Meier estimates., 26.7 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time interval from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored at the earliest between the last date of the participants was known to be alive and the study cut-off date. Analysis was performed by Kaplan-Meier method., 31.6 months|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response rate was defined as the proportion of participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR), as assessed by Investigators and the IRC according to RECIST 1.0 criteria, relative to the total number of participants in the relevant analysis population. Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the size of target lesions with no progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions, or, the disappearance of all target lesions but persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions not qualifying for either CR or progressive disease (PD) and no new lesions., 26.6 months
Screening occurred from signed informed consent to randomization (up to 21 days). A treatment cycle was defined as a 2 week-period. All participants were followed during the study treatment and follow-up period until death or study cut off date, which ever comes first.