Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Cervical Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of capecitabine in treating patients who have persistent or recurrent cervical cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma
DRUG: Capecitabine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Duration of objective response, Up to 7 years|Frequency of adverse events, graded according to CTC version 2.0, Up to 7 years|Frequency of objective response, Up to 7 years|Severity of observed adverse events, graded according CTC version 2.0, Up to 7 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the antitumor activity of capecitabine in patients with persistent or recurrent non-squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix who have failed higher priority treatment protocols.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this drug in these patients. III. Determine whether the mRNA tumor expression levels of thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), and thymidine phosphorylase (TP) at baseline are potential predictors of clinical outcomes (response and survival) in patients treated with this drug.

IV. Determine whether the serum level of TP is a potential prognostic indicator of clinical outcomes (response and survival) in patients treated with this drug.

V. Determine whether the TS promoter polymorphism in peripheral blood is a potential prognostic indicator of clinical outcomes (response and survival) in patients treated with this drug.

VI. Determine the associations among the various measures of TS, DPD, and TP and clinical outcomes (response and survival) in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.