To Assess the Safety of Continuous IV Administration of Plerixafor in Patients With Advanced Pancreatic, Ovarian and Colorectal Cancers
Pancreatic, ovarian and colorectal cancers are difficult to treat using chemotherapy and immune therapies.Currently most patients are offered treatment with a standard chemotherapy drug depending on their cancer type. Recently, laboratory studies have shown that a drug called plerixafor may help the body to overcome resistance to immune therapy.

The purpose of this study is to find out if the study drug has the same effect on patients with advanced pancreatic, ovarian or colorectal cancer, as we have seen in our laboratory experiments, and find out the right dose of the study drug to give. This is a 'dose escalation study'. Patients will be recruited slowly and the study team will closely monitor the effect the drug has, until they find the best dose to give. As part of this study, blood and tumour samples will be collected and analysed in our laboratories and the patients cancer will be monitored using two imaging techniques, CT and FDG-PET scans.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Metastatic|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Plerixafor
Safety of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP), Determining the causality of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), 24 months
Pharmacokinetics of the Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) within the body., Determining the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion rates of the IMP through concentration rates in plasma samples., 24 months
Disease status, Anticancer impact following treatment with plerixafor., 24 months|Disease status, Metabolic tumour changes using FDG-PET., 24 months
This is a prospective, non-randomised, open label, Phase I, dose escalation study of plerixafor (MozobilTM) in patients with histological documentation of advanced pancreatic, high grade serous ovarian or colorectal adenocarcinoma. We will investigate the feasibility of administering plerixafor in terms of safety, and will try to identify the proof of mechanism in patients.

This study is required to establish whether relevant plasma concentrations of plerixafor can be achieved safely in patients with advanced pancreatic, high grade serous ovarian and colorectal cancer.

Plerixafor (Mozobil) will be administered as a continuous 7 day intravenous infusion, starting at a dose of 20 ug/kg/hr, and subsequent dose levels of 40, 80 and 120 ug/kg/hr (as an inpatient for at least the initial 48 hours). 3 patients will be entered sequentially (at least 1 week apart), using a standard 3+3, Phase I trial design. Up to 28 patients will be recruited.