Application of MDT Clinics in Arab World
Multidisciplinary clinics affect the quality of management of cancer patients. This Questionnaire is for research purposes aiming at exploring the application and implementation of multidisciplinary clinics in managing cancer patients in the Arab countries. The results of this survey will shed the light on the situation; the investigators aim at exploring the status of their implementation and who participates in them, in addition to exploring the challenges that face MDT clinics in Arab world.
Multidisciplinary Communication
OTHER: Survey
Investigate the rate of discussing the suspected patients in MDT clinics, We would like to know the rate of discussing suspected patients in MDT clinics. This will be done via a questionnaire., Two months|Investigate the main challenges to establish effective MDT clinics., We would like to know the main challenges to establish effective MDT clinics according to the physicians' point of view, who attend the MDT clinics . This will be done via a questionnaire., Two months
Describe the rate of well established and effective MDT in the Arab countries., We would like to know the rate of the well established MDT clinics and discussion during cancer patients' management. This will be done via a questionnaire., Two months|Who usually attend the MDT in the Arab countries?, We would like to know who usually participate and attend the MDT clinics during cancer patients' management. This will be done via a questionnaire., Two months
Multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) are recommended as a corner stone of best cancer care nowadays. MDTs consist of many professionals such as medical, nursing, and allied professionals and diagnostic experts to determine the optimal treatment pathway for individual patients. They should be well organized and efficient. MDT clinics care is helpful in making clinical decision and improving the quality of patients' care. However, there are many challenges that face the actual implementation and application of MDT clinics in routine cancer patients' care in our Arab countries.

This study aims at describing the situation in our Arab countries and reflecting the pathway \& logistics of referring cancer patients to MDT \& the impact of that on the patients' management \& outcome, in addition to exploring the challenges that face effective implementation of MDT clinics, so that it can lead the improvement in oncology manangement