Retinal Oxygen Function After Radiation Therapy
The investigators propose using retinal oximetry to assess for abnormalities in regional retinal oxygen consumption in previously- irradiated patients, and relate these abnormalities to changes in regional retinal function (i.e. visual field abnormalities). Since different regions of retina receive different radiation doses, the investigators will assess for a dose response as well.
A History of Radiation Therapy for a Tumor in the Vicinity of the Retina(s)
Abnormalities in regional retinal oxygen extraction after incidental irradiation of the retina., To identify abnormalities in regional retinal oxygen extraction in patients who have had previous incidental irradiation of the retina., 2 months|Prevalence of vision loss in patients with previous incidental irradiation of the retina, To determine the prevalence of regional retinal dysfunction (i.e. vision loss) in patients with previous incidental irradiation of the retina., 2 months
Changes in retinal oxygen extraction compared to radiation dose, To correlate changes in retinal oxygen extraction to radiation dose., 2 months|Vision loss amount versus radiation dose., To correlate retinal dysfunction (i.e. vision loss) to radiation dose., 2 months|Changes in retinal oxygen extraction as compared to vision loss., To correlate changes in retinal oxygen extraction to retinal dysfunction (i.e. vision loss)., 2 months
Radiation therapy (RT) is a common treatment for patients with cancers of the sinonasal area, orbit, skull base, nasopharynx, and brain. Because of the close proximity of these targets to the eyes, the retina is often incidentally and unavoidably irradiated. As a result, some patients develop radiation retinopathy and possibly vision loss. Clinicopathologic studies suggest similar microvascular mechanisms for both radiation- and diabetic retinopathy: small vessel occlusion and ischemia that can lead to neovascularization, increased capillary permeability, and visual loss in the regions of retina perfused by damaged vasculature. UNC has a novel, non-invasive retinal imaging technology called a Retinal Oximeter which measures hemoglobin oxygen saturation of retinal vessels. The difference in oxygen saturation between a retinal arteriole and venule pair reflects the oxygen consumption of the retinal region supplied by that vessel pair.