Randomized Phase III of PRRT Versus Interferon
The purpose of this study is to assess the benefit of 177Lu-DOTATATE versus interferon α-2b in patients with progressive, unresectable, non-pancreatic gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors resistant to therapy with somatostatin analogues, in terms of disease control.
Gastro-intestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Interferon alpha-2b|DRUG: 177Lu-DOTATATE
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined by the time between treatment initiation and the first of the following events:

* Disease progression according to RECIST 1.1;
* Death of the patient from any cause;
* Appearance of confirmed new lesion(s) on 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT or 18FDG PET/CT., 3 years [Anticipated]
Treatment response according to RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors), 3 years [Anticipated]|Adverse events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03 (CTC 4.03-WHO criteria), 3 years [Anticipated]|Tumor 18FDG PET/CT and 68Ga-octreotate PET/CT uptake at baseline, at mid and end of treatment, 3 years [Anticipated]
This is a phase III study of Peptid Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) with 177Lu-DOTATATE versus Interferon α-2b.

Objectives of the study:

1. To assess the benefit of 177Lu-DOTATATE versus interferon α-2b in patients with progressive, unresectable,non-pancreatic gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors, resistant to therapy with somatostatin analogues, in terms of disease control.
2. To assess efficacy and safety parameters of both treatment arms and the predictive value of tumor 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT and 18FDG PET/CT uptake at baseline, at mid (+/- 16th week) and end (+/- 32th week) of treatment in both arms.

In the interferon arm: 5000000 Units of interferon will be administered subcutaneously preferentially in the evening three times a week (every other day) until disease progression.

In the 177Lu-octreotate arm: Treatment will consist of 177Lu-DOTATATE intravenous injections fractionated in fixed activities of 7,4 GigaBecquerel (200mCi) (+/- 5%), given every 8 (+/- 1) weeks with simultaneous nephroprotective infusion of an amino acid solution. (Before amino acid nephroprotection solution, ondansetron, methylprednisolone and metoclopramid, are given in infusions in order to prevent nausea or vomiting). Approximately 30 min after the beginning of the aminoacid solution, 177Lu-octreotate is injected via a second side-line over 15-30 minutes. The amino acid infusion is continued at the same rate until end (total infusion time: 4-6 hours).

In total, 4 injections of 177Lu-DOTATATE are planned. However, in respect of the absorded dose limits of critical organs(kidneys and bone marrow), the 4th 177Lu-DOTATATE injection will be tailored with a minimal administered activity of 4,6 GigaBecquerel.

Treatment efficacy will be assessed on a patient-basis using RECIST 1.1 and by Progression Free Survival. The value of tumor 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT and 18FDG PET/CT uptake as predicting imaging biomarkers will also be assessed in both arms.