Endoscopic Evaluation After Esophagectomy
Gastric conduit ischemia or anastomotic breakdown after esophagectomy with cervical esophagogastrostomy often cause severe complications, such as leakage, necrotic organs, and strictures. Thus, the purpose of this study is the safety and efficacy of endoscopic evaluation about reconstructive organs after esophagectomy. The investigators evaluate endoscopic predictions using classifications in acute phase after esophagogastrostomy.
Esophageal Neoplasms|Constriction|Anastomotic Leak|Ischemia
PROCEDURE: Patients after esophagectomy
Number of participants with endoscopy-related adverse events as assessed by Clavien-Dindo Classification, From 1 to 29 days after esophagectomy|Number of participants with the classification of gastric conduit ischemia by endoscopic findings, From 1 to 15 days after esophagectomy|Number of participants with the major complications of gastric conduit (strictures, leakage, necrosis), From 1 to 29 days after esophagectomy
Biological examination of the mucosal biopsy of gastric conduit as assessed by the ischemia related RNA copy number, From 1 to 29 days after esophagectomy|Biological examination of the mucosal biopsy of gastric conduit as assessed by the scoring system for immunohistochemical staining, The scoring system refer to the article entitled a scoring system for immunohistochemical staining: consensus report of the task force for basic research of the EORTC-GCCG. European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Gynaecological Cancer Cooperative Group (J Clin Pathol. 1997 Oct; 50(10): 801-804.), From 1 to 29 days after esophagectomy|Biological examination of gastric conduit as assessed by the Mitochondrial DNA copy number, From 1 to 29 days after esophagectomy
Gastric conduit ischemia or anastomotic breakdown after esophagectomy with cervical esophagogastrostomy often cause severe complications, such as leakage, necrotic organs, and strictures. However the evaluation and prevention before developing gastric conduit ischemia have been established. The investigators have built a hypothesis that the evaluation for gastric mucosal ischemia in early phase after esophagectomy predict the complication of gastric conduit. Thus, the purpose of this study is the safety and efficacy of endoscopic evaluation about reconstructive organs after esophagectomy. The investigators evaluate endoscopic predictions using classifications in acute phase after esophagogastrostomy.