Prosthesis Guided Speech Rehabilitation of T1/T2 Cancers of the Tongue
This study will fill a scientific gap in the current knowledge providing data for evaluation of the palatal augmentation prosthesis (PAP) as a therapeutic modality post-surgery. This is a robust scientific randomized prospective clinical trial.

Positive outcomes from this study have the potential to dramatically alter the most common issues of oral cancer therapy, namely speech and swallowing functions. Patients will have been diagnosed with a cancer lesion of the tongue requiring surgery and removal of part of the tongue. Smaller cancers of the tongue are sized as T1 or T2. For patients with smaller lesions, a PAP, which can aid in speaking and swallowing, is not routinely provided.
Tongue Neoplasms|Tongue Cancer|Oral Cancer
DEVICE: Palatal Augmentation Prosthesis (PAP)|OTHER: Articulation Therapy
Word intelligibility, The Assessment of Intelligibility of Dysarthric speech (AIDS) test is a validated assessment of word and sentence intelligibility as well as speech efficiency. The AIDS score will be measured at baseline before surgery for tongue cancer, then after surgery at the timepoints of one month, three months, six months and one year. Six months is the primary time point measurement. Measurements will also be obtained at these other time points, which will possibly be used for other outcome analysis which are neither primary nor secondary. The unit being measured will be a percent score of words correctly transcribed by two blinded untrained listeners of the subjects' audio recordings of separate un-related words., 6 months
Sentence intelligibility, The Assessment of intelligibility of dysarthric speech (AIDS) test is a validated assessment of word and sentence intelligibility as well as speech efficiency and will be measured at baseline before surgery for tongue cancer, then post-operatively at one month, three months, six months and one year. Six months is the primary time point measurement, although measurements will also be obtained at these other time points, which will possibly be used for other outcome analysis which are neither primary nor secondary. The unit being measured will be a percent score of words correctly transcribed by two blinded untrained listeners of the subjects' audio recordings of words in sentences., 6 months|Articulation at the word level of phonemes (consonant sounds), The Goldman Fristoe 2 test of Articulation sounds in words subtest (GFTA2) is a standardized, validated and reliable tool that systematically assesses articulation of phonemes (consonant sounds). It offers normative data from ages 2 through 21. This will be measured at baseline pre-treatment of tongue cancer, then post-operatively at one month, three months, six months and one year. Six months is the primary time point measurement, although measurements will also be obtained at these other time points, which will possibly be used for other outcome analysis which are neither primary nor secondary. The unit being measured is the raw score generated from the test., 6 months|Patient satisfaction with speech, The Speech Handicap Index (SHI) is designed to evaluate an individual's speech function and corresponding psycho-social factors. This will be measured at baseline pre-treatment of tongue cancer, then post-operatively at one month, three months, six months and one year. Six months is the primary time point measurement, although measurements will also be obtained at these other time points, which will possibly be used for other outcome analysis which are neither primary nor secondary. The unit being measured is the mean score of the survey., 6 months
This study will randomize patients into two arms; one for oral cancer patients that receive a small device, similar to a denture, called a PAP. The other arm will be patients who serve as a control and will not receive a PAP.

The PAP requires patients to have a dental mold created. A dentist customizes the PAP to specifically fit the individual's mouth.

The study will investigate whether the PAP improves speech following tongue cancer as measured by three different scales. Both groups will see a speech language therapist for additional measures of speech evaluation.