BMS-247550 in Treating Patients With Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of BMS-247550 in treating patients who have advanced soft tissue sarcoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: ixabepilone
Confirmed tumor response using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., Up to 5 years
Overall survival, Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to disease progression, Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 5 years|Quality and duration of responses, Date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to the date progression is documented, assessed up to 5 years|Time to treatment failure, Date of registration to date of progression, toxicity, or removal, assessed up to 5 years|Toxicities graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) v2.0, Up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the confirmed response rate of patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma treated with BMS-247550.

II. Determine the overall survival and progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.

III. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive BMS-247550 IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response receive 2 additional courses.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 14-29 patients will be accrued for this study within 8 months.