Combination Study for High Risk Multiple Myeloma Patients
Despite the recent introduction of novel anti-multiple myeloma (MM) agents, high risk MM remains with poor prognosis and a therapeutic challenge. Elotuzumab (ELO) is a humanized monoclonal antibody that recognizes CS1/CD139, a molecule highly expressed in MM cells. The ELO (10 mg/kg), lenalidomide (LEN) and dexamethasone (DEX) combination achieves high overall response rates (ORR) and long progression-free survival (PFS) for patients with relapsed/refractory disease (RR) MM and those with impaired renal function. However, its efficacy for MM patients with high risk characteristics is still unknown. Pomalidomide (POM) is a recently approved immunomodulatory agent (IMiD) that produces response rates for high-risk RRMM patients when used in combination with DEX and other agents, including the proteasome inhibitor (PI) bortezomib (BTZ). POM has also demonstrated activity for LEN refractory patients. Carfilzomib (CFZ) is a potent second generation PI that has shown to be efficacious for IMiD and BTZ refractory patients as well as high risk patients carrying cytogenetic abnormalities. In this study, we propose to evaluate efficacy and safety of ELO in combination with POM, DEX and CFZ for high-risk RRMM patients.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Elotuzumab|DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Occurrence of adverse events throughout the study, graded via Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 4.03 criteria (If necessary re-define MTD via the number of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) per dose level, of elotuzumab in combination with pomalidomide, carfilzomib and dexamethasone for high risk RRMM patients (based on six patients lead-in cohort if necessary)., 34 Months|Overall Rate of Response (Efficacy), Efficacy of treatment will be assessed by the Overall response rate (ORR) \[ORR=complete response (CR†) + very good partial response (VGPR) + partial response (PR)\] Clinical benefit rate (CBR) \[CBR=CR† + VGPR + PR + minor response (MR)\]., 34 Months
PFS, Progression-free survival (PFS): time from initiation of therapy to progressive disease or death from any cause, whichever comes first, 34 Months|DOR, Duration of response (DOR): time from the first response (\> PR) to progressive disease, 34 Months|OS, Overall survival (OS): time from initiation of therapy to death from any cause or last follow-up visit., 34 Months
This is a Phase 2, multicenter, open label, nonrandomized study with six patients safety lead-in cohort to evaluate efficacy and safety of elotuzumab in combination with pomalidomide, carfilzomib and dexamethasone among high risk relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma patients.

This study will enroll previously treated patients that currently show evidence of progressive disease and have been diagnosed with high risk multiple myeloma. Thirty-nine patients will be enrolled in the study.

First, six patients will be enrolled and used as a lead-in cohort for the safety evaluation and MTD re-determination (if necessary). The results of the safety lead-in cohort will be evaluated after the 6th patient has completed one full cycle of treatment. Recruitment of patients will be withheld during safety data analysis. Enrollment of the remaining 33 patients will be contingent upon safety committee's decision.

The study consists of: 1) a screening period; 2) up to eight 28-day treatment cycles; 3) a final assessment to occur 28 days after the end of the last treatment cycle; and 4) a follow-up period.

All drugs will be administered on a 28-day cycle schedule throughout the study. Subjects eligible for this study will receive treatment with study drug for a maximum of eight 28-day treatment cycles. Subjects are to be treated for 8 cycles of therapy without demonstrating PD.