PEA for the Relief of Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy
This phase II trial tests whether PEA works to relieve the symptoms of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with cancer. Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy refers to a nerve problem that causes pain, numbness, tingling, or muscle weakness in different parts of the body, and is caused by chemotherapy. PEA may be useful against bothersome nerve symptoms.
Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Palmidrol|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Mean Change in Quality of Life Questionnaire - Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy 20 (CIPN20) Score, Will be scored and summarized at each time point for each patient. The change from baseline to 8 weeks will then be calculated for each patient. The mean, standard deviation, and median (range) of the change will be calculated for each PEA arm and the combined placebo arm. The difference in change scores between each PEA arm and the combined placebo will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval. For the primary analysis, the CIPN20 analysis dataset will include all eligible patients who are randomized, initiated treatment, and completed the baseline questionnaire. For patients who go off protocol treatment before 8 weeks, the score at their final observation will be used to calculate the change. The CIPN20 includes 20 items, each asking a participant to rate their experience with certain symptoms from 1 to 4, with 1 being no difficulty with the symptom and 4 being the most difficulty with the symptom. Answers are then summed to give a total score from 20 to 80., 8 weeks
Number of Participants Experiencing Grade 3+ Adverse Events, Adverse events by patient will be summarized by frequencies and severity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. The proportion of patients who experience at least one grade 3+ adverse event (regardless of attribution) will be reported. The overall adverse event rates for grade 3 or higher adverse events will be compared across the three arms (the two PEA arms and combined placebo)., 8 weeks|Mean Change of Quality of Life, Will be assessed by Question 3, patient-reported outcomes-quality of life (PRO-QOL). The mean and standard deviation of the change will be reported for each PEA arm and the combined placebo arm. Additional analysis using data collected from the Symptom Experience Diary may be performed. For patients who go off protocol treatment before 8 weeks, the question 3 response at their final observation will be used to calculate the change. For patients who do not have any post baseline data, they will be considered to have no change from baseline. Question 3 of the PRO-QOL is a 10 point scale asking participants to rate their quality of life, with 0 being the worst and 10 being the best., 8 weeks
Change in the Two Cognitive Items of the Cognitive Functioning Assessment, Will be summarized by mean (SD) and median (range) by treatment arm and the combined placebo arm. The difference in change score will be estimated along with the 95% confidence interval., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Weekly CIPN20 Scores, Will be summarized at each time point by mean (SD) and median (range) and will be plotted longitudinally by treatment arm and the combine placebo arm., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Weekly Pain Scores, Will be summarized at each time point by mean (SD) and median (range) and will be plotted longitudinally by treatment arm and the combine placebo arm., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Items of the Global Impression of Change Tool, Will be summarized by frequency (percentage) of each level at each time point for each treatment arm and the combine placebo arm. Bar plots for each PEA arm and the combined placebo arm of frequency over time will be\> constructed., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Chemotherapy Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Assessment Tool, Will be summarized by mean (SD) and median (range) at each time point for each treatment arm and the combine placebo arm., Baseline up to 8 weeks|CIPN20 Score, Will be calculated for each patient. The mean and standard deviation of the change will be calculated for each PEA arm. The difference in CIPN20 change scores between the two PEA dosage arms will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Disease Recurrence, The number of events and percentage will be reported by each PEA arm and combined placebo arm. No hypothesis test will be performed between arms., At 6 and 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), For each PEA arm and combined placebo arm, the distributions of OS time will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test will be used to compare the survival distributions between each PEA and the combined placebo arm., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To look for evidence of the efficacy of PEA (N-palmitoylethanolamide) at two different doses relative to placebo responses, as a treatment for chemotherapy-induced neuropathy (CIPN).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of PEA at the two study doses. II. To evaluate changes in patient-reported quality of life from baseline to the end of 8 weeks.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore whether PEA appears to affect cognition in the study patients. II. To explore the weekly trajectory of CIPN from baseline to 8 weeks. III. To explore the weekly trajectory of pain using the single-item numerical rating scale from baseline to 8 weeks.

IV. To explore the weekly patient global impression of change in each treatment arm from baseline to 8 weeks.

V. To explore the weekly chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy in each treatment arm from baseline to 8 weeks.

VI. To explore the PEA effects on CIPN20 between two PEA dosage arms. VII. To explore the number of recurrent cancer events by study arm. VIII. To explore the overall survival by study arm.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive PEA orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 8 weeks as long as there is not any unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive PEA PO twice daily (BID) for 8 weeks as long as there is not any unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive placebo PO QD for 8 weeks.

ARM IV: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 8 weeks.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 6 and 12 months.