Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Participants With Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (MK-3475-025/KEYNOTE-025)
This study is being done to evaluate the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in participants with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumors that are positive for programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1): the hypothesis is that treatment with pembrolizumab will result in a clinically meaningful Overall Response Rate (ORR).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) in Strongly PD-L1 Positive Participants, On-study imaging was to be performed every 9 weeks after the first dose of study drug, or more frequently if clinically indicated. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who had a Complete Response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters). The percentage of strongly PD-L1 positive participants who experienced a CR or PR is presented., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events (AEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE was any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of the study drug, was also an AE. After discontinuation of study drug, each participant was monitored for a minimum of 30 days for AE monitoring (serious AEs were monitored for up to 90 days after last dose of study drug). The number of participants who experienced an AE is presented., Up to 27 months (Up to 90 days after last dose of study drug)|Number of Participants Discontinuing Study Drug Due to AEs, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE was any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of the study drug, was also an AE. The number of participants who discontinued study drug due to an AE is presented., Up to 2 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS) by RECIST 1.1 in Strongly PD-L1 Positive Participants, PFS was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 based on blinded independent central radiologists' review or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Using RECIST 1.1, progressive disease was defined as either a 20% relative increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study OR an absolute increase of \>5 mm in the sum of lesions, OR the appearance of new lesions. PFS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and is reported in months. The median PFS for all strongly PD-L1 positive participants is presented., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR) by RECIST 1.1 in Strongly PD-L1 Positive Participants, DOR was measured from the time measurement criteria were first met for CR/PR (whichever was first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded on study). DOR was censored at the last tumor assessment date if a responder did not have PD or death. Non-responders were not included in the analysis. The lower and upper limits were estimated at the time of data cutoff. DOR was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and is reported in days. The median DOR for all strongly PD-L1 positive participants with a confirmed response is presented., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) in Strongly PD-L1 Positive Participants, OS was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to death due to any cause. OS is reported for all strongly PD-L1 positive participants in months, Up to 2 years|ORR Per Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC) in Strongly PD-L1 Positive Participants, ORR per irRC was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who had a Complete Response (irCR: Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions \[whether measureable or not, and no new lesions; irCR must be confirmed by repeated, consecutive assessments made no less than 4 weeks from the date first documented\]) or Partial Response (irPR: Decrease in sum of the products of the two largest perpendicular diameters \[SPD\] of 50% or greater by a consecutive assessment at least 4 weeks after first documentation). The percentage of strongly PD-L1 positive participants who experienced an irCR or irPR is presented., Up to 2 years|PFS Per irRC in Strongly PD-L1 Positive Participants, PFS was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to the first documented disease progression per irRC or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Using irRC, progressive disease was defined as at least a 25% increase in SPD relative to minimum recorded tumor burden. Confirmation by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the data first documented was required. Median PFS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and is presented in months for all strongly PD-L1 positive participants., Up to 2 years|DOR Per irRC in Strongly PD-L1 Positive Participants, DOR was measured from the time measurement criteria were first met for irCR/irPR (whichever was first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease (PD) was objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded on study). PD was defined as at least a 25% increase in SPD relative to minimum recorded tumor burden. Confirmation by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the data first documented was required. DOR was censored at the last tumor assessment date if a responder did not have PD or death. Non-responders were not included in the analysis. DOR was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method, is reported in days and is presented for all strongly PD-L1 positive participants who experienced an irCR or irPR., Up to 2 years|ORR Per RECIST 1.1 in PD-L1 Positive Participants, On-study imaging was to be performed every 9 weeks after the first dose of study drug, or more frequently if clinically indicated. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who had a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters). The percentage of PD-L1 positive participants who experienced a CR or PR is presented., Up to 2 years|PFS by RECIST 1.1 in PD-L1 Positive Participants, PFS was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 based on blinded independent central radiologists' review or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Using RECIST 1.1, progressive disease was defined as either a 20% relative increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study OR an absolute increase of \>5 mm in the sum of lesions, OR the appearance of new lesions. PFS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and is reported in months. The median PFS for all PD-L1 positive participants is presented., Up to 2 years|DOR by RECIST 1.1 in PD-L1 Positive Participants, DOR was measured from the time measurement criteria were first met for CR/PR (whichever was first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded on study). DOR was censored at the last tumor assessment date if a responder did not have PD or death. Non-responders were not included in the analysis. The lower and upper limits were estimated at the time of data cutoff. DOR was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and is reported in days. The median DOR for all PD-L1 positive participants with a confirmed response is presented., Up to 2 years|OS in PD-L1 Positive Participants, OS was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to death due to any cause. OS is reported for all PD-L1 positive participants in months., Up to 2 years|ORR Per irRC in PD-L1 Positive Participants, ORR per irRC was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who had a irCR (Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions \[whether measureable or not, and no new lesions; irCR must be confirmed by repeated, consecutive assessments made no less than 4 weeks from the date first documented\]) or irPR (Decrease in sum of the products of the two largest perpendicular diameters \[SPD\] of 50% or greater by a consecutive assessment at least 4 weeks after first documentation). The percentage of PD-L1 positive participants who experienced an irCR or irPR is presented., Up to 2 years|PFS Per irRC in PD-L1 Positive Participants, PFS was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to the first documented disease progression per irRC or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Using irRC, progressive disease was defined as at least a 25% increase in SPD relative to minimum recorded tumor burden. Confirmation by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the data first documented was required. Median PFS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and is presented in months for all PD-L1 positive participants., Up to 2 years|DOR Per irRC in PD-L1 Positive Participants, DOR was measured from the time measurement criteria were first met for irCR/irPR (whichever was first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease (PD) was objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded on study). PD was defined as at least a 25% increase in SPD relative to minimum recorded tumor burden. Confirmation by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the data first documented was required. DOR was censored at the last tumor assessment date if a responder did not have PD or death. Non-responders were not included in the analysis. DOR was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method, is reported in days and is presented for all PD-L1 positive participants who experienced an irCR or irPR., Up to 2 years
This study is being done to evaluate the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in participants with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumors that are positive for programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1): the hypothesis is that treatment with pembrolizumab will result in a clinically meaningful Overall Response Rate (ORR).