RP II Study of SOX vs mFOLFOX6 in Patients With Resectable Rectal Cancer (KSCC1301).
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of SOX or mFOLFOX6 as neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with resectable rectal cancer, and to identify the more promising regimen.
Rectal Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory test|OTHER: Medical history and physical examination|OTHER: BW and height|OTHER: Performance status|OTHER: Creatinine clearance|OTHER: Biomarker|RADIATION: Contrasting CT|OTHER: Adverse event|OTHER: HBs antigen and HCV antibody|OTHER: Endoscopy|OTHER: HBs antibody and HBc antibody|DRUG: S-1|DRUG: L-OHP (130mg/m2)|DRUG: L-OHP (85 mg/m2)|DRUG: l-LV|DRUG: 5-FU
3-years Disease Free Survival rate, The last analysis after the follow-up period is conducted. The disease-free survival ratio that assumed full analysis set (FAS) as a denominator is estimating by Kaplan-Meier method at 3 year, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment., 3 years from the enrollment
Pathological Effect, The pathological effect of protocol treatment as FAS a denominator is evaluated according to the criteria of Japanese Classification of Colorectal Carcinoma 7th revision, After operation, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|R0 resection rate, The R0 resection rate is defined as a ratio of case that conducted R0 resection in FAS., At operation, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|Completion rate of each modality (neoadjuvant chemotherapy, operation and adjuvant chemotherapy), The rate completed 4 courses of neo-adjuvant chemotherapy within protocol treatment is defined as the completion rate of neo-adjuvant therapy in FAS. Among the cases that an resection operation are enforced and that adjuvant chemotherapy is planned after the operation, the rate completed 4 courses of adjuvant chemotherapy within protocol treatment is defined as the completion rate of adjuvant therapy, After completion of protocol treatment, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as a period from an enrollment date to a death from every cause in FAS., Up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|Disease Free survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the period from a registration day to the day of recurrence, the day of diagnosis of secondary cancer and the day of the death of every cause in FAS., The date of recurrence, occurrence of secondary cancer and death, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|OS in patients with R0 resection, OS in patients with R0 resection is defined as a period from a enrollment day to the date of death from every cause in patients with R0 resection in FAS., At the date of death, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|DFS in patients with R0 resection, DFS in patients with R0 resection is defined as the period from a enrollment day to the day of recurrence, the day of diagnosis of secondary cancer and the day of the death of every cause in patients with R0 resection in FAS., The date of recurrence, occurrence of secondary cancer and death, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|Transition rate to Operation, The transition rate to operation is defined as the rate of case transited to the resection operation in FAS., At the operation, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|local recurrence rate (per operated population), The local recurrence rate is defined as the recurrence rate of operated population., After the operation, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|Safety, The frequency of worst Grade of the adverse event (toxicity) in all courses with the CTCAE v4.0 Japanese translated JCOG version is calculated in each group about the cases for the safety analysis a denominator, Within protocol treatment, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.|Pattern of first recurrence, Pattern of first recurrence is investigated in FAS., At the study completion, up to 5 years after the last subject enrollment.
1. Patient registration procedure

If it is confirmed that the subject meets the inclusion criteria and correspondent none of the exclusion criteria, the subject is registered by using CReS Kyushu registration/allocation system (CK-RAS). The registration with CK-RAS is available for 24hr (URL: https://reg.cres-kyushu.or.jp/qmin/login/) and needs for individual ID and password.

2. Quality management

1. Monitoring

   A central monitoring or in-site monitoring are carried out based on the data from case report form (CRF) collecting at data coordinating center. In principle, an on-site monitoring is not carried out, but it may be carried out when the on-site monitoring is determined to need by Kyushu Study group of Clinical Cancer (KSCC) steering committee from the results of the central monitoring so on.
2. Data Monitoring Committee

   A Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) has been established.
3. Data entry

   All data will be entered by the double entry method. Referential data rules, valid values, range checks, and consistency checks against data already stored in the database will be supported. Checks will be applied at the time of data entry into a specific field. Additional errors will be detected by programs designed to detect missing data or specific errors in the data. The investigator who receives the inquiry will respond by checking the original forms for inconsistency, checking other sources to determine the correction, modifying the original paper form entering a response to the query.
4. Regular monitoring report

   A regular monitoring report generated by data coordinating center is submitted to KSCC Steering Committee, principal investigator, the DMC etc and it is reviewed according to "KSCC regulation on the monitoring". The information on the status of site EC approval and the achievement of enrollment: number of enrollment- total/per periodical, total/per site, is reported monthly using e-mail.
   * Contents of monitoring report

     1. Study abstract: schema/purpose/subject/endpoint/definition of treatment/anticipated enrollment number/progress of the study
     2. Enrollment status: per participating site/total
     3. Monitoring activity: contents of activity/CRF collection per site/uncollected CRF, inquiry
     4. Review of the eligible treatment case：the case of ineligible possibility/the case determined as ineligible/number of eligible case/the case determined as non-treatment/total number of treatment case
     5. Review of a target population for analysis: the number of cases targeted for efficacy analysis/safety analysis
     6. Patient background
     7. Treatment time-course: summary of on-treatment and discontinuation/summary of reason for discontinuation/list of reason for discontinuation
     8. Protocol violation/deviation
     9. Safety evaluation: serious adverse reaction, event/the case which was notified to the study group among the adverse reactions, events with an ordinary report/general adverse events
     10. Others
5. Audit

A site audit is carried out by the audit members of KSCC Coordinating Center, data coordinating center, medical staff of other site under the approval of the site director according to "KSCC regulation for site audit". The results of the audit are reported to the site director, KSCC Steering Committee, principal investigator etc. (if required, to DMC).