PHOX2B PC-CAR T Cells for Relapsed Neuroblastoma
This is a first in human dose escalation trial to determine the safety of administering PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells in patients with advanced, high-risk neuroblastoma.
Refractory Neuroblastoma|Relapsed Neuroblastoma|High-Risk Neuroblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: PHOX2B PC-CAR T Cells
Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose of PHOX2B PC-CAR T Cells, The Maximum Tolerated Dose of PHOX2B-PC CAR T cells will be determined by measuring the incidence of dose limiting toxicities following administration of the product., 5 years|Frequency of Adverse Events Following PHOX2B PC-CAR T cell administration, Assess the frequency and severity of treatment related adverse events following administration of PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells., 5 years
Manufacturing Feasibility of PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells, Manufacturing Feasibility will be evaluated as the Percentage of patients with PHOX2B PC- CAR T cell products that meet release criteria, 5 years|Persistence of PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells, Persistence of PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells will be measured by Polymerase Chain Reaction (or flow cytometry) analysis of whole blood to detect and quantify survival of PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells over time., 5 years|Preliminarily define the clinical activity of PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells in patients with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma, Overall Response Rate will be determined based on international Neuroblastoma Response Criteria, 5 years|Severity of Adverse Events Following Repeated dosing of PHOX2B PC-CAR T Cells, The safety of PHOX2B PC-CAR T cell therapy reinfusions will be measured by the monitoring the frequency and severity of adverse events after multiple PHOX2B PC-CAR T cells infusions., 5 years
Neuroblastoma is a tumor of childhood arising from neural crest-derived cells of the developing sympathetic nervous system. While neuroblastomas in young infants often spontaneously regress, children diagnosed with advanced disease after 18 months of age experience poor overall survival despite intensive therapy.

Neuroblastoma is a heterogenous disease, but approximately 50% of patients have a "high-risk" clinical phenotype defined by well-established clinical signs and molecular biomarkers. Over 50% of patients ultimately relapse and survivors are often burdened with significant long-term therapy related morbidities. There is no known cure for patients with relapsed high-risk neuroblastoma. PHOX2B as a therapeutic target for neuroblastoma Paired like homeobox 2B (PHOX2B) is a homeodomain transcription factor that promotes differentiation of neural crest cell derived sympathetic nervous system precursor cells. The PHOX2B protein is so specifically expressed in neuroblastoma that it is used an immunohistochemical confirmation of diagnosis. While PHOX2B is expressed during fetal development, PHOX2B expression is silenced in the vast majority of normal tissues after birth.

To therapeutically leverage this differential expression, an HLA restricted PHOX2B PC-CAR T cell was developed and showed potent inhibition of the growth of neuroblastoma patient-derived xenografts. This investigation will be a single institution, open-label first in human, dose escalation and expansion study designed to assess the safety, tolerability, and manufacturing feasibility of PHOX2B- PC CAR T Cells.