Laser Therapy Effect as Preventive Measure for Oral Mucositis in Children With Hematological Malignancies
Introduction:

Among the most drastic complications of chemotherapy is oral mucositis(OM). It is a painful inflammatory, often ulcerative condition and may increase risk for systemic infections leading to prolonged hospital stays and interruptions of treatment protocol. Many treatment modalities have been introduced for the prevention and treatment of oral mucositis , of which low level laser therapy(LLLT) is gaining popularity. The use of LLLT as a prophylactic treatment for chemotherapy induced oral mucositis in pediatric cancer patients is still lacking robust evidence. Also, the parameters used have not been optimized and no standard method has yet been established. Based on this point, this study will compare photobiomodulation to the conventional preventive program of oral mucositis applied in 57357 children's cancer hospital foundation to determine which will be optimal for the prophylaxis of chemotherapy-induced OM.

Aim:

To assess the effectiveness of low level laser therapy in the prophylaxis of oral mucositis in pediatric patients diagnosed with Hematological cancers.

Methods:

This study is a randomized, prospective, double-blinded trial that will include acute Myeloid leukemia patients admitted to receive chemotherapy cycle between the age of 3 and 18years. These patients will be randomized into two groups: group 1 will receive low level laser therapy and group 2 will receive mock treatment. Patient will be followed to asses the development of oral mucositis on prespecified time points.
Oral Mucositis
DEVICE: Laser therapy|DEVICE: Mock treatment
To measure incidence of oral mucositis in Laser arm versus Placebo arm., Evaluate effectiveness of low level laser therapy for the Prevention of chemo-therapy induced oral mucositis., Oral mucositis will be evaluated on Days 1, 5, 12, 19 and 30.|To measure grade of oral mucositis in patients receiving laser arm placebo arm., Oral mucositis will be graded in accordance with the classification criteria of the World Health Organization (WHO, and the National Cancer Institute scale (NCI - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0) will also be used to compare the results., Oral mucositis will be evaluated on Days 1, 5, 12, 19 and 30.
This study is a randomized, prospective, double-blinded trial ( patient \& outcome assessor) that will include acute Myeloid leukemia patients admitted to receive chemotherapy cycle between the age of 3 and 18years. These patients will be randomized by the Clinical Epidemiology unit using a computer-based method into two groups.

Group I: will receive Low Level Laser Therapy by Diode laser (Sirrolaser Blue ™, USA) at 44 different points in the oral cavity for 5 consequent days from Day 1 to Day 5 of chemotherapy cycle along with the standard preventive protocol in the hospital.

Group II: will receive a mock treatment which is the exact repetition of the treatment modality but without any laser emission beside the standard preventive protocol applied in the hospital.

All patients will be assessed for oral mucositis grade using NCI-CTCAE scale V4 and WHO score on days 1,5,12,19 and 30 .