The Longitudinal Ovarian Reserve Study
Postmenarchal female cancer patients scheduled to undergo cancer therapy may enroll in this study to assess changes in existing and novel surrogate measures of fertility potential before, during and after chemotherapy. Measures of fertility potential to be tested include ultrasound imaging for antral follicle counts and ovarian volumes, endocrine evaluation, and assessment of oxidative stress.
Effects of Chemotherapy
Change from baseline in reproductive hormone measures, during and after chemotherapy., 20 mls blood will be obtained at stated timepoints for determining levels of Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH), Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Estradiol (E2), Inhibin B, and Anti-mullerian Hormone (AMH). In menstruating girls and young women hormone measures will be obtained during the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle (days 1-4). In women with irregular cycles the testing will be done spontaneously without regard for the bleeding pattern., 18-24 months: pre-chemotherapy baseline and at 3 month intervals from start of chemotherapy through 6 months after end of chemotherapy.
Change from baseline in ovarian volume during and after chemotherapy., Ovaries will be measured in three dimensions. Uterine size and endometrial thickness will also be performed. The transvaginal approach is preferred, but transabdominal ultrasound will be performed in girls who do not feel comfortable with the transvaginal procedure., 18-24 months: Pelvic ultrasound will be performed at Pre-chemotherapy baseline and at 3 month intervals from start of chemotherapy through 6 months after end of chemotherapy.|Change from baseline in antral follicle counts during and after chemotherapy., Antral Follicle Counts by size (2-5 mm, 6-9 mm, and \>9 mm in diameter) will be determined., 18-24 months: Pelvic ultrasound will be performed at Pre-chemotherapy baseline and at 3 month intervals from start of chemotherapy through 6 months after end of chemotherapy.|Change in urinary isoprostane levels from baseline to 6 months after end of chemotherapy, 24 hour urine collection will be analyzed to assess urinary 8,12-iso-iPF2alpha-VI isoprostane levels., 18-24 months: 24 hour urine collection will be performed at Pre-chemotherapy baseline and at the final study visit.|Change from baseline in menstrual characteristics, Subjects are asked to document menstrual bleeding in a diary, noting duration of each menstrual period in days, bleeding intensity (spotting, light, moderate, heavy, flooding, none), and intervals between periods., 18-24 months: Pre-chemotherapy baseline and at 3 month intervals from start of chemotherapy through 6 months after end of chemotherapy.|Change from baseline in menopausal symptoms, The validated "Menopausal Symptom List" (MSL) will be used at each study visit to assess the presence or absence of menopausal symptoms during the past month, the frequency and severity of each symptom. Symptoms captured include: hot flashes, vaginal dryness, concentration/memory problems, irritability, mood swings, feeling sad, feeling anxious, trouble sleeping, aches, joint pain, headaches., 18-24 months: Pre-chemotherapy baseline and at 3 month intervals from start of chemotherapy through 6 months after end of chemotherapy.|Change from baseline in quality of life measures, One of two well validated and widely used questionnaires will assess Quality of Life measures: For adolescents 20 years of age or younger, the Minneapolis-Manchester Quality of Life (MMQL) - Adolescent Form will be administered. This questionnaire assesses demographics, physical functioning, cognitive functioning, psychological functioning, body image, social functioning, outlook on life, and intimate relations in cancer survivors. The MMQL is a 46 item validated, standardized self-report instrument designed to assess health related quality of life in adolescent survivors of cancer.

Subjects over 20 years of age will be asked to complete a self report quality of life questionnaire entitled Assessing Quality of Life in Adult Cancer Survivors (QLACS). This questionnaire has been proven to be valid and reliable for comparing quality of life in adult cancer survivors and non-cancer patients., 18-24 months: Pre-chemotherapy baseline and at 3 month intervals from start of chemotherapy through 6 months after end of chemotherapy.
Eligible women are asked to complete a structured interview, questionnaires, a monthly menstrual diary, a brief physical examination, a blood test, and an abdominal or pelvic ultrasound at baseline and at 3 month intervals following start of chemotherapy through 6 months post end of treatment.

Within subject changes in continuous variables (hormones, urinary isoprostane levels, ovarian volume, AFC) will be compared using paired t-tests (nonparametric tests as appropriate). Non-Gaussian-distributed variables will be logarithmically transformed prior to analysis. In general, changes from baseline to every 3 month assessment will be compared individually as well as changes from baseline to post treatment. In addition, regression models for repeated measures will be used to describe the pattern of change in these outcomes over time. Additional models will be constructed to adjust for potential confounding variables including age, chemotherapy type, dose and duration of treatment, radiation treatment, gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist use, and hormone use. Finally, regression models will be used to evaluate the association between changes in urinary isoprostane levels over the study with changes in endocrine measures.