A Study to Evaluate Concurrent VRP-HER2 Vaccination and Pembrolizumab for Patients With Breast Cancer
In this phase II study, participants will receive the VRP-HER2 immunizations plus pembrolizumab. Subjects will be randomized into 3 arms. They will undergo a biopsy of their tumor and peripheral blood draw for immune cell analyses and be assigned to the applicable arm of the study. Arm A will consist of the the VRP-HER2 immunizations; Arm B will consist of pembrolizumab; Arm C will consist of the VRP-HER2 immunizations plus pembrolizumab.
Breast Cancer|HER2+ Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: VRP-HER2|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Number of Participants With a Positive T Cell Response Based on ELISpot Results, The enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot) assay is a quantitative method that measures the frequency of cytokine secretion in a single cell., up to approximately 15 weeks
Number of Participants With a Severe Adverse Event as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Adverse events are graded on a scale from 1 to 5. Grade 1 adverse events are mild and generally not bothersome. Grade 2 events are bothersome and may interfere with doing some activities but are not dangerous. Grade 3 events are serious and interfere with a person's ability to do basic things like eat or get dressed. Grade 3 events may also require medical intervention. Grade 4 events are usually severe enough to require hospitalization. Grade 5 events are fatal. Reported here is the number of participants with a grade 3 adverse event., up to approximately 15 weeks
Number of Participants With Stable Disease as Overall Response Based on RECIST 1.1 Criteria, RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) defines Stable Disease as neither partial response (\>30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) or progressive disease (\<20% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions)., up to approximately 15 weeks
The primary objective of this phase II study is to determine whether pembrolizumab increases the tumor infiltrating and peripheral blood immune response to the VRP-HER2 vaccine. The investigators hypothesize that HER2 specific T cell responses and anti-tumor immunity induced with HER2 vaccination will be augmented by concurrent anti-PD-1 antibody therapy.

The investigators will additionally determine whether the administration of pembrolizumab is safe in patients with recurrent or metastatic HER2+ cancers who are receiving the anti-HER2 vaccine VRP-HER2.

Participants will be randomized 1:1:1 into 3 arms (n=12 per arm). Subjects with metastatic HER2 overexpressing breast cancer receiving trastuzumab and pertuzumab will continue these antibodies. They will undergo a biopsy of their tumor and peripheral blood draw for immune cell analyses and be assigned to the applicable arm of the study. Arm A will consist of the the VRP-HER2 immunizations; Arm B will consist of pembrolizumab; Arm C will consist of the VRP-HER2 immunizations plus pembrolizumab. Tumor biopsies and peripheral blood draws will be performed following the course of immunizations.