Patient-Empowered Mobile Technology in Hospitalized Patients (TRU-PAIN)
The purpose of this study is to learn more about the ways in which mobile technology can be integrated into inpatient care to help better track pain levels using mobile technology of patients with sickle cell disease, oncology patients, and bone marrow transplant patients. The study will assess whether or not daily mobile monitoring with wearable accelerometers (devices that detect movement as well as heart-rate) to monitor and manage medical treatments can have a lasting positive impact on outcomes in patients with chronic diseases. The investigator hopes to learn more about the ways in which mobile technology can be integrated into inpatient care. Specifically, the investigator is looking to help patients better track their pain, use wearable technology to track physiological measures (for example, heart rate, sleep quantity and quality), and integrate these data points into the medical care of patients by providing the information to providers. This study will first gather information regarding the feasibility and acceptability of the use of technology on the inpatient unit. This will help the study team to refine the technology of the mobile app and logistics of integration. Following this, the investigator will complete a second phase of the study, during which select patients will pilot the intervention. This will be followed by the third and final phase, during which patients will be randomly assigned to the active intervention or standard of care. This phase approach will enable the study team to refine the intervention, relying on the feedback from patients and providers, and subsequently test its utility compared to standard of care through random assignment.
Pain
OTHER: SMART app wearable
time to discontinuation of the IV PCA with opioid medication, 7 days
time of movement during hospitalization, 7 days|magnitude of change in pain scores, 7 days|patient/family satisfaction scores as measured by feasibility survey, A 24-item survey was developed for parents and children assessing technical feasibility, adherence, 7 days
The investigator hopes to learn more about the ways in which mobile technology can be integrated into inpatient care. Specifically, the investigator is looking to help patients better track their pain, use wearable technology to track physiological measures (for example, heart rate, sleep quantity and quality), and integrate these data points into the medical care of patients by providing the information to providers. This study will first gather information regarding the feasibility and acceptability of the use of technology on the inpatient unit. This will help the study team to refine the technology of the mobile app and logistics of integration. Following this, the investigator will complete a second phase of the study, during which select patients will pilot the intervention. This will be followed by the third and final phase, during which patients will be randomly assigned to the active intervention or standard of care. This phase approach will enable the study team to refine the intervention, relying on the feedback from patients and providers, and subsequently test its utility compared to standard of care through random assignment.