Vaccine Therapy for Patients With Stage IIIC-IV Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies the safety and immunogenicity of vaccine therapy in treating patients with stage IIIC-IV ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cavity cancer following surgery and chemotherapy. Vaccines made from a person's peptide treated white blood cells may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Tumor|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Neoplasm|Fallopian Tube Serous Neoplasm|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Stage IIIC Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Undifferentiated Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Undifferentiated Ovarian Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Multi-epitope Folate Receptor Alpha-loaded Dendritic Cell Vaccine
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLT), graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, If the accrual schema is completed and there are fewer than 5 patients with a DLT, the vaccination treatment will be considered safe in this patient population., Up to 3 weeks
Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the distribution of OS., Number of days from study registration until death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to disease recurrence (TDR), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the distribution of TDR., Number of days from study registration until disease recurrence or death, assessed up to 5 years
Change in FRalpha expression, Assessed using simple summary statistics (mean and 95% confidence interval., Baseline up to week 107|Change in the number of FRalpha-specific IL-17-secreting Th cells, Assessed using simple summary statistics (mean and 95% confidence interval., Baseline up to week 107|Change in the number of FRalpha-specific T cells that secrete IFNgamma, TNFalpha, IL-10, and granzyme B, Assessed using simple summary statistics (mean and 95% confidence interval., Baseline up to week 107|Changes in peripheral blood immune cell subsets, Assessed using simple summary statistics (mean and 95% confidence interval., Baseline up to week 107|DTH skin reaction specific for FRalpha., The percent of each category will be calculated along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to week 104|Induction of antibodies specific for FRalpha, The percent of each category will be calculated along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to week 107
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of folate receptor alpha dendritic cell (FRalphaDC) vaccination (folate receptor alpha-peptide loaded dendritic cell vaccine).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Measure time to disease recurrence of patients treated with FRalphaDCs. II. Measure overall survival of patients treated with FRalphaDCs.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether FRalphaDC vaccination induces an increase in the number of FRalpha-specific interleukin (IL)-17-secreting T helper (Th) cells, as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot).

II. Determine whether FRalphaDC vaccination induces an increase in the number of FRalpha-specific T cells that secrete interferon (IFN)gamma, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha, IL-10, and granzyme B, as determined by ELISpot.

III. Determine whether FRalphaDC vaccination induces antibodies specific for FRalpha.

IV. Determine whether FRalphaDC vaccination induces a delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) skin reaction specific for FRalpha.

V. Measure FRalpha expression in patients' primary tumors and in tumors that recur after FRalphaDC vaccine treatment (when available).

VI. Determine whether FRalphaDC vaccination is associated with changes in peripheral blood immune cell subsets.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive folate receptor alpha peptide-loaded dendritic cell vaccine intradermally (ID) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive folate receptor alpha peptide-loaded dendritic cell vaccine ID on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 months for 7 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 5 years.