Young Patients With Early Breast Cancer
The prognosis of young patients with breast cancer is relatively poor. Chemotherapy damages ovarian function. Endocrine treatment for up to 10 years delays the childbearing time of patients. Treatment regimens in young breast cancer patients are still controversial in the following: 1. Exemption from chemotherapy based on gene prediction results; 2. Removing drugs that damage ovarian function from chemotherapy regimens; 3. Giving ovarian protection drugs during chemotherapy for patients with hormone receptor (HR)+; 4. The right time to get pregnant. In view of the above problems, the treatment scheme recommended in the guidelines cannot meet the personalized needs of young breast cancer patients. The project plans to establish a prognosis model for young patients with breast cancer, and provide the patients hierarchical and refined management, which is significant for prolonging survival time, improving quality of life, and protecting fertility. This project plans to observe the relationship between the characteristics of immune genes, pathological staging, molecular typing, treatment plans and prognosis in the cohort of young breast cancer patients, and establish a young breast cancer prognosis model and verify it. The project is expected to establish a prognosis model and provide a hierarchical and personalized precision treatment plan for young breast cancer patients, so as to prolong the survival time, improve the fertility rate, and improve the quality of life.
Breast Cancer Female
PROCEDURE: operation
5-year disease free survival (DFS), DFS: From the time of surgery to the time of recurrence or metastasis, calculated on a monthly basis, until the most recent discovery of recurrence or metastasis., 5 year
5-year overall survival (OS), OS: From the time of surgery to death from any cause, calculated on a monthly basis., 5-year|5-year recurrence, Recurrence: Recurrence in the ipsilateral breast, axillary, or supraclavicular lymph nodes comfired by pathological biopsy confirmation., 5-year|5-year metastasis, Metastasis: metastasis was detected by CT, MRI, nuclide scanning or ultrasound in liver, lung, bone, brain, and other areas, without being confirmed by pathology., 5-year|the correlation between poor characteristics and survival, clinical characteristics': T stage, N stage, tumor grade, age group, with or without ovaian protection, with or without chemotherapy/radiotherapy, operation method., 5-year
The prognosis of young patients with breast cancer is relatively poor. Chemotherapy damages ovarian function. Endocrine treatment for up to 10 years delays the childbearing time of patients. Treatment regimens in young breast cancer patients are still controversial in the following: 1. Exemption from chemotherapy based on gene prediction results; 2. Removing drugs that damage ovarian function from chemotherapy regimens; 3. Giving ovarian protection drugs during chemotherapy for patients with hormone receptor (HR)+; 4. The right time to get pregnant. In view of the above problems, the treatment scheme recommended in the guidelines cannot meet the personalized needs of young breast cancer patients. The project plans to establish a prognosis model for young patients with breast cancer, and provide the patients hierarchical and refined management, which is significant for prolonging survival time, improving quality of life, and protecting fertility. This project plans to observe the relationship between the characteristics of immune genes, pathological staging, molecular typing, treatment plans and prognosis in the cohort of young breast cancer patients, and establish a young breast cancer prognosis model and verify it. The project is expected to establish a prognosis model and provide a hierarchical and personalized precision treatment plan for young breast cancer patients, so as to prolong the survival time, improve the fertility rate, and improve the quality of life.