Nivolumab in Preventing Colon Adenomas in Participants With Lynch Syndrome and a History of Partial Colectomy
This phase II trial studies how well nivolumab works in preventing colon adenomas in participants with Lynch syndrome and a history of surgery to remove part of the colon. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Colon Adenoma|Colon Carcinoma|Lynch Syndrome|MLH1 Gene Mutation|MSH2 Gene Mutation
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Incidence Rate of Adenomas, The associated confidence intervals will be reported and used to determine if the incidence rate is significantly different from that reported among Lynch patients not receiving nivolumab, 0.33., At 3 years|Incidence Rate of High-risk Adenomas, The associated confidence interval will be reported and used to determine if the incidence rate is significantly different from 0.22, the reported incidence of high-risk adenomas among Lynch syndrome patients not receiving nivolumab., At 3 years|Incidence Rate of Colon Cancers, The incidence rates of colon cancers in Lynch patients treated with nivolumab will be estimated with corresponding confidence intervals., At 3 years|Incidence Rate of Non-colonic Cancers, The incidence rates of non-colonic cancers in Lynch patients treated with nivolumab will be estimated with corresponding confidence intervals., At 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if maintenance therapy with nivolumab can decrease the incidence of colon adenomas in a population of patients with genetic predisposition to colorectal cancer and a history of hemicolectomy due to colon cancer or advanced colon adenoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of nivolumab maintenance therapy in this population. II. To obtain preliminary data on the short-term incidence of advanced colon adenomas (measuring greater than 10 mm or with high-grade dysplasia) and colon and non-colonic cancers in Lynch patients treated with maintenance nivolumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine biomarkers of immunologic activity associated with biologic activity of nivolumab in this population.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 months for a total of 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 3 months, every 6 months for 1 year, then every 12 weeks thereafter.