Metformin Combined With Gemcitabine as Adjuvant Therapy for Pancreatic Cancer After Curative Resection
Pancreatic cancer represents the most lethal of the common malignancies with a 5-year survival rate of less than 5%. For patients who are eligible for potentially curative resection, despite mortality and morbidity rates after surgery have improved, the recurrence rate is up to 85% within 2 years. Data from clinical trials indicate that adjuvant chemotherapy enhances 5-year survival to \~25% for patients who have undergone surgery to remove their tumor; and gemcitabine is the standard regimen of chemotherapy. Metformin is the first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Literatures reported that metformin might inhibit tumor growth by blocking some enzymes needed for cell growth. Some retrospective studies have revealed that diabetic patients taking metformin were less likely to develop pancreatic cancer. Additionally, pancreatic cancer patients treated with metformin showed a better survival than those without metformin. In this study, the researchers intend to investigate the activity and safety of the combination of gemcitabine and metformin in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that have removed by surgery.
Stage IA Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IB Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIB Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: placebo
Recurrence-free survival at one year after curative resection, To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of gemcitabine chemotherapy with versus without metformin hydrochloride in terms of recurrence-free survival in patients with pancreatic cancer at one year after curative resection. Computed tomography (CT) scan, From date of randomization (after curative resection) until the date of first documented recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed 2 months during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months
Overall survival after curative resection, To evaluate the overall survival of patients (after curative resection) treated with this regimen. Outpatient visit, phone interview, From date of randomization (after curative resection) until the date of death from any cause, assessed one month during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months|Quality of life score after curative resection, To evaluate the quality of life score of patients (after curative resection) treated with this regimen. Outpatient visit, phone interview, One month during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months|Number of grade 3 and 4 toxicities according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, To evaluate the occurrence of grade 3 and 4 toxicities according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE; version 4.0) in patients treated with this regimen. The toxicity profile includes but not limits neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, peripheral neuropathy, hypoglycemia, metabolic acidosis (acute or chronic, including ketoacidosis), which will be summarized as the percentage of patients by type and grade according to treatment group. Outpatient visit, laboratory findings, One week during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months
Pancreatic cancer represents the most lethal of the common malignancies with a 5-year survival rate of less than 5%. For patients who are eligible for potentially curative resection, despite mortality and morbidity rates after surgery have improved, the recurrence rate is up to 85% within 2 years. Data from clinical trials indicate that adjuvant chemotherapy enhances 5-year survival to \~25% for patients who have undergone surgery to remove their tumor; and gemcitabine is the standard regimen of chemotherapy. Metformin is the first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Literatures reported that metformin might inhibit tumor growth by blocking some enzymes needed for cell growth. Some retrospective studies have revealed that diabetic patients taking metformin were less likely to develop pancreatic cancer. Additionally, pancreatic cancer patients treated with metformin showed a better survival than those without metformin. In this study, the researchers intend to investigate the activity and safety of the combination of gemcitabine and metformin in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that have removed by surgery.