Long Term Support for Pediatric Cancer Adult Survivors in Rhône-Alpes : Evaluation of Women Fertility.
PanCareLIFE Study is a cohort study of patients treated for cancer in childhood, and biological case-control study nested in the cohort (WP4) is coordinated by Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital in Holland.

Ensure optimal patient quality of life throughout his life is a priority for the research teams. PanCareLIFE Study also aims to identify the factors that predispose to impaired quality of life. It is in this light that will be offered to patients a quality of life questionnaires during the period of treatment and then periodically during long-term follow-up.
Pediatric Cancer
OTHER: Pediatric cancer women survivors
Measure the FSH hormone rate., In this arm women will incur a blood taking to measure the FSH hormone rate., Day 1|Measure the AMH hormone rate., In this arm women will incur a blood taking to measure the AMH hormone rate., Day 1|Detect the genetic polymorphism of the FSH and AMH hormones., With the blood taking realized for each patient, genetic markers will be obtained to identify their fertility capacity., Day 1
Quality of life, The quality of life for each patient will be measured with the SF-36 scale., Day 1|Identification of new loci associated to ovarian toxicity, With a pan-genomic method, new loci (associated to ovarian toxicity) will be identified., Day 1
PanCareLIFE Study is a cohort study of patients treated for cancer in childhood, and biological case-control study nested in the cohort (WP4) is coordinated by Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital in Holland. At European level, approximately 1,200 women are expected in this latest study, the patients were already identified through certain regional or national registries in terms of cumulative doses of chemotherapy, surgery, radiation.

Ensure optimal patient quality of life throughout his life is a priority for the research teams. PanCareLIFE Study also aims to identify the factors that predispose to impaired quality of life. It is in this light that will be offered to former patients to complete quality of life questionnaires during the period of treatment and then periodically during long-term follow-up.

The SALTO-BIO study is the French part of the European study PanCareLIFE. CHU of Saint-Etienne as French promotor, will organize this study only on the Rhône-Alpes region (Lyon, Grenoble and Saint-Etienne centers) and will participate as co-investigator and "data provider "to WP2, WP3, WP4 and WP6. Indeed, ototoxicity is already studied by a French group.