Rectal Cancer Shared Care
The investigators propose a multifaceted rectal cancer survivorship care program involving oncology specialists, nursing support and primary care physicians. This initiative centers on regular meetings with oncology nursing support, enhanced communication and coordination of care among clinicians including primary care physicians, and an educational platform for patients regarding the late and long-term effects of cancer. Initial efforts will target rectal cancer patients specifically as they have been identified as being at high risk of having unmet needs. Once we have realized measurable, successful implementation in this population, our hope is then to expand our initiative to all colon cancer patients.
Rectal Cancer|Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
OTHER: Survivorship Care Initiative
Short Form-Survivor Unmet Needs Survey (Unmet needs) at 12 months, Score ranges from 0 to 4. Higher score means higher degree of unmet needs., 12 months after study start
National Comprehensive Cancer Network Distress Thermometer, Score ranges from 0 (no distress) to 10 (extreme distress). Higher score means higher distress., Baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months after study start|Global Quality of Life (QoL), Global QoL as measured by the European Organization for Research \& Treatment of Cancer QoL questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). Linear transformation is used to standardize raw score, so that scores range from 0 to 100; higher score represents better functioning or worse level of symptoms., Baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months after study start|Short Form-Survivor Unmet Needs Survey (Unmet needs), Score ranges from 0 to 4. Higher score means higher degree of unmet needs., Baseline, 3, and 6 months after study start
Rectal cancer is a life-altering diagnosis that can have long-lasting effects not only on one's physical health, but also their psychological, emotional and financial well-being. With advancements in both disease detection and therapeutic options, there is now a growing cohort of patients who have successfully completed active rectal cancer treatment and transitioned into post-treatment care. Unfortunately, the post-treatment phase has its own set of challenges. Lost in Transition was one of the first major publications to advocate for dedicated survivorship planning, raising awareness of the needs of cancer survivors. Since then, both the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and the American Cancer Society have released guidelines for survivorship care focused on prevention, surveillance, assessment, intervention, coordination of care and survivorship planning. Despite these efforts to bolster survivorship care, studies have found an average of 2.88 unmet needs among cancer survivors affecting physical, financial, educational, emotional and psychology domains. The investigators propose a multifaceted rectal cancer survivorship care program involving oncology specialists, nursing support and primary care physicians. This initiative centers on regular meetings with oncology nursing support, enhanced communication and coordination of care among clinicians including primary care physicians, and an educational platform for patients regarding the late and long-term effects of cancer. Initial efforts will target rectal cancer patients specifically as they have been identified as being at high risk of having unmet needs. Once the investigators have realized measurable, successful implementation in this population, the hope is then to expand this initiative to all colon cancer patients.