Assessing the Combination of Durvalumab (MEDI4736) and Trabectedin in Solid Tumors
A phase 1 study examining the combination of Durvalumab (MEDI4736) and Trabectedin in various solid tumor types. The study seeks to determine a safe dose of the combination of study drugs and then examine this dose in larger groups of patients of specific tumor types to evaluate its anti-tumor efficacy. Treatment will continue in patients who respond for up to 1 year.
Solid Tumor, Adult
DRUG: Dose Escalation of Durvalumab and Trabectedin|DRUG: Dose Expansion of Durvalumab and Trabectedin
Recommended Dosage of the Durvalumab and Trabectedin Combination, Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) is the dose determined safest for further evaluation based on both early and late onset side effects detected during the dose escalation phase., Up to 1 year on study treatment plus 90 days safety follow-up, up to 15 months|Maximum tolerated dose, Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) is defined as the highest dose level with no more than 1 Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) reported out of up to 6 DLT-evaluable subjects determined during the dose escalation phase, First 2 cycles at 21 days each, equal to 42 days.
Overall Response Rate (ORR) of the Durvalumab and Trabectedin Combination in the whole treated population and at the RP2D in the expansion cohort(s), ORR is determined by RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST response criteria., After 2 cycles of study drugs to study end date, up to 24 months.|Duration of Response (DOR) of the Durvalumab and Trabectedin Combination, The time period for which a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) is maintained., After 2 cycles of study drugs, up to 24 months.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) of the Durvalumab and Trabectedin Combination, Determined by complete response, partial response, or stable disease., After 2 cycles of study drugs to study end date, up to 24 months.|One Year Progression Free Survival (PFS) of the Durvalumab and Trabectedin Combination, PFS is determined by RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST, Study start date to progression, or death, whichever comes first, up to 24 months.|One Year Overall Survival (OS) of the Durvalumab and Trabectedin Combination, Determined continuously throughout the study., Study start date to death from any cause, up to 24 months.|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety), Number of participants with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events that are related to treatment., Study start date to study end date, up to 24 months.|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Tolerability), Number of participants with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events that are related to treatment., Study start date to study end date, up to 24 months.
This study will include dose escalation and dose expansion phases.

In the dose escalation portion, patients with advanced cancer will be enrolled and treated with Durvalumab and Trabectedin. Durvalumab will be administered at the same dose in each dose escalation cohort, while the dose of Trabectedin will be progressively increased in different cohorts until the safest dose of the combination is determined.

In the dose expansion portion patients will be treated with the safest dose of the study drugs determined during the dose escalation phase. There will be two separate groups of patients treated at this dose to evaluate anti-tumor efficacy of the combination. One group will consist of non-small-cell lung cancer patients previously treated with PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors and another group will consist of an immunotherapy naive group of patients. This immunotherapy naive group of patients will include sarcoma and another tumor type, this other tumor type will be determined based on anti-tumor efficacy seen during the dose escalation.

The study drugs will be given intravenously every 3 weeks. Treatment will continue for up to one year or until disease progression.