ME-344 in Early HER2-negative Breast Cancer With Antiangiogenic-induced Mitochondrial Metabolism
Prospective, randomized, open label, two arms,, phase 0 clinical trial. HER2-negative breast cancer patients recently diagnosed will be screened for trial participation.

A biopsy will be scheduled the week prior to or the same day as the FDG PET. Paraffin-embedded tumor samples will be used to evaluate the stainings of Ki67, cleaved caspase-3 and microvessels, and frozen tumor samples will be used to evaluate SDH staining.

The FDG-PET will be followed by the bevacizumab dose (15 mg/kg IV, single dose). After one week, the PET will be repeated in order to detect the patients that have experienced FDG uptake decay.

Right after, treatment with ME-344 (arm 1) or no treatment (arm 2) will start. ME-344 will be administered at 10 mg/kg on day 8, 15 and 22. Surgery will be performed on day 28 (thus, 4 weeks after the bevacizumab dose, which is considered a safe window for antiangiogenics).

Fragments of the surgical specimen will be collected. Paraffin-embedded tumor sample will be used to repeat (and compare) the stainings of Ki67, cleaved caspase-3 and microvessels, and frozen tumor sample will be used to repeat (and compare) SDH staining.

Patients will come off trial in case of consent withdrawal, unequivocal disease progression is observed, unacceptable toxicity occurs, or in case of intercurrent disease or any other condition deemed incompatible with continuation in the clinical trial by the investigator.
Breast Cancer|Human Epidermal Growth Factor 2 Negative Carcinoma of Breast|Early-Stage Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: ME-344|DRUG: Bevacizumab|OTHER: Normal saline
Reduction of FDG uptake, Mitochondrial switch changes from baseline, 1 month|SDH (succinate dehydrogenase) levels staining, Mitochondrial switch changes from baseline: glucolisis and studies microvasculature, 1 month
Toxicity profile: Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, All toxicities will be graded according to NCI CTCAE v4.03, 8 weeks|Ki67 changes, Antitumor activity: Ki67 changes, From day 1 to day 8|Cleaved caspase-3 changes, Antitumor activity: Cleaved caspase-3 changes, From day 1 to day 8
Antiangiogenic agents are the most widely used biologic agents in oncology and are approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use against many different malignancies based on the results of several randomized phase III trials. However, acquired resistance to antiangiogenics is a major problem in cancer therapeutics.

Some signaling nodes have been implicated in therapeutic resistance in preclinical studies. However, a global tumor-reprogramming interrogation based on changes in the delivery of oxygen and nutrients has not been undertaken. The findings link acquired resistance to a powerful anticancer drug class with aberrant cancer metabolism. Under selective pressure, tumor plasticity allows sustained tumor growth in the long term despite exposure to antiangiogenic TKIs, and it renders mitochondrial metabolism essential for survival When one energy source (glycolysis) is pharmacologically limited, the tumors become vulnerable to the inhibition of the other (mitochondrial metabolism). Pharmacological blockers of the nutritional stress regulators can abrogate mitochondrial respiration and tumor growth in this situation, which the investigators have termed "metabolic synthetic lethality".

The investigators hypothesized that in cases in which antiangiogenics lead to hypoxia normalization, chronic high-rate glycolysis is offset and tumors might switch to an alternative metabolic source. If this source is essential for tumor survival, it would open a therapeutic opportunity.

The administration of ME-344 in animals where antiangiogenics have induced a mitochondrial phenotype seems promising. The investigators aim to extend these observations in humans. However, several questions remain, prior to launch a large trial:

* Which percentage of patients experience a mitochondrial shift when exposed to a given antiangiogenic.
* In case this happens, whether it is possible to trace this response accurately.
* What is the benefit of adding ME-344 in those cases showing the mitochondrial shift, and what is the benefit, if any, of adding it in the remainder cases.

For that purpose, investigators will conduct a pilot randomized phase 0 trial, where a cohort of patients will be treated with a single bevacizumab dose prior to surgery and a second cohort with bevacizumab plus ME-344.

The purpose of this clinical trial is to evaluate if the addition of ME-344 to antiangiogenic agents in the cases where the mitochondrial phenotype has been induced will enhance antitumor activity.