FHD-286 in Subjects With Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
This Phase 1, multicenter, open-label, dose escalation and expansion study is designed to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and preliminary clinical activity of FHD-286 oral monotherapy in subjects with metastatic Uveal Melanoma (UM).
Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: FHD-286
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), Dose escalation and expansion, Up to 31 months|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) including changes in safety laboratory parameters and AEs leading to discontinuation, Dose escalation and expansion, Up to 31 months|Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) during cycle 1 (28 days), Dose escalation, Cycle 1 (cycle length = 28 days)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1., Up to 30 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until the earliest date of documented radiological progression per RECIST 1.1. or death due to any cause among subjects who achieved a CR or PR, Up to 30 months|Time to Response (TTR), TTR is defined as the period of time from the date of first study drug administration until the first objective documentation of a CR or PR per RECIST 1.1., Up to 30 months|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from the date of first study drug administration until the start of disease progression per RECIST Version 1.1., Up to 30 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from first dose of study treatment until the first date of either objective disease progression per RECIST 1.1. or death due to any cause, Up to 54 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death, Up to 54 months|PK parameter: Area under the plasma concentration time curve (AUC), Characterization of the PK profile of FHD-286, Cycle 1 (28 days)|Plasma concentration vs. time profiles, Plasma concentration of FHD-286 at the scheduled timepoints, Cycle 1 (28 days)
This study is an ascending multiple dose clinical trial with expansion arms. It is primarily intended to evaluate the safety and tolerability of FHD-286 when administered orally to subjects with metastatic UM. The Dose Escalation Phase will allow for the determination of the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and/or maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in subjects with metastatic UM. This study will also evaluate the PK/PD profiles of multiple dose administration of FHD-286.

The Dose Expansion Phase will allow a more robust evaluation of the safety profile of FHD-286, including less frequent toxicities and an assessment of antitumor activity. The data from this study in subjects with metastatic UM, including safety, tolerability, PK/PD findings, and antitumor activity, will form the basis for subsequent clinical development of FHD-286.