Study of Combined SGT-53 Plus Gemcitabine/Nab-Paclitaxel for Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This clinical trial is an open label Phase II study of the combination of intravenously administered SGT-53 and gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer. The objective of the study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, toxicity and efficacy (specifically Progression Free Survival at 5.5 month (PFS5.5mos)) of this combination therapy.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
GENETIC: SGT-53|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Progression free survival (PFS) at 5.5 months, PFS5.5mos will be assessed by objective radiographic assessment, 5.5 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be assessed by objective radiographic assessment using RECIST 1.1 criteria, Up to 5 years
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) will be defined as the time from registration until confirmed tumor progression or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Survival will be defined as the time from the date of registration to the date of death (any cause)., Up to 5 years|Time to disease progression (TTP), Time to disease progression is defined as the time from registration until confirmed tumor progression, but not including deaths., Up to 5 years|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (SD for ≥16 weeks plus CR and PR) will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods., 16 weeks|Duration of disease control, Disease control duration is measured from the time of registration until documented confirmed tumor progression., Up to 5 years|Adverse events, Safety will be evaluated by the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), physical examination, laboratory abnormalities during study drug dosing and percentage of patients experiencing dose modifications, interruptions, and/or discontinuation., Study drug initiation through 30 days after the last dose of study drug or end of treatment, whichever is later.
The p53 is a vital human tumor suppressor gene. Loss of p53 suppressor function is present in the majority of human cancers. The p53 protein has a diverse range of functions including regulation of cell cycle checkpoints, cell death (apoptosis), senescence, DNA repair, maintenance of genomic integrity, and control of angiogenesis. Abnormalities of the p53 gene may impact the efficacy of standard anticancer treatments such as radiation and chemotherapy. P53 mutation and pathway dysfunction are associated with poor clinical outcomes and the presence of the p53 mutation correlates with resistance to chemotherapy and radiation. The development of somatic gene therapy has created the potential to restore wild type function of p53. SGT-53 is a complex of cationic liposome encapsulating a normal human wild type p53 DNA sequence in a plasmid backbone. This complex has been shown to efficiently and specifically deliver the p53 cDNA to the tumor cells. Introduction of the p53 cDNA sequence is expected to restore wtp53 function in the apoptotic pathway. P53 restoration has been shown most effective in enhancing cytotoxicity in combination with an agent which results in DNA damage or initiates apoptosis. This is a Phase II clinical trial of SGT-53 plus the recently approved chemotherapeutic combination of gemcitabine/Abraxane® (nab-paclitaxel) in patients with confirmed metastatic pancreatic cancer. In addition to determining Progression Free Survival at 5.5 months (PFS5.5mos), this trial will evaluate the response rate, overall survival and time to progression as well as the tolerability and safety of SGT-53 in combination with gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel.