Effect of Vitamin D Supplementation on Chemotherapy Side Effects After Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer
This randomized controlled Phase III trial was designed to evaluate the effect of vitamin D supplementation (VD) on chemotherapy side effects following adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer
Vitamin D|Chemotherapy|Breast Cancer|Adverse Reaction
DRUG: Chemotherapy + vitamin D2|DRUG: Chemotherapy
Incidence and proportion of treatment-related adverse events, The occurrence of side effects between the two groups from the first to the last chemotherapy, 4-6months
Evaluation of side effects associated with adjuvant therapy (CTCAE v5.0), Side effects of adjuvant therapy were evaluated according to CTCAE v5.0 criteria. CTCAE v5.0 was used to evaluate the degree of adverse events after patients received adjuvant chemotherapy. The level of adverse events was divided into 1-5 grades. The higher the level, the more serious the degree of adverse reactions after patients received chemotherapy, and active intervention was required., From the start of adjuvant therapy to 21 days after the last adjuvant therapy cycle.|Assessment of side effects associated with adjuvant therapy (EQ-5D Health Status Scale), Side effects of adjuvant therapy will be assessed according to the EQ-5D Health Status Scale criteria. The EQ-5D health status scale was used to evaluate the health status of patients after chemotherapy. The scale score was between 0 and 1, and the higher the scale score was, the better the health status of patients was reflected, From the start of adjuvant therapy to 21 days after the last adjuvant therapy cycle.|Assessment of side effects associated with adjuvant therapy (Abbreviated Fatigue Scale), The side effects of adjuvant therapy will be assessed according to the Concise Fatigue Scale (BFI) criteria, with a score between 0 and 10, with a lower score indicating less fatigue, From the start of adjuvant therapy to 21 days after the last adjuvant therapy cycle.
This is a parallel group, open-label randomized controlled trial to investigate the occurrence of side effects of vitamin D supplementation (VD) in adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with breast cancer. Both groups will receive standard adjuvant chemotherapy on day 1 and each subsequent cycle. In addition, vitamin D2 will be given randomly to both groups. Blood samples and imaging results were collected and analyzed before initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy and after every two cycles. The primary outcome to be documented was associated grade III or higher adverse events during adjuvant chemotherapy. Primary and secondary study findings and adverse events will be thoroughly evaluated.