PLX038 for Treatment of Metastatic Platinum-resistant Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, and Fallopian Tube Cancer
This phase II trial tests whether pegylated SN-38 conjugate PLX038 (PLX038) works to shrink tumors in patients with ovarian, primary peritoneal, and fallopian tube cancers that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). PLX038 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Platinum-Resistant Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC V8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|DRUG: Pegylated SN-38 Conjugate PLX038|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Proportion of confirmed tumor responses, A confirmed tumor response is defined to be either a complete response or partial response noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart. Confirmed tumor response will be evaluated using the first 6 cycles of treatment. All patients meeting the eligibility criteria who have signed a consent form, have begun treatment, and who have had at least one post-baseline tumor assessment will be evaluable for response. Patients not having met the criteria of having one post-baseline tumor assessment will be considered evaluable if they have discontinued the study due to disease progression., Up to first 6 cycles of treatment (1 cycle = 21 days)
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From study entry to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse event rates, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be summarized using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The frequency and percentage of Grade 3+ adverse events will be reported., Up to 30 days
TOP1-deoxyribonucleic acid covalent complexes (TOP1cc), TOP1cc will be assessed on archival tissue and from pre-treatment and day 8 biopsies. The primary analysis is the relationship between induction of TOP1cc and individual responses. TOP1cc will be summarized for each sample as the percent of tumor cells with \> 8 nucleoplasmic TOP1ccs. The change in TOP1cc from pre-treatment and day 8 samples (DTOP1cc) will be compared between responders and non-responders via two-sample t-tests. TOP1cc will be assessed in circulating tumor cells (CTC) from samples drawn pretreatment, cycle 1 day 2 and cycle 1 day 8. Presence of TOPcc in CTC will be examined graphically in an exploratory fashion. If feasible, comparisons of quantification between TOPcc in tissue versus CTC will be performed using Spearman correlation and scatter plots and association between TOPcc in CTC and response will be assessed as in tissue samples., Up to cycle 1 day 8 (1 cycle = 21 days)|Homologous recombination (HR) status, (HR) status (deficient versus proficient) will be assessed via staining for RAD51 foci on pretreatment and day 8 tumor biopsies. HR status will be compared to tumor response via chi-squared tests., Up to cycle 1 day 8 (1 cycle = 21 days)|Protein expression, Protein expression of ABCG2 will be measured via immunohistochemistry (IHC) on archival and pretreatment biopsies. H-scores will be used to score IHC staining, and H-scores will be compared between responders and non-responders using two-sample t-tests as indicated for TOP1cc., Up to cycle 1 day 8 (1 cycle = 21 days)|Correlative analyses, Exploratory analyses examining the association between correlative endpoints and other clinical endpoints (PFS and OS) may also be performed using Cox proportional hazards models and Kaplan Meier curves., Up to 5 years|Gut microbiome analysis, Data will be summarized by descriptive statistics, and non-parametric statistics and Principal Coordinate Analysis of Bray Curtis and weighted and unweighted UniFrac distances will be used to test for differences between cases with and without grade 3-4 diarrhea., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the overall tumor response rate (overall response rate \[ORR\], that is, complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\], according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 \[RECIST v1.1\] of PLX038 in the setting of metastatic platinum resistant high grade serous ovarian cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival and overall survival of treatment with PLX038.

II. To describe and assess tolerability of PLX038. III. Measure PLX038 induced tumor TOP1-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) covalent complexes (TOP1cc) in pretreatment and Cycle 1 Day 8 biopsies to confirm persistent stabilization of TOP1cc and evaluate association with tumor response rate.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH:

I. Measure TOP1cc in circulating tumor cells and evaluate association with TOP1cc in tumor tissue and tumor response rate.

II. Assess homologous repair status and association with tumor response. III. Assess expression of SN-38 transports by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and association with tumor response.

IV. Assess pharmacokinetics of SN-38 and SN-38G as well as their association with gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity.

V. Assess the gut microbiota and evaluate association with GI toxicity profile.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive PLX038 intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), biopsy, as well as blood and stool sample collection during screening and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 6 months for up to 5 years.