Accuracy Evaluation of Artificial Intelligence Assisted Liver Tumor Ablation Path Planning
CT-guided microwave ablation is one of the important treatment methods for primary or metastatic liver tumors. It has the advantages of minimally invasive, safe, and economical. For liver tumors with a diameter of less than 3 cm, it can be comparable to surgical resection. However, different doctors have different levels of experience, leading to a high risk of residues after ablation and even complications. The key is to fail to plan the needle placement reasonably. The past research on path planning was mostly conducted by the engineering team, so that the actual clinical needs were not considered comprehensively, and the sample size of verified cases was small, which limited the application of existing models in the clinical application. In previous study, we used artificial intelligence to segment the upper abdominal organs and construct the constraint function to establish the ablation path planning model, and initially verified the effectiveness of the path planning model in a small number of cases. Now it is planned to expand the number of patients enrolled to evaluate the accuracy of the ablation path planning model that we have established.
Liver Tumor
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Accuracy evaluation
Receiver operating characteristic curve, ROC, 2 years
Area under curve, AUC, 2 years
CT-guided microwave ablation is one of the important treatment methods for primary or metastatic liver tumors. It has the advantages of minimally invasive, safe, and economical. For liver tumors with a diameter of less than 3 cm, it can be comparable to surgical resection. However, different doctors have different levels of experience, leading to a high risk of residues after ablation and even complications. The key is to fail to plan the needle placement reasonably. The past research on path planning was mostly conducted by the engineering team, so that the actual clinical needs were not considered comprehensively, and the sample size of verified cases was small, which limited the application of existing models in the clinical application. In previous study, we used artificial intelligence to segment the upper abdominal organs and construct the constraint function to establish the ablation path planning model, and initially verified the effectiveness of the path planning model in a small number of cases. Now it is planned to expand the number of patients enrolled to evaluate the accuracy of the ablation path planning model that we have established.