Ponatinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Biliary Cancer With FGFR2 Fusions
This pilot phase II trial studies how well ponatinib hydrochloride works in treating patients with biliary cancer that has spread to other places in the body and that have alterations (fusions) in a gene known as fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2). Ponatinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Malignant Hepatobiliary Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Ponatinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Clinical Benefit Rate (Percentage), Which Includes Confirmed Tumor Response (Complete Response [CR] or Partial Response [PR]) or Stable Disease (SD), A confirmed tumor response is defined to be either a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 8 weeks apart. The proportion of clinical benefit rate will be estimated by the number of patients with clinical benefit (confirmed CR, confirmed PR, or SD for 4 or more cycles) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Complete Response (CR): All of the following must be true:a. Disappearance of all target lesions. b. Each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0 cm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the BSD (see Section 11.41). Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the MSD. Please refer to RECIST v1.1 response criteria for more details., Up to 10 months of treatment
CA 19-9 Response, This test measures the amount of a protein called CA 19-9 (cancer antigen 19-9) in the blood. CA 19-9 is a type of tumor marker. Tumor markers are substances made by cancer cells or by normal cells in response to cancer in the body.CA 19-9 was collected at baseline and on day one of each cycle. A CA 19-9 response is defined to be a \>= 50% reduction from baseline. The CA 19-9 response rate (percentage) will be estimated by the number of CA 19-9 responses divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 10 months of treatment|Overall Toxicity Rate, Assessed Using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0 (v4), The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns within patient groups. In addition, we will review all adverse event data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The overall toxicity rates (percentages) for grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment are reported below., Up to 10 months of treatment|Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of registration to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first. Progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression, assessed up to maximum 3.3 years from registration.|Survival Time, Overall survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to a maximum of 3.3 years
Changes in Patient-reported Outcomes (Quality of Life and Symptoms), Assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30, EORTC QLQ-BIL21, Skindex-16, and Bowel Function Questionnaire, The Uniscale assessment of overall quality of life will be used. The Was It Worth It questionnaire will determine patient's satisfaction with the study. Scale score trajectories over time will be examined using stream plots and mean plots with standard deviation error bars overall. Changes from baseline at each cycle will be statistically tested using paired t-tests, and standardized response means will be interpreted using Cohen's (1988) cut-offs. Correlation between outcomes will employ Pearson and/or Spearman correlations at individual time points., Up to a maximum follow-up of 3.3 years|Rate of Circulating-free Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid Mutations, Will be described, and association with confirmed tumor response and/or clinical benefit will be investigated using a Fisher's exact test., Up to a maximum follow-up of 3.3 years|Rate of FGFR Fusions, Will be described, and association with confirmed tumor response and/or clinical benefit will be investigated using a Fisher's exact test., Up to a maximum follow-up of 3.3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical benefit rate (confirmed complete or partial response or stable disease for 4 or more cycles) of ponatinib (ponatinib hydrochloride) in fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) aberrant advanced biliary cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate progression free survival, overall survival, and cancer antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) response rate of these patients.

II. To estimate the adverse event profile of ponatinib.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish preliminary correlations between FGFR2 fusions and evidence of any clinical benefit.

II. Assess preliminary evaluation of FGFR2 pathway perturbation with ponatinib. III. To describe patient-reported health-related quality of life and symptoms.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ponatinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for at least 2 years.