Phase II Trial of Neoadjuvant Temozolomide in Melanoma Patients With Palpable Stage III or IV Disease Undergoing Complete Surgical Resection
In this study, we want to find out how likely it is for temozolomide to shrink melanoma tumors that have spread only to areas that could be removed by surgery. We also want to study the melanoma before and after temozolomide treatment to learn why some tumors respond and others do not. This is a Phase II trial. This means that it will test a drug - in this case, temozolomide -- that has already been studied and shown to be safe.

Surgery, when possible, is the main treatment for patients with melanoma like yours. In most people, however, melanoma cells have already spread to other places in the body. This means that even with surgery, many people will have the melanoma come back. This is often fatal.

One goal of this trial is to treat the melanoma cells that might have spread before they have a chance to grow.

As part of this trial, we also study which genes are turned on and which genes are turned off in your tumor. We will obtain tumor from the biopsy done before you started temozolomide treatment and from the tumor removed during the surgery done after you finish temozolomide treatment. This may help us understand how temozolomide works and how to recognize which tumors will respond.

Before and during the temozolomide treatment, we will also test a new way of measuring the amount of tumor present. This involves a special way of analyzing the CT scan which you will have anyway. This new technique may allow us to see tumor shrinkage very early in the treatment course.
Melanoma|Skin Cancer|Cancer
DRUG: Temozolomide
Overall Objective Response (Complete Response or Partial Response), The Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) will be used to determine treatment response.

Clinical Complete Response (CRc) Disappearance of all target lesions and non-measurable disease.

Pathological Complete Response (CRp) A CRc in which a lymph node dissection done after completing temozolomide treatment shows no pathological evidence of melanoma. Partial Response (PR) A greater or equal then 30% in the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions relative to baseline measurement, 2 years
In this Phase II trial, chemotherapy-naïve patients with palpable Stage III or Stage IV M1a melanoma scheduled to undergo surgical resection will be treated with TMZ in 8 week cycles according to the extended dosing schedule of 75mg/m2/day x 6 weeks with 2 weeks off. Patients will be treated until maximal response to TMZ and then undergo resection of residual disease. The primary endpoint will be tumor response as measured by the RECIST criteria. Patients will be seen monthly.