Physical Activity and First Degree Female Relatives of Breast Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to learn more about encouraging physical activity among first degree female relatives of women with breast cancer. Physical activity can decrease a woman's risk of developing breast cancer, on average, by 20%; however, physical activity interventions have not been developed specifically for first degree female relatives of cancer patients, so currently, it is unknown whether standard physical activity interventions are sufficient for these women or if first degree female relatives would benefit from an enhanced physical activity intervention that addresses information about breast cancer risk reduction. To obtain information about first degree female relatives preferences for a physical activity intervention, this study seeks to have first degree female relatives of breast cancer patients enroll in a standard physical activity intervention developed for healthy men and women. After completion of the three month intervention, the women will be asked to participate in two, one-hour long focus group with 5-7 other participants. The first focus group is to discuss aspects of the physical activity intervention that they liked and did not like, as well as things they think may have enhanced the intervention and made it more relevant to other first-degree relative of breast cancer patients. In the second focus group, participants will be shown enhancements that were developed based on information gathered from the first focus group. Participants will be asked for their feedback on the newly developed enhancements.
Female|First-degree Relative With Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity
Minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity, 7-Day Physical Activity Recall, baseline to 12 weeks
The purpose of this study is to learn more about encouraging physical activity among first degree female relatives of women with breast cancer. Physical activity can decrease a woman's risk of developing breast cancer, on average, by 20%; however, physical activity interventions have not been developed specifically for first degree female relatives of cancer patients, so currently, it is unknown whether standard physical activity interventions are sufficient for these women or if first degree female relatives would benefit from an enhanced physical activity intervention that addresses information about breast cancer risk reduction. To obtain information about first degree female relatives preferences for a physical activity intervention, this study seeks to have first degree female relatives of breast cancer patients enroll in a standard physical activity intervention developed for healthy men and women. After completion of the three month intervention, the women will be asked to participate in two, one-hour long focus group with 5-7 other participants. The first focus group is to discuss aspects of the physical activity intervention that they liked and did not like, as well as things they think may have enhanced the intervention and made it more relevant to other first-degree relative of breast cancer patients. In the second focus group, participants will be shown enhancements that were developed based on information gathered from the first focus group. Participants will be asked for their feedback on the newly developed enhancements.