18F Fluciclovine (FACBC) PET/CT in Patients With Rising PSA After Initial Prostate Cancer Treatment
This prospective study will enroll up to 330 men with PSA-persistent or PSA-recurrent prostate cancer after curative-intent primary therapy and negative or equivocal findings on standard-of-care imaging. Consenting participants will be imaged with 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT. Site clinicians will manage study subjects per standard practices and will document any change in treatment based on review of 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT findings. All participants will be followed for up to 6 months, with clinical data collected for this study. An interdisciplinary panel will provide expert guidance to local readers on request. The final reporting of the PET/CT scan will be a single report by the local reader following any such discussion.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: 18F-fluciclovine PET CT
The Fraction of Patients for Whom 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT Alters Patient Planned Treatment Through Detection of Disease., The change of management will be based on referring physician questionnaires completed pre- and post- 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT, 2-22 days post PET CT
The Fraction of Patients for Whom 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT Alters Patient Actual Treatment, The change of management will be based on referring physician questionnaires completed pre- 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT and changes reported at 6 month follow-up.

Investigators were instructed to assess any clinically significant change from the revised management plan., 6 months|The Rate of Detection of Any Disease Site by 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT in the Study Population, The percentage of subjects who have disease detectable by 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT, 1 week|The Rate of Detection of Disease in 1) Prostate and Prostate Bed and 2) Extra-prostatic Regions With 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT in the Study Population, The percentage of subjects who have disease detectable by 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT 1) in the pelvis and 2) distally, 1 week|The Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT for Regional Disease Compared to Biopsy in Those Patients Who Undergo Biopsy or in Case of Bony Disease a Correlation With MRI or Biopsy, Based on the ratio of positive findings in the pelvis on 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT which are confirmed by histological examination of tissue or MRI, 6 months|The PPV of 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT for Distant Disease Compared to Biopsy in Those Patients Who Undergo a Biopsy or in Case of Bony Disease a Correlation With MRI or Biopsy, Based on the ratio of positive findings outside the pelvis on 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT which are confirmed by histological examination of tissue or MRI, 6 months
This prospective study will enroll up to 330 men with PSA-persistent or PSA-recurrent prostate cancer after curative-intent primary therapy and negative or equivocal findings on standard-of-care imaging. Consenting participants will be imaged with 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT. Site clinicians will manage study subjects per standard practices and will document any change in treatment based on review of 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT findings. All participants will be followed for up to 6 months, with clinical data collected for this study. An interdisciplinary panel will provide expert guidance to local readers on request. The final reporting of the PET/CT scan will be a single report by the local reader following any such discussion.