Vaccine Therapy and Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Stage II-III Breast or Stage II-IV Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This phase I clinical trial studies the side effects of vaccine therapy and cyclophosphamide in treating patients with stage II-III breast cancer or stage II-IV ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer. Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving vaccine therapy and cyclophosphamide may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIA Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIB Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIC Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIC Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIA Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIA Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIB Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIB Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cancer|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Multi-epitope Folate Receptor Alpha Peptide Vaccine
Proportion of patients who experience severe toxicities (grades 3-5 of the National Cancer Institute's Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program [CTEP] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0), Defined as adverse events that are classified as either unrelated, unlikely to be related, possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed by primary disease site to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 12 months
Disease-free survival, The distribution of disease-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier for each disease group (breast cancer; ovarian cancer)., Time from registration to documentation of disease recurrence, second primary, or death without disease recurrence or second primary, assessed up to 12 months|FRa expression, A 90% binomial confidence interval will be constructed for percentage of patients who develop an immune response among those patients who have FRa positive disease. Similarly, a 90% binomial confidence interval will be constructed for percentage of patients who develop an immune response among those patients who have FRa negative disease., Up to 12 months|Overall survival time, The distribution of overall survival times will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier for each disease group (breast cancer; ovarian cancer)., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Percentage change in plasma concentration of cytokines and chemokines, The percent change in plasma concentrations of cytokines and chemokines from pre-treatment concentrations will be determined. Will be plotted against time with the points belonging to a particular individual connected. Each graph will be visually inspected for trends across time and difference between treatment regimens., Baseline to up to 12 months
FR-alpha -specific antibody response by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, A vaccine-induced FR-alpha-specific antibody responses will be defined as (1) a 2-fold or greater increase in FR-alpha-specific antibody concentration from pretreatment levels at any point during treatment or (2) FR-alpha-specific antibodies above the lower limit of detection at any point during treatment if pre-treatment levels were non-detectable., Up to 12 months|FR-alpha-specific antibody response by enzyme-linked immunospot, A patient is said to have an antigen-specific response at a given post-treatment time point if one of the following sets of conditions is true: 1) the average antigen specific value at pre-treatment \> 0, there is a 2 fold increase in average antigen-specific value at post treatment time relative to antigen specific value at pretreatment, and the post-treatment time point of interest (INT) is wholly above the pre-INT; or (2) the average antigen specific value at pre-treatment =\< 0, the average antigen-specific value at post treatment time \> 0, and the post-INT is wholly above the pre-INT., Up to 12 months|Percent change in antigen-specific cytokine profiles, Percent change in plasma concentrations of cytokines from pre-treatment levels will be examined to determine skewing of the T cell response to type 1 helper cell or type 2 helper cell after vaccination., Baseline to up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of administering one cycle of cyclophosphamide and six subsequent monthly vaccinations with a peptide-based vaccine targeting folate receptor (FR)-alpha (multi-epitope folate receptor alpha peptide vaccine).

II. To assess the ability of this vaccination protocol to elicit an immune response as measured by activated FR-alpha-specific T lymphocytes or high-affinity antibodies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine FR-alpha expression status of primary tumors when available as formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded material and whether expression correlates with the ability to generate an immune response.

II. To identify human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) class I binding peptides from FR-alpha that are recognized by lymphocytes from patients prior to and after vaccination.

III. To determine whether cyclophosphamide treatment, prior to vaccination, results in regulatory T cell depletion by assessing regulatory T cells before and immediately after cyclophosphamide treatment.

IV. To compare FR-alpha (FRa) expression levels in tumor removed at primary surgery to FRa expression levels in tumor removed for clinical purposes at disease recurrence. (For ovarian cancer patients whose disease recurs.)

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cyclophosphamide orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 and 15-21 of course 1. Within 3-5 days, patients receive multi-epitope folate receptor alpha peptide vaccine intradermally (ID) on day 1. Vaccine treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months.