Magnetic Resonance Guided Focal Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy for Localized Prostate Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies magnetic resonance (MRI)-guided focal stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) in treating patients with low- or intermediate-risk localized prostate cancer. Stereotactic radiosurgery may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage I Prostate Cancer|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: stereotactic radiosurgery|DEVICE: magnetic resonance imaging|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment|PROCEDURE: Serum Prostate Antigen Test|PROCEDURE: Digital Rectal Exam|BEHAVIORAL: Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite
Number of patients with change in EPIC bowel domain score that was worse than 5 points, Number of patients with change in EPIC bowel domain score that was worse than 5 points

A rate for the worse-than-5 point change in bowel score of up to 35% of patients will be considered acceptable, with a rate ≥55% specified as unacceptable, Up to 1 year from start of study|Number of patients with change in EPIC urinary domain score that was worse than 2 points, Number of patients with change in EPIC urinary domain score that was worse than 2 points

A rate for the worse-than-2 point change in urinary score of up to 40% will be considered acceptable, with a rate ≥60% unacceptable, Up to 1 year from start of study
PSA response, Number of patients with PSA failure. Failure occurs when the PSA is first noted to be 2 ng/mL or more than the patient's nadir value post radiation therapy completion, Up to 2 years from start of study|Number of acute gastrointestinal (GI) grade 3+ acute adverse events, evaluated by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) active version of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Defined as the first occurrence of worst severity of the adverse event =\< 30 days after the completion of radiation therapy. Multivariate analysis will be used, and acute rates of GI toxicity will be reported with dose-volume histogram., Up to 30 days after the completion of radiation therapy|Number of acute genitourinary (GU) grade 3+ acute adverse events, evaluated by the CTEP version of the NCI CTCAE, Defined as the first occurrence of worst severity of the adverse event =\< 30 days after the completion of radiation therapy., Up to 2 years from start of study|Number of late GI grade 3+ acute adverse events, evaluated by the CTEP version of the NCI CTCAE, Defined as the first occurrence of worst severity of adverse event \> 180 days after radiation therapy completion. Multivariate analysis will be used, and acute rates of GI toxicity will be reported with dose-volume histogram., Up to 2 years from start of study|Number of late GU grade 3+ acute adverse events, evaluated by the CTEP version of the NCI CTCAE, Defined as the first occurrence of worst severity of adverse event \> 180 days after radiation therapy completion., Up to 2 years from start of study|Number of patients with Disease-free survival, Defined as From the date of treatment to the date of documentation of disease progression or until the date of death from any cause. Radiographic efficacy will be summarized by calculating Kaplan-Meier curves. Also, 95% confidence intervals will be reported. Descriptive reports of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (1.1) and volumetric findings will be provided., Up to 2 years from start of study|Time to local progression, Radiographic efficacy will be summarized by calculating Kaplan-Meier curves. Descriptive reports of RECIST (1.1) and volumetric findings will be provided. Time will be reported in months., Up to 2 years from start of study|Time to distant failure, Radiographic efficacy will be summarized by calculating Kaplan-Meier curves. Descriptive reports of RECIST (1.1) and volumetric findings will be provided. Time will be reported in months., Up to 2 years from start of study
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the correlation of histopathology findings in comparison to regions of the prostate reported to be suspicious for harboring tumor burden on multiparametric MRI report/s.

II. Demonstration of the dosimetric and radiobiological advantages of focal stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) versus whole-gland radiation therapy.

III. Evaluation of clinical outcomes in focal SBRT for localized prostate cancer.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 3 fractions of MRI-guided focal SRS every other day for 1 week. Patients undergo additional MRI scans between the 2nd and 3rd fractionated treatments, at 6 months following the end of radiation therapy, and at 12 and 24 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 24 months.