Postoperative Adjuvant Chemotherapy With Bevacizumab and Maintenance Bevacizumab After Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Ovarian Cancer
This study is to determine the feasibility of postoperative platinum-based chemotherapy plus adjuvant and maintenance bevacizumab after neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval surgery in patients with extensive stage IIIC or IV ovarian, tubal, and peritoneal cancer.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab
Significant event rate of the regimen (neoadjuvant carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab), Significant AEs include:

1. Hypertension ≥ grade 3
2. Proteinuria ≥ grade 3
3. GI perforation, abscesses and fistulae (any grade)
4. Wound healing complications ≥ grade 3
5. Haemorrhage ≥ grade 3 (any grade CNS bleeding; ≥ grade 2 haemoptysis)
6. Arterial thromboembolic events (any grade)
7. Venous thromboembolic events ≥ grade 3
8. PRES (any grade)
9. CHF ≥ grade 3
10. Non-GI fistula or abscess ≥ grade 2, Up to 30 days after the last treatment
Progression free survival (PFS), Following disease progression, the patient will be contacted every 26 weeks (+/- 2 weeks) (until 30 days after the last patient receives the last dose of bevacizumab) in order to capture their survival status, Every 3 months during treatment and every 6 months for three years post-treatment
This study is designed to determine the feasibility of administering adjuvant carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab without unacceptable significant AE in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer after neoadjuvant carboplatin/cisplatin, and paclitaxel and interval cytoreductive surgery, primary peritoneal cancer or fallopian tube cancer. This study will also investigate progression free and to assess the quality of life.

A Simon minimax two-stage design is employed to determine permit early stopping when a moderately long sequence of initial adverse events occurs. Under this two-stage design, 13 subjects are enrolled at the first stage. If there are \> 3 subjects discontinue treatment due to significant AE in the stage-1, then stop the trial. Otherwise, the second stage is implemented by including the other 14 subjects. The treatment safety will be evaluated and ensured by the occurrence rate of significant AE (or non AE). In stage-1, postoperative adjuvant cycles 2-6 will be observed for defined significant AE.

Patients' or physicians' decision of discontinuation not because of the above-defined significant AEs or due to cancer progression should not be counted as an end-point event.