Quality of Life After Biliodigestive Anastomosis (BDA) or Stents to Treat Biliary Obstruction in Pancreas Cancer
To compare the quality of life (QoL) in patients receiving a bilioenteric anastomosis vs. endoscopical stenting for palliation of biliary obstruction due to locally unresectable or metastatic pancreatic cancer. In the past, endoscopy seems to have been favoured based on older studies, but with new chemotherapeutic regimens available, the likelihood to experience stent complications has increased. Therefore, the issue as to which palliation should be favoured has to be reconsidered.
Local Tumor Spread|Advanced Cancer|Metastasized|Pancreatic Cancer Non-resectable|Jaundice
PROCEDURE: Stent|PROCEDURE: Biliodigestive anastomosis
Outcome of Quality of Life., 2 1/2 years
The incidence of surgical complications and complications, with regard to the endo-scopic stent insertion, are further aspects that shall be examined in this study., 2 1/2 years
The aim of this multi-centre, prospective-randomised study was to compare the effectiveness of palliative applications on patients suffering from a local, advanced and/or hepatic, metastasising, non-resectable pancreas head carcinoma and jaundice.

Before randomisation, all patients are fitted with an endoscopically inserted biliary tract drainage endoscopically inserted. When postoperatively ascertained that the pancreas head carcinoma is non-resectable, the patient shall be electronically registered and randomly assigned to one of the palliative strategies. Group 1 will be fitted with a biliodigestive anastomosis. Group 2 will continue with the endoscopically inserted drainage. Regardless of which group they belong to, all patients will receive a palliative chemotherapy.

The primary parameter is the average quality of life over a period of 6 months post-operatively, to be analysed monthly using identical questionnaires. The comparison of the randomisation groups will be carried out using a co-variance analysis (ANCOVA) with the initial value, taken directly before the operation, to be used as co-variant.