S9918 PSC 833, Daunorubicin, and Cytarabine in Treating Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. PSC 833 may help chemotherapy drugs kill more cancer cells by making them more sensitive to the drugs.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of PSC 833, daunorubicin, and cytarabine in treating older patients who have newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia.
Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: daunorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: valspodar
response, after induction therapy is completed
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety and efficacy of daunorubicin and cytarabine by continuous infusion and PSC 833 in patients over age 56 with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. II. Determine the frequency and severity of toxicities of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the frequency and prognosis of functional and phenotypic P-glycoprotein expression, cytogenetics, and pharmacokinetics in this population.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients receive induction chemotherapy consisting of PSC 833 IV over 2 hours on day 1, then continuously for 96 hours; daunorubicin IV continuously on days 1-3; and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7. Filgrastim (G-CSF) or sargramostim (GM-CSF) is administered subcutaneously (SQ) or IV beginning on day 15 and continuing until blood counts recover or day 21. If patients do not achieve complete remission after one course, a second course is administered. Patients who achieve A1 bone marrow, B1 peripheral blood, and C1 extramedullary disease status after 1 or 2 courses of induction chemotherapy proceed to consolidation therapy, which begins upon recovery from induction therapy. Consolidation therapy consists of PSC 833 over 2 hours on day 1, daunorubicin IV over 1-5 minutes on days 1 and 2, and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5. Treatment repeats for a total of 2 courses. Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-55 patients will be accrued for this study within 8-9 months.