Tazemetostat+Nivo/Ipi in INI1-Neg/SMARCA4-Def Tumors
This research study involves a combination of three drugs given together as a possible treatment for malignant rhabdoid tumor, atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor, epithelioid sarcoma, chordoma or other tumors that are deficient in one of two possible proteins, either INI-1 (SMARCB1) or SMARCA4.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Tazemetostat (TAZVERIK)
* Nivolumab (OPDIVO)
* Ipilimumab (YERVOY)
Atypical Teratoid Rhabdoid Tumor|INI1 (SMARCB1)-Deficient Primary CNS Malignant Tumors|SMARCA4-deficient Primary CNS Malignant Tumors|Malignant Rhabdoid Tumor (MRT)|Rhabdoid Tumor of the Kidney (RTK)|Epithelioid Sarcoma|Chordoma
DRUG: Tazemetostat|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Incidence of Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-Related Toxicity, All grade 3 or higher adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAE v5 as reported on case report forms will be counted. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3 or higher AE of any type during the time of observation., AE to be collected continuously after the patient has provided informed consent through up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment up to 5.5 years|Maximal Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD defined as the dose level associated with observed DLTs in \<33% of enrolled subjects. The DLT assessment will be restricted to the first cycle., Treatment duration is a median of N cycles range (t1 - t2). Treatment continues until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity up to 5.5 years
Recommended Pediatric Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), Treatment duration is a median of N cycles range (t1 - t2). Treatment continues until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity up to 5.5 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 or RANO criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Disease is evaluated each cycle on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration was a median of N cycles range (t1 - t2) up to 5.5 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Up through 5.5 years|Median Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Participants are followed for survival every 6 months, up to 3 years after treatment discontinuation
This research study involves a combination of three drugs given together as a possible treatment for these types of cancers. One drug is small molecule inhibitor targeting EZH2 (tazemetostat) and two are immunotherapeutic checkpoint inhibitors (nivolumab and ipilimumab). This is a Phase I/II clinical trial. Phase I clinical trials test the safety of an investigational drug, or combination of drugs, and tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drugs to use for further studies. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug, or drug combination, to learn whether the drug or drug combination works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug combination is being studied.

This trial is studying the combination of tazemetostat, nivolumab, and ipilimumab in two parts:

* Part 1: To find the safest dose of these three study drugs in combination for children with INI1- (or SMARCA4-) negative cancers who have completed upfront treatment
* Part 2: To determine whether this combination can effectively treat INI1- or SMARCA4-negative cancers

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility study treatment, evaluation and follow-up visits. Participants will be asked to provide blood samples and undergo procedures that might be different from a regular medical examination. There are additional research samples that participants will be asked to consent for their collection.

Participants will receive study treatment for up to 2 years, as long as there is benefit or there are no serious side effects. Participants will be followed for approximately 2 years after stopping treatment.

It is expected that about 49 people will take part in this research study.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved this combination of three drugs for this specific disease. However, tazemetostat has been approved for use in epithelioid sarcoma (an INI1-deficient tumor), and the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab has also been approved for other uses. Separately, tazemetostat and the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab have also been tested in children and the safest doses of each drug (and the combination for nivolumab and ipilimumab) have been determined.

Bristol-Myers Squibb and Epizyme, two pharmaceutical companies, are supporting this study by providing the study drugs. Dana-Farber Cancer Institute is also supporting this study by providing funding.