Effect of Lactobacillus Brevis CD2 in Prevention of Radio-chemotherapy Induced Oral Mucositis in Head and Neck Cancer
Oral mucositis is a debilitating side effect for oncology patients and there is a clear need for new therapeutic options. The lozenges containing Lactobacillus brevis CD2 proved a potential new alternative for the prevention of grade III and IV mucositis. The main endpoint of this study is to verify if these lozenges taken 6 times a day may reduce the incidence of grade III and IV mucositis as well as increase the percentage of patients who will complete the radio-chemotherapy treatment.
Mucositis
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: CD#2|OTHER: bicarbonate sodium mouthwash
incidence of grade III/IV mucositis, Evaluation of the grade III and IV mucositis incidence in patients undergoing chemo-radiotherapy and taking CD#2 or standard therapy (bicarbonate sodium mouthwash), 2 months
percentage of patients able to complete the chemo-radiotherapy treatment, 2 months
percentage of patients who need enteral nutrition, 2 months from enrolment
Mucositis is a debilitating side effect of radio and chemotherapy treatment in oncology patients. It is not only painful, but also can limit adequate nutritional intake and decrease the willingness of patients to continue the treatment. Furthermore, extensive mucositis may require additional nutritional supplementation, and narcotic analgesic increasing the cost of the therapy. Quality of life is impaired in patients who develop severe mucositis.

Clinically, it begins with asymptomatic redness and erythema and ultimately passing through different stages to large acutely painful contiguous pseudomembranous lesions with associated dysphagia and decreased oral intake. The common sites of oral mucositis are labial, buccal, soft palate, floor of mouth, and the ventral surface of the tongue. The loss of the epithelial cells exposes the underlying connective tissue with its associated innervations causing pain. Oral infections, which may be due to bacterial, fungal, or viruses may further exacerbate the mucositis as well as lead to systemic infections.

Treatment and prevention of therapy related mucositis is essential; unfortunately, the efficacy and safety of most of the regimen used have not been clearly established. Prophylactic measures employed are use of: chlorhexidine, saline rinses, soda bicarbonate rinses, acyclovir, and ice. For treatment of mucositis and its associated pain local anesthetic, diphenhydramine, nystatin, or sucralfate are used alone or in combination as mouthwash. Oral or parenteral narcotics are also used for pain relief.

There is a clear need for new therapeutic options for oral mucositis.