NANT 2021-01 Phase II STING (Sequential Temozolomide, Irinotecan, NK Cells and GD2 mAb) Trial
This is a phase II study looking at patient response to treatment with the combination dinutuximab, temozolomide, irinotecan, and GM-CSF.
Neuroblastoma
DRUG: Universal Donor (UD) TGFβi NK Cells|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Dinutuximab|DRUG: GM-CSF
Best Overall Response Rate of Evaluable Patients, The response evaluation is based on central review or site review (when central review is not available) of patient diagnostic assessments. Response is determined by the NANT response criteria v2.0 (https://doi.org/10.1002/pbc.26940).

1. Complete response
2. Partial response
3. Minor response
4. Stable response
5. Progressive disease
6. Early death from malignant disease
7. Early death from toxicity Evaluable response patients have received sufficient therapy (1) and have sufficient response evaluation data to assess best overall response (2) including patients in categories f and g

   1. is defined as at least 75% of all therapeutic agents in course 1, or less than 75% in course 1 due to clinical signs of tumor progression or therapy related toxicity.
   2. is defined as presence of a disease evaluation for each of the 3 disease parameters (bone, soft tissue, bone marrow) at one or more timepoints after enrollment.

Best Overall Response Rate = (a+b+c)/ (a+b+c+d+e+f+g)., Baseline assessments from within 28 days before Day 1 on study and between days 12-24 of cycles 2, 4, and 6, and within two weeks after the last date of protocol therapy. Each cycle will be 21 days but may be extended to 28 days due to treatment delays.
Proportion of Evaluable Participants with Grade 3 or Greater Hematologic Toxicities or Any Hematologic Toxicities Attributed to this therapy., Describe the toxicity profiles for grade 3 or greater hematologic toxicities associated with the protocol therapy any hematologic toxicities attributed to NK cells.

All patients who start treatment for this protocol are evaluable for toxicity reporting., All toxicities from enrollment through 30 days following end of protocol therapy, an average of 6 months|Proportion of Evaluable of Participants with Grade 2 or Greater Non-Hematologic Toxicities or Any Non-Hematologic Toxicities Attributed to this therapy., Describe the toxicity profiles for grade 2 or greater non-hematologic toxicities associated with the protocol therapy any non-hematologic toxicities attributed to NK cells.

All patients who start treatment for this protocol are evaluable for toxicity reporting, All toxicities from enrollment through 30 days following end of protocol therapy, an average of 6 months
Currently there are very few effective treatments for high-risk neuroblastoma that has returned or that has not responded to treatment.

One treatment that works relatively well for this type of neuroblastoma is a combination of four medicines (dinutuximab, temozolomide, irinotecan, and GM-CSF). Dinutuximab is an antibody that attacks neuroblastoma cells. Temozolomide and irinotecan are two chemotherapy medicines. GM-CSF helps to boost the immune system. This study is trying to learn if this treatment, which is called chemoimmunotherapy, can work better by adding NK cells.

The immune system is made up of different cell types. One type of immune cell is the natural killer (NK) cell. NK cells use the body's defense (immune) system to kill neuroblastoma cells. NK cells are only present in the body in small numbers and often the patient's own NK cells don't work very well against their tumor because neuroblastoma releases chemicals that weaken the NK cells. One of these chemicals is called TGF-beta.

This study uses a newer process to make specially chosen donated NK cells which may work better than the patient's own NK cells. This new type of donated NK cells are called TGF-beta imprinted, which may be better "killers" of tumors like neuroblastoma because they have already been exposed to TGF-beta while they are being prepared and grown. The special NK cells for this study have already been collected from donors selected for this study and are stored for use. Prior studies have used these types of NK cells or similar NK cells for other tumors or neuroblastoma.

Once treatment begins, patients will receive temozolomide and irinotecan for 5 consecutive days, with the addition of dinutuximab daily on days 2-5. If patients tolerate this chemoimmunotherapy, they will receive the donor TGF-beta NK cells on day 8. Patients can have this treatment for up to 6 cycles total.