A Study of DKN-01 in Multiple Myeloma or Advanced Solid Tumors
The purpose of this trial is to characterize the safety and toxicity of DKN-01 by determining a maximum-tolerated dose and associated dose limiting toxicity. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic response in patients with cancer. To characterize the pharmacokinetic parameters of DKN-01 in cancer patients who are intolerant to standard/approved therapies.
Multiple Myeloma|Solid Tumors|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: DKN-01
Summary of Total Adverse Events (AE), Total Adverse Events (AE), total treatment emergent adverse events (TEAE), total Serious Adverse Events (SAE), and total dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) for both Parts A and B., Baseline to study completion (approximately 3 months)|Summary of Patients With Adverse Events (AE), Number of patients who had Adverse Events (AE) including treatment related treatment emergent adverse events (TEAE), Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE), and Serious Adverse Events (SAE) for both Parts A and B. Severity was coded to NCI CTCAE version 4.02. For maximum severity and relationship, patients were counted only once in the most severe or most related category., Baseline to study completion (approximately 3 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), For Part B only. The distribution of PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method. PFS was defined as the time from the date of signed informed consent to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease (Progression is defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) and International Multiple Myeloma Working Group (IMWG)) or death from any cause. For patients who were still alive at the time of analysis (ie, data cut-off date) and without evidence of tumor progression, PFS was censored at the date of the most recent objective progression-free observation., Time from the date of signed informed consent to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease or death from any cause
Pharmacokinetics: Area Under the Concentration - Time Curve (AUC) of DKN-01, Area under the DKN-01 serum concentration-time profile curve during the dosing interval (AUC0-tau) after the first and fourth infusion for both Parts A and B. Cycle 1 Day 1 included once per week (QW) dosing groups and every two weeks (Q2W) dosing groups., Cycle 1 Day 1 (first dose, all groups)|Pharmacokinetics: Area Under the Concentration - Time Curve (AUC) of DKN-01, Area under the DKN-01 serum concentration-time profile curve during the dosing interval (AUC0-tau) after the first and fourth infusion for both Parts A and B. Cycle 1 day 22 included only QW dosing groups., Cycle 1 Day 22 (Fourth Dose for QW)|Pharmacokinetic: Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of DKN-01, Peak DKN-01 serum concentration (Cmax) after the first and fourth infusion on Cycle 1 Weeks 1 and 4, for both Parts A and B. Cycle 1 Day 1 included once per week (QW) dosing groups and every two weeks (Q2W) dosing groups., Cycle 1 Day 1 (first dose, all groups)|Pharmacokinetic: Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of DKN-01, Peak DKN-01 serum concentration (Cmax) after the fourth infusion on Cycle 1 Weeks 1 and 4, for both Parts A and B. Cycle 1 day 22 included only QW dosing groups., Cycle 1 Day 22 (Fourth dose for QW groups)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) in Patients Who Are Refractory or Intolerant to Standard/Approved Therapies, For both Parts A and B. PFS was defined as the time from the date of signed informed consent to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease (Progression is defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) and International Multiple Myeloma Working Group (IMWG)) or death from any cause. For patients who were still alive at the time of analysis (i.e, data cut-off date) and without evidence of tumor progression, PFS was censored at the date of the most recent objective progression-free observation., Time from the date of signed informed consent to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease or death from any cause|Overall Survival (OS) in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory NSCLC, For Part B only. OS was defined as the time from the date of signed informed consent to the date of death from any cause. For patients who were still alive as of the data cut-off date, OS time was censored on the date of the patient's last contact (last contact for patients in post-discontinuation was the last date of contact in long-term follow-up eCRF)., Time from the date of signed informed consent to the date of death from any cause|Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Oncologic Patients Who Are Refractory or Intolerant to Standard/Approved Therapies, For both Parts A and B. Objective response rate is defined as the number of patients with overall best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), Part A: Every 2 months; Part B: after 1 month and every two cycles thereafter|Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), FAS : For both Parts A and B. Objective response rate is defined as the number of patients with overall best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), Part A: Every 2 months; Part B: after 1 month and every two cycles thereafter
Part A of this trial consists of 4 treatment arms of DKN-01. It is a dose escalation study in patients with multiple myeloma or advanced solid tumors. Patients must be refractory or intolerant to all standard/approved therapy(ies). At each dose level, 3 subjects will be treated. If none of the 3 subjects develop a dose limiting toxicity after a minimum of 4 weeks of treatment, subsequent dose escalation will proceed according to the same schedule. Part B consists of dose confirmation in patients with NSCLC. Patients must be refractory or intolerant to all standard/approved therapy(ies). Approximately 15 patients may be enrolled in Part B.