Efficacy and Safety of Pemigatinib in Previously Treated Locally Advanced/Metastatic or Surgically Unresectable Solid Tumor Malignancies Harboring Activating FGFR Mutations or Translocations (FIGHT-207)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pemigatinib in participants with previously treated locally advanced/metastatic or surgically unresectable solid tumor malignancies harboring activating FGFR mutations or translocations.
Solid Tumor Malignancy
DRUG: Pemigatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) Based on RECIST v1.1 or RANO, in Participants With FGFR1-3 In-frame Fusions or FGFR2 Arrangements, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1): CR: disappearance of all target/non-target lesions; no appearance of new lesions. PR: complete disappearance or a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters; no new lesions; no progression of non-target lesions. Per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO; for participants with primary brain tumors): CR: disappearance of all enhancing lesions; stable/improved non-enhancing lesions; stable/improved clinically. PR: ≥50% decrease in sum of perpendicular diameters of measurable enhancing lesions; no progression of non-measurable disease; stable/improved non-enhancing lesions; stable/improved clinically. Cohort determination was based on FGFR status from a central genomics laboratory. Response data were from an independent centralized radiological review committee per RECIST v1.1 and RANO, and response was confirmed., up to 483 days|ORR, Defined as the Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of CR or PR Based on RECIST v1.1 or RANO, in Participants With Known or Likely Activating FGFR1-3 Mutations, Per RECIST v1.1: CR: disappearance of all target/non-target lesions; no appearance of new lesions. PR: complete disappearance or a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters; no new lesions; no progression of non-target lesions. Per RANO (for participants with primary brain tumors): CR: disappearance of all enhancing lesions; stable/improved non-enhancing lesions; stable/improved clinically. PR: ≥50% decrease in sum of perpendicular diameters of measurable enhancing lesions; no progression of non-measurable disease; stable/improved non-enhancing lesions; stable/improved clinically. Cohort determination was based on FGFR status from a central genomics laboratory. Response data were from an independent centralized radiological review committee per RECIST v1.1 and RANO, and response was confirmed., up to 449 days
Progression-free Survival (PFS) in Participants With FGFR1-3 In-frame Fusions or FGFR2 Arrangements and in Participants With Known or Likely Activating FGFR1-3 Mutations, PFS was defined as the time from the first dose until progressive disease (according to RECIST v1.1 or RANO for participants with primary brain tumors and assessed by an independent centralized radiological review committee) or death (whichever occurred first)., up to 532 days|Duration of Response (DOR), Defined as the First CR or PR Assessment Until Progressive Disease (PD) or Death, in Participants With FGFR1-3 In-frame Fusions or FGFR2 Arrangements and in Participants With Known or Likely Activating FGFR1-3 Mutations, Assessment was by an independent centralized radiological review committee; response was confirmed. Per RECIST v1.1: CR: disappearance of all target (TLs)/non-target lesions (NTLs); no appearance of new lesions. PR: complete disappearance or a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of TLs, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters; no new lesions; no progression of NTLs. PD: progression of a TL/NTL or presence of new lesion. Per RANO (participants with primary brain tumors): CR: disappearance of all enhancing lesions (ELs); stable/improved non-enhancing lesions (NELs); stable/improved clinically. PR: ≥50% decrease in sum of perpendicular diameters of measurable ELs; no progression of non-measurable disease; stable/improved NELs; stable/improved clinically. PD: \>25% increase in sum of perpendicular diameters of all measurable ELs; significant increase of NELs; new lesions; clear clinical deterioration; failure to return for evaluation due to death/deteriorating condition., up to 24.90 months|Overall Survival in Participants With FGFR1-3 In-frame Fusions or FGFR2 Arrangements and in Participants With Known or Likely Activating FGFR1-3 Mutations, Overall survival was defined as the time from the first dose of study drug to death of any cause., up to 532 days|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) and Any Treatment-related Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug-related. An AE could be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. TEAEs were defined as AEs reported for the first time or the worsening of pre-existing events after the first dose of study treatment. Treatment-related AEs were defined as TEAEs judged as related by the investigator or with a missing causality., up to 651 days
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pemigatinib in participants with previously treated locally advanced/metastatic or surgically unresectable solid tumor malignancies harboring activating FGFR mutations or translocations.