Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of imatinib mesylate in treating patients who have persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial or primary peritoneal cancer. Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth
Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: imatinib mesylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free survival, At 6 months|Frequency and severity of adverse effects as assessed by CTC, Up to 7 years
Duration of overall survival, Up to 7 years|Duration of progression-free survival, Up to 7 years|Frequency of clinical response (partial and complete response), Up to 7 years|Prognostic variables: initial performance status, age, platinum sensitivity, and mucinous (or clear cell) histology, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the cytostatic, anti-tumor activity of Gleevec (Imatinib Mesylate) through the probability of surviving progression-free for at least 6 months in patients with recurrent or persistent epithelial ovarian or primary peritoneal carcinoma receiving Gleevec.

II. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse effects of Gleevec in this cohort of patients as assessed by CTC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the distribution of the overall survival. II. To determine the distribution of progression-free survival. III. To estimate the clinical response rate (partial and complete response as defined under the RECIST criteria).

IV. To assess the effects of prognostic variables: initial performance status, platinum sensitivity, and mucinous (or clear cell) histology).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the levels of expression of c-KIT and its ligand, stem cell factor (SCF) in archived, formalin fixed, paraffin embedded primary tumors collected prior to the initiation of first-line chemotherapy.

II. To determine the levels of expression of platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) and its ligand PDGF in archived, formalin fixed, paraffin embedded primary tumors collected prior to the initiation of first-line chemotherapy.

III. To determine the levels of expression of AKT2 and its activated form, phospho-AKT2, in archived, formalin fixed, paraffin embedded primary tumors collected prior to the initiation of first-line chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.