Ramucirumab in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic, Previously Treated Biliary Cancers That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well ramucirumab works in treating patients with previously treated biliary cancers that have spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced) or have spread to other places in the body (metastatic) and cannot be removed by surgery. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ramucirumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Cholangiocarcinoma|Liver and Intrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma|Stage III Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v7|Unresectable Gallbladder Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab
Progression Free Survival of Ramucirumab in Advanced Biliary Cancers, Progression free survival is measured using 95% confidence intervals. From the date of treatment start to the date of disease progression or to the date of death, whichever occurs first, or to the last follow-up date if patients are alive without disease progression, assessed up to at least 3 months post-treatment, Up to 6 years
Overall Survival (OS), Overal Survival (OS): the time from treatment initiation to death from any cause. OS functions were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method ., Up to 6 years|Overall Response Rate (RR), The proportion of patients with the best overall response of complete response or partial response (PR)\], Up to 6 years|Percentage of Disease Control Rate, Partial Response + Complete Response + Stable Disease (ORR + Stable Disease), Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the progression-free survival (PFS) of ramucirumab in advanced biliary cancers (intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, and gallbladder cancer) who have received prior chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate (RR) and disease control rate (partial response + complete response + stable disease) of ramucirumab in advanced biliary cancers.

II. Determine overall survival (OS) of ramucirumab in advanced biliary cancers. III. Evaluate the toxicity of ramucirumab in advanced biliary cancers.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Correlate the carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 response (defined as \> 50% decrease from baseline) with tumor response, PFS and OS.

II. Correlate baseline tumor gene expression profile with PFS. III. Correlate pre- and post-therapy computed tomography (CT) imaging to quantify iodine content, atomic numbers, and Z-values and correlate with response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ramucirumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months thereafter.