Phase IIB Trial of Bazedoxifene Plus Conjugated Estrogens
Women at risk for development of breast cancer and experiencing vasomotor menopausal symptoms (hot flashes) will be randomized to bazedoxifene (BZA) plus conjugated estrogens (CE) for 6 months versus a wait list control. Two risk factors for development of breast cancer will be studied pre-study and after 6 months: fibroglandular volume (FGV) on mammogram as assessed by Volpara software and proliferation by Ki-67 immunocytochemistry in benign breast tissue acquired by random periareolar fine needle aspiration (RPFNA). Change in biomarkers will be compared between groups.
Risk Reduction|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Bazedoxifene and Conjugated Estrogens
Change in FGV, Change in fibroglandular volume assessed on 3-D digital mammogram by Volpara software., baseline to 6 months
Change in proliferation, change in percent of breast epithelial cells staining positive for Ki-67 by immunocytochemistry, baseline to 6 months
Change in blood hormones, Exploratory analysis of change in levels of hormones (estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin, etc.) assessed by ELISA or RIA methods at baseline and at 6 months., baseline to 6 months|change in gene expression, Exploratory analysis of changes and patterns of change in levels of mRNA assessed by qRT-PCR, baselne to 6 months
Phase IIB trial of 6 months of BZA 20 mg +CE 0.45 mg (subsequently designated as BZA+CE) vs a waitlist control. Trial is informed by prior results of a single arm trial that used Duavee® (combination of BZA+CE that is FDA-approved for relief of hot flashes). Since Duavee® is currently not available commercially, the two separate components are used instead. Breast imaging, benign breast tissue by RPFNA, and blood for biomarkers will be obtained at baseline and at 6 months using similar assessment techniques. The primary endpoint is the difference between the BZA+CE and control groups for absolute change from baseline to 6 months in the risk biomarker fibroglandular volume (FGV). Volpara® fully automated assessments overcome the interpretive variance inherent in subjective assessments. Additional endpoints include changes in benign breast epithelial immunolabeling for Ki-67, estrogen receptor alpha (ERα), progesterone receptor (PR), and anterior gradient-2 protein (AGR2); and systemic levels of bioavailable hormones, IGF-1, IGFBP3, and measures of insulin sensitivity. The modifying effects of baseline BMI, visceral adipose, and plasma BZA concentrations on markers will be studied.