Study of Fludarabine With Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Versus Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Alone In Patients With Platinum Resistant/Refractory Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of fludarabine with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin versus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin alone in patients with platinum resistant or refractory ovarian cancer.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Fludarabine and Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin|DRUG: Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods is defined as the time from registration to the earlier of death or disease progression. Patients alive without disease progression are censored at the date of last disease evaluation. Progressive disease (PD) based on RECIST 1.0 is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Equivocal progression of non-target lesions also qualifies as PD, Up to four years
Objective response rate, Objective response rate defined as confirmed complete response or partial response under RECIST 1.0 criteria. CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. To be assigned a status of CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no fewer than 4 weeks after the response criteria are first met., Up to four years
Frequency and severity of adverse effects as defined by CTCAE version 4.0, 30 days after last dose
Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death for patients with gynecologic malignancies. Approximately 75% of patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage will eventually experience disease recurrence. The overall response rates of second-line chemotherapy for recurrent ovarian cancer are only 20-27%. The 5-year overall survival rates are less than 20%. Therefore, it is important to seek alternative agent that can improve the outcome. Fludarabine is a purine nucleoside analog prodrug that upon phosphorylation is toxic to dividing and quiescent lymphocytes and monocytes, exerting its effects through DNA synthesis interference and apoptosis. The preclinical studies suggest fludarabine may be effective in other cancers such as ovarian cancer. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to test the efficacy and safety of the study drug fludarabine combined with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin versus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin alone in patients with platinum resistant or refractory ovarian cancer.