New Imaging Procedure for the Localisation of Insulinoma
Insulinoma: Insulinoma are rare, small insulin secreting neuroendocrine tumors. The only curative approach is the surgical excision. The preoperative detection remains a challenge. A non-invasive, highly sensitive tool in localizing the insulinomas would be appreciated in the preoperative work-up of these patients. To this aim Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) imaging (Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography co-registered with a CT; SPECT/CT) could be a convenient tool. The possibly more sensitive approach of targeting GLP-1R using Positron emission tomography (PET/CT) methodology has not been investigated in patients so far.
Endogenous Hyperinsulinaemic Hypoglycaemia
OTHER: Ga -exendin PET/CT, In- exendin SPECT/CT, MRI
Measuring Tumour to Background Ratio, 4 years|Measuring the accuracy of the Tumour-Localisation of 68-DOTA-Exendin-4 PET/CT and 111 In-DOTA-exendin-4 SPECT/CT., 4 years
Accuracy of tumour localisation of standardized MRI in comparison with 68-DOTA-Exendin-4 PET/CT and 111 In-DOTA-exendin-4 SPECT/CT, 4 years|Sensitivity of tumour localisation with 68-DOTA-Exendin-4 PET/CT, 111 In-DOTA-exendin-4 SPECT/CT and standardized MRI in comparison with conventional imaging (CT,MRI and EUS), 4 years|Evaluation of the side effects of 68Ga-DOTA-exendin-4 and 111In-DOTA-exendin-4, Through measurement of blood glucose and Quantification of Nausea respectively vomiting by means of the common toxicity criteria score system, 4 years|Evaluation of the interobserver variability of 68Ga-DOTA-Exendin-4 PET/CT and 111In-DOTA-exendin-4 SPECT/CT, 4 years|Comparison of the angiogenesis markers with the those of breast carcinoma patients, 4 years
Insulinoma: Insulinoma are rare, small insulin secreting neuroendocrine tumors. The only curative approach is the surgical excision. The preoperative detection remains a challenge. A non-invasive, highly sensitive tool in localizing the insulinomas would be appreciated in the preoperative work-up of these patients. To this aim Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) imaging (Single Photon Emission Computer Tomography co-registered with a CT; SPECT/CT) could be a convenient tool. The possibly more sensitive approach of targeting GLP-1R using Positron emission tomography (PET/CT) methodology has not been investigated in patients so far.