Hypofractionated Partial Breast Irradiation in Treating Patients With Early Stage Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well hypofractionated partial breast irradiation works in treating patients with early stage breast cancer. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Treating only the part of the breast where the cancer started may lead to fewer side effects than standard treatment.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Early-Stage Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Partial Breast Irradiation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Risk of grade 2 or higher toxicity, Will evaluate whether or not the risk of this outcome is higher than the risk of grade 2+ toxic events in the best performing arm of our prior clinical trial that evaluated dosing schedules of whole breast irradiation (2010-0559)., At 6 months post radiation
Patient-reported cosmetic outcome, Patient-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain will be measured using the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcomes Scale (BCTOS) and will be compared for the IMPORT Low versus OPAL regimens. Each outcome will be evaluated both as a continuous variable and as a dichotomous variable with a cutpoint of \>= 2.5, indicating a moderate or greater average change in the treated breast compared to the untreated breast which serves as an internal control. Will use descriptive statistics to summarize patient-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain over time. Box plots and graphical measures will be used to display the distribution of these outcomes over time and by treatment arm. Will conduct linear mixed models to assess changes in patient-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain scores over time. A random intercept will be included to account for within-subject correlations., At 6 months, one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years after completing the optimizing preventative adjuvant linac-based radiation (OPAL) regimen|Physician-reported and photographically-assessed cosmetic outcome, Physician-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain will be measured using the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcomes Scale (BCTOS) and will be compared for the IMPORT Low versus OPAL regimens. Each outcome will be evaluated both as a continuous variable and as a dichotomous variable with a cutpoint of \>= 2.5, indicating a moderate or greater average change in the treated breast compared to the untreated breast which serves as an internal control. Will use descriptive statistics to summarize patient-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain over time. Box plots and graphical measures will be used to display the distribution of these outcomes over time and by treatment arm. Will conduct linear mixed models to assess changes in patient-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain scores over time. A random intercept will be included to account for within-subject correlations., At 6 months, one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years after completing the OPAL regimen|Risk of pathologically-confirmed invasive and/or ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR), Will be estimated using Kaplan and Meier product-limit estimator and modeled with Cox proportional hazards regression. IBTR will be measured from the date of treatment initiation to the date of last evaluation or IBTR. The 5-year risk of IBTR and any recurrence will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals. Differences in each of these outcomes by treatment arm will be assessed using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards regression and/or competing risks regression will be used if needed to account for imbalance among treatment arms with respect to risk factors for these outcomes., At 5 years|Risk of any recurrence of breast cancer, Will be estimated using Kaplan and Meier product-limit estimator and modeled with Cox proportional hazards regression. Recurrence-free survival will be measured from the date of radiation treatment initiation to the earliest date of last clinic visit, date of first recurrence, or date of death. Differences in each of these outcomes by treatment arm will be assessed using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards regression and/or competing risks regression will be used if needed to account for imbalance among treatment arms with respect to risk factors for these outcomes., At 5 years|Disease free survival (DFS), Will be estimated using Kaplan and Meier product-limit estimator and modeled with Cox proportional hazards regression. DFS will be measured from date of treatment initiation to the earliest date of last clinic visit, date of progression, date of recurrence, date of metastasis, or date of death. Differences in each of these outcomes by treatment arm will be assessed using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards regression and/or competing risks regression will be used if needed to account for imbalance among treatment arms with respect to risk factors for these outcomes., At 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using Kaplan and Meier product-limit estimator and modeled with Cox proportional hazards regression. OS will be measured from the date of treatment initiation to the earliest date of last contact or death. Differences in each of these outcomes by treatment arm will be assessed using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards regression and/or competing risks regression will be used if needed to account for imbalance among treatment arms with respect to risk factors for these outcomes., At 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4. Differences in National Cancer Institute CTCAE and Subjective, Objective, Management, Analytic (SOMA) toxicity by treatment arm will be evaluated using chi-square test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate., Up to 5 years|Feasibility of conducting multi-center radiation therapy trials within the MD Anderson Network, The trial will be considered feasible if \>= 90% of enrolled and treated patients receive the prescribed radiation dosing per protocol without deviations., 5 years|TGF-beta analysis, For this analysis, the primary outcome is grade 2 or higher breast fibrosis measured using the Subjective, Objective, Management, Analytic/Late Effects Normal Tissue Task Force scale at the 3.5 year follow up visit. The exposure of interest is the presence of at least one copy of the C-509T allele in germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). Will also conduct exploratory analyses to assess the association of TGF-beta genotype with cosmetic outcome, other PROs, and toxicities. T-test or rank-sum test will be used for continuous measures and chi-squared or Fishers exact test will be used for categorical measures., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. The risk of grade 2 or higher toxicity occurring during radiation and through the 6 month post-radiation follow up visit in patients treated with Optimizing Preventative Adjuvant Linac-based Radiation (OPAL) regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure patient-reported cosmetic outcome, functional status, and breast pain with the OPAL regimen at 6 months, one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years after completing the OPAL regimen.

II. To measure physician-reported and photographically-assessed cosmetic outcome at 6 months, one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years after completing the OPAL regimen and to compare this to the best performing arm of 2010-0559.

III. To determine the 5-year risk of pathologically-confirmed invasive and/or in situ ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) for patients with ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and early invasive breast cancer.

IV. To determine the 5-year risk of any recurrence of breast cancer, disease-free survival, and overall survival.

V. To determine maximal late (within 5 years) toxicities using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.0 scale.

VI. To establish the feasibility of conducting multi-center radiation therapy trials within the MD Anderson Network.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo hypofractionated partial breast irradiation daily for 5 days. Patients may then receive 3 additional boost fractions at the discretion of the doctor.

ARM II: Patients undergo standard breast irradiation daily for 15 days. Patients may then receive 5 additional boost fractions at the discretion of the doctor.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months, and at 1.5, 3.5, and 5.5 years.