Eltrombopag Used in Thrombocytopenia After Comsolidation Therapy in AML
Eltrombopag has been used in the treatment of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), and significantly increased platelet count and decreased fatal hemorrage. As it's known that all patients with acute leukemia will experience bone marrow suppression and thrombocytopenia after chemotherapy. Some patients even died of fatal bleeding during this period for lacking of platelet transfusion or platelet transfusion refractoriness. So a lot needs to be done to shortern thrombocytopenia time or reduce fatal hemorrage incidence after chemotherapy in acute leukemia patients. In this prospective randomized controlled study, the effect and safety of eltrombopag in the treatment of thrombocytopenia after consolidation therapy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is evaluated.
Eltrombopag|Thrombocytopenia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Eltrombopag
Thrombocytopenia time, The lasting time for platelet count lower than 20×10'9/L after consolidation therapy., 30 days after consolidation therapy.|The incidence of fatal hemorrage, Fatal hemorrage includes all bleedings have life-threaten to the patients, eg. gastrointestinal bleeding, brain bleeding, pneumorrhagia, etc., 30 days after consolidation therapy.
The incidence of thrombus, All kinds of thrombus happens in veins and arteries after consolidation therapy., 30 days after consolidation therapy.
Eltrombopag has been used in the treatment of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), and significantly increased platelet count and decreased fatal hemorrage. As it's known that all patients with acute leukemia will experience bone marrow suppression and thrombocytopenia after chemotherapy. Some patients even died of fatal bleeding during this period for lacking of platelet transfusion or platelet transfusion refractoriness. So a lot needs to be done to shortern thrombocytopenia time or reduce fatal hemorrage incidence after chemotherapy in acute leukemia patients. In this prospective randomized controlled study, the effect and safety of eltrombopag in the treatment of thrombocytopenia after consolidation therapy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is evaluated.