CPI-613 and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of CPI-613 when given together with combination chemotherapy in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, CPI-613, leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Acinar Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Duct Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: fluorouracil|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum Tolerated Dose, of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid when used in combination with mFOLFIRINOX determined by dose-limiting toxicities graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.0, 2 weeks
Number of Toxicities, For exploratory purposes - Any toxicities greater than Grade 2 or above will be assessed for safety of use of CPI-613 and mFOLFIRINOX., Approximately 2 month after start of treatment or completion of Cycle 2|Overall Survival, For exploratory purposes - Overall survival curve will be measured using Kaplan-Meier methods. Medial survival rates will be examined using a 95% confidence interval., Approximately 6 months after start of treatment|Progression-Free Survival, For exploratory purposes - The duration of clinical response (evaluated by progression free survival) will be measured from the date a first objective response is documented until the first sign of progression assessed by MRI., Approximately 2 months after start of treatment|Number of Participants with a Clinical Response, For exploratory purposes - CA-19-9 will be collected every fourth cycle along with MRI of the abdomen and contrast CT of the chest for clinical response., Approximately 2 months after start of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CPI-613 (6,8-bis\[benzylthio\]octanoic acid), when used in combination with modified leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFIRINOX), in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of CPI-613/mFOLFIRINOX combination in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

II. To collect tissue for future genomic analyses. III. To obtain preliminary data on efficacy of treatment with CPI-613/mFOLFIRINOX.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid.

Patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1 and 3. Patients also receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.