A Phase II Multi-institutional Study Assessing Simultaneous In-field Boost Helical Tomotherapy for 1-3 Brain Metastases
Helical tomotherapy is a novel radiation treatment machine that combines two existing technologies: spiral radiotherapy treatments combined with simultaneous computed tomotherapy imaging of the body. This new machine can potentially allow radiation treatments to be focused more precisely, and delivered more accurately than with existing radiation machines. In this study, helical tomotherapy will be used to provide radiation treatments (whole brain radiotherapy, daily over 10 treatments) that are commonly used to treat cancer metastatic to the brain. In addition, the individual spots of cancer (metastases) in the brain will be treated to a higher dose (approximately 2 times higher) than the dose to the whole brain. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of whole brain radiation with lesion boosting with the helical tomotherapy machine.
Metastasis to Brain of Primary Cancer
RADIATION: Whole Brain XRT 30Gy/10 fractions with
Overall survival, At approximately end of year 4 (study completion)|Local disease control rate at 6 months, At approximately 2.5 years|CNS disease control rate at 6 months, At approximately 2.5 years
Assessment of RTOG versus RECIST versus Volumetric MRI criteria, At approximately end of year 4 (study completion)|Health related quality of life, At approximately end of year 4 (study completion)|Karnofsky performance status, AT approximately end of year 4 (study completion)|Mini mental status exam cognition, At approximately end of year 4 (study completion)|Acute toxicity, At approximately end of year 4 (study completion)|Late toxicity, At approximately end of year 4 (study completion)|Changes in MRI endpoints, Assessment in changes of diffusional weighted imaging and magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Changes at 3 months post-treatment and 6 months post-treatment will be compared to baseline (pre-treatment)., Measured at baseline, and 3 months and 6 months post-treatment
Helical tomotherapy is a novel radiation treatment machine that combines two existing technologies: spiral radiotherapy treatments combined with simultaneous computed tomotherapy imaging of the body. This new machine can potentially allow radiation treatments to be focused more precisely, and delivered more accurately than with existing radiation machines. In this study, helical tomotherapy will be used to provide radiation treatments (whole brain radiotherapy, daily over 10 treatments) that are commonly used to treat cancer metastatic to the brain. In addition, the individual spots of cancer (metastases) in the brain will be treated to a higher dose (approximately 2 times higher) than the dose to the whole brain. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of whole brain radiation with lesion boosting with the helical tomotherapy machine.