Added Value of OCT for Diagnosing Recurrent BCC After Non-invasive Treatment
Superficial basal cell carcinoma (sBCC) can be treated non-invasively, but follow-up is necessary because lesions can reoccur. This study aims to evaluate the additional value of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for the detection of recurrent BCC lesions, that may remain unrecognized by clinical and dermoscopic examination (CDE). This study compared the diagnostic accuracy of CDE and CDE combined with OCT for detection of recurrent basal cell carcinoma (BCC) after non-invasive treatment of sBCC.
Basal Cell Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Punch biopsy (3mm)
The added value of OCT for the detection of recurrent BCC, The investigators evaluated the difference in sensitivity between CDE and CDE + OCT, 1- 56 months post treatment
The number of false-positive OCT test results, The investigators evaluated whether the addition of OCT to CDE led to false-positive test results. (i.e a decrease in specificity), 1- 56 months post treatment|Subtyping recurrent BCC by OCT, The investigators evaluated to what extent OCT assessors are able to correctly predict the BCC subtype of recurrent BCCs. A distinction was made between superficial BCC (sBCC; non-invasive treatment optional) and nodular/aggressive BCC (nBCC/aBCC; excision required). For BCC subtyping, sensitivity was defined as the proportion of patients with an nBCC/aBCC correctly identified by OCT as nBCC/aBCC. Specificity was defined as the proportion of patients with an sBCC correctly identified as sBCC by OCT., 1- 56 months post treatment
Superficial basal cell carcinoma (sBCC) can be treated non-invasively, but follow-up is necessary because lesions can reoccur. This study aims to evaluate the additional value of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for the detection of recurrent BCC lesions, that may remain unrecognized by clinical and dermoscopic examination (CDE). This study compared the diagnostic accuracy of CDE and CDE combined with OCT for detection of recurrent basal cell carcinoma (BCC) after non-invasive treatment of sBCC.