Arimidex Therapy Compliance Electronic Monitoring System
ARTEMIS is a study to assess how educational material affects overall adherence to anastrozole by evaluation of patients' electronically compiled dosing histories. Patients' dosing times are compiled electronically using Medication Event Monitoring System" (MEMS®) in order to be able to gather accurate, objective and up-to-date patients' dosing histories. For subjects in Group A, the control group, the adherence to anastrozole in the standard clinical practice will be evaluated. For subjects in Group B, on top of the standard clinical practice, they will also receive educational material by mail at week 0 (study registration), week 2, week 4, week 6, week 8, week 12, month 5, month 7, and at month 10. This procedure is the same as in the ongoing CARIATIDE study. One of the reasons of poor adherence (either early discontinuation of the treatment or missing doses while still engaged to the therapy) can be some side effects experienced by the patients during the anastrozole treatment. Recording the reasons at discontinuation allows us to identify reasons for treatment discontinuation. Recording reasons of anastrozole interruptions during the study period allows us to relate these events to patients' adherence to anastrozole. During the study, no pro-active safety data collection will take place. Spontaneous reported adverse drug reactions (ADRs) will be reported according to local post-marketing pharmacovigilance regulations.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Anastrozole|OTHER: Educational materials
Overall adherence to anastrozole, 2/year (after 6 months and after one year)
Patients' persistence with anastrozole, 2/year (after 6 months and after one year)|Execution of the dosing regimen, 2/year (after 6 months and after one year)|Reasons for treatment discontinuation, 1 year
ARTEMIS is a study to assess how educational material affects overall adherence to anastrozole by evaluation of patients' electronically compiled dosing histories. Patients' dosing times are compiled electronically using Medication Event Monitoring System" (MEMS®) in order to be able to gather accurate, objective and up-to-date patients' dosing histories. For subjects in Group A, the control group, the adherence to anastrozole in the standard clinical practice will be evaluated. For subjects in Group B, on top of the standard clinical practice, they will also receive educational material by mail at week 0 (study registration), week 2, week 4, week 6, week 8, week 12, month 5, month 7, and at month 10. This procedure is the same as in the ongoing CARIATIDE study. One of the reasons of poor adherence (either early discontinuation of the treatment or missing doses while still engaged to the therapy) can be some side effects experienced by the patients during the anastrozole treatment. Recording the reasons at discontinuation allows us to identify reasons for treatment discontinuation. Recording reasons of anastrozole interruptions during the study period allows us to relate these events to patients' adherence to anastrozole. During the study, no pro-active safety data collection will take place. Spontaneous reported adverse drug reactions (ADRs) will be reported according to local post-marketing pharmacovigilance regulations.