Assessing Changes in Multi-parametric MRI in Patients With Acute Demyelinating Lesions Taking Clemastine Fumarate as a Myelin Repair Therapy
The clinical trial is intended to assess for clinical evidence of Clemastine Fumarate as a myelin repair therapy in patients with acute inflammatory injury-causing demyelination as measured by multi-parametric MRI assessments.

No reparative therapies exist for the treatment of acute demyelinating lesions. Clemastine fumarate was identified along with a series of other antimuscarinic medications as a potential remyelinating agent using the micropillar screen (BIMA) developed at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). Following in vivo validation, an FDA IND exemption was granted to investigate clemastine for the treatment of multiple sclerosis in the context of chronic optic neuropathy. That pilot study was recently completed and is the first randomized control trial documenting efficacy for a putative remyelinating agent for the treatment of MS. The preselected primary efficacy endpoint (visual evoked potential) was met and a strong trend to benefit was seen for the principal secondary endpoint assessing function (low contrast visual acuity). That trial number was 13-11577.

This study seeks to follow up on that study and examine clemastine fumarate's protective and reparative effects in the context of acute demyelinating brain lesions as imaged by multi-parametric MRI assessments. The investigators will be assessing the effects of clemastine fumarate as a remyelinating therapy and assessing its effect on MRI metrics of lesions found in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of acute inflammatory injury-causing demyelination.

In addition to using conventional multi-parametric MRI assessments, this study will also evaluate a new MRI technique called Ultrashort Echo Time (UTE) MRI to assess the effects of clemastine fumarate as a remyelinating therapy of acute lesions found in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of acute inflammatory injury-causing demyelination and compare it to the other assessments.
Demyelinating Diseases|Demyelination; Corpus Callosum|Multiple Sclerosis Brain Lesion|Multiple Sclerosis Acute and Progressive|Clinically Isolated Syndrome, CNS Demyelinating
DRUG: Clemastine Fumarate|DRUG: Placebo
Corpus Callosum Myelin Water Fraction, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the myelin water fraction (MWF) (measured in %) from magnetic resonance imaging of the corpus callosum., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Corpus Callosum Myelin Water Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the myelin water fraction (MWF) (measured in %) from magnetic resonance imaging of the corpus callosum. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3 month visits.|Change from Baseline in Corpus Callosum Myelin Water Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the myelin water fraction (MWF) (measured in %) from magnetic resonance imaging of the corpus callosum. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6 month visits.|Corpus Callosum T1 Relaxation Time, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at shortening the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) within the corpus callosum using T1 mapping protocols in an MRI., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Corpus Callosum T1 Relaxation Time at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at shortening the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) within the corpus callosum using T1 mapping protocols in an MRI. (3-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Corpus Callosum T1 Relaxation Time at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at shortening the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) within the corpus callosum using T1 mapping protocols in an MRI. (6-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Corpus Callosum UTE Fraction, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the ultrashort echo time (UTE) fraction (measured in %) derived from magnetic resonance imaging of the corpus callosum., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Corpus Callosum UTE Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the ultrashort echo time (UTE) fraction (measured in %) derived from magnetic resonance imaging of the corpus callosum. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Corpus Callosum UTE Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the ultrashort echo time (UTE) fraction (measured in %) derived from magnetic resonance imaging of the corpus callosum. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.
Optic Radiation Myelin Water Fraction, The efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the MWF (measured in %) of the optic radiation., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Optic Radiation Myelin Water Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the MWF (measured in %) of the optic radiation. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Optic Radiation Myelin Water Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the MWF (measured in %) of the optic radiation. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Corticospinal Tract Myelin Water Fraction, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the MWF (measured in %) of the corticospinal tract., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Corticospinal Tract Myelin Water Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the MWF (measured in %) of the corticospinal tract. (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Corticospinal Tract Myelin Water Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the MWF (measured in %) of the corticospinal tract. (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Optic Radiation T1 Relaxation time, To evaluate the efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the optic radiation., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Optic Radiation T1 Relaxation time at 3 Months, To evaluate the efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the optic radiation. (3-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Optic Radiation T1 Relaxation time at 6 Months, To evaluate the efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the optic radiation. (6-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Corticospinal Tract T1 Relaxation Time, To evaluate the efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the corticospinal tract., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Corticospinal Tract T1 Relaxation Time at 3 Months, To evaluate the efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the corticospinal tract. (3-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Corticospinal Tract T1 Relaxation Time at 6 Months, To evaluate the efficacy of Clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the corticospinal tract. (6-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Optic radiation UTE Fraction, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) of the optic radiation., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Optic radiation UTE Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) of the optic radiation. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Optic radiation UTE Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) of the optic radiation. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Corticospinal Tract UTE Fraction, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) of the corticospinal tract., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Corticospinal Tract UTE Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) of the corticospinal tract. (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Corticospinal Tract UTE Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) of the corticospinal tract. (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Lesion of interest (LOI) MWF, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing MWF (measured in %) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Lesion of interest (LOI) MWF at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing MWF (measured in %) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Lesion of interest (LOI) MWF at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing MWF (measured in %) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|LOI T1 Relaxation Time, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in LOI T1 Relaxation Time at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs. Change = (3-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in LOI T1 Relaxation Time at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs. Change = (6-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|LOI UTE Fraction, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing UTE fraction (measured in %) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in LOI UTE Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing UTE fraction (measured in %) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in LOI UTE Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing UTE fraction (measured in %) of the lesion(s) of interest, stratified based on enhancement status on prior MRIs. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Whole Brain MWF, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing MWF (measured in %) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Whole Brain MWF at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing MWF (measured in %) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Whole Brain MWF at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing MWF (measured in %) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Whole Brain T1 Relaxation Time, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Whole Brain T1 Relaxation Time at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter. (3-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Whole Brain T1 Relaxation Time at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing T1 relaxation time (measured in seconds) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter. (6-month time - Baseline time), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Whole Brain UTE Fraction, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Whole Brain UTE Fraction at 3 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter. Change = (3-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Whole Brain UTE Fraction at 6 Months, The efficacy of clemastine relative to placebo at increasing the UTE fraction (measured in %) across the whole-brain divided into regions of normal-appearing white matter (NAWM), cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter. Change = (6-month % - Baseline %), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.|Clemastine Tolerability, The tolerability of Clemastine in this population. This will include a special focus with regards to fatigue as this is a major symptom for patients suffering from demyelinating lesions using the Fatigue Scale for Motor and Cognitive Functions (FSMC). The FSMC is scored from 1 through 5 for each question. A high score of 100 indicates a high level of fatigue. The lowest score, 20, indicates low level of fatigue., This will be assessed at the baseline visit.|Change from Baseline in Clemastine Tolerability at 3 Months, The tolerability of Clemastine in this population. This will include a special focus with regards to fatigue as this is a major symptom for patients suffering from demyelinating lesions using the Fatigue Scale for Motor and Cognitive Functions (FSMC). The FSMC is scored from 1 through 5 for each question. A high score of 100 indicates a high level of fatigue. The lowest score, 20, indicates low level of fatigue. Change = (3-month tolerability - Baseline tolerability), This will be assessed at the baseline and 3-month visits.|Change from Baseline in Clemastine Tolerability at 6 Months, The tolerability of Clemastine in this population. This will include a special focus with regards to fatigue as this is a major symptom for patients suffering from demyelinating lesions using the Fatigue Scale for Motor and Cognitive Functions (FSMC). The FSMC is scored from 1 through 5 for each question. A high score of 100 indicates a high level of fatigue. The lowest score, 20, indicates low level of fatigue. Change = (6-month tolerability - Baseline tolerability), This will be assessed at the baseline and 6-month visits.
Treatments capable of remyelination are a major unmet need for demyelinating diseases that involve myelin damage, loss, or dysfunction in the central nervous system (CNS). Acute demyelination of axons is believed to be injurious to neurons and serves as a major contributor to irreversible cell loss that underlies permanent disability. Available treatments are primarily immunosuppressing, without directly addressing or fully preventing axonal degeneration and disability. Clemastine fumarate was identified along with a series of other antimuscarinic medications as a potential remyelinating agent using the micropillar screen (BIMA) developed at UCSF. The screen demonstrated that clemastine promoted the differentiation of the endogenous oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) into mature myelinating oligodendrocytes. Following in vivo validation, an FDA investigational new drug (IND) exemption was granted to investigate clemastine for the treatment of multiple sclerosis in the context of chronic optic neuropathy. That pilot study was recently completed and is the first randomized control trial documenting efficacy for a putative remyelinating agent for the treatment of MS. The preselected primary efficacy endpoint (visual evoked potential) was met and a strong trend to benefit was seen for the principal secondary endpoint assessing function (low contrast visual acuity). That trial number was 13-11577.

This clinical trial is intended to assess magnetic resonance imaging evidence of remyelination using Clemastine Fumarate in patients with acute demyelinated lesions. Specifically speaking, the primary objective will assess various multi-parametric MRI sequences on the corpus callosum region, a region that animal models studies identified as a promising candidate for assessing remyelination. The aim was to help define the potential for MRI in measuring remyelination in acute lesions, determine the optimal sequences and location for measuring myelin recovery, and help guide trial design for future remyelinating trials. Finally, the study is designed to assess tolerability and clinical efficacy of Clemastine using outcomes intended to assess for (a) adverse events and (b) recovery of myelin.