Peri-procedural Management of Direct Oral Anticoagulants for Central VENOus Catheters in CAncer Patients With Venous Thromboembolism or Atrial Fibrillation Pilot Study
The peri-procedural management of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) in persons with cancer (PWC) undergoing tunneled or port central venous catheter (CVC) insertion is a common but understudied clinical problem, with conflicting management advice from guidelines and resultant uncertainty for best practices. Data from prospective studies assessing peri-procedural DOAC management exist; however, these data pertain to procedures in the general population. These management strategies may not be applicable to PWC because (1) although CVC insertion is a low risk, image-guided specialized procedure, (2) PWC are at considerably higher risk of peri-procedural bleeding and thrombosis than non-PWC. It is not surprising, therefore, that guideline recommendations and current practices vary widely. To resolve management uncertainty and establish a standard-of-care, the VENOCAT pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) is a first step that will assess the feasibility of a definitive trial comparing continued vs. interrupted DOAC management in PWC undergoing tunneled or port CVC insertion. Evidence is needed to standardize clinical practice and reduce the risk of bleeding and thrombotic complications.
Anticoagulant-induced Bleeding|Direct Oral Anticoagulant|Cancer|Central Venous Catheter|Periprocedural Complication
OTHER: Continued DOAC|OTHER: Interrupted DOAC
Recruitment rate, proportion of eligible participants successfully recruited to the study and randomized to a treatment arm, 1 year
Eligibility rate, proportion of screened patients who are eligible, 1 year|Intervention adherence, proportion of recruited participants that adhere to the assigned study intervention, 1 year|DOAC level adherence, proportion of recruited participants that complete DOAC level testing, 1 year|Retention rate, proportion of recruited participants who attend the follow-up visit, 1 year|Study completion rate, proportion of recruited participants who completed all study procedures appropriately, 1 year|Reasons for declining participation, 1 year
Clinically significant bleeding, composite of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major bleeding at 30 days, 30 days|Major bleeding, major bleeding at 30 days, 30 days|Clinically relevant non-major bleeding, Clinically relevant non-major bleeding at 30 days, 30 days|Recurrent venous thromboembolism, Recurrent venous thromboembolism in those anticoagulated for VTE at 30 days, 30 days|Arterial thrombosis, Arterial thrombosis in those anticoagulated for AF at 30 days, 30 days|All-cause mortality, All-cause mortality at 30 days, 30 days|DOAC levels, A pre-procedural DOAC level will be drawn by blood sample in all participants on Day 0, within two hours of CVC insertion, within 2 hours of CVC insertion
The peri-procedural management of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) in persons with cancer (PWC) undergoing tunneled or port central venous catheter (CVC) insertion is a common but understudied clinical problem, with conflicting management advice from guidelines and resultant uncertainty for best practices. Data from prospective studies assessing peri-procedural DOAC management exist; however, these data pertain to procedures in the general population. These management strategies may not be applicable to PWC because (1) although CVC insertion is a low risk, image-guided specialized procedure, (2) PWC are at considerably higher risk of peri-procedural bleeding and thrombosis than non-PWC. It is not surprising, therefore, that guideline recommendations and current practices vary widely. To resolve management uncertainty and establish a standard-of-care, the VENOCAT pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) is a first step that will assess the feasibility of a definitive trial comparing continued vs. interrupted DOAC management in PWC undergoing tunneled or port CVC insertion. Evidence is needed to standardize clinical practice and reduce the risk of bleeding and thrombotic complications.