Relugolix and Enzalutamide in Combination With Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of Very High Risk Prostate Cancer, OPTIMAL Trial
This phase II trial tests how well relugolix and enzalutamide, in combination with radiation therapy, works in treating patients with very high risk prostate cancer. Relugolix is a form of androgen deprivation therapy. It prevents the release of testosterone, a hormone required to sustain prostate growth. Reducing testosterone levels may inhibit the proliferation of prostate tumor cells that need testosterone to grow. Enzalutamide is an androgen receptor signaling inhibitor. It inhibits the activity of prostate tumor cell receptors, which may reduce proliferation of prostate tumor cells. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Adding relugolix and enzalutamide to radiation therapy may be more effective at treating patients with very high risk prostate cancer than giving any of these treatments alone.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Enzalutamide|OTHER: Fluorine F 18 Piflufolastat|RADIATION: Image Guided Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Relugolix
Pathologic response (biopsy positivity rate), Will determine the efficacy of radiation therapy with relugolix and enzalutamide, for a total duration of 18 months, in patients with National Comprehensive Cancer Network very high-risk prostate cancer, by a 2-year biopsy positivity rate., At 2 years
Disease-free survival, Will be determined by biochemical failure of prostate specific antigen nadir + 2ng/mL, local or regional recurrence, distant metastasis, or death. Median survival time will be estimated with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., Up to 4 years|Testosterone recovery, Testosterone recovery will be defined as a total serum testosterone of ≥ 200 ng/dL., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of radiation therapy (RT) with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (relugolix) and an androgen receptor signaling inhibitor (enzalutamide), for a total duration of 18 months, in patients with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) very high-risk prostate cancer, as determined by a 2-year biopsy positivity rate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 4-year disease free survival (DFS) (biochemical failure of prostate specific antigen \[PSA\] nadir +2ng/mL, local or regional recurrence, distant metastasis, or death from any cause).

II. To evaluate testosterone recovery.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate impact on patient-reported health-related quality of life utilizing (1) Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite, EPIC-26 and (2) European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLC-C30).

II. To investigate a relationship between magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-positron emission tomography (PET) radiomic response (baseline and after neoadjuvant therapy) correlated with pathologic and disease control endpoints.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive relugolix orally (PO) once daily (QD) and enzalutamide PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 18 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 4 months of treatment with relugolix and enzalutamide, patients begin image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT) per standard of care. Patients also undergo fluorine F 18 piflufolastat PET/MRI and CT on the trial, undergo collection of blood samples throughout the trial, and undergo biopsy during follow up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 30 months (48 months after study registration).