Vorinostat and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Kidney Cancer
This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with bevacizumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with unresectable or metastatic kidney cancer. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of kidney cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving vorinostat together with bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: bevacizumab
Progression-free Survival Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Phase II), Estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, At 6 months
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Determine the maximum tolerated dose of SAHA, 18 months from first patient dosing|Clinical Response Rate of SAHA and Bevacizumab, To determine the clinical response rate of SAHA and Bevacizumab in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma., 7 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of vorinostat (SAHA) in combination with bevacizumab in patients with unresectable or metastatic renal cell carcinoma. (Phase I) II. Determine the recommended dosing in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase I) III. Determine the proportion of patients who are progression-free at 6 months after receiving this regimen. (Phase II) IV. Determine the clinical response rate in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II) II. Determine time to progression and duration of progression-free and overall survival in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II) III. Determine the pharmacodynamic effects in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and tumors before and after treatment with this regimen in these patients. (Phase II) IV. Determine the antiproliferative and apoptotic effects of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II) V. Determine the antiangiogenic effects of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II) VI. Determine the modulation of tumor metabolism and tumor blood flow in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA) followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive oral SAHA twice daily on days 1-14 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

PHASE II: Patients receive SAHA at the MTD determined in phase I and bevacizumab as in phase I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.