Intravenous Ascorbate Plus Gemcitabine/Carboplatin: A Novel and Cost-Effective Alternative With Evident Efficacy in Patients With Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This is a phase II, single arm, Simon two-stage design, trial, enrolling patients with cisplatin ineligible MIBC and/or those patients who decline cisplatin based NAC.

Assess rates of pathologic downstaging and quality of life in MIBC cisplatin-ineligible/declined patients when IVC is added to gemcitabine-carboplatin NAC.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Intravenous ascorbic acid/vitamin C
Post treatment pathological staging, To assess pathologic downstaging rate in MIBC cisplatin-ineligible patients when IVC is added to a gemcitabine/carboplatin NAC regimen. Pre and Post treatment specimen pathology results evaluated per American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging guidelines., Approximately 10 to 12 weeks
To assess Quality of life (QOL), Overall change in participant-reported quality of life outcomes. Fact-Bladder (FACT-BI) Quality of life questionnaire as measurement tool., Approximately 10 to 16 weeks|To measure Disease Free Survival (DFS), Disease free survival rate (DFS) among participants, Approximately 2 years|To measure Disease Specific Survival (DSS), Disease specific survival rate among participants, Approximately 2 years
Cellular outcome markers, IVC uptake, IVC specific mechanism markers, Cell death, Cell proliferation, Tumor samples will be collected at timepoints as listed in the protocol study procedures and schedule of events table for evaluation of generally used cellular outcome markers, as well as markers for IVC specific mechanism, via the IRB approved BCa tumor bank (Taylor PI). Acetylated tubulin levels and transferrin receptor levels in tumor samples will be detected as IVC related markers. SLC23A2 (SVCT2, vitamin C tissue receptor) will be assessed for drug uptake. TUNEL staining will be used as a measure of cell death and Ki67 as a measure of cell proliferation. Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) will be assessed in serum as an additional marker of treatment efficacy and recurrence. In addition, single-cell sequencing will be used to define changes in specific tissue populations at TUR and RC to evaluate both biomarkers of response and potential mechanisms associated with IVC treatment. To monitor inflammation, urinary cytokines will be assessed via multiplex ELISA at RC (post-treatment)., During surgery
The investigator has hypothesized adding IVC to carbo/gem NAC will enhance pathological downstaging and improve QOL. The patients eligible for this study (cisplatin ineligible or declined with MIBC) typically proceed straight to cystectomy within 12 weeks of initial diagnosis.

In this study, participants will receive two cycles of gemcitabine/carboplatin, along with IVC and then proceed to cystectomy.