Long Term Follow up of Patients Under 5 Years of Age With High Grade Glioma Diagnosed in France Between 1990 and 2015
High grade glioma is a rare disorder affecting children at all ages with a high mortality rate. Overall survival is estimated at 40%, depending on the type of treatment administered. Major late sequelaes are experienced with the irradiation in this population under 5 years. Therefore, the current recommendations by The French Society for Childhood Cancers are based on a treatment including surgery followed by chemotherapy and avoiding radiotherapy as long as patients present no sign of treatment failure. The results published in 2006, underlying the fact that some patients treated exclusively with surgical resection and chemotherapy can achieve long term survival, are showing evidence of an acceptable long-term strategy. Few studies concerning evaluation of treatment toxicity and long term outcomes are available. Therefore, it is important to collect retrospective data concerning those small patients with high grade glioma in order to understand the reasons of treatment success or failure and treatment toxicities. This retrospective study will evaluate long term survivals comparatively to clinical, radiological and histological features at diagnosis and the treatment toxicities including neurological, endocrine and hearing impairment to go further and propose new potential guidelines and chemotherapy schedules
Glioma
Assessment of patient survival associated with relapse rate after surgery, 10 years|Assessment of patient survival associated with relapse rate after chemotherapy, 10 years
High grade glioma is a rare disorder affecting children at all ages with a high mortality rate. Overall survival is estimated at 40%, depending on the type of treatment administered. Major late sequelaes are experienced with the irradiation in this population under 5 years. Therefore, the current recommendations by The French Society for Childhood Cancers are based on a treatment including surgery followed by chemotherapy and avoiding radiotherapy as long as patients present no sign of treatment failure. The results published in 2006, underlying the fact that some patients treated exclusively with surgical resection and chemotherapy can achieve long term survival, are showing evidence of an acceptable long-term strategy. Few studies concerning evaluation of treatment toxicity and long term outcomes are available. Therefore, it is important to collect retrospective data concerning those small patients with high grade glioma in order to understand the reasons of treatment success or failure and treatment toxicities. This retrospective study will evaluate long term survivals comparatively to clinical, radiological and histological features at diagnosis and the treatment toxicities including neurological, endocrine and hearing impairment to go further and propose new potential guidelines and chemotherapy schedules