The Study of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) and Questionnaire
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is an extremely common disorder in women of reproductive age. Diagnosis of PCOS is principally based on clinical and physical findings. Diagnostic criteria and PCOS definitions used by clinicians and researchers are almost as heterogeneous as the syndrome. This first part of study is determine whether genetic polymorphisms influence hormonal and metabolic characteristics in Taiwanese patients with PCOS and controls. Furthermore, women with PCOS were reported with high risk of cardiovascular disease, the investigators planned to calculate the difference of carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) between women with PCOS and normal control to determine the premature atherosclerosis of women with PCOS.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Obesity is the predominant predictor of impaired glucose tolerance and metabolic disturbance in polycystic ovary syndrome., To evaluate the contribution to glucose intolerance and metabolic syndrome of obesity combined with the diagnostic criteria of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)., Prospectively study in University teaching hospital from 31 August 2010 to 31 August 2011.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is an extremely common disorder in women of reproductive age. Diagnosis of PCOS is principally based on clinical and physical findings. Diagnostic criteria and PCOS definitions used by clinicians and researchers are almost as heterogeneous as the syndrome. This first part of study is determine whether genetic polymorphisms influence hormonal and metabolic characteristics in Taiwanese patients with PCOS and controls. Furthermore, women with PCOS were reported with high risk of cardiovascular disease, the investigators planned to calculate the difference of carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) between women with PCOS and normal control to determine the premature atherosclerosis of women with PCOS.