Acalabrutinib With Rituximab and Lenalidomide in Relapsed/Refractory B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
NCCN guidelines for B cell lymphoma suggest that patients with relapsed/refractory aggressive NHL who are candidate for high-dose therapy should receive combination of cytotoxic chemotherapies as 2nd line treatment. However, proportion of patients who are adequately salvaged by second line chemotherapy and high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue is unsatisfactory. Moreover, many fragile patients are unfit for salvage cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or high-dose chemotherapy. Hence, most of patients with relapsed/refractory aggressive B-cell NHL is ultimately candidate for less-cytotoxic drugs with targeted approach. This trial is phase II trial of acalabrutinib in combination with rituximab and lenalidomide for these patients.
Non-hodgkin Lymphoma,B Cell
DRUG: Acalabrutinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Lugano criteria, within 4 weeks after the 6 cycles of combination therapy (each cycle is 28 days)
Duration of response, Tumor status will be assessed at Week 8, 16, 24 (± 7 days), then every 3 months (± 14 days)|Complete remission rate, Response will be assessed at Week 8, 16, 24 (± 7 days)|Progression free survival, Tumor status will be assessed at Week 8, 16, 24 (± 7 days), then every 3 months (± 14 days)|Overall survival, Tumor status will be assessed at Week 8, 16, 24 (± 7 days), then every 3 months (± 14 days)
NCCN guidelines for B cell lymphoma suggest that patients with relapsed/refractory aggressive NHL who are candidate for high-dose therapy should receive combination of cytotoxic chemotherapies as 2nd line treatment. However, proportion of patients who are adequately salvaged by second line chemotherapy and high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue is unsatisfactory. Moreover, many fragile patients are unfit for salvage cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or high-dose chemotherapy. Hence, most of patients with relapsed/refractory aggressive B-cell NHL is ultimately candidate for less-cytotoxic drugs with targeted approach. This trial is phase II trial of acalabrutinib in combination with rituximab and lenalidomide for these patients.