HR070803 in Combination With Oxaliplatin, 5-fluorouracil/LV Versus GX as Adjuvant Therapy for Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to look at the efficacy and safety of HR070803 in combination with 5 fluorouracil/leucovorin (5FU/LV) plus oxaliplatin compared to gemcitabine + capecitabine treatment as adjuvant therapy in patients with resected pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: HR070803; Oxaliplatin; 5Fluorouracil; Calcium folinate|DRUG: gemcitabine; capecitabine
Disease-free survival (DFS), Disease-free survival is defined as the time from date of randomization until the date of the first cancer-related event, second cancer, or death from any cause., From study start until 338 DFS events have occurred (approximately 21 months after last patient enrollment)
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of randomization until the date of death from any cause., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 37 months|3-year disease-free survival rate, Disease-free survival within 3 years, up to 36 months following the date the first patient was randomized|5-year disease-free survival rate, Disease-free survival within 5 years, up to 60 months following the date the first patient was randomized|3-year overall survival rate, Overall survival within 3 years, up to 36 months following the date the first patient was randomized|5-year overall survival rate, Overall survival within 5 years, up to 60 months following the date the first patient was randomized
STUDY DESIGN/ Evaluation criteria Main criterion: efficacy. The main criterion is the disease-free survival. Disease-free survival is defined as the time from date of randomization until the date of the first cancer-related event, second cancer, or death from any cause. Patients without event at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of last follow-up visit.

Secondary criteria include Overall survival. OS is defined as the time from date of randomization until the date of death from any cause. Patients who are still living at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of last follow-up visit.

Secondary criteria also include 3-year disease-free survival rate/overall survival rate and 5-year disease-free survival rate/overall survival rate.

Tolerance Patients evaluable for toxicity must have received one investigational drug.