Implementation of a Prehabilitation Program for Surgical Patients
Frailty is a state of increased vulnerability to stressors with increased rates of poor outcomes. Surgery is one of these stressors, and previous research has therefore shown increased rates of morbidity and mortality in frail patients undergoing surgery. Prehabilitation programs can help mitigate the negative outcomes associated with frailty. The investigators hope to implement a newly developed prehabilitation pilot program in the Maine Medical Center Surgical Oncology Clinic to initially evaluate adherence, self-efficacy, and health-related quality of life.
Prehabilitation|Oncology|Surgical Oncology
OTHER: Thinkific Prehabilitation Exercise Program
Participant adherence to prehab program, Evaluate adherence through analysis of patient maintained exercise logs via number of days completed, Through study completion, on average 3 months|Correlation between patient pre-program self-efficacy evaluation and measured adherence to study prehabilitation program, Assess self-efficacy by evaluating the relationship between pre-program Self-Efficacy for Home Exercise Program Scale (0-72) score and adherence., Through study completion, on average 3 months|Patient Satisfaction, Assess patient satisfaction and barriers to adherence through a post prehab program survey., Last day of prehabilitation program (within week prior to surgery)|Quality of Life (Short Form- 36 Survey), Evaluate change in health-related quality of life before and after participation in the prehabilitation program., Completed at Day 0, Two weeks, Four weeks and Last day of prehabilitation program (within week prior to surgery)|Frailty (Risk Analysis Index), Evaluate change in frailty using Risk Analysis Index before and after participation in the prehabilitation program., Evaluated on Day 0 and at last visit prior to surgery, an average of 3 months
Frailty is a state of increased vulnerability to stressors with increased rates of poor outcomes. Surgery is one of these stressors, and previous research has therefore shown increased rates of morbidity and mortality in frail patients undergoing surgery. Prehabilitation programs can help mitigate the negative outcomes associated with frailty. The investigators hope to implement a newly developed prehabilitation pilot program in the Maine Medical Center Surgical Oncology Clinic to initially evaluate adherence, self-efficacy, and health-related quality of life.

The investigators now hope to implement this prehabilitation program in the clinics at Maine Medical Center. Our long term goal is the introduce this program in all surgical specialties; but first, the investigators plan to assess adherence, patient self-efficacy, frailty and health-related quality of life through a pilot study in the surgical oncology clinic.