Durvalumab and Tremelimumab With or Without Hepatic Arterial Infusion of Chemotherapy in Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Liver cancer is a highly lethal malignancy and has become increasingly important in western countries. The management of liver cancer is complex. In advanced disease, two combinations of immunotherapies are recommanded as first line (atezolizumab-bevacizumab or durvalumab-tremelimumab). Results in patients with high tumor burden (Portal vein thrombosis Vp3 or Vp4, or tumoral liver involvement \>50%) are less impressive. Innovative combinations are necessary to improve the outcome of patients.

Recently, control trials conducted in Asia highlighted the benefit of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy, especially in patients with high tumor burden. Studies including a limited number of patients shown that the combination seems feasible.

ALICE is a randomized multicentric Phase II/Phase III trial conducted in French medical centers, evaluating the efficacy and safety of durvalumab+tremelimumab with or without Hepatic Arterial Infusion Chemotherapy of the GEMOX regimen (gemcitabine + oxaliplatin), in patients with high tumor burden.

Oxaliplatin induce immunogenic cell death, and gemcitabin deplete regulatory immune cells. The GEMOX regimen thus has the potential for a synergic effect with immunotherapy in HCC.

The trial will provide an innovative treatment to patients with no alternative for locoregional treatment, and with limited results with actual systemic treatments. It will also be the first trial of Hepatic Arterial infusion for such patients in the western population.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Durvalumab Plus Tremelimumab|DRUG: HAIC (GEMOX)
Phase II : Objective Response Rate according to RECIST 1.1, The proportion of patients with Complete Response or Partial Response according to RECIST 1.1, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression, and up to 6 months after the inclusion of the last patient|Phase III : Overall Survival, The time between Randomisation and death from any cause, From date of randomization to the date of death, up to 18 months after the randomization of the last patient
Safety of the combination of immune therapy and HAIC, Will be assessed :

* the frequency of limiting toxicities (LT) occuring during the combination phase (the first 12 weeks). LT are defined as any toxicity related to the experimental drug, that leads to definitive treatment discontinuation.
* the frequency and severity of treatment-related adverse events as per NCI-CTCA v5.0, From the first study treatment administration to 30 days after the last administration of study treatment|Progression-Free Survival, Defined as the delay between the date of randomization and the date of the first progression or death from any cause. Progression will be assessed via RECIST 1.1 and mRECIST., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first, up to 18 months after the inclusion of the last patient|Phase II : Overall Survival, Defined as the delay between randomization and death from any cause., From date of randomization to the date of death, up to 18 months after the randomization of the last patient|Phase III : Objective Response Rate, Defined as the proportion of patients with Complete Response or Partial Response according to RECIST 1.1, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression, and up to 6 months after the inclusion of the last patient|Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Quality of life will be assessed with questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C30, at baseline and every 2 months until disease progression or study termination, From date of randomization and until the date of first documented progression, up to 18 months after the inclusion of the last patient|Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the EORTC HCC-18 questionnaire, Quality of life will be assessed with questionnaire EORTC HCC-18, at baseline and every 2 months until disease progression or study termination, From date of randomization and until the date of first documented progression, up to 18 months after the inclusion of the last patient
The ALICE study will randomize 196 patients in about 20 sites in France, according to a ratio 1:1, and in 2 steps :

* 90 Patients will first be included in the initial Phase II study, and compared in terms of ORR.
* 106 additional patients with be included for the Phase III, and the total population will be analyzed in terms of Overall Survival.

A safety run-in phase will be planned for the first 12 patients in the experimental arm, to assess the tolerance of the treatment combination. An independent Study Monitoring Board (DSMB), with expertise and experience in the pathology, and without direct involvement in the conduct of the study, will be set up specifically to ensure optimal safety monitoring.