Massage Therapy and Port-a-Catheter Insertion
The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of massage therapy for reducing pre-operative anxiety and post-operative pain among predominantly low income minority cancer patients undergoing surgical placement of a Port-a-Catheter.
Cancer|Anxiety|Pain|Surgery
OTHER: Massage Therapy|OTHER: Attention Control
Efficacy of massage therapy for reducing pre-operative anxiety among predominantly low income minority cancer patients undergoing surgical placement of an implanted port., Baseline (prior to first 20 min intervention) and post-intervention/pre-surgery|Efficacy of massage therapy for reducing post-operative pain among predominantly low income minority cancer patients undergoing surgical placement of an implanted port., Post-surgery/pre-second 20 min intervention and post-surgery/post-second 20 min intervention|Feasibility of using massage therapy to reduce pre-operative anxiety and post-operative pain among predominantly low income minority cancer patients undergoing surgical placement of an implanted port., Day of surgery
Effects of massage on the duration of the surgical procedure, Time of surgery|Effect of massage on the amount of anesthesia used during the surgical procedure, Time of surgery|Related costs of providing massage therapy to patients undergoing port-a-cath implantation, Day of surgery
Despite major advances in the understanding of cancer and its treatment, patients continue to suffer greatly. Massage is now included in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for the treatment of refractory cancer pain (1), and many cancer patients are turning to massage and other complementary therapies to help alleviate both their psychological and physical symptoms. However, complementary therapies, such as massage, are often unaffordable or unavailable to predominantly low-income cancer patients at safety net hospitals like Boston Medical Center.

The vast majority of cancer patients receiving chemotherapy undergo implantation of a permanent central venous access device, often referred to as a port implantation or implanted port. Although the implanted port carries multiple benefits for ease of treatment, after the procedure patients often complain of headaches, muscle stiffness and neck and shoulder pain that lasts for several days. Pain medication is the only therapy commonly offered for this and is often inadequate (2). Furthermore, since this is often the first surgical procedure for cancer patients at the beginning of their treatment, they often have significant levels of pre-procedure anxiety (3,4). Safe, efficacious, and cost-effective interventions that can reduce the anxiety and pain related to port implantation are needed.

This pilot study will look at how feasible and effective massage therapy is in reducing pre-operative anxiety and post-operative pain among BMC patients already undergoing surgical placement of an implanted port.