Study of Advanced Bulky Malignancies With Spatially Fractioned Radiation Therapy
Expand clinical literature on the use of Grid radiation with conventional external beam therapy. Vast majority of therapy is for palliative care to provide relief from pain, but has also shown a reduction in the size of tumor mass.
Advanced Bulky Malignancies
RADIATION: Spatially Fractioned Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Treatment Group 1|RADIATION: Standard radiation|RADIATION: Standard radiation
Protocol Treatment Related Morbidity, Number of grade 3 or higher complications during the assesment period. This does not include any complication felt to be due solely to malignancy, during duration of treatment of 3 weeks. Follow up exams every 6 months for the next two years and then yearly for the rest of your life.
Objective Response of Bulky Tumors of the Head and Neck Area, Lung, Abdomen or Pelvis to Standard Fractionated Radiation Therapy Plus Grid Therapy Compared to Standard Fractionated Radiation Therapy Alone., Complete response (CR) = 100% tumor disappearance Partial response (PR) = \> 50% reduction in size Stable disease (SD) = \< 50% reduction or no change +/- 10% increase in tumor size Progressive disease (PD) = \> 10% increase in size of tumor Unknown Status (UK), during duration of treatment of 3 weeks. Follow up exams every 6 months for the next two years and then yearly for the rest of your life.
This study will evaluate response to radiation therapy by a large bulky tumor is influenced by adding a single dose of 15 Gy grid radiotherapy. To accomplish this, patients with large bulky tumors in the lung, abdomen or pelvis will be randomized to receive either standard palliative radiation or palliative radiation plus a single fraction of grid radiation. Tumor response, pain relief and duration of response, and pain control will be monitored. Toxicity of treatment will also be followed. The hypothesis of this study is that grid radiation will produce a significant improvement in tumor response and pain control that produces no further increase in acute or late toxicity.