Trial of BMX-001 or Placebo in Head and Neck Cancer Patients
There are an estimated 65,000 newly diagnosed cases of head and neck cancer each year in the United States. The most common treatment for head and neck cancers is radiotherapy in combination with cisplatin chemotherapy. This treatment regimen is effective in killing the tumor; however, the normal tissues that line the mouth and throat can sustain severe injury from the radiation. Side-effects incurred during irradiation include: mucositis, xerostomia, swelling, trouble swallowing, pain, infections, cavities, hair loss and reddening of the skin. Some of these side effects can be so severe that patients require feeding tubes and management of severe pain can lead to the premature halt of radiotherapy. There are currently no effective radio-protectors used to ameliorate these severe side-effects.

BioMimetix has developed small molecular weight superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetic, BMX-001, that is a very potent radio-protector of head and neck tissues. In our first clinical trial in a head and neck cancer patient cohort using this drug, we have early evidence that BMX-001 may protect against radiation-induced mucositis and xerostomia.

This will be a randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trial to study the effects of BMX-001 (14 mg/subject biw) + radiation therapy + cisplatin against placebo + radiation therapy + cisplatin in prevention of acute and chronic mucositis and xerostomia.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: BMX-001|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Cisplatin|OTHER: Placebo
Mucositis Incidence, The primary outcome measure used for each study subject is a dichotomous measure of whether they experienced severe oral mucositis (OM, defined as grade 3 or 4 according to WHO criteria) at any time between the first IMRT fraction until 30 days after the completion of RT. The primary analysis will thus test the difference in the proportion of subjects from each treatment group who experience severe OM., 12 weeks
Mucositis Duration, The interval (measured in days) from the date of first determination of severe OM to the date of the first determination of not having severe OM, without a subsequent instance of severe OM., 12 weeks|Mucositis Severity, Days it takes for patients in each arm to develop severe oral mucositis., 12 weeks|Xerostomia Incidence, The dichotomous measure of whether the study subject had grade 2 (or greater) Xerostomia (as defined by CTCAE v 5.0). This will be assessed at 1, 6, 12, and 24 months after completion of RT., 1, 6, 12, and 24 months|Saliva Production Measurements, The continuous measure of saliva production (g/min), measured at baseline and 1, 6, 12, and 24 months after completion of RT. Both stimulated and unstimulated saliva production will be measured., 1, 6, 12, and 24 months|Radiation Dermatitis Duration, The continuous endpoint of duration of radiation dermatitis, where duration is defined as the interval (measured in days) from the date of first determination of radiation dermatitis to the date of the first determination of not having radiation dermatitis, without a subsequent instance of radiation dermatitis. For any subject whose radiation dermatitis persists, the final date will be 30 days after the completion of RT., 12 weeks|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS), defined as the interval (measured in days) from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause., 2 years|Disease Free Survival, Disease-free survival (DFS), defined as the interval (measured in days) from the date of randomization until the date of CT scan showing tumor progression., 2 years
This study will seek to confirm protection of normal tissues by assessing the incidence, severity and duration of mucositis in a randomized, placebo controlled, Phase 2 clinical trial of BMX-001 in combination with standard RT and chemotherapy in newly diagnosed head and neck cancer patients (162 subjects, 1:1 randomization study drug: placebo).

The study will also confirm protection of normal tissues by assessing the acute and chronic extent of xerostomia in the same trial.