Efficacy of TEAS on Postoperative Pain and Recovery in Patients Undergoing Hepatectomy
The purpose of this study is to access the effect of transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation on postoperative pain in patients undergoing hepatectomy
Liver Cancer
DEVICE: transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation|DEVICE: sham transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation
The incidence of moderate to severe pain (NRS ≥ 4) during movement (i.e. cough or take three deep breaths) at 24 hours after surgery, The pain is evaluated using numerical rating scale(NRS). NRS scores range from 0 to 10 points, with 0 points representing no pain, 1-3 points representing mild pain, 4-6 points representing moderate pain, 7-9 points representing severe pain and 10 points representing the strongest pain., Up to 24 hours postoperatively
The incidence of moderate to severe pain (NRS ≥ 4) during movement (i.e. cough or take three deep breaths) at 48 and 72 hours after surgery, The pain is evaluated using numerical rating scale(NRS). NRS scores range from 0 to 10 points, with 0 points representing no pain, 1-3 points representing mild pain, 4-6 points representing moderate pain, 7-9 points representing severe pain and 10 points representing the strongest pain., Up to 72 hours postoperatively|The incidence of moderate to severe pain (NRS ≥ 4) at rest at 24, 48 and 72 hours after surgery, The pain is evaluated using numerical rating scale(NRS). NRS scores range from 0 to 10 points, with 0 points representing no pain, 1-3 points representing mild pain, 4-6 points representing moderate pain, 7-9 points representing severe pain and 10 points representing the strongest pain., Up to 72 hours postoperatively|Pain scores of movement-evoked pain at postoperative 24,48 and 72 hours, The pain is evaluated using numerical rating scale,NRS). NRS scores range from 0 to 10 points, with 0 points representing no pain, and 10 points representing the strongest pain., Up to 72 hours postoperatively|Pain scores of pain at rest at 24, 48 and 72 hours postoperatively, The pain is evaluated using numerical rating scale,NRS). NRS scores range from 0 to 10 points, with 0 points representing no pain, and 10 points representing the strongest pain, Up to 72 hours postoperatively|The cumulative morphine consumption at 24, 48, and 72 hours postoperatively, Postoperative opioid use is reported as morphine milligram equivalents, calculated using the Practical Pain Management calculator, Up to 72 hours postoperatively|The incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting during the first 24,48,72 hours, We considered it PONV if patients felt any nausea or had any vomiting, Up to 72 hours postoperatively|The incidence of a composite of postoperative pulmonary complications during hospitalization, Defined as positive if any component developed before discharge after surgery; These complications included respiratory infection, respiratory failure, pleural effusion, atelectasis, pneumothorax, bronchospasm, or aspiration pneumonitis loading dose, immediately after the end of surgery, and at the first 24 hours after surgery, immediately after the end of surgery, and at the first 24 hours after surgery|Quality of Recovery Scale Score at 24, 48, and 72 hours after surgery, The global QoR-15 score ranges from 0 to 150 and is categorized as five quality of recovery dimensions, including physical comfort (5 items), emotional state (4 items), psychological support (2 items), physical independence (2 items), and pain (2 items). Each piece is graded using an 11-point Likert scale. The QoR is classified according to the QoR-15 score as excellent (QoR-15 \> 135), good (122 ≤ QoR-15 ≤ 135), moderate (90 ≤ QoR-15 ≤ 121) and poor (QoR-15 \< 90), Up to 72 hours postoperatively|Time of Bowel function recovery, Defined as the time to first defecation or time to first flatusdefined as the time to first defecation or time to first flatus defined as the time to first defecation or time to first flatus, Up to 72 hours postoperatively|Length of hospital stay, Determined by the number of days from admittance to discharge, From admittance to discharge|The postoperative sleep quality score, Postoperative sleep quality was evaluated using the Athens Insomnia Scale (AIS). The AIS consists of 8 items: waking up at night, sleep induction, final awakening, total sleep duration, sleep quality, well-being, functional ability, and daytime sleepiness. The AIS score ranges from 0 to 24 points, and a total score of 6 points or higher indicates a diagnosis of insomnia., Up to 72 hours postoperatively|The anxiety and depression scores, Anxiety and depression score will be evaluated using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).The HADS consists of 14 questions, with 7 items each for the anxiety and depression subscales. The score for each item ranges from 0 to 3 points, and scores are summed to yield a separate score for anxiety (HADS-A) and depression (HADS-D)., Up to 72 hours postoperatively|The incidence of chronic postsurgical pain (CPSP), Patients were inquired whether they had any pain （NRS ≥ 1）in surgical area and if the pain developed postoperatively. If subjects answered with a 'no' to any of the two questions, those patients were classified as cases without CPSP. Contrarily, if subjects answered yes, they were considered CPSP cases., 3 months after surgery
Patients who meet the enrollment criteria will be randomized 1:1 to either the transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS#or the sham groups. In the TEAS group, the acupoints are bilateral neiguan (PC6) , Hegu(L14), Yanglingquan(GB34), Zusanli(ST 36) and Renying(ST9) acupoints. Patients will receive TEAS 30min before anesthesia until being discharged from the post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU). The same treatment for 30 min will be performed on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd days after surgery.The stimulation intensity will be adjusted in accordance with the maximal level tolerated by each patient.

Patients in the sham group will receive electrode attachment but without stimulation.