Self-Management Program and Survivorship Care Plan in Improving the Health of Cancer Survivors After Stem Cell Transplant
This phase III trial investigates health informatics and a self-management program for improving the health of cancer survivors after stem cell transplant. After transplant many survivors may feel stressed or may be unsure of what health care they need. A self-management program called "INSPIRE," along with a personalized survivorship care plan may improve stress and health care for transplant survivors.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm
OTHER: Best Practice and Internet site with links to existing resources|OTHER: Internet, Mobile app and Telehealth Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Cancer and Treatment Distress (CTXD), Among those impaired at baseline, percent who are no longer impaired at 12 months (among those not missing either). Scores range from 0-3 and higher scores indicate higher distress. A cutoff of \>=.90 was used to categorize participants as high in distress. Participants with scores \<.90 were categorized as not distressed., Up to 12 months|Health Care Adherence (HCA)-Cardiometabolic, Assesses adherence to cardiometabolic surveillance in intervention participants vs. controls. Among those impaired at baseline, percent no longer impaired at 12 months. Scores range from 0-1. Higher scores indicate high adherence. A cutoff of \<.80 was used to categorize participants as low in adherence. Scores higher than .80 were classified as being adherent to cardiometabolic surveillance., Up to 12 months|Characteristics of Intervention Participants Who Require Telehealth Stepped Care at 6-weeks, Determine characteristics of participants who 1) do not meet criteria for adequate knowledge of cardiometabolic risks, or 2) do not report improved distress, or 3) have not logged in to the online program., 6-weeks after enrollment.
Health Care Adherence (HCA)-Subsequent Malignancy Screening, Assesses adherence to subsequent malignancy surveillance in intervention participants vs. controls. Among those impaired at baseline, percent no longer impaired at 12 months., Up to 12 months|PHQ-8 Depression, Assessed by participant questionnaire.Among those impaired (PHQ≥10) at baseline, percent no longer impaired at 12 months, Up to 12 months
Knowledge of Survivorship Needs and Health Related Self-efficacy, Mediators of primary outcomes: assessed by patient questionnaires., Up to 12 months|Reach, Engagement and Fidelity of Web-based Intervention, Process Measures: Rates of participants approached versus registering, rates of visits to the web site, pages viewed, types of modalities used, attrition rates and support requests., Up to 12 months|Cost and Resources to Maintain Program, Determine resources that would be needed to sustain the intervention as a national HCT survivorship program if implemented through the CIBMTR/NMDP., 12 months
OUTLINE:

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive immediate access to the INSPIRE online program and personalized survivorship care plan.

GROUP II: Patients receive an online program linking to existing online survivor resources and a personalized survivorship care plan. Patients receive access to the INSPIRE online program after 12 months.