Recombinant Anti-tumor and Anti-virus Protein for Injection in Treatment of Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of recombinant anti-tumor and anti-virus protein for injection in treating patients with metastatic colorectal cancer after failure of second-line and more than second-line treatment.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Recombinant anti-tumor and anti-virus protein for injection|DRUG: Recombinant anti-tumor and anti-virus protein for injection|OTHER: Saline Injection|DRUG: Recombinant anti-tumor and anti-virus protein for injection
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the length of time from random assignment to death or to last contact., every 8 weeks until death, the average OS is thought to be 4.5~6 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the length of time from random assignment to disease progression or to death resulting from any cause other than the progress., every 6 weeks until disease progress, the estimate averge time is 2~3 months|Quality of life (QoL), Quality of life is assessed using EORTC-C30 (the Quality of Life Questionnaire of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer.), every 2 weeks in first 4 weeks and every 4 weeks after 4 weeks, it will last to the treatment end.|Adverse Events(AEs), AEs are evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v3.0., from informed consent form signed to 28 days after termination of administration.|pharmacodynamics, As the drug concentration is very low, and no commercialized kits for original drug test, So original drug will not detect. Mopterin and MxA protein (alternate index) levels in serum will be used as alternative targets for pharmacodynamic studies, The first 2 weeks during 10ug dosage were given and the following 11weeks during 20ug dosage were given|Disease Control Rate, The disease control rate is defined as the percentage of subjects having achieved confirmed Complete Response + Partial Response + Stable Disease as best overall response according to radiological assessments (based on modified WHO criteria), every 6 weeks until disease progression
Explanation for study design

The trial including two stages. The first is an exploration stage to decide delivery frequency and dose of study drug. It is single-blinded, subjects will be randomly divided into 4 groups with a 2:2:2:1 ratio. Study drug given twice per week or 3 times per, dose of the drug are from 20μg to 40μg. The sample size is 105, duration is 12 to 18 months. Based on preliminary efficacy and safety, the better dosage regimen will decided for the second stage.The second stage is double-blinded,subject will be randomly divided into treatment group or placebo group with 2:1 ratio and sample size is 600.

Primary purpose

To compare overall survival between study drug and placebo groups .

Secondary purpose

1. Progression free survival were compared in both groups.
2. Disease control rate were compared in both groups.
3. Quality of life scores were compared in both groups.
4. Determine the safety and tolerance of recombinant anti-tumor and anti-virus protein for injection
5. Supplementary pharmacodynamics of recombinant anti-tumor and anti-virus protein for injection

Exploratory purpose Evaluate effects of recombinant anti-tumor and anti-virus protein for injection on the anti-tumor immunity, angiogenesis, apoptosis, cell proliferation, immune cells and cytokines levels.