Trial of PI-88 With Dacarbazine in Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
The aim of the study is to compare the safety and effectiveness of a new drug called PI-88, when used in combination with an approved chemotherapy drug called dacarbazine, in the treatment of metastatic melanoma.

PI-88 blocks new blood vessel growth in tumours (starves it of nutrients) and dacarbazine stops the cancer cells from growing. The results from this study will be analysed to see if it is worthwhile for the two drugs to be tested in future studies involving larger numbers of melanoma patients.
Melanoma
DRUG: PI-88 and dacarbazine|DRUG: dacarbazine or DTIC
Non-progression Rate After Six Cycles, The Proportion of Patients With Objective Response or Stable Disease (Non-progression Rate) after six treatment cycles, In week 3 of every second cycle (each cycle was 21 days) for all subjects enrolled, up to the end of cycle 6 (About 5 months after randomization)
Non-progression Rate, The Proportion of Patients With Objective Response or Stable Disease (Non-progression Rate) after 2 or 4 treatment cycles, In week 3 of every second cycle (each cycle was 21 days) for all subjects enrolled in cycle 2 and cycle 4.|Time to Progression, treatment was to continue until the subject experienced disease progression., At screening and in week 3 of every second cycle up to the end of cycle 6 and every third cycle after cycle 6 . Each cycle was 21 days.Assessed from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression, up to 50 months.|Duration of Response, time from commencement to radiological evidence of progression, At screening and in week 3 of every second cycle up to the end of cycle 6 and every third cycle after cycle 6. Each cycle was 21 days. Assessed from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression, up to 50 months.|Survival, time to death and also at time-points 6 month and 12 months, It was to assess time to death. The time frame is at least 6th month, 12th month and data was continuously collected till the end of the study, up to 50 months..
Metastatic melanoma is a difficult-to-treat cancer for which available treatment options are limited and minimally effective. Dacarbazine is currently one of the standard chemotherapy drugs used for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. However, it is associated with low response rates (10-20%) and median survival of less than 12 months (6-11 months in most studies). PI-88 is an antiangiogenic and antimetastatic drug that has already shown some evidence of efficacy when used alone in an intermittent dosage regimen (4 consecutive days per week) in the treatment of patients with advanced melanoma. The FDA has designated PI-88 as an Orphan Drug for this indication, as well as for Stage III and high-risk stage II disease. The aim of this randomised pilot phase II trial is to determine whether PI-88 in combination with a standard regimen of dacarbazine (1000 mg/m2 every 3 weeks) should be considered for further investigation in a larger-scale trial.