Anal Dilatation Plus Probiotics Before Ileostomy Reduction for Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
This is randomized, phase 2 trial in patients with rectal cancer undergoing sphincter-preserving proctectomy and temporary ileostomy, to explore the effects of anal dilatation plus probiotics administered per anus before ileostomy reduction in relieving postoperative bowel dysfunction known as low anterior resection syndrome (LARS).
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
OTHER: Anal dilatation per anus|DRUG: administration of probiotics (Clostridium butyricum TO-A; Bacillus mesentericus TO-A; Streptococcus faecalisT-110) per anus
Major LARS at 1 years after proctectomy, Proportion of patients with Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) score ≥30. LARS score is a tool consisting of five items, which are as follows: incontinence due to flatus (score range from 0 to 7), incontinence due to liquid stools (score range from 0 to 3), frequency of bowel movements (score range from 0 to 5), clustering (score range from 0 to 11) and urgency (score range from 0 to 16). The severity of each item is calculated on a scale ranging from 0 to 42, with a score of 0-20 (no LARS), 21-29 (minor LARS) and 30-42 (major LARS)., At 1 years after proctectomy
LARS score at 1 years after proctectomy, Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) score is a tool consisting of five items, which are as follows: incontinence due to flatus (score range from 0 to 7), incontinence due to liquid stools (score range from 0 to 3), frequency of bowel movements (score range from 0 to 5), clustering (score range from 0 to 11) and urgency (score range from 0 to 16). The severity of each item is calculated on a scale ranging from 0 to 42, with a score of 0-20 (no LARS), 21-29 (minor LARS) and 30-42 (major LARS)., At 1 years after proctectomy|Quality of life assessed using the EORTC Quality of Life questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 at 1 years after proctectomy, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) developed and validated a 30-item core questionnaire (QLQ-C30) reflecting global QoL in cancer patients. QLQ-C30 comprises five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health scale/ a quality of life scale, and six single items. All the scales and single item measures range in score from 0-100. A high score represents a higher level of functioning, a high quality of life, and a greater degree of symptoms., At 1 years after proctectomy|Quality of life assessed using the EORTC Quality of Life questionnaire (QLQ)-CR29 at 1 years after proctectomy, QLQ-CR29 is developed by The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). It is a validated supplement to the QLQ-C30 specifically designed for assessment of quality of life in colorectal cancer patients. QLQ-CR29 consists of four functional scales and eighteen single items. All the scales range from 0-100. A high score represents a higher level of functioning and a greater degree of symptoms., At 1 years after proctectomy|MSKCC BFI Score at 1 years after proctectomy, The Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Centre Bowel Function Instrument (MSKCC BFI) score is a validated questionnaire for evaluation of bowel function after sphincter-preserving surgery. It comprises 18 items covering the frequency of various LARS symptoms and is divided into three sub-scales and four single items. It is scored on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from "always" to "never". The sub-scales scores are summarised as: A 6-item frequency sub-scale (6-30), a four-item dietary sub-scale (4-20), and a four-item urgency sub-scale (4-20). A global score can be calculated as the sum of the sub-scale scores. A total score (possible score range 18-90) can be calculated by adding all the item scores (sub-scale scores plus single item scores). A higher score indicates better bowel function., At 1 years after proctectomy|Presence of stoma at 1 years after proctectomy, Proportion of patients with a stoma due to failure to reduce, or a second stoma after ileostomy reduction is assessed by a professional doctor or nurse at 2 years after proctectomy., At 1 years after proctectomy|Anastomotic complications within 1 years after proctectomy, Anastomotic complications is assessed by a professional doctor using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) classification., Within 1 years after proctectomy|Time for major LARS (≥30) returning to minor or no LARS (<30) after proctectomy, LARS score is assessed every 6 months after proctectomy, and the time for major LARS (≥30) returning to minor or no LARS (\<30) is recorded. Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) score is a tool consisting of five items, which are as follows: incontinence due to flatus (score range from 0 to 7), incontinence due to liquid stools (score range from 0 to 3), frequency of bowel movements (score range from 0 to 5), clustering (score range from 0 to 11) and urgency (score range from 0 to 16). The severity of each item is calculated on a scale ranging from 0 to 42, with a score of 0-20 (no LARS), 21-29 (minor LARS) and 30-42 (major LARS)., Within 1 years after proctectomy|Other complications within 1 years after proctectomy, Other complications is assessed by a professional doctor using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) classification., Within 1 years after proctectomy
Approximately 60-90% of patients undergoing sphincter-sparing proctectomy complain of postoperative bowel dysfunction including incontinence, frequency, clustering, and urgency, collectively known as low anterior resection syndrome (LARS). Literatures and our previous data have demonstrated that diverting ileostomy is an independent risk factor for major LARS. This is a randomized, phase 2 trial in patients with rectal cancer who underwent sphincter-preserving proctectomy and ileostomy. This study will explore the effects of anal dilatation plus probiotics administered per anus in relieving the symptoms of LARS.