Zactima With Temodar During Radiation Treatment for Newly Diagnosed Stage IV Brain Tumors
Phase I:

The purpose of this research study is to determine the safety of the combination treatment of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) with the standard therapy for glioblastomas and gliosarcomas, temozolomide (Temodar) and radiation therapy. This agent is investigational for the treatment of glioblastomas. We will determine the highest dose of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) that can be given safely when combined with temozolomide (Temodar) and radiation therapy.

Phase II:

The purpose of this research study is to determine the efficacy of the combination treatment of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) with the standard therapy for glioblastomas and gliosarcomas, temozolomide (Temodar) and radiation therapy. This agent is investigational for the treatment of glioblastomas.

All subjects participating in this research study must NOT be taking a certain type of anti-seizure medication called enzyme inducing anticonvulsant drugs. These drugs include (but are not limited to) the following medications: Dilantin, Tegretol, Phenobarbital and trileptal.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Gliosarcoma
DRUG: ZD6474|DRUG: temozolomide|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Number of Participants That Experienced a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), The primary outcome of Phase I of this trial was to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) in patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastomas multiforme (GBM) and gliosarcomas who are also receiving radiation therapy with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide. The MTD is the dose level at which 0/6 or 1/6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) with the next higher dose having at least 2/3 or 2/6 patients encountering DLT., 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS) of Phase II Patients, The primary outcome of Phase II of this trial was to determine the efficacy of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) in combination with radiation therapy and concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide in patients with newly-diagnosed GBM and gliosarcomas as measured by overall survival and median survival., 3 years
Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), as Calculated by the # of Months Patients Remain Progression-free, A secondary outcome of Phase II of this trial is the median progression-free survival (PFS), as calculated by the # of months patients remain progression-free, 3 years|PHASE II: Percentage of Grade 3-5 Treatment-Related Adverse Events, The percentage of adverse events (based on CTCAEv3) reported on study (via case report forms and Reportable AE submissions) that are both high-grade (grade 3, 4, or 5) and considered at least possibly related to study treatment., Adverse events experienced by participants are collected and reported throughout treatment with study drug (from initiation of study treatment until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment), maximum timeframe was 6 years.|PHASE I: Percentage of Grade 3-5 Treatment-Related Adverse Events, The percentage of adverse events (based on CTCAEv3) reported on study (via case report forms and Reportable AE submissions) that are both high-grade (grade 3, 4, or 5) and considered at least possibly related to study treatment., Adverse events experienced by participants are collected and reported throughout treatment with study drug (from initiation of study treatment until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment), maximum timeframe was 7 years.
Currently the standard treatment for glioblastomas and gliosarcomas is temozolomide (Temodar) and radiation therapy. This study is being done because research has shown that glioblastomas have genetic changes that may cause an excess of certain cell growth factors and their receptors, which can cause uncontrolled tumor growth. The drug being used in this research study, ZD6474 (Vandetanib), is designed to block the receptors to two of these growth factors, the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and the epidermal growth factor (EGF). These growth factors are important in pathways that promote tumor growth and increasing blood supply to the tumor. Blocking these receptors may reduce the blood supply to the tumor and help slow down tumor growth. There is also laboratory evidence that blocking these receptors may increase the sensitivity of glioblastomas to radiation therapy.

This research study is a Phase I/II clinical trial.

Phase I clinical trials test the safety of an investigational drug. Phase I studies also try to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. We will determine the highest dose of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) that can be given safely when combined with temozolomide (Temodar) and radiation therapy.

The purpose of Phase II of this research study is to determine the efficacy of the combination treatment of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) with the standard therapy for glioblastomas and gliosarcomas, temozolomide (Temodar) and radiation therapy. It will look to see how patients fare on treatment (if they progress and when, how they are doing after 12 months of treatment). In this research study, the safety of the combination treatment of ZD6474 (Vandetanib) with the standard therapy for glioblastomas and gliosarcomas, temozolomide (Temodar) and radiation therapy will be further evaluated. We will also be looking at samples to see if there are correlations between them and how well patients do on treatment.

This agent is investigational for the treatment of glioblastomas. "Investigational" means that the drug is still being studied and that research doctors are trying to find out more about it. It also means that the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved ZD6474 (Vandetanib) for use for your type of cancer. All subjects participating in this research study must NOT be taking a certain type of anti-seizure medication called enzyme inducing anticonvulsant drugs. These drugs include the following medications: Dilantin, Tegretol, Phenobarbital and trileptal.