Daylight-mediated Photodynamic Therapy of Actinic Keratoses:Comparing 0.2%HAL With 16%MAL
This pilot study compares two photosensitizers, hexylaminolaevulinate (HAL) and methylaminolaevulinate (MAL), in treatment of actinic keratoses. Study is conducted using randomized split-face design. Efficacy is assessed clinically, and histologically at 3 and 12 months. Pain during and after treatments and adverse reactions at one week are recorded.
Actinic Keratoses
DRUG: Hexylaminolaevulinate cream|DRUG: Methylaminolaevulinate cream
Histological Lesion Clearance, Punch biopsies were taken symmetrically on both treatment fields from equally graded \>6 mm AKs prior to treatment and again at 3 months, blinded observer (pathologist). HE- and p53-stainings. Samples not fulfilling the criteria of an AK were defined as healthy or completely cleared. The p53 reactivity expressed as average percentage of positive nuclei in three consecutive high power fields from the region of highest reactivity (\<10 % normal), Baseline, 3 months
Clinical Lesion Clearance, Clinical lesion clearance is observed by a blinded observer, Baseline, 3 months|Adverse Reactions, Adverse reactions are evaluated by blinded observer at one week after treatment. Severity of the reaction ( Redness, crusting and scaling) is assessed using grading: minimal, mild, intermediate, severe., One week|Pain Assesment (Visual Analog Scale), Pain using visual analog scale (VAS 0-10, where 0 is no pain and 10 is the worst pain imaginable) on both treatment sides is assessed in every 30 minutes during 2-hour sun-exposure and afterwards once in two hours until 9 p.m. (treatment day). Of these values, the mean maximal pain is assessed., 12 hours
Clearance of Field Cancerization in Hyperspectral Images, Data not collected, 3 months
Study recruites 16-20 voluuntering patients with symmetrical actinic damage on face or scalp. Treatment sites are randomized to receive either hexylaminolaevulinate 0.2% or methylaminolaevulinate ( 16% MAL) as photosensitizers (0.25mm-thick layer). A web-based validated program (Research Randomizer) generated a randomized list to define the treatment sides. The randomization results were kept blinded from the investigators who conducted the follow-up visits, from the pathologist, and the patients. Pre-treatment procedures include application of sunscreen for 15 minutes and curettage of the treatment area. Illumination is performed using 2 hours daylight-exposure. Efficacy is assessed clinically, and histologically at 3 and 12 months by blinded observers. Pain during and after treatments and adverse reactions at one week are recorded.