Adrenal Project: Clinical and Epidemiological Characterization of Adrenocortical Carcinoma in a Brazilian Cohort
This is a retrospective observational cohort study. The clinical, pathological and treatment data of participants identified with adrenocortical carcinoma from the year 2000 onwards will be evaluated. Participants recruited for this study will be identified at the participating sites.
Carcinoma Adrenal|Carcinoma, Adrenocortical Recurrent
Demographic Characterization of Adrenocortical Carcinoma in Brazil, This measure aims to capture essential demographic attributes of individuals in Brazil diagnosed with adrenocortical carcinoma. It will include details such as age distribution in years, gender representation, geographic distribution, height in meters, weight in kilograms, as well as racial and ethnic demographics . These insights will contribute to a comprehensive understanding of the demographic landscape of adrenocortical carcinoma within the Brazilian population., Throughout the study period, an average of 18 months.|Clinical Characterization of Adrenocortical Carcinoma in Brazil, This measure aims to capture essential clinical attributes of individuals in Brazil diagnosed with adrenocortical carcinoma. It will include relevant clinical factors such as tumor stage, hormone secretion status, and treatment modalities. These insights will contribute to a comprehensive understanding of the clinical landscape of adrenocortical carcinoma within the Brazilian population., Throughout the study period, an average of 18 months.
Adrenocortical carcinoma is one of the rarest neoplasms in the world. In Brazil, especially in the South and Southeast regions, the incidence of adrenocortical tumors is around 15 times higher than in the rest of the world, largely attributed to the significant prevalence of the TP53-R337H germline mutation in this population. In view of this characteristic, the clinical and epidemiological characterization of this cohort, as well as the identification of prognostic factors, is of great importance. The starting point for this project was the cohort of 66 participants with adrenal carcinoma included in the final project of the medical residency in clinical oncology at the A.C. Camargo Cancer Center by student Rafael Haikal dos Santos Abduch. The aim is to include case studies from the main Brazilian site that have followed up and treated patients with adrenal carcinoma.