Study of Web-based Decision Aids for Increasing Breast Cancer Chemoprevention in the Primary Care Setting
The purpose of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to evaluate a decision support website (RealRisks) designed to inform patients about breast cancer prevention options. It is coupled with a physician-centered (BNAV) decision support website as part of clinical workflow in the primary care setting. The investigators hypothesize that improving accuracy of breast cancer risk perception and understanding of the risks and benefits of breast cancer risk lowering drugs, also known as chemoprevention, will increase the uptake of chemoprevention in the primary care setting.
Breast Neoplasm
OTHER: RealRisks|OTHER: BNAV
Chemoprevention uptake rate among high-risk women, The primary endpoint is to determine the uptake rate of a SERM or AI medication for breast cancer chemoprevention at 6 months (after the next primary care visit) in the active arm compared to usual care (control arm). Electronic health records will be used to track chemoprevention uptake after exposure to the intervention, the RealRisks decision aid, or the control, standard standard breast health education brochures., 6 months (after the next primary care visit)
Chemoprevention intention rate among high-risk women (Likert Scale Score), Behavioral intention for chemoprevention will be assessed one month after baseline among those in the active arm compared to patients receiving usual care (control arm)., 1 month|High-risk referral rates to the breast clinic, To study appropriate referral rate to the breast clinic by primary care providers of high-risk patients in the active arm compared to patients receiving usual care (control arm)., 6 months (after the next primary care visit)|Completion of high-risk consultations at the breast clinic, To study appointment completion rate at the breast clinic by high-risk patients in the active arm compared to patients receiving usual care (control arm)., 6 months (after the next primary care visit)
Change in the accuracy of risk perception (Likert Scale Score), To measure the patient's accuracy of perceived breast cancer risk before and after exposure to the RealRisks decision aid compared to those patients in the control group receiving usual care. Perception will be assessed by comparing the difference between a patient's perceived risk and their actual risk based on the Gail breast cancer model. Patients are asked to make a comparative risk assessment about themselves on a 3-point Likert scale., 6 months|Change in a patient's breast cancer knowledge (Survey Score), To assess patient's breast cancer knowledge before and after exposure to the RealRisks decision aid compared to those patients in the control arm by comparing the difference between a patient's responses to a 13-item scale assessing knowledge with response options of true, false, or unsure., 6 months
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women in the U.S. and the primary prevention of this disease is a major public health issue. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force and other professional organizations recommend that clinicians discuss chemoprevention with high-risk women. Breast cancer chemoprevention with anti-estrogens, such as tamoxifen, raloxifene, exemestane, and anastrozole, is under-utilized, despite several randomized controlled trials demonstrating a 40-65% decrease in breast cancer incidence among high-risk women. Compounding this underutilization is the fact that a large proportion of women may be unaware of their high-risk status due to the investigators' inability to adequately screen them in the primary care setting. Further research is needed to determine how knowledge about breast cancer, actual/perceived risk, and risks/benefits of chemoprevention are best communicated to women in order to promote breast cancer prevention strategies.

The investigators hypothesize that combining a patient-centered decision aid with a physician-centered decision support tool integrated into clinic workflow will improve accuracy of breast cancer risk perception, facilitate referrals for specialized risk counseling, and increase chemoprevention uptake. We anticipate that the BNAV tool will facilitate referrals to the breast clinic by primary care providers (PCPs) and that the RealRisks decision aid will prime high-risk women to seek these referrals. The primary endpoint is uptake of a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) or Aromatase inhibitor (AI) for breast cancer chemoprevention at 6 months (after the next primary care appointment) in the active arm compared to usual care.