Screening Strategies for People With a High Risk of Anal Cancer
The goal of the proposed research is to 1) examine the performance of emerging screening methods for anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (aHSIL), a precancerous condition of anal cancer, among minorities with a high risk of anal cancer and 2) characterize DNA methylation, immunologic response, and social determinants associated with aHSIL.
Neoplasms|HPV-Related Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: HRA + Biopsy|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Anal Cytology|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Genotyping of anal hrHPV infection|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CINtec®PLUS
Specificity and Sensitivity of screening markers, Sensitivity and specificity will be calculated for each of the proposed screening markers separately and a combination of two and three markers for the detection of aHSIL at baseline. The combination of the two and three markers of primary interest includes CINtec®PLUS +hrHPV, CINtec®PLUS+anal cytology, hrHPV+anal cytology, and CINtec®PLUS+hrHPV+anal cytology. The analysis will be performed for the four high-risk groups together and stratified by the four high-risk categories., Baseline
DNA methylation markers, In these models, aHSIL status at baseline will be considered as the response, and each anal DNA methylation marker will be the predictor. Separate models will be performed for each methylation marker (ZNF582, ASCL1, ZIC1, SST, LHX8, WDR17, and ST6GALNAC5), Baseline, 1 year, 2 years|Anal immune modulations, High-risk HPV 16 persistent patients (N=10) vs. patients with no HPV at least two consecutive times (N=10). Each of the groups will also include aHSIL+ (N=5) vs. \<aLSIL (N=5)., Baseline, 1 year, 2 years|aHSIL prevalence, The prevalence of HSIL will be estimated as the proportion of participants who are HRA positive for HSIL at entry and its 95% confidence interval. Logistic regression analysis will be used to evaluate the association of potential risk factors with diagnosis of HSIL., Baseline|aHSIL clearance, Only people treated with aHSIL will be used for the clearance analysis. Clearance (HRA biopsy-proven) will be defined as no detectable aHSIL at the immediate one-year (for those with baseline aHSIL) or two-year (for those with newly diagnosed aHSIL cases at the one-year visit) follow-up visit after aHSIL treatment., 1 year, 2 years|Inflammatory Markers (Il-1RA, IL1β, IL6, IL6sr, TNF-α, and IL-10), Anal swab concentrations of inflammatory markers (IL1ra, IL1β, IL6, IL6sr, TNF-α, and IL-10) will be determined using multiplex assays (Meso Scale Discovery, Rockville, MD) according to the manufacturer's protocol. All samples will be run in duplicates, and mean intra- and inter-assay CVs will be calculated and expected to be \<10%. These inflammatory markers have been reliably found to be elevated in inflammatory-associated diseases including anal inflammation., Baseline, 1 year, 2 years|Inflammatory Markers (sTNFR2 and interferon (IFN)-γ), Anal swab concentrations of inflammatory markers of inflammatory markers (sTNFR2 and interferon (IFN)-γ) will be determined using multiplex assays (Meso Scale Discovery, Rockville, MD) according to the manufacturer's protocol., Baseline, 1 year, 2 years|Inflammatory Marker (CRP), Anal swab concentrations of inflammatory markers (CRP) will be determined using multiplex assays (Meso Scale Discovery, Rockville, MD) according to the manufacturer's protocol. All samples will be run in duplicates, and mean intra- and inter-assay CVs will be calculated and expected to be \<10%., Baseline, 1 year, 2 years
Anal cancer, caused by persistent infection with high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV), is typically preceded by anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (aHSIL). The incidence and mortality of advanced anal cancer has been increasing in the U.S., with the greatest burden of disease and mortality in individuals living with HIV. The study is important because the incidence of anal cancer is particularly high among certain groups; health disparity further contributes to this high risk among minorities. Findings will provide much-needed evidence for anal cancer screening strategies to reduce health disparities, improve screening outcomes, and decrease the incidence of anal cancer among high-risk minorities. The study population includes Black or Latinx, males - men having sex with men (MSM) only - and females with a known history of high-grade lower genital tract neoplasia.

The study procedures include filling out self-reported questionnaires and collecting biosamples for study-related assays. HRA is part of the standard clinic procedure for this group of participants.

Collected biosamples will be banked for future research use. In-person or remote signed consent may occur for the study.