Decitabine and Vorinostat Conditioning Followed by CD3-/CD19- NK Cells Infusion for High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This is a Phase II therapeutic trial combining Decitabine days 1-5 with oral Vorinostat twice daily days 6-15 followed by a single infusion of CD3-/CD19- enriched donor natural killer (NK) cells on day 17 and a short course of Interleukin-2 (IL-2) to facilitate NK cell survival and expansion. Two courses of treatment will be given separated by 6-8 weeks. The intent is to administer all treatment in the outpatient setting.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Vorinostat|BIOLOGICAL: Interleukin-2|OTHER: Natural killer (NK) cells
The Number of Patients Who Achieved a Clinical Response, Clinical response includes: Complete Response (less than 5% myeloblasts present in the bone marrow and in the peripheral blood a hemoglobin of at least 11g/dl, platelets of at least 100 X 10E9/L, neutrophils of at least 1.0 X 10E9/L, and blasts 0%); Partial Response (all Complete Response criteria if previously abnormal except bone marrow myeloblasts are decreased by more than 50% over pre-treatment, but still greater than 5%); and hematologic improvement (a hemoglobin increase of greater than 1.5g/dl or decreased red blood cell transfusions by at least 4 per 8 week period, a platelet increase of more than 30 X 10E9/L for patients with a baseline of more than 20 X 10E9/L or an increase by 100% for those with a baseline of less than 20 X 10E9/L, and a neutrophil increase of at least 100% and an absolute increase of greater than 0.5 X 10E9/L., After 2 Courses of Treatment (Approx. 3 months)
Number of Patients Who Experienced Grade 3 or Higher Non-hematologic Adverse Events, Adverse events (AEs) will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0 (CTCAE). Non-hematologic adverse events are defined as untoward medical occurrences associated with the use of a study drug whether or not considered study drug related, excluding those events involving white blood cells, neutrophils, red blood cells or platelets. In general, grade 3 AEs are defined as 1) being severe or medically significant but,not immediately life-threatening; 2) requiring hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization; 3) disabling; or 4) limiting self care activities. Grade 4 AEs are defined as 1) having life-threatening consequences; or 2) requiring urgent intervention. Grade 5 AEs are defined as causing death related to an adverse event., Day 1 through Month 3|Number of Patients Who Became Transfusion Independent, 4-6 Months Post Start of Cycle 1|Number of Patients Who Had Natural Killer (NK) Cell Expansion, NK cell expansion is defined as the presence of donor NK cells in the recipient at Day 8 post NK cell infusion., After Cycle 2 (approx. 3 months)|Overall Survival, Patients alive at 1 year., 1 Year
A single donor apheresis will be collected on day 15 of cycle 1, enriched for NK cells with the large scale CliniMacs device (Miltenyi) and activated by overnight incubation with IL-2. After washing, the final NK cell product will be divided in two, with half given fresh on day 17 of course #1 and half stored frozen until day 17 of course #2.

Clinical response will be formally assessed 4-6 weeks after the start of 2nd course based on International Working Group (IWG) criteria; however, bone marrow evaluations will be completed to assess for any sign of significant disease progression between cycle 1 and 2.