Dendritic Cells (White Blood Cells) Vaccination for Advanced Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to investigate a method of using dendritic cells (a kind of white blood cell) as a vaccine to stimulate your own immune system to react to your melanoma cells.
Melanoma
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Mature dendritic cell vaccine
Immunological response based on measuring increased numbers of peptide specific CD8+ T cells as calculated by the tetramer assay., * Starting on Day 0, two tubes will be drawn weekly until Day 64. Thereafter, two tubes will be drawn every 21 days until Day 190. For patients receiving maintenance treatment, blood is drawn every month.
* Data are presented as the percentage of CD8+ T cells positive for tetramer binding based on gating variables set using the iMASC reagent kit (Beckman Coulter)., Through completion of treatment|Safety and tolerability of the mature dendritic cell vaccine as measured by adverse events, The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 will be utilized for all toxicity reporting., 30 days after end of treatment
Time to progression, Through completion of treatment or until progressive disease|Regulatory T cell depletion after cyclophosphamide administration., Regulatory T cells (Treg) are defined as CD4+CD25+foxP3+ (triple positive) cells. At the indicated time points, the percentage of Treg cells is determined by 3 color flow cytometry. The depletion of Treg is defined as follows \[Treg baseline - Treg nadir/ Treg baseline x 100= % depletion\]., Day -3 (72 hours prior to vaccine dose 1)|Safety and side effect profile of mDC administered to patients given after a single dose of cyclophosphamide., Day 0 (prior to vaccine dose 1)|Clinical response rate using RECIST criteria, After third vaccine, sixth vaccine, and then every 8 weeks
Eligible patients that provide written informed consent will undergo apheresis to collect blood mononuclear cells for vaccine production. All patients will be given cyclophosphamide 300mg/m2 IV three days prior to vaccine dose #1 in order to deplete regulatory T cells. All patients will receive mature DC for each dose of vaccine. For each dose all patients will receive autologous dendritic cells pulsed with 2 gp100 melanoma peptides (G209-2M and G280-9V) plus up to an additional 10 unique melanoma tumor-specific peptides. All patients will receive booster doses with mature DC. The DC vaccine will be given intravenously every three weeks for a total of six vaccine doses. Peripheral blood (16 ml) will be taken weekly to monitor the immune response to each peptide by tetramer assay. Apheresis is repeated after vaccine dose #3 and dose #6 in order to collect PBMC for immune monitoring. Restaging is performed after three and six vaccine doses. Patients with stable disease or better (partial response/complete response) after six doses will be eligible to receive additional vaccinations as maintenance therapy every 2 months until progression.