Methadone as an Alternative Treatment for Children Underdoing HSCT
Mucositis is a normal side effect of stem cell transplant which happens as a result of chemotherapy being given prior to a new donor cell infusion (bone marrow transplant). The chemotherapy will kill cancer cells, but good cells, such as those in the mouth, are killed too. The mouth cells going away causes the areas in the mouth to be blistered, irritated, sore, and extremely painful. Pain medication (usually morphine or hydromorphone if allergic to morphine) are given when oral blisters are seen or felt by patient in patient's mouth. However, one pain medication given through a vein in the patient may or may not be effective and providers are often challenged with providing good pain control while waiting for the new donor cells to grow, which will then heal the mouth. This is a period of waiting that is 6-8 weeks.

The investigators know that methadone, a second pain medication, may decrease pain in a different way than morphine. This is because methadone works in a different way in the brain than morphine. By giving these pain medicines together, the hope of the study is to show decreased pain while waiting for new cells to grow.

The goal of this clinical trial is to hope to learn whether adding methadone (second pain medication) to the current pain medication which is morphine alone (all patients will receive this pain medication) will help reduce the pain experience of participant. Current treatment of morphine alone is sometimes not entirely effective and so any improvement of pain while waiting for new cells to grow is one of the goals of this study. If methadone is effective in decreasing pain, then patients may benefit in the future from using these two medications up front when getting a transplant.

Participant in this study between 6-18 years of age and is needing a stem cell transplant for a disease that can potentially be cured by transplantation.

Participant in this study is receiving chemotherapy and/or radiation conditioning that can cause mucositis. Participants are being asked to participate in this study because participants meet criteria to receive methadone that may or may not reduce pain experience versus just being given morphine alone, which is what all patients are given when the participants have mucositis.

The main goal of the study is to see if less opioid (pain medication) when methadone is added in comparison to participant who uses PCA only. The investigators also want to learn if patient's overall function is improved if given methadone. Another goal would be to see the number of TPN days the participant received and if the participant who was given methadone began to eat sooner. Other smaller goals include learning about side effects of methadone, and if the hospital stay is less for those who receive the study medication.

This medication will be given at Children's Medical Center of Dallas while participant is admitted for the stem cell transplant. There is no sponsor that is funding the study and this drug will be given free of charge in exchange for participation in the study
Leukemia|Aplastic Anemia|Bone Marrow Failure Syndromes|SCID
DRUG: PCA plus methadone (Experimental)|DRUG: PCA Alone (SOC)
Reduction of pain score, The purpose of the study is to compare methadone versus standard of care at this center of morphine/hydromorphone PCA and see if methadone is superior to the standard of care as evidenced by reduction in pain scores during inpatient transplant.

To determine whether concomitant administration of intravenous administered methadone with on demand opioid PCA will improve pain score numbers in the PCA/methadone arm by 25% in comparison to a continuous infusion PCA with demand opioid arm., Daily after completion of conditioning (day +7 to day +14) through discharge (approximately day +60)
REDUCTION OF OPIOID RECEIVED as evidenced by 25% reduction of MME in experimental arm in comparison to control arm, To determine if methadone (starting dose of 0.1 mg/kg IV Q8hr) with increased titration will result in a reduction of 25% in total morphine milligram equivalents (MME) per day in children who have mucositis following ablative conditioning and subsequent allogeneic or autologous HSCT, Daily after completion of conditioning (day +7 to day +14) through discharge (approximately day +60)|IMPROVEMENT OF FUNCTIONALITY as evidenced by higher functionality scores in experimental arm in comparison to control, To determine how administration of methadone affects functionality during transplantation period, Day 0 (stem cell infusion)|REDUCED NUMBER OF DAYS ON PARENTERAL NUTRITION as evidenced by reduced number of TPN days in experimental arm in comparison to control, To determine if the overall TPN days are reduced during hospital stay in experimental arm as compared to the standard PCA regimen, From enrollment (initiation of TPN- typically on day +1) to engraftment day AND date when able to take solid food again (day just prior to discharge-approx. day+50 to day+60)|INCREASED RETURN TO ORAL LIQUID INTAKE as evidenced by more rapid return to tolerating clears in experimental group versus control, To determine if child resumes oral intake more rapidly compared to control arm, From enrollment (initiation of TPN- typically on day +1) to engraftment day AND date when able to take solid food again (day just prior to discharge-approx. day+50 to day+60)|Adverse events, To describe adverse events and incidence associated with methadone when administered in combination with morphine or hydromorphone, specifically QTc prolongation that has been documented with study medication, From first dose of methadone administered (day +1- day +7) until prior to discharge (approximately day +60)
Given high reports of pain while despite receiving PCA during transplant, our current management of mucositis induced pain is suboptimal. In a study of children receiving transplantation, pain was a main concern for this cohort during and after transplantation. The investigators propose to conduct this study to determine if methadone used as a primary analgesic in patients with mucositis can improve the current standard of care which will be demonstrated by improved pain scores, maintenance of functionality, and recovery during and following HSCT. This study will be a single blind randomized controlled design. Patients will be randomly assigned by permuted block randomization in groups of eight. Patient will be randomly assigned to receive either basal/PCA of one opioid (control) in the first arm OR PCA plus methadone where methadone will be used as basal long-acting medication (experimental).

Study subjects will be children who are undergoing an autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplant receiving a myeloablative regimen and meet all inclusion criteria. This unique population is being studied as it is a controlled setting where the PI can anticipate pain in \>90% of the patients following ablation, the number of patients who experience mucositis after receiving ablative conditioning. The study will only be conducted in the inpatient stem cell transplant setting and no follow up should be necessary when these subjects are discharged from the hospital after transplant.

The following goals of the study are as follows:

1. Will the concomitant administration of intravenous administered methadone with on demand opioid PCA improve pain score numbers in the PCA/methadone arm (experimental) in comparison to a continuous infusion PCA with demand opioid arm (control, standard of care)?
2. Will the administration of methadone with increased individualized titration result in a reduction of 25% in total morphine milligram equivalents (MME) in experimental versus control arm?
3. Will the methadone experimental arm increase functionality during transplantation period?
4. Will those receiving methadone have reduced TPN days during hospital stay as compared to control arm?
5. Will the child resumes oral intake more rapidly compared to control arm?
6. The investigators also want to describe adverse events and incidence associated with methadone when administered in combination with morphine or hydromorphone, specifically QTc prolongation that has been documented with study medication.