Safety and Efficacy of Anti-CD47, ALX148 in Combination with Liposomal Doxorubicin and Pembrolizumab in Recurrent Platinum-resistant Ovarian Cancer
Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors, including pembrolizumab, have emerged as a promising option in several solid cancers with durable effect and low toxicity profile. However, the benefit is limited to smaller subset of solid tumors. This trial involves the enhancement of current immune checkpoint-based immunotherapy with ALX148, an agent that inhibits CD47 (a trans-membrane protein that is highly expressed on the surface of many solid tumors as compared to normal cells).
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: ALX148|DRUG: Doxorubicin
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of patients having either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), per RECIST 1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. For non-target lesions, CR is the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 3 years (cohort)
Overall Survival (OS), The number of months from the date of study enrollment until date of death ( from any cause) or last known date of follow up if otherwise lost to follow up., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), The number of months from the date of study enrollment to the date of an event of disease progression (per RECIST 1.1) or to the date of death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) as defined by RECIST v1.1 for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For non-target lesions: Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 5 years|Objective response rate Immune-related Response Criteria (iRECIST), The proportion of patients with complete or partial response per iRECIST. irCR (Complete Response):Disappearance of non-nodal lesions. All pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm (2 consecutive measures ≥4 weeks apart); irPR (Partial Response):≥30% decrease from baseline (2 consecutive measures ≥4 weeks apart); All pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm (Non-Target Lesions: Any other than disappearance of all non-nodal lesions and reduction of pathologic lymph nodes \<10 mm). Baseline tumor burden: sum of single diameters (short axis for nodal lesions, longest diameter for other lesions) for target lesions. In subsequent scans, the diameters of new measurable lesions are added to the tumor burden. Re-treatment: ≤5 target lesions (=/≠ original lesions) are selected and a new baseline tumor burden will be established., Up to 3 years (cohort)|Duration of response (DOR), The number of months from the date of study enrollment to the date of disease progression or death in those participants who achieve complete or partial response per RECISIT 1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. For non-target lesions, CR is the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Progressive Disease (PD) for target lesions: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For non-target lesions: Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change not a single lesion increase., Up to 3 years (cohort); at 12 weeks (patient)
All patients on this study will receive Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin (PLD) as standard of care combined with pembrolizumab and ALX148 iv every 21 days. Treatment of 45 mg/kg Q3W ALX148 in combination with pembrolizumab + chemotherapy will continue until disease progression or unacceptable grade 3/4 toxicities. For patients with a complete response to therapy, maintenance therapy with pembrolizumab and ALX148 will be continued for 12 months. Patients will have up to 4 weeks of screening, and will be treated until disease progression, patient withdraws consent, unacceptable toxicity occurs, complete response or the study is terminated. Patients may continue treatment after radiographic progression if, in the judgment of the treating investigator the patient is deriving clinical benefit from study treatment by demonstrating an absence of clinical symptoms or signs indicating clinically significant disease progression; no decline in performance status; absence of rapid disease progression or threat to vital organs or critical anatomical sites. A follow-up visit will occur within between 28 days and 35 days after the last treatment.