A Phase 2 Study of Nab-sirolimus (ABI-009) in Patients With Advanced Malignant PEComa
A phase 2 multi-center investigation of efficacy of nab-sirolimus (formerly known as ABI-009 or nab-rapamycin) in patients with advanced malignant perivascular epithelioid cell tumor (PEComa).
Malignant PEComa
DRUG: nab-Sirolimus
Objective Overall Response Rate (ORR), Best ORR was assessed by Independent Radiology Review using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 Criteria. Best overall response was the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until the end of treatment taking into account the requirement for confirmation.

Per RECIST v1.1, best overall response assignment depended on the findings of both target and non-target disease and also took into consideration the appearance of new lesions. Overall response rate was defined as the percentage of patients who achieve a confirmed PR or CR per RECIST 1.1. At each timepoint, objective tumor response for target lesions were assessed as such: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions, and pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction \<10 mm; Partial Response (PR), ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., through study completion (up to 72 months)
Duration of Response, The time from the start of CR or PR to the first date of documented PD or death., From Initial response until tumor progression, through study completion (up to 72 months)|Progression-free Survival Rate at 6 Months, The time from the first dose date to the first observation of a disease progression or death due to any cause by 6 mo. Disease progression was assessed radiologically per RECIST v1.1, and was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, and absolute increase of ≥5 mm. PFS rate at 6 months was summarized using Kaplan-Meier methods (percentage rounded up to 1 digit decimal)., 6 months|Progression-free Survival (Median), The time from the first dose date to the first observation of a disease progression or death due to any cause., from start of treatment to first documented disease progression, through study completion (up to 72 months)|Overall Survival, Defined as teh time from first dose date to the date of death due to any cause, From start of treatment to date of death (of any cause), through study completion (up to 72 months)
This was a phase 2, single-arm, open-label, multi-center study to determine the efficacy and safety profile of nab-sirolimus in patients with advanced malignant PEComa. Patients were required to have measurable disease at baseline (per RECIST v1.1). Eligible patients received nab-sirolimus at 100 mg/m2 by IV infusion (over 30 minutes) weekly for 2 weeks followed by a week of rest (ie, on Day 1 and Day 8 in 21-day cycles). Patients remained on treatment until they experienced progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity, withdrew consent, or physician's decision. Patients who discontinued treatment entered the on-study Follow-up period for survival.

Computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were performed at screening, every 6 weeks for the first year, then every 12 weeks thereafter until the end of treatment. Throughout treatment with nab-sirolimus, patients were routinely assessed for toxicities, the need for dose modifications, and response assessments.

The sample size was targeted to be \~30 patients in order to provide a reasonably precise estimate of the true ORR. Assuming an observed ORR of 30% and a sample size of 30, the lower bound of the 95% confidence interval (CI) for the estimated ORR would exclude values less than 14.7%.

The primary analysis was predefined to be conducted when all patients have had the opportunity to be treated for at least 6 months. The study remained open for 3 additional years and the final analysis occured at study closure.