Pharmacokinetic Study of Tranexamic Acid
Tranexamic acid is an effective anti fibrinolytic drug. Clinical studies have found that intravenous injection of tranexamic acid is more effective in reducing blood loss and transfusion in patients with advanced ovarian cancer, without increasing the risk of postoperative complications. Different surgeries and administration routes have an impact on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of TXA. At present, there is little data on the pharmacokinetics of intramuscular injection of TXA, and almost all of the data comes from males. For ovarian cancer patients, there are currently no reports on the pharmacokinetics of TXA through different routes of administration, such as intramuscular and intravenous administration. Therefore, the investigators chose ovarian cancer patients and administered it through different routes of intravenous and intramuscular injection.
Ovarian Neoplasm Epithelial
BEHAVIORAL: Tranexamic acid Intravenous Infusion|BEHAVIORAL: TXA intramuscular injection
Elimination clearance rate (CL) of tranexamic acid, Patients were enrolled and screened during preoperative anaesthesia visit. The enrolled patients were randomly divided into IV TXA injection group and intramuscular TXA injection group. All blood samples were centrifuged and preserved for later testing,Nonlinear mixed-effects pharmacokinetic modeling was performed on the compartmental population pharmacokinetic data using the Monolix 2020R1 program., Before administration, 15minutes after administration, 45minutes after administration, 90minutes after administration, 3hours after administration, 6hours after administration and 24hours after administration|Interventricular clearance rate (Q) of tranexamic acid, Patients were enrolled and screened during preoperative anaesthesia visit. The enrolled patients were randomly divided into IV TXA injection group and intramuscular TXA injection group. All blood samples were centrifuged and preserved for later testing,Nonlinear mixed-effects pharmacokinetic modeling was performed on the compartmental population pharmacokinetic data using the Monolix 2020R1 program., Before administration, 15minutes after administration, 45minutes after administration, 90minutes after administration, 3hours after administration, 6hours after administration and 24hours after administration|Central ventricular volume (Vc) of tranexamic acid, Patients were enrolled and screened during preoperative anaesthesia visit. The enrolled patients were randomly divided into IV TXA injection group and intramuscular TXA injection group. All blood samples were centrifuged and preserved for later testing,Nonlinear mixed-effects pharmacokinetic modeling was performed on the compartmental population pharmacokinetic data using the Monolix 2020R1 program., Before administration, 15minutes after administration, 45minutes after administration, 90minutes after administration, 3hours after administration, 6hours after administration and 24hours after administration|peripheral ventricular volume (Vp) of tranexamic acid, Patients were enrolled and screened during preoperative anaesthesia visit. The enrolled patients were randomly divided into IV TXA injection group and intramuscular TXA injection group. All blood samples were centrifuged and preserved for later testing,Nonlinear mixed-effects pharmacokinetic modeling was performed on the compartmental population pharmacokinetic data using the Monolix 2020R1 program., Before administration, 15minutes after administration, 45minutes after administration, 90minutes after administration, 3hours after administration, 6hours after administration and 24hours after administration
Intraoperative blood loss, blood should be taken before surgery for Hb or Hct measurements to determine the patient's current blood dilution or concentration.The calculation formula: estimated blood loss (ml) = (preoperative or estimated Hct - measured Hct) / preoperative or estimated Hctx weight (kg) x 7% x 1000., during operative period|Blood transfusion volume, The total volume of blood transfused during the operation was calculated, encompassing red blood cells, plasma, and cryoprecipitate., during operative period
New postoperative thrombotic complications, ncidence of complications (new thrombus) are detected by vascular ultrasound, within 30 days after surgery.
The investigators plan to recuit 30 patients, administered TXA through different routes of administration. Then Pharmacokinetic parameters of different TXA administration routes were recorded. To study the effects of different TXA administration routes on intraoperative blood loss, transfusion volume and postoperative adverse outcomes (thrombosis, etc.) in ovarian cancer patients undergoing cell reduction surgery.