Post-Transplant Bortezomib and High Dose Cyclophosphamide as Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD) Prophylaxis
The purpose of this study is to determine if Bortezomib, known commercially as Velcade is safe and tolerated at different dose levels (amounts) with high dose Cyclophosphamide to be used as graft versus host disease prevention after reduced-intensity allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Hematological Malignancy
DRUG: Cohort 1-Bortezomib (Velcade ®)|DRUG: Cohort 2-Bortezomib (Velcade ®)|DRUG: Cohort 3-Bortezomib (Velcade ®)
Dose Limiting Toxicity, Grade 3 non-hematologic Common Toxicity Criteria toxicity directly related to bortezomib (such as peripheral neuropathy) or Grade 2 or \> hepatic bilirubin Common Toxicity Criteria Graft failure, Assessed daily (while inpatient) through clinical and laboratory examination up to 90 days.
Engraftment, Neutrophil engraftment is defined as achieving an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \> 0.5 109/L for 3 consecutive measurements on different days. The first of the 3 days will be considered the day of neutrophil engraftment.

Platelet engraftment is defined as platelet count \> 20 109/L for 3 consecutive measurements over at least 3 days. The first of the 3 days will be considered the day of platelet engraftment.

In this study, graft failure is defined as lack of achieving neutrophil engraftment by day 22 and donor chimerism \> 50% by day 45., Assessed daily by laboratory evaluation until engraftment or up to 90 days.
GVHD, aGVHD onset at a certain grade will be used to calculate the cumulative incidence for that grade (e.g., onset of grade 70 post-transplant , time to grade III is 70 days). This end point will be evaluated through day 150 post-transplant. The diagnosis of aGVHD is based on clinical and pathological evaluation by the treating physician.

The first day of cGVHD will be used to calculate the cumulative incidence of cGVHD. The diagnosis of cGVHD is based on clinical and pathological evaluation by the treating physician., Assessed routinely by clinical and pathological evaluation. Acute GVHD will be assessed up to day 150 post-transplant. Chronic GVHD will be assess up to 2 years post-transplant.
It is hypothesized that the administration of an early and short course cyclophosphamide and bortezomib after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantationin in the setting of matched related or unrelated donor transplantation using a standard reduced-intensity conditioning regimen is feasible.

The study is a phase I study. The primary objective of the study is to determine the feasibility and safety of increasing doses of bortezomib administered post-transplant in conjunction with fixed high dose cyclophosphamide, also administered post-transplant in the setting of reduced-intensity allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant, as GVHD prophylaxis strategy. Eligible patients will receive a conditioning regimen based on a combination of fludarabine and busulfan with or without rATG.