Randomized Controlled Trial of a E-intervention to Help Patients Newly Diagnosed With Cancer Cope Better: Pilot Study
Informed by a previous trial in general cancer patients, the investigators aim to conduct a multi-centre Phase III explanatory RCT to demonstrate a significant impact of PTSD Coach on levels of anxiety in head and neck cancer (HNC) patients, including saliva and hair cortisol as bio-immunological indicators for stress. However, prior to proposing a larger trial requiring 267 patients, the investigators aim to demonstrate feasibility of recruitment and compliance with protocol procedures in a Phase II Pilot of 60 newly diagnosed HNC patients. The EG will receive PTSD Coach + usual care, compared to two control groups (UC and AC). AC will be comprised of a game app (e.g., Tetris, Candy Crush, or Solitaire) and will be structurally equivalent to the EG to control for distraction (attention on something pleasant or a task) and the human factor involved in usage prompting (i.e., same exposure time + contacts with personnel), since either distraction or the human contact with staff may, alone, lower anxiety. From a resource allocation perspective, it is important to know if the positive effects of PTSD Coach are due to the intervention itself or to the use of an app and its usage prompting. The investigators believe that PTSD Coach will be even more effective at reducing anxiety in HNC patients, as it teaches specific CBT techniques and uses psychoeducation already found to be more effective than distraction alone.
Head and Neck Cancer
DEVICE: PTSD Coach|BEHAVIORAL: Game application
Feasibility of recruitment for a full trial study, 1. Can we recruit a sufficient number (i.e., n=60 over 8 months or 8/month) of newly diagnosed head and neck cancer patients? AND
2. Can we retain a sufficient proportion (i.e., ≥85% at three months post-randomization, having completed the primary outcome) of head and neck patients in all trial arms to allow completion of a full study (n=267) in a timely fashion?, 2 months post-randomization|PTSD Coach app Acceptability, Is the PTSD Coach app acceptable to at least 80% of newly diagnosed head and neck cancer patients, as indicated by 80% positive responses on the Pilot-Study Questionnaire (PSQ; adapted from the CSQ-8; Attkisson \& Zwick, 1982), 2 months post-randomization
Completion of intervention in a timely manner, At least 90% of experimental group complete PTSD Coach within 3 weeks from randomization.

At least 85% of the content for each module of PTSD Coach be completed.

At least 90% of the attention control complete their assigned condition as planned (i.e., 45 min/week over 3 weeks)., 2 months post-randomization|Sample size calculation for full trial study, Identify the 80% upper confidence interval for pooled standard deviation at baseline for use of full trial sample calculation., 2 months post-randomization
See above