Tucatinib in Combination With Oral Etoposide andTrastuzumab in Patients With Metastatic HER2+ Breast Cancer
This is an open-label, multicenter, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics of the combination of tucatinib-Oral VP16-trastuzumab in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer (HER2+ MBC) after progression on tucatinib-capecitabine-trastuzumab or capecitabine-related toxicity.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Tucatinib in Combination of Oral VP16 and trastuzumab
Objective response rate (ORR, The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the best response defined as complete or partial response occurring within the first 6 months of treatment, assessed by the investigators (according to RECIST v1.1 criteria), 6 months
Serious adverse events, Serious adverse events (SAEs)according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, by grade and their relationship to tucatinib-Oral VP16-trastuzumab., From inclusion until 30 days after the last dose of IMP, up to 24 months|Adverse events, Adverse events (AEs) according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, by grade and their relationship to tucatinib-Oral VP16-trastuzumab., From inclusion until 30 days after the last dose of IMP, up to 24 months|Progression free survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of inclusion until progression per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site or death due to any cause. The measure of interest is the median PFS, From inclusion until Progression or Death, up to 24 months|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from inclusion to the date of death due to any cause. The measure of interest is the median OS (if reached)., From inclusion until Progression or Death, up to 24 months|Duration of response, Duration of response (DoR) as defined as the time from the date of first documented response until date of documented progression per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site or death due to any cause. The measure of interest is the median DoR, From inclusion until Progression or Death, up to 24 months|Time to response, Time to response (TTR) as defined as the time from the start of treatment to the first ORR observed for patients who achieved a CR or PR. The measure of interest is the median TTR., 6 months|Clinical benefit rate, Clinical benefit rate (CBR) is defined as the percentage of patients with CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) according to RECIST 1.1, as assessed by the investigator at the local site. The measure of interest is CBR at 24 weeks, 6 months|EQ-5D-5L scale, The measure of interest is the mean difference in the change from baseline in EQ-5D-5L scale. Time to deterioration in pain, physical functioning, role functioning and global health status/QoL. The EQ VAS score is rated on a scale of 0-100 points. 0 points correspond to the worst possible health status, From inclusion until Progression or Death, up to 24 months
This is an open-label, multicenter, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics of the combination of tucatinib-Oral VP16-trastuzumab in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer (HER2+ MBC) after progression on tucatinib-capecitabine-trastuzumab or capecitabine-related toxicity.

The study has two sequential parts:

* Part 1 is a safety run-in part evaluating the safety of the combination to confirm the recommended dose;
* Part 2 will evaluate the efficacy of the combination at the recommended dose. Both parts will include patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer.

In part 1, a D-dose is evaluated; only in case of unacceptable toxicity at the D-dose, a D-1 dose will be investigated.

In part 2, patients will be treated with oral VP16 at the dose recommended in part 1.

Dose reductions will be allowed on subsequent cycles in case of toxicity.

All enrolled patients will receive the combination of tucatinib, oral VP16, trastuzumab until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, and withdrawal of patient consent, investigator decision, and loss to follow-up, death, patient non-compliance, or discontinuation of the study by the sponsor.

Tumor assessments should be performed according to RECIST v1.1 criteria at baseline and every 6 weeks (± 7 days) for the first 24 weeks, then every 9 weeks (± 7 days) until documented disease progression, withdrawal of consent, or death.