Chemotherapy With or Without Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This randomized phase III trial studies chemotherapy to see how well it works with or without bevacizumab in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma that has come back (recurrent) or that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, cisplatin, carboplatin, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bevacizumab may also make tumor cells more sensitive to chemotherapy and stop the growth of head and neck cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether combination chemotherapy is more effective when given with or without bevacizumab in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Recurrent Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma|Recurrent Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Recurrent Oral Cavity Verrucous Carcinoma|Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Salivary Gland Carcinoma|Recurrent Sinonasal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Major Salivary Gland Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Major Salivary Gland Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Sinonasal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVB Major Salivary Gland Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Sinonasal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVC Major Salivary Gland Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVC Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Sinonasal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Tongue Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Fluorouracil|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) was defined as time from randomization to death from any course. Patients who were alive were censored at the last contact date. Median OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., assessed every 3 months within 2 years from study entry, then every 6 months up to 5 years from study entry
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from randomization to date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Patients who were still alive and progression free were censored at last disease assessment date. Median PFS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., on both arms, assessed every 2 cycles during chemotherapy treatment, then assessed every 9 weeks until progression up to 5 years from study entry; patients on arm B were assessed every 2 cycles for additional 12 weeks before changing to every 9 weeks|Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate is defined as number of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by all patients. Responses are evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. PR is defined as disappearance of target lesions or at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), and persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s)., on both arms, assessed every 2 cycles during chemotherapy treatment, then assessed every 9 weeks until progression up to 5 years from study entry; patients on arm B were assessed every 2 cycles for additional 12 weeks before changing to every 9 weeks
To Collect Blood Samples Before and After Therapy for Future Correlative Studies, These were blood and tissue samples collections and have no data to report., Before and after therapy|To Collect Tumor Tissue Samples Available at Baseline From Prior Diagnostic Procedures for Future Correlative Studies, These were blood and tissue samples collections and have no data to report., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the overall survival of patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer treated with standard platinum-based chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess toxicities with the addition of bevacizumab to each platinum-doublet (cisplatin/docetaxel, carboplatin/docetaxel, cisplatin/fluorouracil \[5-FU\], carboplatin/5-FU).

II. To compare the objective response rates and the progression-free survival achieved with the above therapies.

III. To collect blood samples before and after therapy for future correlative studies.

IV. To collect tumor tissue samples available at baseline from prior diagnostic procedures for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE: After the physician decides which chemotherapy doublet to use, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms for that chemotherapy combination.

ARM IA: Patients receive chemotherapy comprising docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IB: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and docetaxel and cisplatin as in Arm IA.

ARM IIA: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IIB: Patients receive bevacizumab as in arm IB and docetaxel and carboplatin as in Arm IIA.

ARM IIIA: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IIIB: Patients receive bevacizumab as in Arm IB and cisplatin and fluorouracil as in Arm IIIA.

ARM IVA: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IVB: Patients receive bevacizumab as in Arm IB and carboplatin and fluorouracil as in Arm IVA.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.