Natural History Study for DNA Repair Disorders
This will be a single-center, single-arm, non-interventional natural history study to evaluate the longitudinal clinical course, functional outcome measures, and candidate biomarkers for individuals with DNA repair disorders, including Cockayne syndrome (CS), xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), and trichothiodystrophy (TTD).
DNA Repair Disorder|Cockayne Syndrome|Xeroderma Pigmentosum|Trichothiodystrophy
OTHER: Interval History|OTHER: Physical Examination|OTHER: ECAB Assessment|OTHER: Gait Assessment|OTHER: Specimen Sample Collection
Longitudinal stability of cerebellar and gait function on neurological examination, The longitudinal stability of cerebellar and gait function will be assessed by the presence or absence of tremors (absence = 1, presence = 0), dysmetria (absence = 1, presence = 0), dysdiadochokinesia (absence = 1, presence = 0) and Gowers sign (absence = 1, presence = 0). The scores will be added to yield a total score ranging from 0 to 4, with 4 representing the best performance., 3 years|Longitudinal stability of motor function using gait speed measurement, Longitudinal stability of motor function in study participants as assessed by gait speed measured over a 10 meter distance, 3 years|Longitudinal stability of motor function using 10 meter walk/run test, 3 years|Longitudinal stability of motor function using Timed Up and Go (TUG) test, 3 years|Longitudinal stability of motor function using the Dynamic Gait Index (DGI), 3 years
Exploratory, We have selected the following 4 biomarkers to be measured in serum samples at each study visit:

1. Neurofilament light (NfL)
2. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)
3. Total tau (t-tau)
4. Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCHL1)

We have selected the following 4 biomarkers to be measured in serum samples at each study visit:

1. Neurofilament light (NfL)40-42
2. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)43
3. Total tau (t-tau)44
4. Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCHL1)45 To determine whether a serum biomarker can track disease status and progression and serve as a secondary outcome measure. To determine genetic diagnoses for those who are genetically undiagnosed, and to use transcriptomic analyses to seek additional biomarker candidates., 3 years
This will be a single-center, single-arm, non-interventional natural history study to evaluate the longitudinal clinical course, functional outcome measures, and candidate biomarkers for individuals with DNA repair disorders, including Cockayne syndrome (CS), xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), and trichothiodystrophy (TTD). Our hypothesis is that a reliable and reproducible baseline natural history course can be established for DNA repair disorders using the Early Childhood Assessment of Balance (ECAB) as a primary endpoint and other measures as secondary and exploratory endpoints that may be used in future therapeutic clinical trials.