Lenalidomide Intensification in Patients With Serologic/Asymptomatic Progression of Multiple Myeloma While on Lenalidomide Maintenance
The purpose of this study is to determine whether this disease will get better if treated with higher doses of Lenalidomide even if the disease returns while taking low doses of Lenalidomide. In patients with multiple myeloma treated with Lenalidomide maintenance, the disease will return. However, the physician currently does not know if the disease would respond to treatment with higher doses of Lenalidomide. This is very important for patients with multiple myeloma because the number of drugs available to treat the disease are limited. It is important to know if Lenalidomide remains still effective and if it can still be used in this situation. This study will try to find out what effects, good and/or bad higher doses of Lenalidomide has on the patient and the disease after it has returned.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: lenalidomide
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 6 months
Number of Participants Evaluated for Toxicity, All toxicities with a maximum grade and status of ≥ grade 2 will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., every 28 days before initiation of a new cycle through study completion until disease progression up to 5 years
The purpose of this study is to determine whether this disease will get better if treated with higher doses of Lenalidomide even if the disease returns while taking low doses of Lenalidomide. In patients with multiple myeloma treated with Lenalidomide maintenance, the disease will return. However, the physician currently does not know if the disease would respond to treatment with higher doses of Lenalidomide. This is very important for patients with multiple myeloma because the number of drugs available to treat the disease are limited. It is important to know if Lenalidomide remains still effective and if it can still be used in this situation. This study will try to find out what effects, good and/or bad higher doses of Lenalidomide has on the patient and the disease after it has returned.