Telemonitoring Among Patients With Multiple Myeloma
A two-arm open-label parallel-group randomized controlled trial will be conducted to compare the telemonitoring (MM e-coach) with standard MM care. This study aimed to recruit 150 patients with recently diagnosed multiple myeloma (RDMM), starting first or second line of treatment. Blinded primary outcome is adherence by pill count after start of treatment at 1-3 months. Secondary outcomes are patient reported outcomes: Groninger frailty index (GFI), quality of life (EQ-5D-5L, EORTC-QLQ-C30), shared decision making (SDM-Q-9), self-reported adherence (MARS-5), single item questions, patient experiences (PREMs), adverse events, overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS). Patient reported outcomes were developed and integrated in the e-coach MM to regularly measure digitized outcomes of MM patients from time of RDMM until 12 months post-diagnosis. Online measurements will be performed at baseline (0), 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.
Multiple Myeloma
DEVICE: e-coach multipel myeloma (MM)
blinded primary outcome by pill count, over a time periode of 3 months
A two-arm open-label parallel-group randomized controlled trial will be conducted to compare the telemonitoring (MM e-coach) with standard MM care. This study aimed to recruit 150 patients with recently diagnosed multiple myeloma (RDMM), starting first or second line of treatment. Blinded primary outcome is adherence by pill count after start of treatment at 1-3 months. Secondary outcomes are patient reported outcomes: Groninger frailty index (GFI), quality of life (EQ-5D-5L, EORTC-QLQ-C30), shared decision making (SDM-Q-9), self-reported adherence (MARS-5), single item questions, patient experiences (PREMs), adverse events, overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS). Patient reported outcomes were developed and integrated in the e-coach MM to regularly measure digitized outcomes of MM patients from time of RDMM until 12 months post-diagnosis. Online measurements will be performed at baseline (0), 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.