A Second Psilocybin Group Therapy for the Treatment of Cancer-Related Anxiety in Partial Responders With Metastatic Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety and side effects of a second episode of psilocybin-assisted group therapy and how well it works in treating anxiety and distress in patients with cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic) and had a partial response to their first retreat. Up to 50% of patients with metastatic cancer have clinically significant anxiety and unaddressed anxiety and distress may add to the suffering caused by cancer itself. Psilocybin, a psychedelic drug, is made using an extract from the psilocybe mushroom, also known as "magic mushrooms". Psilocybin binds to serotonin receptors (natural body chemicals that control moods) on brain cells producing intense changes in mood, including anxiety. This may change perceptions and patterns of thinking in ways that may decrease anxiety. Group therapy may reduce stress and improve the well-being and quality of life of patients with metastatic cancer. A second episode of psilocybin-assisted group therapy may be safe, tolerable and or effective in treating anxiety and distress in partial responders with metastatic cancer.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Group Therapy|DRUG: Psilocybin|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation subject administered a medicinal product. AEs will be graded in severity using mild, moderate and severe. Occurrence of any adverse event graded severe on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events patient-reported questionnaires. Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze all adverse events, and in particular severe adverse events., At time of first exposure up to the date of the last questionnaire at 24 weeks
Change in anxiety and depression, Changes will be measured using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. For each group size, the "effect size" of change will be estimated, where effect size is defined as the mean change divided by the standard deviation of change. Assessment of anxiety and depression will be descriptive., At day -14 up to day 28
OUTLINE:

Patients receive psilocybin orally (PO) with optional booster dose on day 0. Patients attend an individual prep visit on day -1 and an individual integration visit on day 1. Patients also attend group preparation visits on days -14, -7 and -1 and group integration visits on days 1, 8, 22 and 36.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2, 3, and 6 months.