Safety and Blood Immune Cell Study of Anakinra Plus Physician's Chemotherapy Choice in Metastatic Breast Cancer Patients
To determine the safety of administering anakinra plus the physician's chemotherapy choice (TPC) of nab paclitaxel, capecitabine, eribulin, or vinorelbine in patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC), as well as determining blood immune cell transcriptional signatures in patients who undergo IL-1 receptor blockade.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Anakinra plus Standard of Care
Safety - Adverse Events in participants, Patients will receive anakinra plus the physicians chemotherapy choice of nab paclitaxel, or capecitabine, or eribulin, or vinorelbine for metastatic breast cancer. Adverse events will be recorded throughout the trial, and regardless of the severity will be followed up by investigator until resolution is satisfactory. All adverse events and toxicities will be recorded and assessed for 30 days following the last dose of anakinra at a maximum of 6 months. Grading will be done using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., up to 7 months
To determine investigator-assessed objective response rate, clinical benefit rate, progression-free survival, and rates of chemotherapy or cancer-related anemia (HgB<10), and an anakinra-induced anti-IL-1 blood transcriptional signatures, Objective response rate, clinical benefit rate and progression-free survival in patients will be determined using radiological assessment of tumors (CT/MRI/X-ray/PET), clinical and functional evaluation of patients with 95% confidence intervals. Whole blood transcriptional profiling will be performed to determine a gene expression signature that is induced by IL-1 receptor blockade by anakinra. The gene expression signatures from baseline will be compared to those signatures obtained after the 2-week run-in treatment with anakinra alone. During the treatment, complete blood count with differential/platelet count and complete metabolic profiling will be done to identify any baseline changes., upto 7 months
In an attempt to reverse the immune suppressive microenvironment and to enhance chemotherapy effectiveness, decrease tumor metagenicity and decrease IL-1-induced fatigue, metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients will be treated with chemotherapy plus anakinra. This is a pilot safety, single arm, open label trial. The objective is to determine the safety of anakinra plus the physician's chemotherapy choice (TPC) of nab paclitaxel, capecitabine, eribulin, or vinorelbine in patients with MBC and to define an anakinra-induced anti-IL-1 whole blood transcriptional profile.