Effects of a Training Intervention After Thoracoabdominal Oesophagus Surgery
This study evaluates the effect of a training intervention after thoracoabdominal resection of the oesophagus. Half of the patients scheduled for thoracoabdominal oesophagus surgery were randomized to an intervention group while the other half a control group.
Oesophagus Cancer
OTHER: Training group
Degree of physical disability estimated by the Disability Rating Index (DRI), 12 items covering activities from dressing and going for walks to lifting heavy objects and exercising. The item responses were rated on visual analogue scales (0-100), 3 months
Pain in the neck, rib cage and shoulders (visual analogue scale), Estimated on a 100-mm visual analogue scale, 3 months|FVC (Forced Vital Capacity), Forced Vital Capacity performed in a standardised manner, 3 months|Range of motion, Thorax expansion, back flexion, extension and lateral flexion, shoulder flexion and abduction, 3 months|Physical function (Time stand test and heel rise test), Time stand test and heel rise test, 3 months|Physical Activity (six-level scale), A six-level scale where low figures indicate a sedentary and a high score an active lifestyle according to Grimby et al, 3 months|Quality of Life by EORTC QLQ-C30, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core -30 version 3.0. All responses were converted to a score of between 0 and 100 using a linear transformation following EORTC guidelines (EORTC). High scores indicate good functioning but a high level of symptoms, 3 months|FEV1 s, Forced performed in a standardised manner, 3 months|PEF (Peak Expiratory Flow), Peak Expiratory Flow performed in a standardised manner, 3 months
It is well known that thoracoabdominal oesophageal resection for cancer is a procedure with high risks for complications. Earlier trials have shown that respiratory restrictions persist after the operation as well as lower physical function, range of motion in the rib-cage and limitations in activities in daily living. There are, however, only two clinical studies that evaluate postoperative breathing exercises and none evaluating any other rehabilitation interventions.

In other types of extensive surgery that may affect mobility with trauma to muscles and bone structures in the thorax and thoracic spinal column, there is strong evidence that speaks for an active rehabilitation approach in favour of a less active one.

The intervention evaluated was a rehabilitation program including exercises to restore lung function, range of motion in the thoracic spine and shoulders and strength exercises for the back extensors, shoulders and legs.