Denosumab for Prolonging Bone Metastasis-Free Survival in Men With Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer
This is a multi-national, multi-center, open-label, single-arm extension study for the prolongation of bone metastasis-free survival in men with hormone-refractory (androgen independent) prostate cancer. Patients currently participating in the phase 3 study 20050147 (NCT00286091) will be offered this study if a positive benefit:risk compared with placebo is determined in the 20050147 study. The primary endpoint of the 20050147 study is bone metastases-free survival determined by the time to first occurrence of bone metastases (either symptomatic or asymptomatic) or death from any cause. Participants will receive open-label denosumab administered once every 4 weeks (Q4W) subcutaneously (SC) until they developed a bone metastasis or for up to 3 years, whichever comes first.
Castrate-resistant Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Denosumab
Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (AEs) and Deaths, A serious adverse event is defined as an adverse event that meets at least one of the following serious criteria: • fatal, • life threatening, • requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, • results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, • congenital anomaly/birth defect, and/or • other significant medical hazard. The adverse event severity grading scale used was the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, according to the following: Grade 1 = Mild AE; Grade 2 = Moderate AE; Grade 3 = Severe AE; Grade 4 = Life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5 = Death related to AE. The investigator assessed whether each adverse event was possibly related to the investigational product (IP)., From the first dose of open-label denosumab until 4 weeks after the last; maximum time on study was 37 months. Follow-up survival information was collected for up to 3 years after the last dose of blinded investigation product in the 20050147 study.|Percent Change From Baseline in Laboratory Values, Baseline and Week 49|Number of Participants With Anti-denosumab Neutralizing Antibody Formation, 3 years
Change From Baseline in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status (PS), A scale used to assess how a patient's disease is progressing, assess how the disease affects the daily living abilities of the patient, and determine appropriate treatment and prognosis. 0 = Fully active, able to carry out all pre-disease performance without restriction; 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity, but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature (e.g., light housework, office work); 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self care, but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours; 3 = Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours; 4 = Completely disabled. Cannot carry out any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair; 5 = Dead., Baseline and Week 49
This is a multi-national, multi-center, open-label, single-arm extension study for the prolongation of bone metastasis-free survival in men with hormone-refractory (androgen independent) prostate cancer. Patients currently participating in the phase 3 study 20050147 (NCT00286091) will be offered this study if a positive benefit:risk compared with placebo is determined in the 20050147 study. The primary endpoint of the 20050147 study is bone metastases-free survival determined by the time to first occurrence of bone metastases (either symptomatic or asymptomatic) or death from any cause. Participants will receive open-label denosumab administered once every 4 weeks (Q4W) subcutaneously (SC) until they developed a bone metastasis or for up to 3 years, whichever comes first.