Real World Data on Gi(l)Otrif® Dose Adjustment
This is a non-interventional, multi-country, multi-site study based on existing data from medical records of patients treated with Gi(l)otrif® as part of the routine treatment according to the approved label. Data from real-world will help to understand if dose modifications are done similar as in LUX-Lung 3 trial and if the outcome on safety and effectiveness are as in trial settings. Furthermore, data on modified starting doses, the underlying reasons and effects on safety and outcome are needed.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
Percentage of Patients With Adverse Drug Reactions (ADR) by Severity Class., An adverse drug reaction (ADR) is defined as a response to a medicinal product which is noxious and unintended. Grade 1, Grade 2, Grade 3 and Grade 4 ADR severity classes were considered for assessment of this outcome., From signing the informed consent onwards until the end of the study, up to 104 weeks.|Time on Treatment With Gi(l)Otrif®, Time on treatment with Gi(l)otrif® in real-world setting has been calculated in this assessment. Time on treatment refers to time to treatment failure with Gi(l)otrif®, From first dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment to last dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment, up to 104 weeks.|Time to Progression With Gi(l)Otrif®, Time to progression was calculated from the date of first dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment to the earliest date of documented progression (clinical, radiographic or both clinical/radiographic progression) or tumour-related death, whatever occurred first., From first dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment to last dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment, up to 104 weeks.
Percentage of Patients With a Modified Starting Dose of Gi(l)Otrif®, Percentage of patients with a modified starting dose that is dose other than the recommended 40 mg daily of Gi(l)otrif® has been calculated to assess this outcome measure., From first dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment to last dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment, up to 104 weeks.|Percentage of Patients With Reasons for Modified Starting Dose of Gi(l)Otrif®, Different reasons for starting dose with modified dose that is dose other than recommended 40 mg once daily., From first dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment to last dose of Gi(l)otrif® treatment, up to 104 weeks.
This is a non-interventional, multi-country, multi-site study based on existing data from medical records of patients treated with Gi(l)otrif® as part of the routine treatment according to the approved label. Data from real-world will help to understand if dose modifications are done similar as in LUX-Lung 3 trial and if the outcome on safety and effectiveness are as in trial settings. Furthermore, data on modified starting doses, the underlying reasons and effects on safety and outcome are needed.