Pre-operative Education Modalities to Decrease Opioid Use
This is a triple-armed, randomized, controlled, non-blinded trial to study the effect of preoperative patient education in conjunction with a limited opioid peri-operative analgesia program on post-operative opioid use following radical prostatectomy. Patients will be randomized into three education arms: usual care (variable provider-dependent education), text handout, or text handout and pre-recorded video. The impact of patient education on outcomes of in-hospital, post-discharge, and persistent opioid use will be studied.
Prostatectomy|Opioid-Related Disorders
BEHAVIORAL: Pre-operative Opioid Education
In-hospital opioid use, Morphine equivalents used in the hospital will be calculated., Immediately after the intervention/procedure/surgery|Post-discharge opioid use, Patient-reported number of opioid pills used after discharge (daily questionnaire)., Immediately after the intervention/procedure/surgery|Post-operative pain, Average pain over the course of today. (0=no pain, 5=moderate pain, 10=severe pain), Immediately after the intervention/procedure/surgery|Return of bowel function, Patient-reported return of bowel function as time in days to first flatus and first bowel movement., Immediately after the intervention/procedure/surgery
Satisfaction with undergoing the surgery, Satisfaction with undergoing the surgery. (1=extremely dissatisfied, 10=extremely satisfied), Immediately after the intervention/procedure/surgery|Quality of life after undergoing surgery, Quality of life after the surgery. (1=worst possible QOL, 10=best possible QOL), Immediately after the intervention/procedure/surgery|Prolonged post-operative opioid use, Incidence of prolonged postoperative opioid use defined by the American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians Guidelines as continued use beyond the normal and expected time of 90 days for surgical healing., Up to 24 weeks
This is a triple-armed, randomized, controlled, non-blinded trial that will be conducted at Virginia Mason Medical Center (VMMC). Men of age 18 or older undergoing robotic assisted radical prostatectomy (RARP) for prostate cancer will be approached to participate in the study. Recruited patients will be randomized into three main groups based upon opioid education given to the patient before surgery: usual care group, text handout group, and text handout with pre-recorded video group.

During their pre-operative visit, the usual care group will undergo usual pre-surgery patient education care dependent on their provider. The study group will receive additional standardized pre-operative education including the topics of:

1. Description of expected postoperative pain after robotic prostatectomy and typical opioid consumption after RARP.
2. Efficacy of non-opioid multimodal analgesia and recommendation to take nonopioid alternatives prior to prescribed opioids.
3. Adverse short- and long-term effects of opioids including nausea, vomiting, sedation, hypoventilation, hypotension, dizziness, constipation, depression, and addiction.

Patients in both usual care and study groups will receive standardized multimodal analgesia program with minimal opioids used.

Primary outcomes measured will include in-hospital and post-discharge opioid use, pain levels and time to return of bowel function. Secondary outcomes will include daily measures of patient satisfaction and quality of life, feeling of preparedness to manage post-operative pain, as well as incidence of prolonged opioid use at 90 days after surgery.