Bortezomib and Flavopiridol in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Indolent B-Cell Neoplasms
Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as flavopiridol, work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Bortezomib may increase the effectiveness of flavopiridol by making cancer cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving bortezomib together with flavopiridol may kill more cancer cells. This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bortezomib and flavopiridol in treating patients with recurrent or refractory indolent B-cell neoplasms.
Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Alvocidib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Recommended phase II dose, 21 days
Maximum tolerated dose, assessed according to NCI CTCAE v4.0, 21 days|Response, Up to 8 years|Response duration, Up to 8 years|Time to progression, Up to 8 years|Survival, Up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase II dose of bortezomib and flavopiridol in patients with recurrent or refractory indolent B-cell neoplasms.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxic effects and maximum tolerated dose of this regimen in these patients.

II. To determine disease-related effects of this regimen in these patients. III. To determine the pharmacodynamics of this regimen in patients with myeloma.

IV. To determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds followed by flavopiridol IV over 1 hour on days 1, 4, 8, and 11.

Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.