A Safety Study of Oraxol (HM30181 + Oral Paclitaxel) in Cancer Patients
Oraxol is a combination of an oral tablet, HM30181 methanesulfonate, and capsules that contain paclitaxel. HM30181 is a drug that helps the body absorb paclitaxel, a drug used to treat cancer. Initially this study is intended as an extension study of KX-ORAX-002 pharmacokinetic study for patients who wish to continue Oraxol treatment and who are eligible to participate. The purpose of this study is to check the safety and tolerability of Oraxol when it is administered on a weekly basis and to confirm the sustained oral bioavailability of paclitaxel following multiple dosing; also compare the relative bioavailability of paclitaxel tablets vs paclitaxel capsules (Group B only).
Solid Tumor
DRUG: Oraxol
Safety and tolerability of Oraxol (Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events), Safety and tolerability as assessed by the incidence of adverse events. Treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) are defined as those AEs with an onset after dosing and those pre-existing AEs that worsen during the study.

AEs will include those reported by participants as well as those observed by the clinical team, or clinically significant changes in lab tests, vital signs and ECGs. Possible AEs may include gastrointestinal effects and abdominal pain but as this is an early phase clinical trial and the likely AE profile is not yet known., From screening until final visit (within 28 days after the last dose of study drug was taken, and preferably before the participant receives any additional chemotherapy).
Sustained oral bioavailability of paclitaxel following multiple dosing, Oraxol PK data from this study will be compared with Oraxol PK data from study KX-ORAX-002., PK samples will be collected during dosing for Week 4 or may be done during a later dosing week at the investigator's discretion and/or at the participant's convenience before patients' withdrawal from the study, up to 8 months.|the relative bioavailability of paclitaxel tablets vs paclitaxel capsules (Group B only), For Group B, 8 subjects will be enrolled and the geometric mean ratio (GMR) will be calculated comparing the Cmax and AUC0-∞ of the tablet and capsule formulations of paclitaxel following oral administration., PK samples will be collected during dosing for Week 5; or may be done during a later dosing week at the investigator's discretion and/or at the participant's convenience, up to 8 months.
Oraxol is a combination of an oral tablet, HM30181 methanesulfonate, and capsules that contain paclitaxel. HM30181 is a drug that helps the body absorb paclitaxel, a drug used to treat cancer. Initially this study is intended as an extension study of KX-ORAX-002 pharmacokinetic study for patients who wish to continue Oraxol treatment and who are eligible to participate. Once the dose of Oraxol has been confirmed in the KX-ORAX-002 study, then enrollment of patients who have not participated in the KX-ORAX-002 study can be allowed. The purpose of this study is to check the safety and tolerability of Oraxol when it is administered on a weekly basis and to confirm the sustained oral bioavailability of paclitaxel following multiple dosing; also compare the relative bioavailability of paclitaxel tablets vs paclitaxel capsules (Group B only). Participants in Group B (N=8) will receive the same weekly paclitaxel capsule treatment as the remainder of the subjects except for 1 dosing week (at least 1 week following the paclitaxel capsule PK sampling period) during which they will receive paclitaxel tablets and undergo PK assessments.