TheRapeutic Effect of Different immunosuppressAnts on Non-Thymoma Ocular Myasthenia Gravis: a Real-world Study
This study collects the clinical data of new-onset ocular myasthenia gravis (OMG) patients, assesses outcomes and adverse effects of different treatment options, and evaluate risk factors of conversion to generalized MG(GMG).
Ocular Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: Symptomatic Treatment, Steroids, Immunosuppressive Agents( azathioprine, tacrolimus, Mycophenolate Mofetil)
Conversion rate from ocular to generalized MG at the last follow-up visit., Ocular MG patients are followed up to determine the ratio of conversion to generalized disease at the end of follow-up. The clinical records will be retrospectively analyzed to search for risk factors of progressing., 144 weeks|Changes in the ratio of patients who achieve the level 2 of MG Status and Treatment Intensity (MGSTI) scale or better., Ocular MG patients are followed up to determine the ratio of patients that achieve the status of MGSTI 2 or better at each period piont of follow-up. The clinical records will be retrospectively analyzed to search for risk factors prolonged the regimens reduction., Baseline, 12 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, 48 weeks, 60 weeks, 72 weeks, 96 weeks, 120 weeks, 144 weeks|Changes in proportion of patients with treatment-related adverse events., Treatment-Related Adverse Events (AEs) are evaluated in patients receiving different treatment protocol, Baseline, 12 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, 48 weeks, 60 weeks, 72 weeks, 96 weeks, 120 weeks, 144 weeks|Changes in scores of Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) scale and of Absolute and Relative Score of MG(ARS-MG) scales from Baseline., The improvement of clinic status of OMG patients was assessed by investigators according to QMG and ARS-MG score. The QMG is a 13-item scale which measures ocular, bulbar, limb function and respiratory function. The total score ranges from 0 (no myasthenic findings) to 39 (maximal myasthenic deficits) obtained by summing the responses to each individual item.The ARS-MG is a 8-item scale which has a more detailed measure to assess ocular function . The total score ranges from 0 (no myasthenic findings) to 60 (maximal myasthenic deficits) obtained by summing the responses to each individual item., 12 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, 48 weeks, 60 weeks, 72 weeks, 96 weeks, 120 weeks, 144 weeks|Changes in scores of MG-specific Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) scale from Baseline., The improvement of clinic status of OMG patients was assessed by patients themselves according to MG-ADL score. The The MG-ADL is an 8-item scale to assess symptoms of myasthenia gravis patients obtained by summing the responses to each individual item (Grades: 0,1,2,3). The score ranges from 0 to 24., 12 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, 48 weeks, 60 weeks, 72 weeks, 96 weeks, 120 weeks, 144 weeks
Changes in titers of MG antibodies., MG antibodies are detected at enrollment and the titers of antibodies will be monitored annually., Baseline, 48 weeks, 96 weeks, 144 weeks|Improvement of repeated frequency electrical stimulation tests (RNS) and single fiber electromyography (SFEMG)., RNS and SFEMG will be monitored on time to assess the clinic status., 12 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, 48 weeks, 60 weeks, 72 weeks, 96 weeks, 120 weeks, 144 weeks|Relapse rate during follow-up period., Ocular MG patients are followed up to determine the relapse rate at the end of follow-up. The clinical records will be retrospectively analyzed to search for risk factors of recurrence., Baseline, 144 weeks
This is a multicenter, observational cohort trial in the real-world clinical setting recruiting new-onset OMG patients from Neurology Departments of 7 hospitals in different regions of China. Clinical manifestations, laboratory test results, chest imaging and history of thymectomy are recorded. Treatment option are determined according to the physician's judgment and preferences of the patients. Patients are followed up prospectively on regular to assess the outcomes of treatments and monitor any side effects. Peripheral blood samples are collected annually. The investigators plan to recruit a final sample of 200 patients for analysis.