iCCaRE Consortium Pilot Project 1: Feasibility of a Point of Prostate Cancer Diagnosis Intervention for Newly Diagnosed Black Men
This study is being done to determine the acceptance and effectiveness of a virtual robot assistant model at a urology clinic.
Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Point of Prostate Cancer Diagnosis (PPCD) iCCaRE Virtual Robot Assistant (ViRA) model, Will be assessed by the length of time needed to create the model. PPCD iCCaRE ViRA model development will be guided by the Translational Research \& Clinical Intervention Services (TRaCIS) and Digital Health \& Human Services (DHHS) core sections of the Inclusive Cancer Care Research Equity (iCCaRE) Consortium. This application (app) will be evaluated in Outcomes 2 and 3. The PPCD iCCaRE ViRA app will provide social determinants of health (SDOH) navigation services, psycho-oncology support and emotional support using qualitative formative research., Up to 4 months|Acceptance of the iCCaRE Virtual Robot Assistant (ViRA), Will be assessed by patient immediate reaction and patient delayed feedback., Baseline; follow-up interview 3-4 months post visit|Usability of the iCCaRE ViRA, Will be assessed by patient immediate reaction and patient delayed feedback., Baseline; follow-up interview 3-4 months post visit
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Plan and develop a PPCD iCCaRE ViRA model that will provide social determinants of health (SDOH) navigation services, psycho-oncology support and emotional support using qualitative formative research.

II: Establish the acceptance and usability of the iCCaRE ViRA at a urology clinic among 50 Black men (BM).

OUTLINE: This is an observational study. Participants are assigned to 1 of 5 cohorts.

COHORT I: Consumer advocates attend a focus group on study.

COHORT II: Clinicians complete interviews on study.

COHORT III: iCCaRE project representatives test the virtual health intervention, complete a survey, and attend a focus group on study.

COHORT IV: Non iCCaRE affiliated member tests the virtual health intervention, complete a survey, and attends a focus group on study.

COHORT V: Patients complete surveys and participate in the virtual health intervention on study. Patients complete survey and an interview during follow up.