Pre-operative Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy for Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma With or Without CCX872-B
Standard treatment for newly diagnosed operable pancreatic cancer usually involves undergoing surgery first and then receiving chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy. However, the pancreatic cancer often comes back after this treatment. Therefore, the investigators are studying whether giving treatment prior to surgery can help decrease the risk the cancer returns.

Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) is a highly focused type of radiation therapy commonly used in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. This treatment has been shown to be safe and effective for the preoperative treatment of pancreatic cancer. The purpose of this study is to determine if combining an experimental drug, CCX872-B, with SBRT continues to be safe and whether the combination treatment may be more effective at boosting the participant's immune system's ability to kill the pancreatic cancer.
Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Pancreas Cancer
DRUG: CCX872-B
Percentage of patients who complete radiation therapy, drug treatment and surgery, Number of patients who proceed through radiation and drug treatment and undergo surgical resection in a timely manner., 6 weeks|Percentage of patients who are ineligible for surgical resection due to toxicity from SBRT + CCX872-B or SBRT alone, Assessment of whether patients are made ineligible for surgical resection solely due to toxicities from SBRT + CCX872-B or SBRT alone.

Measure of Grade 3 toxicity directly attributable to SBRT+ CCX872-B or SBRT alone.

Analyze rate of grade 2 or greater acute toxicity caused by SBRT with or without CCX872-B.

Determination of intraoperative and postoperative surgical morbidity following neoadjuvant treatment including the amount of fibrosis and total operative time., 12 weeks
Number of participants with no further growth of cancer at original site, Count subjects with no further growth of cancer at original site, 2 years|Number of subjects with recurrence of cancer in other body sites, Compare recurrence locations (metastases to other organs or non-regional adenopathy) of treated patients relative to historical controls, 2 years|Mean time to progression of pancreatic cancer, Duration of progression free survival of treated patients, 4 years|Mean time to death, Measure duration of survival of treated patients, 4 years
The investigators have shown that preoperative SBRT followed by surgical resection is feasible and safe in patients in the previous trial UGIP14107. The investigators have also presented preclinical evidence that inhibiting entry of CCR2+ IM using a small molecule antagonist against CCR2 results in enhanced efficacy of RT 26. The investigators hypothesize that inhibition of the CCR2 axis can potentially up regulate the immune response following radiation, therefore leading to a more robust tumor killing response. In preclinical studies, CCR2 inhibitor has little effect in the absence of RT, therefore, the investigators are not including a drug therapy alone group. To test this hypothesis, a phase Ib clinical trial has been proposed to evaluate the effect of combining stereotactic body radiotherapy with CCR2 inhibition in the neoadjuvant treatment of surgically resectable adenocarcinoma of the head of the pancreas.

The study will consist of two parts in sequential fashion. The first fifteen patients will be assigned to Group 1 and undergo SBRT with CCR2 inhibitor CCX872-B. The primary objective is to establish safety and feasibility of the treatment and analyze biomarkers to determine if combined treatment can stimulate an immune response in human patients. A second group of 5 patients will undergo SBRT alone as a comparison group for biomarker immune response.

The investigators would like to proceed with SBRT and CCX872-B as Group 1 given the investigators already have sufficient data from UGIP14107 to show that SBRT is safe and feasible and studying the combination of SBRT with CCX872-B is the primary scientific objective of this study. If unexpected safety issues occur with Group 1, the investigators would consider closing trial at that time without enrolling any patients in Group 2 which would reduce the number of patients exposed to the study.