Kinetic of Cytokines Decrease and Hodgkin Lymphoma Prognostic
More than 90% of patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) can recover thanks to conventional polychemotherapy regimens - ABVD or BEACOPP - with or without radiotherapy. Nevertheless, some patients relapse and others are resistant to any treatment. These patients represent 2-5% of stage I / II and 5-10% of disseminated stages. The usual prognostic index based on clinical and biological data (supradiaphragmatic HL: EORTC and advanced HL International Prognostic Score) cannot always detect patients at risk.

New prognostic factors are required to screen out these high risk patients. Among available biological factors, we will retain the cytokines secreted by tumor cells and cells from the environment.

Indeed, the prognostic value of plasma cytokines levels and their soluble receptors has recently been described by at least two teams. Olivier CASASNOVAS set up a prognostic index based on quantities of IL-1 RA, IL-6, sCD30 and TNFR1 at diagnosis,and the V. Diehl team published the prognostic value of the decrease of TARC (CC Thymus and Activation-related chemokine).

In daily practice, the early assessment of response by PET CT-scan is now an undeniable prognostic factor. Early identification of no-response or relapse is, in fact, based on clinical and imaging (PET-CT scan).

We propose to evaluate the decrease of cytokines concentration with a prognostic value (TARC, IL-6, IL1-RA, sCD30, TNFR1) as markers of response during treatment and during early follow-up. The dosage of these cytokines will be paired with radiological assessments.

A correlation between the decrease of cytokines plasma levels overtime and event-free survival will be searched afterwards.
Hodgkin's Disease
OTHER: Collection of blood specimen
Decrease of cytokines concentration TARC, IL-6, IL1-RA, sCD30, TNFR1) as markers of response during treatment and during early follow-up in Hodgkin's disease, evaluate the decrease of cytokines concentration with a prognostic value (TARC, IL-6, IL1-RA, sCD30, TNFR1) as markers of response during treatment (At Cycle 1 Day 15 of chemotherapy,Cycle 2 Day 1, cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 or Day 1 of Radiotherapy, 1 month after the end of treatment) , and during early follow-up (3 months after the end of treatment) in patients with Hodgkin's disease, 90 days after end of treatment
Correlation between the decrease of cytokines plasma levels and event-free survival, Evaluation of correlation between the decrease of cytokines plasma levels and event-free survival after 3 years of follow-up, 3 years
To evaluate the decrease of cytokines concentration with a prognostic value as markers of response, the dosage of TARC, IL-6, IL1-RA, sCD30 and TNFR1 will be performed during treatment at :diagnosis, cycle 1 day 15, cycle 2 Day 1, cycle 3 Day 1, Day 1 of consolidation (Cycle 5 day 1 or before radiotherapy) and evaluation of end of treatment.

an early follow-up with a dosage of cytokines will be performed 3 months after the end of treatment.

An evaluation for Event Free Survival will be done at 3 years from diagnosis.