Temozolomide (TMZ) in Advanced Succinate Dehydrogenase (SDH)-Mutant/Deficient Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (GIST)
Funding Source - FDA OOPD

FDA-approved products for patients with unresectable or metastatic GIST include therapies such as imatinib and sunitinib. Although there are FDA-approved products for the treatment of advanced/metastatic GIST, these therapies are known to be ineffective in the SDH-mutant/deficient subtype and no known effective therapies exist.

The purpose of this study is to investigate SDH-Mutant/Deficient Gastrointestinal Stromal cancer's response to the drug Temozolomide (TMZ) and aim to improve patient outcomes.

Temozolomide is approved by the FDA for the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and refractory anaplastic astrocytoma cancers.

Temozolomide is considered experimental because it is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of SDH-Mutant/Deficient Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors|Sdh|GIST|Cancer
DRUG: Temozolomide
Overall Response Rate, To determine overall response rate at 6 months for TMZ therapy in patients with SDH-mutant/deficient GIST, 6 months
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival, 4 years|Overall survival, Overall survival, 4 years|Adverse events related to TMZ, Description, grade \[CTCAE v4.03\], and seriousness, 6 months
This oncology study will be a phase 2 study for patients with advanced or metastatic GIST. This study will determine overall response rate at 6 months for TMZ therapy in patients with SDH-mutant/deficient GIST.

Treatment will continue for 6 months (with option to continue if benefiting treatment) or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (whichever occurs first). All patients will have regular evaluations for assessment of safety parameters. Temozolomide dose may be held and/or modified for the management of adverse treatment effects according to pre-specified criteria. Patients will have radiographic imaging (CT or MRI) every 8 weeks to assess tumor resection.

An end of treatment visit for clinical evaluations and safety assessments will be performed approximately 28 days (7 days) after the last dose of study drug. Patients discontinuing study treatment will be followed every 3-6 months for disease recurrence and survival.