Ultrasound Versus Fluoroscopy Guided Superior Hypogastric Plexus Block in Cancer Bladder Patients
Pelvic cancer pain is a chronic condition related to the involvement of viscera, pelvic muscular structures or neural structures by tumor. The superior hypogastric plexus block is a sympathetic block used to treat pelvic visceral pain that is unresponsive to oral or parenteral opioids different approaches for superior hypogastric block as transdiscal approach, classic approach, Posteromedial approach, CT guided approach and ultrasound anterior approach The ultrasound-guided superior hypogastric plexus neurolysis technique (anterior approach) is simple to perform. We believe this block can be useful in cancer patients who are having difficulty in lying prone, because it is a procedure performed in the supine position and it is less time-consuming. It also avoids the radiation exposure involved with a computed tomography-guided and fluoroscopy posterior approach.
Pain, Chronic
PROCEDURE: Fluoroscopy-guided superior hypogastric plexus block transdiscal approach|PROCEDURE: ultrasound-guided superior hypogastric plexus block
Visual analogue scale (VAS) score, Pain Intensity measured by Visual analogue scale score16 (A 100 mm horizontal line version is used with 2 ends left end means no pain and right end means the worst pain.

VAS will be recorded before and after the procedure, at the first day, after 1 month and after 3 months., Three months after the procedure
The amount of daily morphine consumption, Daily morphine or other drugs consumption according to WHO ladder after the procedure.

This will be recorded before and after the procedure, at the first day, after 1 month and after 3 months., Three months after the procedure|Patient functional capacity, Patient functional capacity (is evaluated using Eastern cooperative oncology group "ECOG" scoring (0=fully active, 1= able to perform light effort, 2= in bed \<50% of the day 3=in bed \>50% of the day, 4=bed ridden).

This will be recorded before and after the procedure, at the first day, after 1 month and after 3 months., Three months after the procedure|Quality of life, Patient quality of life SF-36 19 (consists of eight scaled scores, which are the weighted sums of the questions in their section. Each scale is directly transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight. The lower the score the more disability. The higher the score the less disability i.e., a score of zero is equivalent to maximum disability and a score of 100 is equivalent to no disability.

This will be recorded before and after the procedure, at the first day, after 1 month and after 3 months., Three months after the procedure|Complications, Any complications will be detected: back pain, bleeding, infection, L5 root injury with paresthesia or motor weakness, and visceral or vascular injuries., Three months after the procedure
Aim of the study:

To compare Fluoroscopic guided transdiscal superior hypogastric block and Ultrasound guided superior hypogastric block regarding their efficacy to control pelvic pain and

Statistical analysis:

Data will be described as mean ±SD or as frequencies (number of cases) and percentages when appropriate. Comparison of numerical variables between two study groups will be carried out using parametric and non-parametric t- tests for independent samples. Within group comparison of numerical variables was carried out using repeated measures ANOVA. P values of less than 0.05 will be statistically significant. All statistical calculations are performed using statistical package for the social sciences (SPSS, version 23 for Microsoft Windows; SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois, USA)