Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Primary or Recurrent Malignant Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of neoadjuvant and adjuvant imatinib mesylate in treating patients who are undergoing surgery for primary or recurrent malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Giving imatinib mesylate before and after surgery may shrink the tumor so it can be removed and may kill any tumor cells remaining after surgery.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor
PROCEDURE: Conventional Surgery|DRUG: Imatinib Mesylate
Rate of Disease Progression at 2 Years, Kaplan-Meier estimate of disease progression rate. Disease progression is determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours criteria (RECIST). RECIST criteria is described here: http://ctep.cancer.gov/protocolDevelopment/docs/recist_guideline.pdf, From registration to two years
Rates of Objective Response (Complete, Partial, and Stable), The percentage of patients who achieved a complete, partial or stable response prior to surgery as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours criteria (RECIST). RECIST criteria is described here: http://ctep.cancer.gov/protocolDevelopment/docs/recist_guideline.pdf., Pretreatment and prior to surgery (at 4-10 weeks, based on surgery timing)|Percentage of Patients With Major Toxicity (Toxicity Grade ≥ 3), Highest grade toxicity per subject was counted. Toxicities were graded using Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) v 2.0. Grade refers to the severity of the toxicity, using Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for a given toxicity based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild, Grade 2 Moderate, Grade 3 Severe, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling, Grade 5 Death related to toxicity., Analysis occurs after all patients have been on study for at least 2 years. Measured from start of treatment to end of follow-up, to a maximum of 4.95 years.|FDG-PET as Biological Marker of Metabolic Response(MR) During Imatinib Mesylate (IM) Treatment, in Patients With GIST Who Are naı¨ve to Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Therapy, evaluate FDG-PET as a non-invasive functional imaging tool to assess in situ tumor metabolism (as measured by the Standardized Uptake Values of FDG in the tumor) prior to and during the administration of IM. %change in SUVmax \<1 indicate decreased tumor metabolism while values \>1 indicated an increase in tumor metabolism.

Metabolic response by 18F-FDG PET was determined in accordance with the criteria of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer EORTC), with increases or decreases of more than 25% in SUVmax defining progressive metabolic disease (PMD) and partial metabolic response (PMR), respectively, and new lesions defining PMD., change from baseline to 1 week post therapy
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the progression-free survival of patients with primary or recurrent potentially resectable malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor treated with neoadjuvant and adjuvant imatinib mesylate.

II. Determine the objective response rate of patients treated with this drug. III. Determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate once daily. Treatment continues for 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression. Patients with disease progression are considered for immediate surgical resection. Otherwise, after 8 weeks, patients undergo surgical resection to debulk all gross tumor. Two to four weeks after surgery, patients receive oral imatinib mesylate once daily for 2 years.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.