Nurse-led Follow-up Care for Head and Neck Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to conduct an early evaluation of a nurse-led follow up intervention added to the usual medically oriented follow up care. Besides evaluating the feasibility and acceptability to patients, the effect on psychosocial adjustment and quality of life of patients is determined.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: nurse-led consultation
Psychosocial Adjustment to Illness-Scale, The adaptive psychosocial response of an individual to a significant life change was assessed using the Psychosocial Adjustment to Illness Scale -Self Report (PAIS-SR), a 46-item self-report measure that assesses changes in seven domains. A mean PAIS-SR T-score of 50 is the average score for each domain, meaning that patients with this score adjusted neither better nor worse than a mixed cancer reference group, whereas a score lower than 50 indicates better adjustment. The total scale range for the T score is 21-80. The PAIS-SR is well validated and has been used in previous studies of HNC patients.Here, we used the validated Dutch translation., baseline, 6 mo, 12mo
Quality of Life, Quality of Life(QoL)was measured with the EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-H\&N35.The EORTC QLQ-C30 contains five functioning scales, a global health status/QoL scale, and nine symptom scales. The QLQ-H\&N35 contains 18 disease-specific symptom scales. All scores in both the EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-H\&N35 were transformed to a 0-100 scale following instructions in the scoring manual, with higher scores representing better quality of life and less disease-specific symptoms., baseline, 6 mo, 12 mo
Background: After treatment for cancer, follow-up surveillance is regarded important. In head and neck cancer patients however, increasing research evidence shows that at least the goal of detecting recurrence of cancer during routine control visits in an asymptomatic stage is not achieved. Other goals of follow-up such as management of treatment complications and helping patients and families cope and adjust remain important and ask for an accurate, effective but tailored and sensitive approach. Increasingly, nurses are mentioned as care providers best suited to perform this task.

Aim: The purpose of this study is to conduct an early evaluation of a nurse-led follow up intervention added to the usual medically oriented follow up care. Besides evaluating the feasibility and acceptability to patients, the effect on psychosocial adjustment and quality of life of patients is determined.

Methods and design: A quasi-experimental prospective design is used. Two groups of patients are enrolled consecutively (n=160) and patient data are collected at baseline (T0), at 6(T1) and at 12(T2) months respectively. The duration of the intervention is defined to the first year of follow up. Participating nurses are trained prior to the recruitment of the intervention group and receive supervision and individual coaching during the entire duration of the intervention phase.

Outcome measures: Primary outcome, psychosocial adjustment to illness. Secondary outcomes, health related quality of life, psychosocial problems, and usage of care.