A Phase I Study Of Oral Topotecan And Lapatinib In Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is an open-label, Phase I study of oral topotecan administered in combination with lapatinib in subjects with advanced solid tumors. This Phase I study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of oral topotecan administered in combination with lapatinib. This study will be conducted in two parts. Part 1 of the study will investigate the impact of lapatinib on the bioavailability of oral topotecan (bioavailability phase) and Part 2 of the study will consist of dose finding to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) regimen of the combination (dose escalation phase). In Part 2 of the study, the dose of oral topotecan will be escalated while lapatinib will be given initially as fixed doses. The primary objective of the study is to determine the MTD regimen of oral topotecan administered for five-consecutive days every 21 days in combination with daily lapatinib in subjects with advanced solid tumors.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: oral topotecan (SK&F-104864); lapatinib (GW572016)
The maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) regimen of the combination will be defined as the maximum dose level at which no more than one subject out of six experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) after completing one treatment cycle., Study cancelled prior to FCI.
Adverse events and changes from baseline in laboratory values, ECGs, Multiple gated Acquisition (MUGA) scanning/Echocardiogram (ECHO), and vital signs will be evaluated to assess safety and tolerability., Study cancelled prior to FCI.|Topotecan pharmacokinetic parameters may include AUC(0-∞), AUC(0-τ), Cmax, tmax, t½, and tlag,, Study cancelled prior to FCI.|alone and in combination with lapatinib. Lapatinib pharmacokinetic parameters may include AUC(0-τ), Cτ, Cmax, tmax, and tlag, alone and in combination with topotecan., Study cancelled prior to FCI.|Disease assessments will be obtained every two cycles and will be recorded as tumor response (e.g. complete response [CR], partial response [PR], stable disease [SD], or progressive disease [PD])., Study cancelled prior to FCI.
This is an open-label, Phase I study of oral topotecan administered in combination with lapatinib in subjects with advanced solid tumors. This Phase I study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of oral topotecan administered in combination with lapatinib. This study will be conducted in two parts. Part 1 of the study will investigate the impact of lapatinib on the bioavailability of oral topotecan (bioavailability phase) and Part 2 of the study will consist of dose finding to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) regimen of the combination (dose escalation phase). In Part 2 of the study, the dose of oral topotecan will be escalated while lapatinib will be given initially as fixed doses. The primary objective of the study is to determine the MTD regimen of oral topotecan administered for five-consecutive days every 21 days in combination with daily lapatinib in subjects with advanced solid tumors.