Efficacy and Safety of Gadobutrol 1.0 Molar (Gadovist) for Breast Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
The purpose of this study is to look at the efficacy (how does it work) and safety of gadobutrol when used for obtaining MR images of both breasts.Women with a recent diagnosis of breast cancer by mammogram (X-ray examination of the breasts) may benefit from MRI of the breasts as MRI may detect additional breast cancers
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Gadobutrol (Gadavist, Gadovist, BAY86-4875)
Difference of Sensitivity for Detection of Full Extent of Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM Per Reader, For a single participant the sensitivity was defined as the proportion of malignant breast regions that were recognized by the clinical investigators and the 3 blinded readers using the respective imaging modality as malignant. Subsequently the sensitivity percentage was calculated based on the mean of the sensitivities across all participants. The difference was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value. For ease of expression, the following abbreviations will be used: Magnetic Resonance Mammography (MRM), Unenhanced MRM (UMRM), combined unenhanced and contrast (gadobutrol)-enhanced MRM (CMRM), X-ray mammography (XRM)., Immediately before injection and after injection|Sensitivity for Detection of Full Extent of Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM Per Reader, For a single participant the sensitivity was defined as the proportion of malignant breast regions that were recognized by the clinical investigators and the 3 blinded readers using the respective imaging modality as malignant. Subsequently the sensitivity percentage was calculated based on the mean of the sensitivities across all participants., Immediately before injection and after injection|Breast Level Specificity of CMRM for Non-malignant Breasts by Reader, A non-malignant breast was defined as false positive (FP), when the reader assessed at least one breast region as malignant. When all breast regions were assessed as non-malignant, the breast was defined as true negative (TN). Breast level specificity was first defined in participant as number of TN-breasts in participant divided by number of non-malignant breasts in participant. Subsequently the specificity percentage was calculated based on the mean of the specificities across all participants who contributed with at least one non-malignant breast., Immediately before injection and after injection
Breast Level Specificity of CMRM Based on Malignant Breasts, A malignant breast was defined as FP, when the reader using the respective imaging modality assessed more breast regions as malignant as were present according to SoT. Otherwise the breast was assessed as TN. Specificity was then defined as TN/(TN+FP)., Immediately before injection and after injection|Percentage Difference of Participants Whose Index Cancers Were Detected Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM vs XRM, and CMRM vs CMRM+XRM, Index cancer was defined as the cancer confirmed by histology prior to inclusion which made the participants eligible for the study. The difference in percentage of participants was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM value minus XRM value, CMRM value minus CMRM+XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Percentage Difference of Participants Whose Additional Index Cancers Were Detected Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM vs XRM, and CMRM vs CMRM+XRM, Additional cancer was defined as cancer which was present according to SoT, but which was not defined as index cancer, i.e. was not known when the participant was enrolled into the study. The difference in percentage of participants was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM value minus XRM value, CMRM value minus CMRM+XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Difference of Confidence in Diagnosis for Breast Region Diagnosis Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM+XRM vs UMRM+XRM and CMRM+XRM vs XRM by Reader, Participant Level, The investigator and the blinded readers each recorded his/her confidence in diagnosis for each breast region based on a 4-point scale (1 = not confident, 2 = somewhat confident, 3 = confident, and 4 = very confident). For each participant, the mean of the confidence responses for the diagnosed breast regions was calculated, and rounded to the nearest 0.5. The difference was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection
Sensitivity for Detection of Full Extent of Malignant Breast Disease Using XRM, CMRM+XRM and UMRM+XRM Per Reader, For a single participant the sensitivity was defined as the proportion of malignant breast regions that were recognized by the reader using the respective imaging modality as malignant. Subsequently the sensitivity percentage was calculated based on the mean of the sensitivities across all participants., Immediately before injection and after injection|Breast Level Specificity of in Non-malignant Breasts Using UMRM, XRM, CMRM+XRM and UMRM+XRM by Reader, A non-malignant breast was defined as false positive (FP), when the reader assessed at least one breast region as malignant. When all breast regions were assessed as non-malignant, the breast was defined as true negative (TN). Breast level specificity was first defined in participant as number of TN-breasts in participant divided by number of non-malignant breasts in participant. Subsequently the specificity percentage was calculated based on the mean of the specificities across all participants who contributed with at least one non-malignant breast., Immediately before injection and after injection|Breast Level Specificity in Malignant Breasts Using UMRM, XRM, CMRM+XRM and UMRM+XRM by Reader, A malignant breast was defined as FP, when the reader using the respective imaging modality assessed more breast regions as malignant as were present according to SoT. Otherwise the breast was assessed as TN. Specificity was then defined as TN/(TN+FP)., Immediately before injection and after injection|Breast Level Specificity for All Breasts by Imaging Modality and by Reader, A non-malignant breast was defined as FP when the reader assessed at least one breast region as malignant. A malignant breast was defined as FP, when the reader using the respective imaging modality assessed more breast regions as malignant as were present according to SoT. Otherwise the breast was assessed as TN. Specificity was then defined as (N-FP)/N, where N was total number of breasts., Immediately before injection and after injection|Sensitivity Difference in the Determination of Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM+XRM vs UMRM+XRM, and CMRM+XRM vs XRM Verified by SoT, Breast Region Level, For a single participant the sensitivity was defined as the proportion of malignant breast regions that were recognized by the reader using the respective imaging modality as malignant. Subsequently the point estimates were calculated based on the mean of the sensitivities across all participants. Regions with malignant disease verified by SoT comprise unifocal and multifocal regions. Difference in sensitivity is calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Sensitivity Difference in the Determination of Unifocal Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM+XRM vs UMRM+XRM, and CMRM+XRM vs XRM Verified by SoT, Breast Region Level, For a single participant the sensitivity was defined as the proportion of malignant breast regions that were recognized by the reader using the respective imaging modality as malignant. Subsequently the point estimates were calculated based on the mean of the sensitivities across all participants. The difference in sensitivity is calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Sensitivity Difference in the Determination of Multifocal Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM+XRM vs UMRM+XRM, and CMRM+XRM vs XRM Verified by SoT, Breast Region Level, For a single participant the sensitivity was defined as the proportion of malignant breast regions that were recognized by the reader using the respective imaging modality as malignant. Subsequently the point estimates were calculated based on the mean of the sensitivities across all participants. The difference in sensitivity is calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Specificity Difference in the Determination of Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM+XRM vs UMRM+XRM, and CMRM+XRM vs XRM Verified by SoT, Breast Region Level, A malignant breast was defined as FP, when the reader using the respective imaging modality assessed more breast regions as malignant as were present according to SoT. Otherwise the breast was assessed as TN. Specificity was then defined as TN/(TN+FP). The difference was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Specificity Difference in the Determination of Unifocal Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM+XRM vs UMRM+XRM, and CMRM+XRM vs XRM Verified by SoT, Breast Region Level, A malignant breast was defined as FP, when the reader using the respective imaging modality assessed more breast regions as malignant as were present according to SoT. Otherwise the breast was assessed as TN. Specificity was then defined as TN/(TN+FP). The difference was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Specificity Difference in the Determination of Multifocal Malignant Breast Disease Using CMRM vs UMRM, CMRM+XRM vs UMRM+XRM, and CMRM+XRM vs XRM Verified by SoT, Breast Region Level, A malignant breast was defined as FP, when the reader using the respective imaging modality assessed more breast regions as malignant as were present according to SoT. Otherwise the breast was assessed as TN. Specificity was then defined as TN/(TN+FP). The difference was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Sensitivity of Detection of Multicentric Malignant Disease Verified by SoT, Breast Level, For a single participant the sensitivity was defined as the proportion of malignant breast regions that were recognized by the reader using the respective imaging modality as malignant. Subsequently the point estimates were calculated based on the mean of the sensitivities across all participants. The difference was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Accuracy Difference of Presence of Bilateral Malignant Disease Verified by SoT by Clinical Investigator, Participant Level, The disease state "bilateral malignant disease" was derived from the assessment of the different regions for each breast (right and left) for investigators for each imaging modality (UMRM, CMRM, XRM, UMRM+XRM, and CMRM+XRM) based on the following rule: If the participant had at least one breast with no malignant region , the assessment of bilateral malignant disease was categorized as "No". If the participant had at least one malignant lesion in both breasts, the assessment of bilateral malignant disease was categorized as "Yes". The proportion of correct matches of each different image set to the SoT for the existence of bilateral malignant disease were derived. The analysis was based on the difference in accuracy for the evaluation of bilateral malignant disease for the following image comparisons on a participant level. The difference was calculated as CMRM value minus UMRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus UMRM+XRM value, CMRM+XRM value minus XRM value respectively., Immediately before injection and after injection|Blinded Readers: Inter-reader Agreement on Sensitivity Based on Assessment for UMRM vs CMRM - Breast Region Level, Inter-reader agreement was assessed by considering each breast region to have 2 possibilities (malignant disease / no malignant disease) for an assessment by the 2 image sets (UMRM and CMRM). Kappa value varies from 0 (no agreement) to 1 (perfect agreement)., Immediately before injection and after injection|Blinded Reader 1: Intra-reader Variability Based on Assessment for CMRM - Breast Level, Intra-reader variability was assessed using a kappa on the match to SoT for the different regions within each participant (match, no match SoT). For each of the 3 readers, intra-reader agreement was assessed by considering each breast region to have 2 possibilities for an assessment by CMRM: matched SoT or did not match SoT. Kappa value varies from 0 (no agreement) to 1 (perfect agreement)., Immediately before injection and after injection|Blinded Reader 2: Intra-reader Variability Based on Assessment for CMRM - Breast Level, Intra-reader variability was assessed using a kappa on the match to SoT for the different regions within each participant (match, no match SoT). For each of the 3 readers, intra-reader agreement was assessed by considering each breast region to have 2 possibilities for an assessment by CMRM: matched SoT or did not match SoT. Kappa value varies from 0 (no agreement) to 1 (perfect agreement)., Immediately before injection and after injection|Blinded Reader 3: Intra-reader Variability Based on Assessment for CMRM - Breast Level, Intra-reader variability was assessed using a kappa on the match to SoT for the different regions within each participant (match, no match SoT). For each of the 3 readers, intra-reader agreement was assessed by considering each breast region to have 2 possibilities for an assessment by CMRM: matched SoT or did not match SoT. Kappa value varies from 0 (no agreement) to 1 (perfect agreement)., Immediately before injection and after injection|Categorical Accuracy Difference of Extent of Malignant Disease Verified by SoT by Majority Reader, Breast Region Level, Immediately before injection and after injection|Categorical Accuracy Difference of Extent of Malignant Disease Verified by Histopathology by Majority Reader, Breast Region Level, Immediately before injection and after injection|Vital Signs Change From Baseline and Follow-up 24 Hours Post Injection - Systolic and Diastolic Blood Pressure, Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were measured in a supine position. Blood pressure was not to be measured on the arm used for the injection., Baseline, 24 hours post injection|Vital Signs Change From Baseline and Follow-up 24 Hours Post Injection - Heart Rate, Heart rate was measured in a supine position., Baseline, Follow-up visit (24 hours post injection)|Number of Participants With at Least One Laboratory Parameter Change From Low or Normal at Baseline to Abnormally High at Follow-up 24 Hours Post Injection, Number of participants with at least one occurrence of changing from low or normal at baseline to high at follow-up., Baseline, Follow-up visit (24 hours post injection)
The purpose of this study is to look at the efficacy (how does it work) and safety of gadobutrol when used for obtaining MR images of both breasts.Women with a recent diagnosis of breast cancer by mammogram (X-ray examination of the breasts) may benefit from MRI of the breasts as MRI may detect additional breast cancers