A Study of the Combination of Pemetrexed and Irinotecan Every Two Weeks in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
A non-randomized phase II study to determine the efficacy and safety of the combination of Pemetrexed and Irinotecan every two weeks in metastatic colorectal cancer patients.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: pemetrexed|DRUG: irinotecan
Best Overall Tumor Response, Best response recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria that defines when participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stable"), or worsen ("progression") during treatment.

Complete response (CR) = disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR) = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions.

Progressive disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Stable disease (SD) = small changes that do not meet above criteria., baseline to measured progressive disease (up to 2 years follow-up)
Duration of Response, The duration of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of progression or death as a result of any cause. Response was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria that defines when participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stable"), or worsen ("progression") during treatment.

Complete response (CR) = disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR) = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., time of response to progressive disease or death (up to 2 years follow-up)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from study enrollment to the first date of disease progression or death as a result of any cause. PFS was censored at the date of the last follow-up visit for participants who were still alive and who had not progressed., baseline to measured progressive disease or death (up to 2 years follow-up)|Time to Treatment Failure, Defined as the time from study enrollment to the first observation of disease progression, death as a result of any cause, or early discontinuation of treatment. Time to treatment failure was censored at the date of the last follow-up visit for patients who did not discontinue early, who were still alive, and who have not progressed., baseline to stopping treatment (up to 2 years follow-up)|Overall Survival, Overall survival is the duration from enrollment to death. For patients who are alive, overall survival is censored at the last contact., baseline to date of death from any cause (up to 2 years follow-up)
A non-randomized phase II study to determine the efficacy and safety of the combination of Pemetrexed and Irinotecan every two weeks in metastatic colorectal cancer patients.