Symbenda Post-Marketing Surveillance (PMS)
This is a PMS of Symbenda Injection (bendamustine hydrochloride) in Korean Patients. The main objective is to obtain safety information related to Symbenda treatment from clinical practice.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|Lymphocytic Leukemia|Multiple Myeloma
Safety of Symbenda as a measure of number of participants with adverse events/serious adverse events/adverse drug reactions, An adverse event is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. A serious adverse event is defined as any adverse event occurring at any dose that results in any of the following outcomes: results in death; is life threatening; results in inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in a persistent or significant incapacity or substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life function; results in a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or can be defined as any other important medical event., Up to 6 months
Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas response rate per Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas to assess the tumor response, Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma(NHL) is a cancer that starts in cells called lymphocytes, which are part of the body's immune system. Lymphocytes are in the lymph nodes and other lymphoid tissues (such as the spleen and bone marrow). Non-hodgkin's lymphoma is classified with two broad categories, such as high-grade or aggressive and low-grade or indolent.

Response criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphomas will be used to assess tumor response., After 2nd cycle (each cycle = 28 days) up to 1.5 months|Chronic lymphocytic leukemia response rate per National Cancer Institute-Sponsored Working Group (NCISWG) criteria to assess the tumor response, Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a type of cancer that starts from cells that become lymphocytes in the bone marrow. The cancer (leukemia) cells start in the bone marrow but then migrate into the blood. NCISWG criteria will be used to assess tumor response., After 2nd cycle (each cycle = 28 days) up to 2 months|Multiple myeloma response rate per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) uniform response criteria to assess the tumor response, Multiple myeloma is a cancer formed by malignant plasma cells. Normal plasma cells are found in the bone marrow and are an important part of the immune system. IMWG Uniform Response Criteria will be used to assess tumor response., After 2nd cycle (each cycle = 28 days) up to 2 months
This is a PMS of Symbenda Injection (bendamustine hydrochloride) in Korean Patients. The main objective is to obtain safety information related to Symbenda treatment from clinical practice.