Pemetrexed Combined With Synchronous Gefitinib as Adjuvent Therapy in Patient With EGFR Mutant Lung Adenocarcinoma
This randomized phase III trial is studying gefitinib and synchronous pemetrexed/cisplatin chenmotherapy to see how well it works compared to pemetrexed/cisplatin chenmotherapy alone in treating patients who have undergone surgery for stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) lung adenocarcinoma with EGFR activating mutation in Asian population.
Lung Neoplasms
DRUG: Gefitinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Disease free survival, To evaluate the disease free survival of synchronous therapy versus combination of Pemetrexed plus Cisplatin as adjuvant treatment for pathological stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) lung adenocarcinoma with EGFR mutation.Disease free survival (DFS)- defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., From date of randomization to the first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 and 5 years.
Overall survival, To evaluate the overall survival of synchronous therapy versus combination of Pemetrexed plus Cisplatin as adjuvant treatment for stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) lung adenocarcinoma with EGFR mutation., From date of randomization to the first documented death, assessed up to 5 years.|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, The safety and tolerability profile of gefitinib at a 250 mg daily dose relative to that of Chemotherapy., In the period of Gefitinib 250 mg/day oral daily for 24 months. Pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on day 1, Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 on day 1 for 4 cycles.|Quality of life, Quality of life as measured by the total score and Trial Outcome Index (TOI) of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung Cancer (FACT-L) questionnaire., In the period of Gefitinib 250 mg/day oral daily for 24 months. Pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 intravenous infusion on day 1, Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 on day 1 for 4 cycles.
Adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy is recommended for routine use in patients with stages IIA, IIB, and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after complete resection. Cisplatin and pemetrexed combination is the standard regimen for lung adenocarcinoma in adjuvant setting. The BR. 19 trial reported adjuvant gefitinib after complete resection of early stage NSCLC(stage IB 49%, II 38%, III 13%) did not confer disease free survival(DFS) or overall survival(OS) advantage in overall population. While the median gefitinib treatment time is only 4.8 months. There are only 76 patients with EGFR mutations included in this analysis. The study closed prematurely in 2005.

Activating somatic mutations of the tyrosine kinase domain of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) have been characterized in a subset of patients with advanced NSCLC.The EGFR mutation rate was 30% in Chinese NSCLC. Patients harboring these mutations in their tumors show excellent response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs). This randomized phase III trial is studying gefitinib and synchronous pemetrexed/cisplatin chenmotherapy to see how well it works compared to pemetrexed/cisplatin chenmotherapy alone in treating patients who have undergone surgery for stage II-IIIA(N1-N2) lung adenocarcinoma with EGFR activating mutation in Asian population.