Study to Allow Access to Single Agent Panobinostat for Patients Who Are on s.a. Panobinostat Treatment in a Novartis-sponsored Study and Continue to Benefit From the Treatment as Judged by the Investigator
The study allowed continued use of single agent panobinostat in patients who were on single agent panobinostat treatment in a Novartis-sponsored study which had met its endpoint and were benefiting from the treatment as judged by the investigator.
Hematologic Neoplasms
DRUG: Panobinostat
Overview of Adverse Events (Safety Set), Adverse events were collected from baseline up to 30 days post treatment at scheduled visits. Severity of adverse events was assessed according to the current version of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). If CTCAE grading did not exist for an adverse event, the severity of mild, moderate, severe, and life-threatening, corresponding to Grades 1 - 4, was used, Baseline up to approximately 60 months
Percentage of Patients With Clinical Benefit as Assessed by the Investigator., Patients were assessed by investigators at scheduled visits to determine if patient continued to benefit from panobinostat therapy., baseline up to approximate 5 years
This was a multi-center open label study to provide continued use of single agent oral panobinostat to patients treated in a Novartis-sponsored study (parent study) which had met its endpoint and were benefiting from continuation of the treatment with single-agent panobinostat as judged by the investigator. Patients from multiple parent studies were transferred over to this protocol and continued to receive single agent panobinostat at the last assigned dose and regimen of the parent protocol. There was no screening period, and patients had to visit the study center at least on a quarterly basis. During these visits limited information on study treatment and occurrence of SAEs was collected for the clinical database. SAEs were only reported to the Novartis safety database. Other assessments and possibly more frequent visits occurred as per standard of care at the site. Patients continued treatment until they were no longer benefiting from panobinostat treatment, developed unacceptable toxicities, withdrew consent, were non-compliant with the protocol, the investigator believed it was no longer in the best interest to continue, the patient died, or for other administrative reasons. An end of treatment visit and a safety follow-up for 30 days after the last dose was performed. The study was expected to remain open for 5 years or until such time that enrolled patients no longer needed treatment with panobinostat, whichever came earlier.