Immunogenicity and Safety of GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals' Huma Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine 580299 in Healthy Females 15 - 25 Years of Age
Infection with human papillomavirus (HPV) has been clearly established as the central cause of cervical cancer. The current phase 3b study is designed to assess the immunogenicity and safety of GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals' HPV vaccine GSK580299 administered according to an alternative dosing schedule as compared to the standard dosing schedule in young female subjects aged 15 - 25 years. The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007.
Infections, Papillomavirus
BIOLOGICAL: Cervarix TM|BIOLOGICAL: Cervarix TM
Number of Subjects Seroconverted for Anti-human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Seroconversion is defined as the appearance of anti-HPV-16 and/or anti- HPV-18 antibodies (i.e. antibody titer ≥ cut-off value) in the sera of subjects seronegative before vaccination.

Cut-off values were 8 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units per milliliter (EL.U/mL) for anti-HPV-16 antibodies and 7 EL.U/mL for anti- HPV-18 antibodies., One month after the third vaccine dose|Titer of Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 Antibodies, Titer given as geometric mean titer (GMT)., One month after the third vaccine dose
Number of Subjects Seroconverted for Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 Antibodies, Seroconversion is defined as the appearance of anti-HPV-16 and/or anti- HPV-18 antibodies (i.e. antibody titer ≥ cut-off value) in the sera of subjects seronegative before vaccination.

Cut-off values were 8 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units per milliliter (EL.U/mL) for anti-HPV-16 antibodies and 7 EL.U/mL for anti- HPV-18 antibodies., One month after the second vaccine dose|Titer of Anti-HPV-16 and Anti-HPV-18 Antibodies, Titer given as GMT., One month after the second vaccine dose|Number of Subjects Reporting Solicited Local Symptoms, Solicited local symptoms assessed include pain, redness and swelling at the injection site., During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period following each vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Solicited General Symptoms, Solicited general symptoms assessed include arthralgia, fatigue, fever, gastrointestinal symptoms, headache, myalgia, rash, and urticaria., During the 7-day (Days 0-6) period following each vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Unsolicited Adverse Events (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation subject, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product., During the 30-day (Days 0-29) period following each vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting New Onset of Chronic Diseases (NOCDs), New Onset Autoimmune Diseases (NOADs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), and Medically Significant Conditions (MSCs), Entire study period = up to Month 18 Cervarix-12 \& Month 12 Cervarix-6.

NOCDs assessed include eg. autoimmune disorders (NOADs), asthma, type I diabetes. MSCs assessed include AEs prompting emergency room visits and physician office visits not related to common illnesses.

An SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that: results in death, is lifethreatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject, or may evolve into one of the outcomes listed above., During the entire study period (up to Month 18 or up to Month 12)|Number of Subjects With Pregnancies and Their Outcomes, Entire study period = up to Month 18 Cervarix-12 \& Month 12 Cervarix-6

Number of pregnancies and pregnancy outcomes., During the entire study period (up to Month 18 or Month 12)|Number of Subjects Completing the 3-dose Vaccination Schedule, After the third vaccine dose
Infection with human papillomavirus (HPV) has been clearly established as the central cause of cervical cancer. The current phase 3b study is designed to assess the immunogenicity and safety of GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals' HPV vaccine GSK580299 administered according to an alternative dosing schedule as compared to the standard dosing schedule in young female subjects aged 15 - 25 years. The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007.