One-year, Open Extension to Evaluate the Treatment of Patients With Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer With YONSA™
This is an open-label, single-arm, multi-center extension study to evaluate safety in patients with mCRPC of YONSA 500 mg (4 x 125 mg qd) with methylprednisolone (4 mg bid). Patients will have successfully completed an 84-day treatment with abiraterone acetate in a previous trial. Results from the final visit of the previous study will be used to determine patient's eligibility for this study. Patients in this study will be eligible to receive open-label YONSA with methylprednisolone for up to 12 months. Pharmacodynamic parameters of serum testosterone and PSA levels will be monitored. Disease progression will be assessed by PCWG2 criteria.
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DRUG: abiraterone acetate with Methylprednisolone
Number of Subjects With Adverse Events, Adverse events, one year
Proportion of Subjects With Disease Progression, Number of participants who had disease progression, one year|Testosterone Levels, Change in serum testosterone levels from baseline, Baseline and 360 days|Prostate Specific Antigen Levels, Change in serum testosterone levels after one year of treatment against baseline, One year|Testosterone Complete Suppression, Proportion of subjects with complete suppression of testosterone levels, 360 days|Percentage of Subjects With Prostate Specific Antigen - 50 Response, A decrease of ≥50% reduction from baseline of the study CHL-AA-201, 360 days
This is an open-label, single-arm, multi-center extension study to evaluate safety in patients with mCRPC of YONSA 500 mg (4 x 125 mg qd) with methylprednisolone (4 mg bid). Patients will have successfully completed an 84-day treatment with abiraterone acetate in a previous trial. Results from the final visit of the previous study will be used to determine patient's eligibility for this study. Patients in this study will be eligible to receive open-label YONSA with methylprednisolone for up to 12 months. Pharmacodynamic parameters of serum testosterone and PSA levels will be monitored. Disease progression will be assessed by PCWG2 criteria.