Monoclonal Gammopathy With Clinical Significance in Patients With and Without Haematological Malignancies in Finistère Between 2012 and 2017 (GammaClinik)
Clinical symptoms associated with monoclonal gammapathy have been primarily studied in hematological malignancy and rarely in MGUS and hemopathy. Indeed, most studies focus on a specific type of clinical involvement that does not allow to understand the epidemiological distribution of clinical symptoms in this population. In addition, in most cases, studies of clinical impairment of monoclonal gammapathies focus on one symptom. This study could highlight disparities in the representation of clinical disorders associated with monoclonal gammapathies, depending on whether they are or not associated with a malignant hematology, and would provide a better overall picture of the distribution of these diseases. This study could potentially define prognosis values for certain clinical conditions that we would not find in the group of hematological malignancies. This study would also make it possible to investigate whether there are clinical disorders of monoclonal gammapathies associated with chronic lymphoma/lymphocytic leukemia. This would potentially guide future pathophysiological research. This bicentric study could, depending on the results, be supplemented later by a larger study.
Gammopathy, Monoclonal
Search for a difference in the distribution of the various clinical conditions associated with monoclonal peaks in gammapathies of undetermined significance compared with hematological malignancies., The presence of a difference in the distribution of gammopathy-related clinical disorders between GMSI and hemopathies, 5 years
Clinical symptoms associated with monoclonal gammapathy have been primarily studied in hematological malignancy and rarely in MGUS and hemopathy. Indeed, most studies focus on a specific type of clinical involvement that does not allow to understand the epidemiological distribution of clinical symptoms in this population. In addition, in most cases, studies of clinical impairment of monoclonal gammapathies focus on one symptom. This study could highlight disparities in the representation of clinical disorders associated with monoclonal gammapathies, depending on whether they are or not associated with a malignant hematology, and would provide a better overall picture of the distribution of these diseases. This study could potentially define prognosis values for certain clinical conditions that we would not find in the group of hematological malignancies. This study would also make it possible to investigate whether there are clinical disorders of monoclonal gammapathies associated with chronic lymphoma/lymphocytic leukemia. This would potentially guide future pathophysiological research. This bicentric study could, depending on the results, be supplemented later by a larger study.