Tocilizumab Delivered Via Pleural and Peritoneal Catheters in Patients With Advanced Metastatic Cancer
The purpose of this study to find out if tocilizumab can be safely infused into chest or abdominal cavities of patients with malignancy ascites (MA) or malignant pleural effusions (MPE). Patients will have a total of 4 doses, one dose administered each week. Each dose will be greater than the previous one.
Malignant Pleural Effusion|Malignant Ascites
DRUG: Tocilizumab
Successful intra-cavitary administration of tocilizumab, Number of patients with successful administration of tocilizumab, 6 weeks|Adverse Events, To identify the frequency and type of adverse events (AE) following intrapleural or intraperitoneal administration of tocilizumab at doses up to 2.5 mg (intrapleural) or 25 mg (intraperitoneal) using CTCAE v5.0, 6 weeks
Pharmacokinetics Analysis, Measuring serum receptor occupancy levels, 4 weeks|Pharmacokinetics Analysis, Measuring intracavity fluid receptor occupancy levels, 4 weeks|Biomarkers, Change in Pleural cytokine concentrations, 4 weeks|Biomarkers, Change in Peritoneal Cytokine concentrations, 4 weeks|Biomarkers, Change in immune cell density, 4 weeks
This is an open label, Phase 1, intra-patient dose escalation study to determine the feasibility of catheter-based intra-pleural and intra-peritoneal administration of tocilizumab at doses up to 50μg/mL in patients with malignant pleural effusions (MPE) and malignant ascites (MA) and to determine the frequency and type of adverse events.

This study is open to patients who have had or are having chest or abdomen drains placed during cancer treatment to relieve pressure due to buildup of cancerous fluid. Some patients have drains that are temporary (single-use), while others have drains that are left in place (indwelling) for repeated or continuous at-home drainage.

Research participants, in addition to the standard treatment above, will undergo a series of four weekly infusions of the study drug into the body cavities, using the drains to inject the drug. The dose of the drug will be increased at each of the four visits. Each treatment session will last about one hour, and participants donate 12 milliliters (1 tablespoon) of blood before and after the treatment.

Fluid drained from the body cavity, which is normally discarded, will instead be collected for analysis. Researchers will analyze the blood and fluid for markers of your immune system's reaction to the drug. The total study duration is expected to be no more than 10 weeks.