Treatment of Selinexor in Combination With Clarithromycin, Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone for Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma Patients
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy and safety of investigational combination therapy of Selinexor, Clarithromycin, Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone (ClaSPd) for patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. The hypothesis is that the addition of Selinexor to Clarithromycin, Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone will increase the overall response rate of patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.
Myeloma Multiple|Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Clarithromycin|DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Percentage of Participants With Overall Response Rate of Partial Response or Better, ORR is defined as participants who experience a partial response, very good partial response, complete response, or stringent complete response per International Myeloma Working Group Criteria (IMWG) 2016 criteria. Complete Response is defined as negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow aspirates. Stringent Complete Response is defined as complete response as noted previously plus normal free light chain ratio and absence of clonal cells in bone marrow biopsy by immune-histochemistry. Partial Response is ≥50% reduction of serum M-protein plus reduction in 24 hour urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to \<200 mg per 24 h. Very Good Partial Response is serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum M-protein plus urine M-protein level \<100 mg per 24 hr., Until disease progression; the maximum time any participant was followed for ORR was 287 days
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse events will be determined by Events as assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The frequency of adverse events will be collected in tabular summary from when a participant consent to study until end of study or patient participant starts a new treatment., Adverse events were collected from time of informed consent until 30 days after the last day of study drug administration for each participant. The maximum period that AEs were collected for a participant was 300 days.
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy and safety of investigational combination therapy of Selinexor, Clarithromycin, Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone (ClaSPd) for patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. The hypothesis is that the addition of Selinexor to Clarithromycin, Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone will increase the overall response rate of patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.