Quantitative Fluorescence Endoscopy Using Durvalumab-680LT in Esophageal Cancer
Treatment of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer (EC) is multidisciplinary and consists of neoadjuvant therapy followed by surgical removal of the esophageal tumor and potentially tumor positive lymph nodes. The beneficial effect of the addition of immunotherapy to improve response rates to current treatment strategies has been investigated response to, since only 16 to 43% of EC patients achieve a pathological complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant therapy and a pCR is associated with better long-term outcomes. Unfortunately, not all patients respond to immunotherapy and the knowledge about biomarkers that predict response to therapy are required. A promising novel parameter is tumor programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression, one of the immune checkpoints targeted by cancer immunotherapy. Studies performed in patients with various solid tumors demonstrate improved response to immunotherapy and survival benefit in patients with higher PD-L1 expression. Nonetheless, not all patients with high PD-L1 expression show benefit and some without expression do. Moreover, mostly biopsy-based tests are used to assess PD-L1 status, although these tests are prone to errors, partly due to heterogeneity in tissue expression. Novel methods are needed to gain more insight in the PD-L1 expression in order to better select patients who are likely to benefit from immunotherapy. The investigators hypothesize that quantitative fluorescence endoscopy using the tracer durvalumab-680LT targeting PD-L1 is a promising technique to investigate the heterogeneity of PD-L1 expression.
Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Fluorescence endoscopy using durvalumab-680LT
1) Evaluating the heterogeneity of the PD-L1 tumor expression before and after neoadjuvant therapy using quantitative fluorescence endoscopy using the PD-L1-targeted fluorescent tracer durvalumab-680LT, Quantification of the fluorescent durvalumab-680LT signal, both in vivo and ex vivo, using our spectroscopy device before and after neoadjudant treatment., Within 12 months after the study procedures|2) Incidence of (severe) adverse events (SAE/AEs) related to administration of durvalumab-680LT assessed by CTCAE, Safety of durvalumab-680LT administration will be assessed by using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., Up to one week after tracer administration
Treatment of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer (EC) is multidisciplinary and consists of neoadjuvant therapy followed by surgical removal of the esophageal tumor and potentially tumor positive lymph nodes. The beneficial effect of the addition of immunotherapy to improve response rates to current treatment strategies has been investigated response to, since only 16 to 43% of EC patients achieve a pathological complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant therapy and a pCR is associated with better long-term outcomes. Unfortunately, not all patients respond to immunotherapy and the knowledge about biomarkers that predict response to therapy are required. A promising novel parameter is tumor programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression, one of the immune checkpoints targeted by cancer immunotherapy. Studies performed in patients with various solid tumors demonstrate improved response to immunotherapy and survival benefit in patients with higher PD-L1 expression. Nonetheless, not all patients with high PD-L1 expression show benefit and some without expression do. Moreover, mostly biopsy-based tests are used to assess PD-L1 status, although these tests are prone to errors, partly due to heterogeneity in tissue expression. Novel methods are needed to gain more insight in the PD-L1 expression in order to better select patients who are likely to benefit from immunotherapy. The investigators hypothesize that quantitative fluorescence endoscopy using the tracer durvalumab-680LT targeting PD-L1 is a promising technique to investigate the heterogeneity of PD-L1 expression.