PILOT for The Precision Exercise Regimen for Cancer Care (PERCC) Study
This study is designed to evaluate whether a precision exercise regimen is feasible to implement within cancer populations, specifically stage II-III primary lung cancer patients receiving multimodal therapy, and delivered through telehealth.
NSCLC Stage II|NSCLC, Stage III
OTHER: Precision Exercise Regimen for Cancer Care (PERCC)
Feasibility - Recruitment and Retention, Feasibility of the PERCC intervention will be evaluated by our ability to recruit and retain the needed number of patients with 80% exercise intervention attendance., up to two months post-surgery
Feasibility - Safety, The feasibility of the PERCC intervention will be evaluated based on participant safety.

This outcome measure will assess the safety and tolerability of the study treatment.

The severity of AEs will be assessed using CTCAE v5.0 criteria, a 1-5 scale with higher numbers indicating greater severity. Grade 1 indicates "mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated" and Grade 5 indicates "death related to AE".

Subjects will be monitored for adverse events from the start of treatment until two months post-surgery., up to two months post-surgery
This is a pilot study evaluating the feasibility of the Precision Exercise Regimen for Cancer Care (PERCC) intervention in stage II and stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) patients receiving multimodal therapy at the Huntsman Cancer Institute (HCI) at the University of Utah. Eligible patients will begin the intervention at the pre-treatment clinic visit and continue until approximately two months post-surgery.

The PERCC intervention is a virtually supervised home-based exercise program. Participants will engage in exercise starting at least two weeks before receiving their first neoadjuvant treatment for lung cancer and continuing until two months after receiving surgical treatment. The exercise modes will include basic transfer and calisthenics mobility, aerobic, and resistance exercises and will be performed in various postures (supine, sitting, standing, and walking) with variable challenges (level walking, bending, inclines, steps, and squatting).