Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage IV Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well vaccine therapy works in treating patients with stage IV hormone receptor positive breast cancer. Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: HER-2/neu peptide vaccine
Quantification and characterization of HER2-specific TCM and TEM subsets in PBMC, Wilson score 90% confidence intervals will be reported., Up to 4 weeks|Evaluation of function and phenotype of HER2-specific TE cells derived from HER2-specific TCM and TEM subsets, Wilson score 90% confidence intervals will be reported. Determined by flow cytometry and reported using descriptive statistics and graphical summaries., Up to 4 weeks
The number of subjects reporting adverse events, evaluated according to the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, All, severe or worse, serious and related events will be quantified., Up to 4 weeks|The percent of subjects recording adverse events, evaluated according to the CTEP CTCAE version 4.0, All, severe or worse, serious and related events will be quantified., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To quantify and characterize human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-specific central memory T cell (TCM) and effector memory T cell (TEM) subsets in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) of patients vaccinated with a HER2 cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) peptide-based vaccine.

II. To evaluate the feasibility of expanding HER2-specific effector T cells (TE) derived from HER2-specific TCM or TEM precursors in patients vaccinated with a HER2 CTL peptide-based vaccine and characterize their function.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of administering a HER2 CTL peptide-based vaccine in patients who are receiving trastuzumab and/or lapatinib (lapatinib ditosylate).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive HER-2/neu peptide vaccine intradermally (ID) once monthly for 3 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks.