The Myocet/Lapatinib Study. ICORG 10-03, V5
This study is a Phase I/II open label, multi-centre trial. Patients with HER2+ve metastatic breast cancer, following disease progression during, or after, treatment with trastuzumab and taxanes, will be treated with Lapatinib (Tyverb™ 500-1250 mg orally daily - depending on the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) determined in the Phase I part of the study) plus Myocet™, 50-60 mg/m2 i.v q3 weeks).

Within the Phase I part, doses are assigned at registration according to the dose escalation scheme.

The dose for the Phase II part of the trial will be based on the MTD established in the Phase I part of the study.

Clinical and laboratory parameters will be assessed to evaluate disease response and toxicity of study therapy. Safety assessments will be performed every 3 weeks for the first 24 weeks. Efficacy assessments (radiological examination) will be performed on all patients every 8 weeks (± 7 days) for the first 24 weeks. Cardiotoxicity assessments will be performed at weeks 6 and 12. From week 24, safety, efficacy and cardiotoxicity assessments will be performed every 12 weeks and at the end of treatment (disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient withdraws consent).
Her2 Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicon (Myocet™)|DRUG: Lapatinib (Tyverb™)
Optimal dose for lapatinib plus myocet, Determination of the optimal dose for lapatinib plus Myocet™, in combination, in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer following disease progression during, or after, treatment with trastuzumab and taxanes as measured by MTD (Phase I), 6 months
Overall survival, overall survival time (OS - time from registration to death from any cause) as assessed by standard RECIST criteria, From registration to death
Primary Objective:

1. To determine the optimal dose for lapatinib plus Myocet™, in combination, in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer following disease progression during, or after, treatment with trastuzumab and taxanes (Phase I).
2. To evaluate the 6 month progression-free survival of patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, following disease progression during, or after, treatment with trastuzumab and taxanes, who are treated with lapatinib plus Myocet™ (Phase II plus patients treated at MTD in Phase I).

Secondary Objectives:

1. To evaluate the overall survival time, duration of progression -free survival, time to treatment failure, confirmed tumour response rate and duration of response in patients treated with this regimen (Phase II plus patients treated at MTD in Phase I).
2. To assess the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.
3. To assess the incidence of cardiotoxicity in these patients treated with this regimen.