Breast Re-irradiation After Second Ipsilateral Lumpectomy
The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and possible harms of treating breast cancer with reirradiation, after breast surgery. The researchers want to find out what effects (good and bad) reirradiation has on people who have already received radiation before surgery.
Breast Cancer|Cancer|Cancer of the Breast|HER2-negative Breast Cancer|ER+ Breast Cancer|Estrogen-receptor-positive Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT)
Rate of grade 3 or higher treatment-related adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be collected using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 (CTCAE v5) starting from the first radiation treatment. Grade 1 AEs are considered mild, grade 2 AEs are considered moderate, grade 3 AEs are considered severe, grade 4 AEs are considered life-threatening, and grade 5 AEs are considered fatal. The percentage of participants experiencing grade 3 or higher treatment-related AEs will be calculated., 1 year
Local recurrence-free survival (LRFS), Local recurrence is defined as tumor recurrence in the reirradiated region. LRFS is defined as time from the start of radiation treatment to local recurrence or death, whichever occurs first, and will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who do not have local recurrence and are still alive will be censored to their final follow-up date., 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the start of radiation treatment to death and will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who are still alive will be censored to their final follow-up date., 5 years|Distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), Distant metastasis is defined as cancer spreading to other areas of the body. DMFS is defined as the time from the start of radiation treatment to time of distant metastasis or death and will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who do not have distant metastasis and are still alive will be censored to their final follow-up date., 5 years|Mastectomy-free survival (MFS), MFS is defined as the time from the start of radiation treatment to mastectomy or death, whichever occurs first, and will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who have not had a mastectomy and are still alive will be censored to their final follow-up date., 5 years|Change in patient-rated cosmesis, Assessed using the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) B39.0 questionnaire.

Physical appearance. 22 questions, rated 1 (no difference between breasts) to 4 (large difference). Range 22-88 (worse).

Recovery. 8 questions, rated 0 (not at all) to 10 (a lot). In 7 questions, higher is worse; scoring will be reversed for 1 item. Range 0-80 (worse).

Feelings. 4 questions, rated 1 (all the time) to 5 (none of the time). Lower is better for 2 but worse for 2. Scoring for 2 items will be reversed. 4 questions related to pain rated from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain). Range 0-40 (worse). One question is about pain treatment.

Bothered. 27 questions, rated 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Range 0 -108 (worse).

Satisfaction. Appearance of the treated breast rated from 1 (excellent) to 4 (poor). Satisfaction rated on a 5-item scale from totally satisfied to totally dissatisfied. Breast size before and after treatment: left larger, same, right larger., Over 5 years
The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and possible harms of treating breast cancer with reirradiation, after breast surgery. The researchers want to find out what effects (good and bad) reirradiation has on people who have already received radiation before surgery.