SERS-Based Serum Molecular Spectral Screening for Lung Cancer Type
Lung cancer can be divided into two major categories: small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with NSCLC accounting for about 85% and SCLC about 15%. The prognoses of different types of lung cancer vary significantly. Early identification of different pathological types of lung cancer is crucial to the patient's prognosis.

Raman Spectrum (RS), as a non-invasive and highly specific molecular detection technique, can obtain information at the molecular level, thereby sensitively detecting changes in biomolecules related to tumor metabolism such as proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, and sugars. Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS), developed based on this technology, is one of the feasible methods for high-sensitivity biomolecular analysis.

In preliminary study, the investigators collected serum Raman spectral data from a cohort of 233 patients with malignant lung tumors and built a Raman intelligent diagnostic system for SCLC and NSCLC based on a machine learning model, achieving an accuracy rate of 80%. To obtain the highest level of clinical evidence and truly achieve clinical translation, this prospective, multicenter clinical study aims to validate the use of this intelligent diagnostic system for the early diagnosis of SCLC.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell|Lung Cancer Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Serum Raman spectroscopy intelligent diagnostic system
pathology, The final pathology results of the lung lesion biopsy or post-surgery, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Diagnostic accuracy, Determine whether the enrolled lung cancer patients are small cell lung cancer or non-small cell lung cancer through the RAMAN intelligent diagnostic system, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Time to RAMAN diagnosis, The time to perform RAMAN testing and obtain diagnostic results after obtaining serum, up to 30 days|Safety assessment Results, AEs and SAEs through Day 30, up to 30 days
1. Screening interested participants should sign the appropriate informed consent (ICF) prior to completion any study procedures.
2. The investigator will review symptoms, risk factors, and other non-invasive inclusion and exclusion criteria.
3. Completion of baseline procedures, participants were assessed for 30 days and completed all safety monitoring.
4. After completing the baseline assessment and confirming enrollment, participants will be given 2ml of fasting venous blood.