Apalutamide in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer Who Are in Active Surveillance
This phase II trial studies how well apalutamide works in treating patients with prostate cancer who are in active surveillance. Testosterone can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy using androgen receptor antagonist apalutamide may fight prostate cancer by blocking the use of testosterone by the tumor cells.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Apalutamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Negative (i.e. no Residual Carcinoma) Site Directed and Systematic Prostate Biopsy Rate, Negative rate will be presented as the percent of subjects with a negative repeat biopsy, and will be calculated as: (number of patients with a negative biopsy following 90-days of apalutamide) / (total number of patients enrolled on the study) x 100. A 1-sample chi-square test will be used to compare the proportion with a negative repeat biopsy to the null hypothesis value of 20% (above). The 95% confidence interval will be computed., At 90 days
Percentage of Patients Exiting Active Surveillance Due to Pathologic Reclassification, The percentage of patients who exited active surveillance due to pathologic reclassification (e.g. increasing tumor volume or gleason score) will be computed along with its 95% confidence interval., At 2 years|Percentage of Patients Exiting Active Surveillance for Any Reason, Percentage of patients exiting active surveillance for any reason will be computed along with its 95% confidence interval., At 2 years|Percent of Men Undergoing Local Treatment, Computed along with its 95% confidence interval., At 2 years|Local Treatment Free Survival, Median treatment free survival will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods and 95% confidence interval will be calculated, Up to 730 days|Prostate-specific Antigen Progression Rate, Prostate-specific antigen progression rate is the proportion of patients that had PSA progression following treatment. PSA progression is as a confirmed rising prostate-specific antigen \>= 2 ng/mL, with subsequent PSA values obtained at least one week apart., At 2 years|Prostate-specific Antigen Progression Free Survival as Defined by the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 Criteria, Prostate-specific antigen progression free survival will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods and 95% confidence interval will be estimated using Greenwood's formula., At 2 years|Change in Radiographic Disappearance of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Detectable Prostate Cancer, This calculates the percentage of participants with radiographic disappearance of magnetic resonance imaging detectable prostate cancer. This is only in patients with a baseline nodule that is Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System 3 or more and \> 5 mm., Baseline to up to 90 days|Change in Quality of Life: FACT-P Assessment, As assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) surveys. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate is a validated quality of life survey specific for patients with prostate cancer. The total FACT-P score ranges from 0 to 156, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. The change in FACT-P score between baseline and day 730 is reported., Baseline compared to 730 days|Change in Quality of Life: SF-36 Physical Functioning, As assessed using the Short Form-36 (SF-36) survey physical functioning subscale. Short Form-36 is a validated quality of life survey. This is a generic survey to assess an individual's overall well-being, and is not specific to one disease. The SF-36 physical functioning subscale score ranges from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. The change in SF-36 energy/fatigue subscale score between baseline and day 730 is reported., Baseline compared to 730 days|Change in Quality of Life: SF-36 Energy/Fatigue, As assessed using the Short Form-36 (SF-36) survey energy/fatigue subscale. Short Form-36 is a validated quality of life survey. This is a generic survey to assess an individual's overall well-being, and is not specific to one disease. The SF-36 energy/fatigue subscale score ranges from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. The change in SF-36 energy/fatigue subscale score between baseline and day 730 is reported., Baseline compared to 730 days|Change in Quality of Life: SF-36 Emotional Well Being, As assessed using the Short Form-36 (SF-36) survey emotional well being subscale. Short Form-36 is a validated quality of life survey. This is a generic survey to assess an individual's overall well-being, and is not specific to one disease. The SF-36 emotional well being subscale score ranges from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. The change in SF-36 emotional well being subscale score between baseline and day 730 is reported., Baseline compared to 730 days
OUTLINE:

Patients receive apalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 90 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of the study treatment, patients are followed up at 180, 365, 545, and 730 days; and at years 3, 4 and 5 by medical record review.