FLAME: Investigate the Benefit of a Focal Lesion Ablative Microboost in Prostate Cancer
Rationale: Dose escalation in external-beam irradiation has proven to benefit outcome in local prostate cancer. Randomized trials were performed up to doses of 78 Gy in 2 Gy fractions. Nevertheless, the five-year biochemical relapse rate still was approximately 35% in the high-dose arm. Therefore further dose escalation seems to be required. A feasibility study up to appr. 85 Gy on the entire prostate has already been performed and showed acceptable toxicity when combined with adequate position verification. Higher doses to the entire prostate are expected to increase severe toxicity. As local recurrences only occur at the site of the primary macroscopic tumour area the next step in increasing the dose should be an ablative boost to the macroscopic tumour alone, while electively irradiating the rest of the prostate to the current gold standard dose. Feasibility of this approach has been shown for an ablative dose of 95 Gy to the macroscopic tumour within the prostate.
Prostate Cancer|Radiotherapy|MRI
RADIATION: FLAME boost|RADIATION: standard arm
To demonstrate the superiority of the ablative microboost dose schedule regarding 5-year biochemical no evidence of disease rate compared to the current standard of care., PSA relapse is defined by the Phoenix definition (2005) as nadir +2ng/ml., Every six months for 10 years
Establish and compare the rates of treatment-related toxicity., Toxicity is scored by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC). Every grade\>2 is considered severe toxicity., Every six months until 10 years|quality of life, Quality of life is measured by: SF-36, EORTC-C30 and EORTC-PR25., every six months until 10 year|Disease specific survival, Death with metastases is considered a death caused by the disease., every 6 montths until 10 years
Objective:

* Primary study objective: To demonstrate the superiority of the ablative microboost dose schedule regarding 5-year biochemical no evidence of disease rate compared to the current standard of care.
* Secondary study objectives: Establish and compare the rates of treatment-related toxicity, quality of life and disease-free survival.

Study design: Single blind prospective randomized controlled phase III trial.

Study population: Patients with intermediate or high risk adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Intermediate or high risk is defined according to the Ash et al. 2000 criteria as:

* One (intermediate-risk) or more (high-risk) factors: T2, or Gleasonscore=7, or iPSA 10-20 ng/mL
* One or more (high-risk) factors: T3, or Gleasonscore \>7, or iPSA \>20 ng/mL

Intervention: The standard arm receives the current gold standard, namely 77Gy to the prostate in 35 fractions of 2.2 Gy, 5 times per week. In the experimental arm patients receive in addition to the current gold standard of 77 Gy to the prostate an integrated boost to the macroscopically visible tumour to reach a total dose of 95 Gy in 35 fractions of 2.7 Gy, 5 times per week.

Main study endpoint: To decrease the five-year biochemical relapse rate with at least 10%.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness:

Patients will have to fill in a quality of life questionnaire before and after the radiotherapy treatments. The risk associated with the increased dose to the macroscopic tumour is an increase of toxicity and a reduction of quality of life.