Phase I/II Trial of Redox Regulation in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory CD20+ NHL
Monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver radioactive cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Motexafin gadolinium may increase the effectiveness of yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan by making the cancer cells more sensitive to the drug.

This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of motexafin gadolinium when administered with rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan and to see how well they work in treating patients with stage II, stage III, or stage IV relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL)
DRUG: Rituxan|DRUG: motexafin gadolinium|DRUG: 111Indium-Zevalin and 90Yttrium-Zevalin
Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT), The number of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) observed in patients treated with Motexafin Gadolinium at different dose levels in combination with Rituxan, Indium-Zevalin, and 90Yttrium-Zevalin was used to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) to be used for phase II of the study. The number of dose-limiting toxicities observed in each cohort of patients determined whether to continue dose escalation. Each cohort = at least 3 patients.

All toxicities will be graded according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria, version 2.0, with a DLT defined as any of the following:

Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity (other than grade 3 nausea or vomiting). Grade 4 vomiting despite maximal antiemetic support. Grade 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia either lasting longer than 14 days-Grade 4 duration will be measured (in days) from the first date in grade 4 to last date in grade 4 after nadir (growth factor and transfusion independent, respectively)., Weekly during treatment and continuing up through Day 90|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Motexafin Gadolinium in combination with Rituxan, Indium-Zevalin, and 90Yttrium-Zevalin was determined using a modified Fibonacci phase I study design (with patient allocation based on amount of lymphoma bone marrow involvement) and will be used in phase II of the study. The MTD will be that dose at which 0/3 or 1/6 patients or 2/9 experience a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), with the next higher dose level provoking DLT in 2/3 or 3/6 or 4/9 patients., Weekly during treatment and continuing up through Day 90
Anti-lymphoma Efficacy, To assess the anti-lymphoma efficacy of the combination of MGd and 90Yttrium-Zevalin therapy. Disease response to treatment was categorized as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD), or complete response/unconfirmed (CRu). The overall response rate (ORR) was then calculated. The time to treatment failure (TTF), overall survival (OS), and duration of response were determined., At 1, 3 and 6 months|Study and Describe the Bio-locationization of Motexafin Gadolinium (MGd) in Tumors Using MRIs, To study the tumor-specific bio-localization of MGd in lymphoma through magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a subset of patients. The first 2 patients of each cohort will have MRI imaging to measure if signal intensity, a correlate for MGd uptake, is increased in known areas of lymphomatous involvement., At baseline (pre-treatment) and on Day 4 of treatment|Correlative Laboratory Studies, To explore correlative laboratory studies of MGd (ie, uptake of MGd by peripheral mononuclear cells, effect of MGd upon peripheral lymphocyte subset populations)., On Day 1 and 4
This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of motexafin gadolinium followed by a phase II study. Patients are stratified according to extent of lymphomatous involvement (≤ 5% vs \> 5 but ≤ 24% of cellular elements).

Cohorts of 3-6 patients in each stratum receive escalating doses of motexafin gadolinium until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) OR the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 3 of 6 patients experience DLT.

* Once the MTD is determined, additional patients are treated at that dose level as in phase I.

Patients are followed weekly for 3 months and then monthly for 5 years.