Adaptation and Implementation of a Patient Navigation Program for Cervical Cancer Screening Across Contexts in Senegal
The goal of this project is to prevent unnecessary deaths due to cervical cancer in Senegal. This mixed methods research responds to identified intrapersonal- and community-level barriers to early cervical cancer screening uptake, follow-up, and treatment among women there. Investigators will apply the Dynamic Adaptation Process (DAP) as integrated into the Exploration, Preparation, Implementation, Sustainment (EPIS) framework to study the adaptation of an evidence-based cervical cancer patient navigation program in urban and rural contexts in Senegal, measure the intervention effectiveness, and evaluate programmatic implementation outcomes. By studying the process of adaptation of a patient navigation program in a low- and middle-income country (LMIC), investigators will build new knowledge while addressing an important public health issue. The project demonstrates innovation by advancing both adaptation and implementation process knowledge of an evidence-based patient navigation intervention in various contexts within a LMIC with a particular focus on how the adaptation responds to cancer-related stigma, misinformation, and women's autonomy in healthcare decision-making. Investigators will build knowledge through local learning which will further the long-term goal to inform the national cervical cancer prevention and control programs in two areas of Senegal and other similar LMICs.
Cervical Cancer|Behavior
BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigator Approach
Change in the number of women screened for the first time, age stratified uptake through self-report questionnaire and confirmed through record review, Change in the number of women reporting cervical cancer screening uptake, age stratified, Baseline and then every 12 months through 36 months
Change in time to treatment for dysplasia, age stratified, through record review, Change in the time from diagnosis of a positive cervical cancer screen to treatment for dysplasia, age stratified, Baseline and then every 12 months through 36 months|Change in perceived stigma of cervical cancer as the fault of the individual, through questionnaire, Change in the number of women and men stating that if a woman gets cervical cancer it is probably their own fault, age stratified, Baseline and then every 12 months through 36 months|Change in decision to get cervical cancer screen, age stratified, through questionnaire, Change in the number of women and men stating that women are able to make their own decisions regarding getting screened for cervical cancer, age stratified, Baseline and then every 12 months through 36 months|Change in awareness of cervical cancer, age stratified, through questionnaire, Change in the number of women and men stating awareness of cervical cancer, age stratified", Baseline and then every 12 months through 36 months|Change in knowledge of need for screen despite symptoms, age stratified, through questionnaire, Change in the number of women and men stating awareness of the necessity for cervical cancer screening despite having no symptoms, age stratified, Baseline and then every 12 months through 36 months|Change in spouse communication about cervical cancer screening, through questionnaire, Perception of men and women of open communication with spouse regarding healthy approach to cervical cancer screening for women., Baseline and then every 12 months through 36 months
The goal of this project is to prevent unnecessary deaths due to cervical cancer in Senegal. This mixed methods research responds to identified intrapersonal- and community-level barriers to early cervical cancer screening uptake, follow-up, and treatment among women in Senegal. Investigators will apply the Dynamic Adaptation Process to study the adaptation of an evidence-based cervical cancer patient navigation program in urban and rural contexts of Senegal, measure the intervention effectiveness, and evaluate programmatic implementation outcomes.

Aim 1: Evaluate the adaptation process of the evidence-based Chinatown Patient Navigation Program utilizing the Dynamic Adaptation Process across rural and urban contexts in Kedougou and Dakar, Senegal. (n=6 clusters)

Aim 2: Conduct an effectiveness-implementation hybrid type 1 stepped-wedge randomized pragmatic trial of the adapted patient navigation program across Kedougou and Dakar, Senegal.

H1 - Participants who receive active navigation services will be more likely to get screened for cervical cancer (primary outcome) and obtain treatment more rapidly. (n=370 women) H2 - Participants who receive patient navigation services and their partners will experience or report fewer intrapersonal- and community-level barriers including cancer-related stigma (secondary outcomes) and lack of autonomy in healthcare decision-making. (n=740 women and men)

Aim 3: Evaluate the implementation outcomes9 (feasibility, acceptability, fidelity, penetrance, sustainability, and cost) of The Adapted Patient Navigation Program across multiple contexts in the Kedougou and Dakar regions, using mixed methods and guided by the Exploration, Preparation, Implementation, Sustainment (EPIS) Framework.(n=96 participants across 6 clusters)

Aim 1 will adapt the evidence-based Chicago Chinatown Program into the urban and rural Senegal contexts. Investigators will accomplish the EXPLORATION PHASE of Aim 1 by first conducting a multilevel (system/ organization, provider, and client) assessment of stakeholder characteristics relevant to the context of three districts in rural Kedougou and three districts in urban Dakar, Senegal (randomly selected). Contextual assessment will be iterative, capturing data at each interval of the stepped wedge approach. This will continue to inform the iterative adaptation of the program. In the PREPARATION PHASE, investigators will delineate the core elements and adaptable features of the Chinatown Program and describe the iterative adaptation (guided and ad hoc), through a participatory approach, of The Adapted Program across Kedougou and Dakar, Senegal. Next, in the IMPLEMENTATION PHASE, Aim 2, investigators will conduct a stepped-wedge randomized pragmatic trial in three districts in the Kedougou Region and three districts in Dakar to evaluate the impact of The Adapted Program. In order to conduct this trial, investigators will deploy The Adapted Program and evaluate the impact of The Adapted Program on screening uptake and time to treatment initiation (for those with abnormal screening results) within the various contexts across clusters. Investigators will also explore the effect of The Adapted Program on intrapersonal- and community-level barriers. Finally, during the SUSTAINMENT PHASE Aim 3 investigators will evaluate the implementation outcomes of The Adapted Program within the context of these rural and urban districts. Investigators will evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, fidelity, penetrance, sustainability, and cost of The Adapted Program as each district prepares, rolls out, and sustains The Adapted Program in the Kedougou and Dakar regions.

Each of the six clusters completes all four Implementation steps (exploration, preparation, implementation, and sustainment), with extensive initial support from research team members during exploration, preparation, and implementation. Support decreases gradually as clusters gain the experience to sustain patient navigation activities. If successful, the health system will integrate patient navigation as a means to facilitate the uptake of cervical cancer services and manage patients along the cancer care continuum. Evaluation of the success of patient navigation is determined as follows:

For Aims 1 and 3, the Exploration, Preparation, Implementation, Sustainment (EPIS) framework guides the mixed methods analysis of success and contextual factors related to success.

For Aim 2, investigators assess outcomes four times using participants' self-report surveys and medical records.

At a time of major global health policy shifts, these results will provide strong evidence for patient navigation policy decisions in low-income countries and will advance implementation science.