Erlotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Bladder Cancer Undergoing Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well erlotinib hydrochloride works in treating patients with bladder cancer undergoing surgery. Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Bladder Carcinoma|Recurrent Bladder Carcinoma
DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
EGFR Phosphorylation in Normal Appearing Bladder Epithelium Adjacent to Tumor, EGFR phosphorylation will be assessed using Immunohistochemistry (IHC), greater mean optical density is associated with greater phosphorylation. The difference between the placebo group and the erlotinib hydrochloride group will be tested as-randomized using a two-sample t-test with normalizing transformation if necessary or Wilcoxon rank-sum test., Up to 18 hours after last study drug dose (on day 28)
EGFR Phosphorylation in Neoplastic Bladder Epithelium 9-18 Hours Post-study Dose, EGFR phosphorylation will be assessed using Immunohistochemistry (IHC), greater mean optical density is associated with greater phosphorylation., Up to 18 hours after last study drug dose (on day 28)|Pharmacokinetic Parameters: Erlotinib in Blood, Will be summarized by treatment arm (and, if applicable, by visit) with appropriate descriptive statistics., Baseline, day 8, and day 16 (day of surgery)|Pharmacokinetic Parameters: OSI-420 in Blood, Will be summarized by treatment arm (and, if applicable, by visit) with appropriate descriptive statistics., Baseline, day 8, and day 16 (day of surgery)|Frequency of Urination Symptoms in Men Only, Graded According to International Prostate Symptom Score (I-PSS), A well documented survey called the International Prostate Symptom Score (I-PSS) of urination symptoms which correlates with prostatic hyperplasia in men will be filled out by men at baseline and end of study. The I-PSS is an 8-item survey; 7 questions scored from 0-5 where 0 is 'none' or 'not at all' and 5 is 'five times' or 'almost always'. The sum of the scores for the first 7 questions has a total range of 0-35 where 0 is asymptomatic, 1-7 is mild symptoms, 8-19 is moderate symptoms, and 20-35 are severe symptoms. A final quality of life question is scored from 0-6 where 0 (delighted) to 6 (terrible). This question serves as a conversation starting point between the patient and physician., Baseline up to 18 hours after last study drug dose (on day 28)|Expression of E-cadherin, E-Cadherin expression will be assessed using Immunohistochemistry (IHC), greater membrane optical density was associated with greater expression. A two-sample t-test with normalizing transformation if necessary or Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used., At time of surgery (approximately day 16)|Percentage of Cells Expressing Ki67, Ki-67 expression will be assessed using Immunohistochemistry (IHC), greater positivity was associated with greater expression. A two-sample t-test with normalizing transformation if necessary or Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used., At time of surgery (approximately day 16)|Difference Between Normal and Neoplastic Tissue Phosphorylated ERK, Phosphorylated ERK will be assessed using Immunohistochemistry (IHC), greater mean optical density is associated with greater expression. A two-sample t-test with normalizing transformation if necessary or Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used., At time of surgery (approximately day 16)|Difference Between Normal and Neoplastic Tissue of p53, p53 expression will be assessed using Immunohistochemistry (IHC), greater nucleus optical density and positivity was associated with greater expression. A two-sample t-test with normalizing transformation if necessary or Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used., At time of surgery (approximately day 16)|Difference Between Normal and Neoplastic Tissue of Let-7, A two-sample t-test with normalizing transformation if necessary or Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used., At time of surgery (approximately day 16)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if there is a difference in EGFR phosphorylation in normal appearing bladder epithelium adjacent to tumor approximately 9-18 hours post-study dose, between patients randomized to erlotinib hydrochloride (erlotinib) weekly as compared to placebo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the tolerance of high dose weekly erlotinib compared to placebo. II. Assess the expression of phosphorylated EGF receptor in tumor tissue when available.

III. Assess the expression of e-cadherin and Ki67 in normal and abnormal urothelium.

IV. Assess the expression of phosphorylated ERK in normal and abnormal urothelium.

V. Assess limited pharmacokinetics of weekly erlotinib. VI. Assess the expression of p53 in normal and abnormal urothelium. VII. Assess the expression of let-7 in normal and abnormal urothelium. VIII. Exploratory assessment of urination symptoms in men.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients then undergo transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) or cystectomy on day 16.

GROUP II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients then undergo TURBT or cystectomy on day 16.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 7-14 days.