Comparative Study of Fosaprepitant and Aprepitant for the Prevention of Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting in Pediatric Caner Patients
Children aged 2-12 years scheduled to receive moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy were randomly assigned to arm-A (fosaprepitant) or arm-B (aprepitant). Children recruited to arm-A received intravenous granisetron plus dexamethasone followed by fosaprepitant infusion. Children recruited to arm-B received the same drugs as those given to children in arm-A, except that fosaprepitant was substituted with aprepitant. Granisetron and dexamethasone were given continuously until 48 hours after completion of chemotherapy. The primary end point of the study was to determine the proportion of patients who achieved a CR, defined as no vomiting, no retching, and no use of rescue medication, the proportion of patients who achieved a CR during the acute phase (0-24 hours) after administration of the last dose of chemotherapy. Secondary end points were the proportion of patients who achieved a CR during the 24-120 hours (delayed phase) and overall after administration of the last dose of chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy Induced Nausea and Vomiting|Pediatric Cancer Patients
DRUG: fosaprepitant|DRUG: aprepitant|DRUG: Granisetron plus dexamethasone
Complete Remission rates in the acute phases, The primary end point was complete remission rates in the acute phase. Complete Remission was defined as no vomiting, no retching, and no use of rescue medication, up to 6 months
Complete Remission rates in the delayed and overall phases, Complete Remission rates in the delayed and overall phases, up to 6 months|Adverse events reported in study patients, All of the adverse reactions of aprepitant and fosaprepitant during the study., up to 6 months
Children aged 2-12 years scheduled to receive moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy were randomly assigned to arm-A (fosaprepitant) or arm-B (aprepitant). Children recruited to arm-A received intravenous granisetron plus dexamethasone followed by fosaprepitant infusion. Children recruited to arm-B received the same drugs as those given to children in arm-A, except that fosaprepitant was substituted with aprepitant. Granisetron and dexamethasone were given continuously until 48 hours after completion of chemotherapy. The primary end point of the study was to determine the proportion of patients who achieved a CR, defined as no vomiting, no retching, and no use of rescue medication, the proportion of patients who achieved a CR during the acute phase (0-24 hours) after administration of the last dose of chemotherapy. Secondary end points were the proportion of patients who achieved a CR during the 24-120 hours (delayed phase) and overall after administration of the last dose of chemotherapy.