Pemetrexed Disodium and Sorafenib Tosylate in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of giving pemetrexed disodium and sorafenib tosylate together in treating patients with advanced solid tumors. Pemetrexed disodium and sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Sorafenib tosylate may also stop the growth of solid tumors by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving pemetrexed disodium together with sorafenib tosylate may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|DRUG: pemetrexed disodium|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: biopsy
Recommended phase 2 doses for the combination of pemetrexed disodium with sorafenib tosylate, Maximum doses of pemetrexed and sorafenib, which, when administered in combination are determined to be tolerable and will be tested in a Phase 2 trial for efficacy., At least 4 weeks
Number of subjects in whom study treatment produces antitumor effects of the combination, Tumor masses will be evaluated for response according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria v 1.1, Up to 4 years|Number of biopsy specimens that successfully stain for Beclin1, Determine if biopsy specimens can be stained and analyzed for Beclin1. Assessed by use of a repeated measure analysis through a linear mixed model, as well as an ordinal regression analysis., Baseline up to 4 weeks|Number of biopsy specimens that can be analyzed for PDGFRb expression, Assessed by use of a repeated measure analysis through a linear mixed model, as well as an ordinal regression analysis., Baseline up to 4 weeks|Analysis of pTEN expression in biopsy specimens, Assessed by use of a repeated measure analysis through a linear mixed model, as well as an ordinal regression analysis., Baseline up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine doses for the combination of pemetrexed (pemetrexed disodium) with sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) appropriate for Phase II study.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety, tolerance, and toxicity of the combination of pemetrexed and sorafenib.

II. To observe antitumor effects of the combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of pemetrexed disodium and sorafenib tosylate.

Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) on day 1 every 2 weeks and sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.