Lung Cancer With Copanlisib and Durvalumab
The current study focuses on unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who are starting Durvalumab consolidation after concurrent chemoradiation with a goal of cure. The overall hypothesis of this study is that the addition of Copanlisib to Durvalumab will be well-tolerated at a biweekly schedule. It will test whether the addition of Copanlisib to Durvalumab can overcome resistance to Durvalumab.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Copanlisib
Dose Limiting Toxicity, The number of dose limiting toxicities will be counted for each cohort., 28 days
Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate is evaluated by iRECIST 1.1, which includes all patients with partial response (iPR) or complete response (iCR)., approximately 10 years|Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time interval between the date patients are started on Copanlisib treatment to the date of disease progression, death or last follow-up, whichever occurs first. Patients who are intolerant to treatment and removed from study by the principal investigator or withdraw from the study will be treated as censored data for the PFS analysis., approximately 10 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response (DOR) is defined as the time interval between the initial response to therapy and subsequent disease progression or relapse. Non-responders will be assigned a DOR equal to zero., approximately 10 years
Treatment will be administered in outpatient settings. Durvalumab will be administered as infusion intravenously once every two weeks on D1 and D15, every 28 days (10 mg/Kg based on body weight) or 1500mg on D1 every 28 days. Copanlisib will be given as infusion intravenously on D1, D15 in a 28-day cycle (flat dose). The starting dose of Copalisib will be 60 mg D1 and D15. It will be reduced to 45 mg for the first dose reduction and to 30 mg for the second dose reduction. The Durvalumab dose will remain constant when Copanlisib is reduced.

Once the appropriate dose is determined, e.g. Copanlisib 60 mg iv d1, 15, q4w, in the dose-finding phase, this will become the recommended dose for the dose-expansion phase. Patients will be treated at the dose-expansion phase to increase our understanding of pharmacokinetics and to confirm safety as well as initial efficacy in this population.