Autologous CAR-T Cells Targeting B7-H3 in Recurrent or Refractory GBM CAR.B7-H3Tc
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of using T lymphocyte chimeric antigen receptor cells against the B7-H3 antigen (CAR.B7-H3T cells) in patients with glioblastoma. CAR.B7-H3T cells treatment has not been tested in humans and is not an approved treatment by the Food and Drug Administration for glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: CAR.B7-H3T cells infusion
Number of participants with adverse event, Number of participants with adverse event (AE)s as a measure of safety and tolerability of intraventricular administration CAR.B7-H3 T cells in subjects with progressive recurrent or refractory glioblastoma multiforme.

AEs will be classified and graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0. Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) are defined as at least possibly related to CAR.B7-H3T cell product administration., Up to 10 weeks|Cytokine Release Syndrome, Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) will be graded according to American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) CRS Consensus Grading.

Grade 1 - Mild (Symptomatic Management): Fever ≥38\^ o C, No hypotension, No hypoxia, Grade 2 - Moderate (Moderate Intervention): Fever ≥38\^ o C, Hypotension not requiring vasopressors, Hypoxia requiring low-flow nasal cannula (≤6 L/minute) or blow-by, Grade 3 - Severe (Aggressive Intervention): Fever ≥ 38\^ o C , Hypotension requiring a vasopressor with or without vasopressin, Hypoxia requiring high-flow nasal cannula (\>6 L/minute), facemask, nonrebreather mask, or Venturi mask, Grade 4 - Life-threatening (Life-sustaining intervention): Fever ≥38\^oC, Hypotension requiring multiple vasopressors (excluding vasopressin),Hypoxia requiring positive pressure (e.g. Continuous positive airway pressure, BiPAP, intubation, mechanical ventilation), Grade 5 - Death: Death., Up to 10 weeks|Neurotoxicity, Neurotoxicity will be graded according to the Central Nervous System (CNS) Toxicity criteria.

Grade 0: Normal or no change from baseline exam at start of therapy, Grade 1: Mild lethargy and/or irritability or visual, motor, or sensory symptoms without change in neurological exam, Grade 2: Moderate lethargy, disorientation, or psychosis lasting \< 48 hours or mild increase in pre-existing neurological deficit, Grade 3: \>48hours of severe lethargy, but responsive to verbal stimuli or disorientation or psychosis lasting \>48 hours, Grade 4: Coma, unresponsive to verbal stimuli, increasing neurological deficit above grade 3, evidence of herniation, development of uncontrolled seizures, intracerebral hemorrhage., Up to 10 weeks
Identification of Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), RP2D for intraventricular administration of CAR.B7-H3 T cells is determined based on the modified 3+3 dose-finding rule. Dose escalation will be performed considering the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), dose level (DL) will be increased unless there is no DLT., Up to 4 weeks|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with \[compete response (CR) + partial response (PR) + stable disease\] per Immunotherapy response assessment in neuro-oncology (iRANO) criteria.

Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all enhancing disease for ≥ 4 weeks; no new lesions; stable or improved T2-weighted-fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (T2/FLAIR); no more than physiological steroids; clinically stable or improved.

Partial response (PR): ≥ 50% decrease in the sum of biperpendicular diameters of enhancing disease for ≥ 4 weeks; no new lesions; stable or improved T2/FLAIR; stable or decreased steroid dose, clinically stable or improved.

Stable disease (SD): Does not qualify for CR, PR or progressive disease; no new lesions; stable or improved T2/FLAIR; stable or decreased steroid dose; clinically stable or improved., Up to 4 weeks|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from with the initial CAR.B7-H3 T cell infusion until disease progression per iRANO criteria or death as a result of any cause. Subjects who do not meet criteria for progression by the analysis cut-off date will be censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date.

Immunotherapy response assessment in neuro-oncology (iRANO) criteria.

Progressive disease (PD): ≥ 25% increase in the sum of biperpendicular diameters of enhancing disease; or new lesions; or substantial worsened T2/FLAIR; or substantial clinical decline., Up to 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from initial glioblastoma multiforme diagnosis to date of death for any cause., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from documentation of PR or better to progressive disease (PD)., Up to 12 months
This is a phase 1, single center, open-label study aims to determine the safety of escalating doses of chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T) cells targeting the B7-H3 antigen administered via intraventricular infusion to adult subjects with relapsed or refractory glioblastoma (GBM).

Subjects with GBM who meet procurement eligibility criteria will have cells collected following their initial surgical resection to manufacture CAR.B7-H3T cells, preferably prior to initiation of adjuvant chemoradiation.

At the time that the subjects have confirmed refractory or recurrent GBM, CAR.B7-H3T cells will be manufactured for subjects who likely to be eligible for cell infusion.

Eligible subjects will receive up to 3 weekly infusions of CAR.B7-H3 cells. To receive the additional cycles of CAR.B7-H3 cells, all treatment-related toxicities must have resolved to grade \< 3, the subject must not have experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and the subject must not have progressive disease that has been confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging per Immunotherapy response assessment in neuro-oncology criteria.

The data from the dose escalation will be used to determine a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), which will be decided on based on the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and additional factors such as the feasibility of administering infusions.