Gamma-Secretase/Notch Signalling Pathway Inhibitor RO4929097 and Temsirolimus in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of giving gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 and temsirolimus together in treating patients with advanced solid tumors. Gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 and temsirolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Endometrial Papillary Serous Carcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage III Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: temsirolimus|DRUG: gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Recommended phase II dose defined as the dose level at which less than or equal to 1 of 6 patients experienced DLT assessed using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, 21 days|Safety profile assessed using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest. Attempts to model associations between pharmacokinetic data with toxicity profiles will be performed primarily using descriptive statistics, however, logistic regression may be used if warranted., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
Objective response to treatment assessed using the RECIST criteria 1.1, All analyses will be considered exploratory and inference will be performed with appropriate caution. For all statistical tests, two-sided tests will be performed and no p-value adjustment performed due to the exploratory nature of these tests. A p-value of 0.05 or less will be considered statistically significant., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment|Pharmacokinetic profiles, All analyses will be considered exploratory and inference will be performed with appropriate caution. For all statistical tests, two-sided tests will be performed and no p-value adjustment performed due to the exploratory nature of these tests. A p-value of 0.05 or less will be considered statistically significant., Pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 24 hours|Pharmacodynamic effects, All analyses will be considered exploratory and inference will be performed with appropriate caution. For all statistical tests, two-sided tests will be performed and no p-value adjustment performed due to the exploratory nature of these tests. A p-value of 0.05 or less will be considered statistically significant., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and safety profile of temsirolimus in combination with RO4929097 (gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097) in patients with advanced solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles for both drugs when administered in combination in order to quantify the expected interactive effects in PK between these two agents.

II. To evaluate pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of both drugs when administered in combination, with the goal of identifying potential predictive and PD markers that need further exploration and validation in future trials.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study.

Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on day -6 (course 1 only). Patients then receive temsirolimus IV or orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 and gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 PO once daily on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Blood and tumor tissue samples may be collected periodically for pharmacokinetic and correlative analyses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.