Garden-fresh Produce and Exercise Reduce Colon Cancer Risk
The investigators propose a church-based health promotion program designed to reduce colon cancer risk in a mostly African American community served by the Lincoln Memorial Church in South Los Angeles. The investigators propose involving 20 overweight/obese community members in a 10-session health promotion program featuring weekly cooking classes, didactic nutrition instruction and brief bouts of exercise. Behavioral aim is to increase participants' fiber intake from commonly consumed plant foods and reduce their intake of pro-inflammatory foods. They will be followed for 3 months from time of enrollment. Intervention is expected to increase participants' mean stool weight and improve their Bristol Stool Chart score. Intervention is expected to reduce waist circumference and systolic blood pressure of participants. These effects are expected to be accompanied by self-reports of increased fiber intake and reduced intake of saturated fat and refined sugar as well as evidence of increased physical activity.
Garden-fresh Produce and Exercise (GFPE)
BEHAVIORAL: Garden-fresh produce and exercise
Stool weight, Mean stool weight of single bowel evacuation using precision digital scale, At baseline and 3 months post-enrollment
Bristol Stool Chart score, Bristol Stool Chart score ranges from 1 (hard lumps) to 7 (soft, diarrhea, liquid), At baseline and 3 months post-enrollment|Waist circumference, Waist circumference measured over light clothing using tensioner-equipped waist circumference measuring device, At baseline and 3 months post-enrollment|Systolic blood pressure, Resting blood pressure assessed in participant seated quietly at a table with legs uncrossed, At baseline and 3 months post-enrollment|Ratio of fruit and vegetable fiber intake to total solid food intake, The ratio of fruit and vegetable fiber intake relative to total gram weight of foods consumed per day based on data from Block Food Frequency questionnaire., At baseline and 3 months post-enrollment|Saturated fat intake, Mean grams (g) of saturated fat intake consumed daily based on retrospective food consumption data obtained from administration of the Block Food Frequency questionnaire. The Daily Value for saturated fat is less than 20 g per day, based on a 2,000 calorie diet. Meat-eating Americans generally consume more than 20 g per day but usually don't exceed 80 g per day. Humans make all the saturated fat that they need, so consuming zero g of saturated fat per day is consistent with good health., At baseline and 3 months post-enrollment|Sugary beverage intake, Percent of daily calorie intake attributable to sugary beverage intake, At baseline and 3 months post-enrollment
The investigators propose a church-based health promotion program designed to reduce colon cancer risk in a mostly African American community served by the Lincoln Memorial Church in South Los Angeles. The Los Angeles County of Public Health has divided the county into nine service planning areas (SPAs), of which South LA is one. Of all the SPAs, the South LA SPA has the highest prevalence of obesity and the lowest adherence to federal nutrition recommendations. With seed grant funds from a cooperative NIH grant shared by the Drew School of Medicine and University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA), the Lincoln Memorial Church of Los Angeles is sponsoring a behavioral intervention featuring 10 weekly sessions composed of cooking demonstrations, brief didactic nutrition education and 10-minute exercise bouts. All sessions will take place in the church kitchen and meeting room. Participants are expected to be 20 mostly African American, overweight/obese community members. The behavioral goal of the health promotion sessions is to encourage participants to eat more fiber-rich plant foods, minimally processed, to consume fewer pro-inflammatory foods including foods rich in saturated fat, sodium and refined sugar, and to engage in federally recommended amounts of physical activity. If research resources become available to enable blood chemistry results and/or fecal metagenomic results, the investigators would predict that 3 months after participant enrollment in the study, participants would experience a reduction in their high-sensitivity-C-reactive protein concentration and an increase in the relative abundance of obligate anaerobic bacteria relative to other bacteria in fecal samples. As seems likely, however, results will be limited to evaluating the weight and form of participant stool samples using the Bristol Stool Chart and evaluating participants' waist circumference and systolic blood pressure. The 3 month follow-up assessment is expected to show increased stool weight, improved Bristol Stool Chart score, decreased waist circumference, decreased systolic blood pressure, reduced intake of saturated fat and refined sugar, and increased weekly physical activity.