CAR T Cells Targeting CD30 Positive Lymphomas (4SCAR30273)
Currently, a majority of lymphomas cannot be cured by standard chemo-radiotherapy. Cluster of differentiation antigen 30 (CD30) is expressed in many lymphoma subtypes, such as Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL). CD30 represents a very attractive target for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-based immune cell therapy. This study will evaluate a novel 4th generation CD30 CAR engineered with a self-withdrawal mechanism (FKBP-iCasp9) for both efficacy and safety evaluation in lymphoma patients.
Lymphomas
GENETIC: Anti-CD30 CAR T cells
Number of patients with adverse events., Determine the toxicity profile of the 4th generation CAR T cells with Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) version 4.0., 2 years.
Survival time of Anti-CD30 CAR T cells in vivo., Measure the survival of 4th generation CAR T cells transduced with the anti-CD30 lentiviral vector., 2 years.|Response rates to the 4th generation CAR T cells., Describe the response rates of patients treated with 4th generation CAR T cells, including partial remission (PR), complete remission (CR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD)., 2 years.|Survival time of the patients., Evaluate the survival time of the patients treated with the 4th generation CAR T cells, including progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)., 2 years.
A large number of lymphoma patients exhaust current treatment options and die from the disease. Innovative therapy is urgently needed. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells have demonstrated unprecedented successes in treating even late stage cluster of differentiation antigen 19 (CD19) positive B cell malignancies. Besides CD19 lymphomas, many lymphomas are CD30 positive and therefore, CD30-CAR T cells may prove to be effective in treating such patients. We have developed several generations of CD30 CARs. Preclinical studies have demonstrated effective killing of CD30 target cells. In this study, two versions of CD30 CARs, both of which are 4th generation CARs with a self-withdrawal mechanism (FKBP-iCasp9), will be evaluated in CD30 lymphoma patients. The primary goal is safety assessment including cytokine storm response and any other adverse effects. In addition, tumor targeting and disease status after treatment will also be evaluated.