Compassionate Use of Omegaven速 in the Treatment of Parenteral Nutrition Induced Hepatic Injury
The purposes of this study are to make Omegaven速 available to cancer patients with liver disease and to determine if Omegaven速 can improve or prevent further liver disease. The study will also look at the effects Omegaven速 has on immune function.
Cancer|Hepatic Injury
DRUG: Omegaven
Maximum Conjugated Bilirubin, Highest detected lab values will be summarized between baseline and end of study participation., Assessed at day 1, 2, 3, and weekly therafter, up to 4 weeks.|Average Change in Alkaline Phosphatase, lab values will be summarized at baseline and as change from baseline to worst follow-up value., Assessed at day 1, 2, 3, and weekly therafter, up to 4 weeks.|Number of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events, The number of patients reporting or experiencing adverse effects will be reported., Assessed at day 1, 2, 3, and weekly therafter, up to 4 weeks.|Average Improvement in AST, Lab values will be summarized at b aselin4e and as change from baseline to worst follow-up value., Assessed at day 1, 2, 3, and weekly therafter, up to 4 weeks.|Average Improvement in ALT, Laboratory values will be summarized at baseline and as change from baseline to worst follow-up value, Assessed at day 1, 2, 3, and weekly therafter, up to 4 weeks.
This compassionate use study will include patients with advanced cancer requiring PN for long-term nutrition support who have developed PN-induced hepatic injury or who have existing hepatic dysfunction. Therapy with Omegaven will be provided at an initial dose of 0.1 g/kg body weight (1ml/kg) and increased to 0.2 g/kg body weight (2ml/kg) on day 2 or 3 of treatment. For patients \> 120% ideal body weight, adjusted body weight will be used. The infusion rate will not exceed 0.5mL Omegaven/kg body weight/hr (corresponding to 0.05g fish oil/kg/hr). Omegaven will be co-administered via a y-site infusion, with containers being changed every 12 hours. The patient may receive other lipids to meet Essential Fatty Acid (EFA) and/or additional calorie needs. Patients will receive the initial infusion of PN containing Omegaven at Midwestern Regional Medical Center (MRMC) in the infusion center to observe for adverse reactions. If an adverse reaction is observed, IV steroids \& benadryl will be administered \& Omegaven will be discontinued. Patients will continue to receive infusions at CTCA for the first 2 to 3 days of dosing. After tolerance is established, patients will receive treatment at home with Coram. All study patients will have a Screening Visit; Day 1, Day 2 and Day 3 visits; and weekly visits for one month (see Table 2).