Anti-TGF-beta Therapy in Patients With Myelofibrosis
TGF-β is a cytokine that is found to be upregulated in the bone marrow of patients with myelofibrosis. This cytokine likely plays a dual role in promoting myelofibrosis and myeloproliferation, both of which are the bone marrow morphologic hallmark of MF. The investigators propose that inhibiting the TGF-β signaling pathway in MF will decrease the fibrogenic stimuli leading to myelofibrosis and concomitantly interrupt myeloproliferation. This is a novel approach to the treatment of patients with myelofibrosis.
Myelofibrosis|Primary Myelofibrosis|Polycythemia Vera, Post-Polycythemic Myelofibrosis Phase|Post-essential Thrombocythemia Related Myelofibrosis
BIOLOGICAL: monoclonal antibody to TGF-beta
Safety and Tolerability, To assess the safety and tolerability of GC1008 in patients with primary myelofibrosis (PMF) or post-polycythemia vera/essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis (Post-PV/ET MF).

A total of 9 AEs determined by the investigator to be at least possibly related to GC1008 occurred during the study., 28 days
Bauermeister Scale, To assess the clinical response to therapy with GC1008 by International Working Group (IWG) criteria and measure the change in degree of bone marrow fibrosis (BMF) assessed by Bauermeister scale.

Bauermeister scale: 0, no demonstrable reticulin fibers; 1, occasional fine individual fibers and foci of a fine-fiber network; 2, fine fiber network throughout most of the section, but no coarse fibers; 3, diffuse fiber network with scattered thick coarse fibers, but no mature collagen; and 4, diffuse, often coarse fiber network with areas of collagen., 6 months|European Consensus Fibrosis Grade, To assess the clinical response to therapy with GC1008 by International Working Group (IWG) criteria and measure the change in degree of bone marrow fibrosis (BMF) assessed by European consensus grading system.

This scheme consists of a qualitative (reticulin or collagen) and quantitative evaluation of bone marrow fibrosis and distinguishes four increasing categories, ranging from MF-0, which corresponds to normal bone marrow, to MF-3, in which coarse bundles of collagen fibrosis are identifiable with significant osteosclerosis., 6 months|Peripheral Blood CD34+, Investigate exploratory markers for their ability to predict responsiveness to treatment with GC1008., 6 months|JAK2V617F Allele Burden, Investigate exploratory markers, hematopoietic cells, for their ability to predict responsiveness to treatment with GC1008. Analysis of percentage of mutant alleles in hematopoietic stem cells., 6 months
TGF-β is a cytokine that is found to be upregulated in the bone marrow of patients with myelofibrosis. This cytokine likely plays a dual role in promoting myelofibrosis and myeloproliferation, both of which are the bone marrow morphologic hallmark of MF. The investigators propose that inhibiting the TGF-β signaling pathway in MF will decrease the fibrogenic stimuli leading to myelofibrosis and concomitantly interrupt myeloproliferation. This is a novel approach to the treatment of patients with myelofibrosis.