Testing AZD1775 inC Combination With Radiotherapy and Chemotherapy in Cervical, Upper Vaginal and Uterine Cancers
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of adavosertib when given together with external beam radiation therapy and cisplatin in treating patients with cervical, vaginal, or uterine cancer. Adavosertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. External beam radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving adavosertib, external beam radiation therapy, and cisplatin may work better in treating patients with cervical, vaginal, or uterine cancer.
Cervical Carcinoma|Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Stage I Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage I Vaginal Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IA Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IB Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB2 Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage II Cervical Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Vaginal Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Cervical Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Vaginal Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIB Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Vaginal Carcinoma
DRUG: Adavosertib|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy
Recommended Phase 2 Dose Defined as the Dose Level With < 1/6 Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicities, To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and safety profile of AZD1775 in combination with radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin in patients with gynecological cancers., Up to week 5
Frequency and Severity of AZD1775 Toxicity Events in Patients With Gynecological Cancer in Combination With Standard RT and Concurrent Cisplatin, To determine the acute and late toxicity of AZD1775 when administered to patients with gynecological cancer in combination with standard radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin. Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest. Adverse events will be summarized using all adverse events experienced, although a subanalysis may be conducted including only those adverse events in which the treating physician deems possibly, probably or definitely attributable to one or both study treatments., Up to 2 years|Pharmacodynamic Effects of AZD1775 in Combination With RT and Concurrent Cisplatin, To evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects of AZD1775 drugs when administered in combination with radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin. Pharmacodynamic biomarkers will include: pCDC2, Ki67, γH2AX, pH3, and CC3. Associations between pharmacokinetic data with toxicity profiles will be performed primarily using descriptive statistics; however, logistic regression may be used if warranted., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, To obtain preliminary information about the progression-free survival of AZD1775 in combination with radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin in women with locally advanced gynecological cancer. Progression is defined a clinical or radiological using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and safety profile of adavosertib (AZD1775) in combination with radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin in patients with gynecological cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the acute and late toxicity of AZD1775 when administered to patients with gynecological cancer in combination with standard radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin.

II. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects of AZD1775 when administered in combination with radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin (in particular, for the 15 patients treated in an expansion cohort at the RP2D).

III. To obtain preliminary information about the progression-free survival, as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 or clinical progression, of AZD1775 in combination with standard radiotherapy and concurrent cisplatin in women with gynecological cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of adavosertib.

Patients undergo external beam radiation therapy on days 1-5 and receive adavosertib orally (PO) on days 1, 3, and 5 or once daily (QD) on days 1-5 and cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 or 3. Cycles repeat each week for up to 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 days and then every 4 months for 2 years.