The Efficacy and Safety of the Bispecific Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Antibody IBI318 Combined with Lenvatinib in NSCLC.
The study is a prospective multi-cohort clinical study. Cohort A is evaluating the efficacy and safety of IBI318 in combined with lenvatinib in advanced NSCLC patients who had failed first-line PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy. Cohort B is the efficacy and safety of advanced NSCLC with EGFR-sensitive mutation /ALK fusion after EGFR-TKI /ALK-TKI treatment resistance. Cohort C is the efficacy and safety of first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC with negative PD-L1 expression and EGFR, ALK, and ROS1 wild-type. After being screened to meet the inclusion criteria, they will receive IBI318 combined with lenvatinib until the disease progresses, death, toxicity is intolerable, informed consent is withdrawn, new anti-tumor therapy is started, or the treatment is terminated for other reasons specified in the plan.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: IBI318
12 weeks ORR, Defined as the proportion of subjects achieving a complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) at around 12 weeks after the start of study treatment among all subjects., 1 year
PFS, Defined as the time from the beginning of treatment to the first imaging disease progression or death (whichever occurs first), 1 year|DCR, Defined as the proportion of subjects with complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR) and stable disease (SD) to the total subjects, 1 year|DOR, Defined as the time interval from the first record of disease remission to disease progression or death (whichever occurs first), 1 year|OS, Defined as the time from the start of treatment to the death of the subject due to any cause., 1 year|BOR, Defined as the proportion of subjects in complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR) to the total subjects, 1 year|adverse events (safety), Number of participants with adverse events (AEs) according to CTCAE 5.0, 1 year
The study is a prospective multi-cohort clinical study. Cohort A is evaluating the efficacy and safety of IBI318 in combined with lenvatinib in advanced NSCLC patients who had failed first-line PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy. Cohort B is the efficacy and safety of advanced NSCLC with EGFR-sensitive mutation /ALK fusion after EGFR-TKI /ALK-TKI treatment resistance. Cohort C is the efficacy and safety of first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC with negative PD-L1 expression and EGFR, ALK, and ROS1 wild-type.

After being screened to meet the inclusion criteria, they will receive IBI318 combined with lenvatinib until the disease progresses, death, toxicity is intolerable, informed consent is withdrawn, new anti-tumor therapy is started, or the treatment is terminated for other reasons specified in the plan. During the treatment, RECIST v1.1 was used for clinical tumor imaging evaluation, once every 6 weeks; after 24 weeks of medication, evaluation can be done every 8 weeks.

Subjects receiving IBI318 combined with lenvatinib have the first evidence of imaging PD according to RECIST v1.1. If the subject is clinically stable, there is no evidence of rapid imaging progress, and the investigator assesses that it can continue from the study If the patient is benefited from the drug, the subject can continue the current study treatment, and the imaging evaluation must be repeated at least 6 weeks (± 7 days) later for confirmation. If PD is confirmed by re-assessment, the subject should stop the study treatment; if PD is not confirmed, the study treatment will continue, and the assessment will be carried out at the time point of the imaging examination plan specified in the plan until the PD is confirmed by imaging.