Role of Genomic Imprinting in Cancer Diagnosis
The current research focus for cancer diagonosis is classical genetics, named "driving genes". However, not all cancer patients have typical genetic alterations, especially at early stage. In the past dacades, accumulating evidences have revealed that more than 80% diseases are closely related to epigenetic changes. The normally silenced copy of imprinted genes are reactivated at early stage of cancers, and finally proceed to copy number variation. This study will screen for a panel of imprinted genes and build quantitative models to assist the diagnosis of multiple cancers.
Early Diagnosis|Cancer|Biomarker|Genomic Imprinting
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: In-situ imprinting detection
Sensitivity of imprinting cancer early detection, Number of patients "declared positive" with the imprinting early detection among the patients suffered from cancer, In the middle of the study, an average of 15 months|Specificity of imprinting cancer early detection, Number of patients "declared negative" with the imprinting early detection among the patients who are with benign tumors or other diseases, In the middle of the study, an average of 15 months
Comparison of the sensitivity of the imprinting detection versus cytopathology, Number of patients "declared positive" with the imprinting early detection versus patients "declared positive" with the cytopathology, In the middle of the study, an average of 15 months|Comparison of the specificity of the imprinting detection versus cytopathology, Number of patients "declared negative" with the imprinting early detection versus patients "declared negative" with the cytopathology, In the middle of the study, an average of 15 months
The current research focus for cancer diagonosis is classical genetics, named "driving genes". However, not all cancer patients have typical genetic alterations, especially at early stage. In the past dacades, accumulating evidences have revealed that more than 80% diseases are closely related to epigenetic changes. The normally silenced copy of imprinted genes are reactivated at early stage of cancers, and finally proceed to copy number variation. This study will screen for a panel of imprinted genes and build quantitative models to assist the diagnosis of multiple cancers.