Trabectedin in Combination With Olaparib in Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well trabectedin and olaparib work in treating patients with sarcoma that cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as trabectedin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing cells, stopping them from dividing or stopping them from spreading. Olaparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking pathways responsible for repairing damaged cells. Giving trabectedin and olaparib may shrink or stop the tumor from growing.
Sarcoma|Sarcoma Metastatic
DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Trabectedin
Overall Response Rate, Percentage of participants with complete or partial response as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, within each cohort., Up to 2 years
Progression Free Survival, Defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression. Calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method with errors according to Peto, within each cohort. Median and 6-month PFS will be estimated along with their 95% confidence intervals., At 6 months|Progression Free Survival, Defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression. Calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method with errors according to Peto, within each cohort. Median and 6-month PFS will be estimated along with their 95% confidence intervals., At approximately 2 years after enrollment|Overall Survival, Calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method with errors according to Peto, within each cohort. Median, 1- and 2-year OS will be estimated along with their 95% confidence intervals., At approximately 2 years after enrollment|Incidence of Adverse Events, The frequency and rates of adverse events occurring in at least 5% of participants and rates of grade 3-5 adverse events will be tabulated by system organ class and preferred term using Common Terminology Criteria of Adverse Events (CTCAE), within each cohort., Up to 30 days after end of treatment
This phase II trial studies how well trabectedin and olaparib work in treating patients with sarcoma that cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as trabectedin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing cells, stopping them from dividing or stopping them from spreading. Olaparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking pathways responsible for repairing damaged cells. Giving trabectedin and olaparib may shrink or stop the tumor from growing.