Safety Study of Sirolimus and Hydroxychloroquine in Women With Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
Specific Aim 1: To investigate whether, in Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) patients, the combination of sirolimus and hydroxychloroquine is safe and well tolerated

Specific Aim 2: To investigate whether, in LAM patients, 6 months of combination therapy with sirolimus and hydroxychloroquine results in improvement of indicators of disease, and whether the gains are sustained after stopping therapy.

Specific Aim 3: To investigate the potential role of a LAM-specific peripheral blood signature to predict rates of disease progression and determine responsiveness to combination therapy.

This will be a phase I dose escalation study of the combination of sirolimus (2 mg adjusted to keep trough levels between 5-15 ng/ml) and hydroxychloroquine (200 mg or 400 mg) taken orally daily. Up to 18 adult women with LAM will be enrolled.
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis
DRUG: "Sirolimus" and "Hydroxychloroquine" 200 mg|DRUG: "Sirolimus" and "Hydroxychloroquine" 400 mg
Safety of Combination Therapy With Sirolimus and Hydroxychloroquine in LAM Patients, The Primary endpoint of this study was safety. Safety was assessed based on the adverse events and serious adverse events that occurred in these patients when they were on this combination therapy. Percentage of adverse events in each system at a dose was calculated from the total adverse events at that dose. Subjects were closely monitored and adverse events were classified and graded according to the "Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, (CTCAE) Version 4.0"., 48 weeks
This will be a phase I dose escalation study of the combination of sirolimus (2 mg adjusted to keep trough levels between 5-15 ng/ml) and hydroxychloroquine (200 mg or 400 mg) taken orally daily for 6 months. The study is to be conducted at 2 sites. Up to 18 adult women with LAM will be enrolled, and each recruiting site will recruit between 8-12 subjects. The protocol will use the following eligibility criteria.