PS-341 in Treating Women With Metastatic Breast Cancer
PS-341 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for cancer cell growth. Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of PS-341 in treating women who have metastatic breast cancer
Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: bortezomib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective tumor response (CR + PR), The agent would be of definite interest for further investigation if the associated response rate is at least 30% (p1), and would not be of further interest if the response rate is below 10% (p0)., Up to 24 months
Time to progression, Will be reported using the Kaplan-Meier method with 95% confidence intervals indicated., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Will be reported using the Kaplan-Meier method with 95% confidence intervals indicated., Up to 3 years|Correlation between variations in the serum levels of adhesion molecules and angiogenic factors, Will be evaluated and descriptive analysis will be performed., Up to 24 months|Tissue markers of biological activity, Will be described in case of lesions amenable to tissue biopsy. The plasma pharmacodynamics of PS-341 as measured by the 20S-proteosome assay, will be used to measured the biological activity of the drug and correlated with response to treatment and variations in biomarkers., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of PS-341, in terms of response rate, in women with metastatic breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the clinical activity of this drug, in terms of progression-free survival, in these women.

II. Determine the toxicity profile and tolerability of this drug in these women.

III. Determine the pharmacodynamics of this drug in these women.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive PS-341 IV over 3-5 seconds twice weekly on weeks 1 and 2. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 12-35 patients will be accrued for this study within 9-12 months.