Theoretically Informed Behavioral Intervention
The goal of this waitlist control clinical trial is to learn if the tailored LEARN 2 platform can prevent HIV-related comorbidities with shared risk factors in diverse sexual minority men ages 25 and older living with HIV. The main question\[s\] are:

1. Can the virtual environment improve quality of life among these participants?
2. Does the LEARN 2 platform effectively serve as prevention education for HIV comorbidity shared risk factors?

Researchers will compare participants receiving the LEARN2 virtual environment intervention to those in a waitlist control group to see if the intervention leads to improvements in quality of life and reductions in risk factors.

Participants will be asked to:

1. Engage with the virtual environment weekly.
2. Participate in virtual live health educator sessions.
3. Complete daily assessments of personal health behaviors through Ecological Momentary Assessment.
HIV, CVD, Metabolic Diseases
BEHAVIORAL: LEARN 2 Platform
Quality of Life scale, 29-item scale from the PROMIS® Profile 29 for adults. The quality- of-life questions include physical function, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbance, ability to participate in social roles and activities, and pain intensity over the past 7 days. Each question, except for the pain intensity question, is measured on a 5-point scale., Baseline, 3 and 6 months
Diet, 1-item that has participants rate how healthy one's eating was that day and has been validated in EMA studies, Months 1, 3, and 5|Physical Activity, 3 items that assess the number of minutes of light, moderate, and heavy physical activity and has been validated in EMA studies., Months 1, 3, and 5|Sleep Quality, 1-item that assesses the quality of sleep for the previous night from 1(poor) to 8(extremely rested) and has been validated in EMA, Months 1, 3, and 5|Health Care Utilization, assesses perceived health needs, whether they have a plan to deal with those needs, and whether they saw a health care provider about those needs, Months 1, 3, and 5|Sexual Health, 4-items that assess whether participants had sex, type of sexual activity, and whether a condom was used, Months 1, 3, and 5|Smoking, 2-items used in EMA studies that assessed whether the participant smoked and how many cigarettes, Months 1, 3, and 5|Social Support, 3-item scale that assesses the among of emotional, informational, and tangible support received from their social network, Months 1, 3, and 5|Coping, 7-item scale where participants rate whether they used 7 different coping strategies which has been validated in EMA studies., Months 1, 3, and 5|LGBT Community Integration, 6-item measure designed to assess lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) individual\&#39;s active concealment of their sexual minority status. Averaging the six study items produces the overall SOCS score., Months 1, 3, and 5
The goal of this waitlist control clinical trial is to determine the efficacy of the tailored LEARN 2 platform in preventing HIV-related comorbidities characterized by shared risk factors among diverse sexual minority men ages 25 and older living with HIV. The principal questions this study aims to address are:

1. Can engagement with the virtual environment enhance the quality of life for participants specifically in diverse sexual minority men?
2. Is the LEARN 2 platform effective in providing prevention education of shared risk factors associated with HIV comorbidities?

To evaluate these objectives, the investigators will conduct comparisons between participants allocated to the LEARN 2 virtual environment intervention and those assigned to a waitlist control group. This design will facilitate the assessment of whether participation in the LEARN 2 intervention correlates with significant improvements in quality of life metrics (behavioral and psychosocial) and a reduction in associated health risk factors.

Participants will be instructed to:

1. Engage with the virtual environment on a weekly basis, exploring tailored health content designed to address their specific needs.
2. Attend virtual live sessions with health educators, where they will receive real-time education on health issues relevant to their condition and associated lifestyle factors using the American Heart Association's Life's Essential 8 as a behavioral prevention framework.
3. Complete daily assessments of their personal health behaviors using Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA), capturing real-time data on behavioral trends that may influence their health outcomes.

This systematic approach aims to generate comprehensive data on the impact of the LEARN 2 intervention on both quality of life and the modulation of health-related behaviors among these at-risk populations.