Effects of Compassion Training to Patients Undergoing HSCT on Biological and Psychosocial Parameters
The hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) experience is emotionally and physically stressful for cancer patients who undergo this procedure. This study aims to evaluate the effects of Cognitively-Based Compassion Training (CBCT) on depression and anxiety symptoms, levels of resilience, hope and self-compassion in patients undergoing HSCT and their caregivers. As well as assessing the effects of CBCT on clinical conditions in patients and cortical activity and heart rate variability in caregivers.
Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant
BEHAVIORAL: CBCT Intervention
Change from Baseline Anxiety and Depression symptoms at 1 week after intervention, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The scale consists of 14 items, 7 for anxiety (HADS-A) and 7 items for depression (HADS-D). The final score ranges from 0 to 21 points in each subscale, the higher the score, the greater the symptoms of anxiety or depression (Zigmond and Snaith, 1983)., baseline,1 week after intervention|Change from Baseline Resilience level at 1 week after intervention, Resilience Scale (RS). Developed by Wagnild and Young (Wagnild and Young, 1993). Composed of 25 items. The Resilience Scale was applied to measure the degree of resilience. It measures two main factors: 'personal competence' (17 items) and 'acceptance of self and life' (8 items). The response scale ranges from 1 ('totally disagree') to 7 ('totally agree'). The total score ranges from 26 to 175 points. The higher the score the higher the level of resilience., baseline; 1 week after intervention.|Change from Baseline Self-Compassion level at 1 week after intervention, Self-Compassion Scale. This is a 26-item scale that measures how one typically acts toward oneself in difficult times. These items were designed to assess how respondents perceive their actions toward themselves in difficult times and are rated using a Likert-type scale anchored from 1 (almost never) to 5 (almost always). The scale ranges from 26 to 130 points. The higher the score the higher the level of Self-Compassion. Developed by Kristin Neff., baseline; 1 week after intervention.|Change from Baseline Perceived Stress level at 1 week after intervention, Perceived Stress Scale (PSS). This scale measures the degree to which individuals perceive situations as stressful. Composed of 14 items related to sensation. PSS scores are obtained by reversing the scores on the seven positive items, e.g., 0=4, 1=3, 2=2, etc., and then summing across all 14 items. Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, and 13 are the positively stated items. A higher score indicates a higher level of Perceived Stress. The final score ranges from 0 to 56 points. Developed by Luft, 2007., baseline; 1 week after intervention.
Cortical activity, Measured by Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS), in an experiment using a paradigm of autobiographical events, remembering stressful and positive memories., baseline, 1 week after intervention|Heart rate variability (HRV), Measured from the cardiac activity record through a Polar® V800 heart monitor., baseline, 1 week after intervention
The study hopes to show the positive effects of compassion training in patients and their caregivers.

Overall aim:

This study aims to evaluate the effects of Cognitively-Based Compassion Training (CBCT) on: depression and anxiety symptoms; levels of hope; resilience; mindfulness; self-compassion and quality of life. The study also aims to demonstrate whether CBCT training has any effect on clinical parameters of transplanted patients, as well as whether it has an effect on cortical activity and heart rate variability inpatients and caregivers.

Specific objectives:

1. Develop an adaptation of the CBCT protocol for hospitalized patients;
2. To evaluate the effect of CBCT on depressive and anxious symptoms in patients and their caregivers;
3. To evaluate the effect of CBCT on resilience, quality of life and self-compassion in patients and their caregivers;
4. Investigating the CBCT training results in altering the cortical activity of patients and caregivers while performing a recall task of recent autobiographical experiences;
5. Investigate whether CBCT training results in changes in heart rate variability in patients and caregivers;
6. To investigate whether CBCT training has any effect on patient's levels of symptoms, such as: pain, nausea, insomnia, among others;
7. To evaluate how correlations between psychosocial factors and biological markers: cortical activity and heart rate variability;
8. Evaluate perceptions and impressions of patients and caregivers on the protocol.