PI3K Inhibitor BKM120 and Cetuximab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
This pilot randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of PI3K inhibitor BKM120 when given together with cetuximab and to see how well it works in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer. PI3K inhibitor BKM120 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumors to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving PI3K inhibitor BKM120 together with cetuximab may kill more tumor cells
Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IVA Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Tongue Cancer
DRUG: PI3K inhibitor BKM120|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab
Compensatory Signaling/Feedback Loop Signaling Evaluated by Measurement of Phosphorylated (p)-EGFR, Performed using snap frozen tissue samples using the well-established PamGene Kinase array platform available in the Salgia/Seiwert laboratories., 1 week|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the dose level preceding the dose in which greater than or equal to 2 out of 3-6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) assessed using CTCAE v4, 28 days
Apoptosis Induction, Measured by Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay on Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) sections in a descriptive manner., Up to 28 days|Response Rate Assessed Using RECIST, Percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatment., Up to 28 days|Response Rate in Patients With Prior EGFR Failure Assessed Using RECIST, Percentage of patients with prior EGFR failure assessed using RECIST whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatment., Up to 28 days|Tumor Shrinkage, Tumor shrinkage will be visualized as a waterfall plot for graphical (qualitative) comparison., Up to 28 days|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from study initiation to death due to any reason., 4 years and 3 months|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from study initiation to first evidence of progression of disease., 4 years and 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Induction of compensatory signaling/feedback loop signaling after one week of BKM120 (PI3K inhibitor BKM120) (run-in) compared to patients not treated with BKM120.

II. Safety and tolerability of combined treatment with BKM120 and cetuximab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Induction of apoptosis after one week of BKM120 (run-in) compared to patients not treated with BKM.

II. Tumor shrinkage (based Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] version 1.1 \[V1.1\] measurements) in patients treated with combination.

III. Response rate (based RECIST V1.1 measurements) in patients treated with combination.

IV. Overall survival. V. Progression free survival.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of PI3K inhibitor BKM120, followed by a phase II study.

RUN-IN-PERIOD: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive PI3K inhibitor BKM120 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -7 to 0. Patients complete 1 week washout before dose escalation.

ARM II: Patients receive no treatment on days -7 to 0.

All patients receive PI3K inhibitor BKM120 PO QD on days 1-28 and cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.