ENB for the Diagnosis of PPNs:a Real World Study
The study is designed as a multi-center prospective trial of ENB for the diagnosis of peripheral pulmonary nodules in the real world. The purpose of the study is to identify the optimal method of using ENB.
Peripheral Pulmonary Nodules
PROCEDURE: Electromagnetic navigation bronchoscopy (ENB)
Diagnostic yield, Diagnostic yield is defined as proportion of true positive and true negative. The primary endpoint is diagnostic yield of ENB with/without other guided bronchoscopy techniques or ROSE., One year
The difference of diagnostic yield among groups of different methods of using ENB, ENB will be performed with/without other guided bronchoscopy techniques and/or ROSE. Different biopsy methods will be recorded as well.The difference of diagnostic yield among groups of different methods of using ENB will be analyzed., One year|Factors affecting diagnostic yield, Factors affecting diagnostic yield including lesion size,bronchus sign, location and so on will be analyzed., One year|The difference of diagnostic yield among groups using different locatable guides, There are three kinds of locatable guides with different outer diameters. The difference of diagnostic yield among groups using different locatable guides will be analyzed., One year|Operation time, Operation time includes total operation time,total GS time and total EBUS time., One year|Incidence of complications, Complications mean a composite of operation-related serious adverse events (pneumothorax, bleeding, etc.) during and after the operation., One year
The study will be conducted at no less than 5 clinical centers. Patients with peripheral pulmonary nodules suspicious for malignancy will be enrolled in the study. ENB will be performed with/without other guided bronchoscopy techniques and/or ROSE. Different biopsy methods will be recorded as well. The primary endpoint is the diagnostic yield of ENB. The secondary endpoints include factors affecting diagnostic yield, operation time, complications, safety and so on.