S9911, Combination Chemotherapy Plus Monoclonal Antibody Therapy in Treating Patients With Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy followed by monoclonal antibody therapy in treating patients who have newly diagnosed follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
DRUG: CHOP regimen|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|RADIATION: tositumomab and iodine I 131 tositumomab
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the 2 year failure free survival rate of patients with newly diagnosed follicular lymphoma treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) followed by iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody anti-B1. II. Determine the complete and partial response rates of these patients after this therapy. III. Evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the rate of disappearance of cells with clonal t(14;18)/bcl2 rearrangements from the peripheral blood and bone marrow after this therapy in these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 15 minutes, doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment is repeated every 21 days for up to 6 courses. Within 4-8 weeks after the last course of chemotherapy, patients who achieve at least a partial response and have less than 25% bone marrow involvement begin immunotherapy. Patients receive unlabeled monoclonal antibody anti-B1 (MOAB anti-B1) IV over 1 hour, then iodine I 131 MOAB anti-B1 IV over 20 minutes on day 1. This regimen is repeated on day 8. Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years, then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.