Photodynamic Therapy During Surgery in Treating Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of photodynamic therapy during surgery in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that can be removed by surgery. Photodynamic therapy uses a drug, such as temoporfin, that becomes active when it is exposed to a certain kind of light. When the drug is active, cancer cells are killed. This may be a better way to treat patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIA Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIB Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Temoporfin|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|DRUG: Photodynamic Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Maximum tolerated dose of PDT with temoporfin, defined as the dose level in which more than 1 of 6 patients experience a dose limiting toxicity using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4, 2 weeks
Locoregional recurrence-free rate, Estimated using simple relative frequencies. The corresponding 95% confidence interval for the estimated probability will be computed using the method proposed by Clopper and Pearson. Maximum likelihood estimation will be utilized in the model fitting procedures., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Distribution will be obtained using the Kaplan-Meier method. Corresponding confidence intervals using the methodology of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be computed., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival, Distribution will be obtained using the Kaplan-Meier method. Corresponding confidence intervals using the methodology of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be computed., Up to 2 years|Toxicity rate, using NCI CTCAE version 4, Estimated using simple relative frequencies. The corresponding 95% confidence interval for the estimated probability will be computed using the method proposed by Clopper and Pearson. Maximum likelihood estimation will be utilized in the model fitting procedures., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate that intraoperative adjuvant regional photodynamic therapy with low-dose temoporfin is safe.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Initial assessment of efficacy (i.e., 2-year disease free survival). II. To investigate the relationship between signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) levels, measured light dose and the clinical outcome.

III. Correlate the serum concentrations of vitamin D metabolites (25-hydroxyvitarnin D3 and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3) with the presence of lymph node (LN) metastasis at the time of surgical resection.

IV. To measure temoporfin uptake in malignant and normal tissue.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of photodynamic therapy with temoporfin.

Patients receive temoporfin intravenously (IV) over no less than 6 minutes and then undergo standard surgical resection with intraoperative photodynamic therapy (PDT).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.