Lenvatinib and Pembrolizumab Combination Therapy In HPV-associated Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis Patients With Laryngeal, Tracheal, and/or Pulmonary Involvement
This research study is studying Lenvatinib in combination with Pembrolizumab in people with human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP).

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Pembrolizumab
* Lenvatinib
Human Papilloma Virus|Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), To evaluate the best objective response rate (ORR: CR/PR) in subjects with RRP with extensive laryngeal, tracheal and/or pulmonary involvement based on RECIST 1.1, At 12 weeks for up to 2 years and/or end of treatment
Adverse Events, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in subjects with RRP as measured by the number of participants experiencing adverse events, Every 3 weeks for up to 2 years and/or end of treatment|Objective Response Rate, To evaluate the best ORR in subjects with RRP with extensive laryngeal and tracheal involvement based on endoscopic lesional (EL) burden score, Baseline to a post-baseline timepoint up to 2 years and/or end of treatment|Change in Time Interval, To measure the change in time interval, as measured in weeks, between surgical or procedural interventions with the combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib treatment, Baseline to a post-baseline timepoint up to 2 years and/or end of treatment|Duration of Response, To evaluate the duration of response (DOR) in subjects receiving the combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib. DOR will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier method with a corresponding 95% Confidence Interval (CI)., Baseline to a post-baseline timepoint up to 2 years and/or end of treatment
This is a non-randomized phase II trial in adult male and female subjects diagnosed with human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis to test the safety and efficacy of the drug combination Lenvatinib and Pembrolizumab.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Pembrolizumab or Lenvatinib for HPV-associated Recurrent Respiratory Papilloma but they have been approved for other uses.

Lenvatinib works by blocking certain proteins that are associated with tumor growth. Lenvatinib also blocks the growth of blood vessels feeding tumors to cause tumor cell death. Pembrolizumab helps the body's immune system destroy cancer cells.

This study is investigating whether the combination of Lenvatinib and Pembrolizumab may eradicate HPV-associated RRP.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment and evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment for up to 2 years and will be followed for 1 year.

It is expected that about 10 people will take part in this research study.

Merck is supporting this research study by providing Pembrolizumab and supporting the research study procedures. Eisai is supporting this research study by providing Lenvatinib.