Concurrent Chemotherapy for the Intermediate Risk Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma In Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy Era
Currently, concurrent chemoradiotherapy with/without sequential chemotherapy is the standard treatment modality for intermediate risk NPC (stage II and T3N0M0) according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guideline. However these recommendations were based on the evidence in the two-dimensional conventional radiotherapy (2DCRT) era. The introduction of intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) in NPC treatment has brought substantial better treatment outcomes than 2DCRT. It has been questioned whether additional concurrent chemotherapy is still necessary for intermediate risk NPC within the excellent framework of IMRT. Thus, the investigators jointly conduct the first non-inferior randomized trial to determine the value of concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin for intermediate risk NPC patients treated with IMRT. Given the results of clinical studies mentioned above,the investigators decide to adopt the concurrent regimen to be cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on day 1, 22, 43
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
RADIATION: IMRT|DRUG: Cisplatin
Failure-free survival, The failure-free survival rate will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from the date of randomization to the date of treatment failure or death from any cause, whichever is first. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 Year
Overall survival, The overall survival rate will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from randomization to death from any cause. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 Year|Locoregional failure-free survival, The locoregional failure-free survival will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from randomization to the first locoregional failure. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 Year|Distant failure-free survival, The distant failure-free survival will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each arm from randomization to the first remote failure. Their differences will be compared between treatment arms using the log-rank test., 3 Year|Rates of participants with adverse events, Acute and late toxicities will be documented according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 and/or the Radiation Morbidity Scoring Criteria of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Rates of the toxicities will be estimated using a binomial distribution along and will be compared using Fisher's exact test between the 2 treatment arms., 3 Year
Currently, concurrent chemoradiotherapy with/without sequential chemotherapy is the standard treatment modality for intermediate risk NPC (stage II and T3N0M0) according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guideline. However these recommendations were based on the evidence in the two-dimensional conventional radiotherapy (2DCRT) era. The introduction of intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) in NPC treatment has brought substantial better treatment outcomes than 2DCRT. It has been questioned whether additional concurrent chemotherapy is still necessary for intermediate risk NPC within the excellent framework of IMRT. Thus, the investigators jointly conduct the first non-inferior randomized trial to determine the value of concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin for intermediate risk NPC patients treated with IMRT. Given the results of clinical studies mentioned above, the investigators decide to adopt the concurrent regimen to be cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on day 1, 22, 43