Anti-angiogenic Agents Plus Anti-PD-1 Antibodies for uHCC
Combination treatment with antiangiogenic agents and anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibodies have shown high anti-tumor efficacy for patients with unresectable or advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (uHCC). In this single-center cohort study, we are aiming to (1) evaluate the clinical effectiveness in real-world patients, especially for Chinese patients, most of whom were with hepatitis B virus infection; (2) predict clinical effectiveness with clinicopathological features; (3) predict clinical effectiveness with histologic features and blood samples.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Anti-angiogenic agents plus anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies
Objective response, Subjects with complete response or partial response, up to 2 years
Duration of response, the interval between the time of partial or complete response to the time of progressive disease, up to 2 years|Progression free survival, the interval between the time of treatment initiation to the time of progressive disease or patient death, up to 2 years|Overall survival, the interval between the time of treatment initiation to the time of patient death, up to 2 years|Ratio of R0 resection, The ratio of patients who underwent R0 resection to patients received combination therapy, up to 2 years|Recurrence-free survival, the interval between the time of surgical resection to the time of disease recurrence or patient death for those who underwent surgery, up to 5 years|Time to deterioration in patient-reported quality of life, physical functioning, and role functioning, Quality of life, physical functioning, and role functioning was determined by EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-HCC18 questionnaires., up to 2 years
Combination treatment with antiangiogenic agents and anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibodies have shown high anti-tumor efficacy for patients with unresectable or advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (uHCC). In this single-center cohort study, we are aiming to:

1. To evaluate the clinical effectiveness in real-world patients, especially for Chinese patients most of whom were with hepatitis B virus infection.
2. To predict clinical effectiveness with clinicopathological features, such as lab examinations (at baseline and dynamic changes), radiological features (radiomics study at the baseline);
3. To predict clinical effectiveness with histologic features, such as PD-L1 expression, ctDNA, and peripheral immune cell subtypes.
4. To evaluate the clinical effectiveness of second- or third-line therapies, including TACE, HAIC, and interferon, for those who lost clinical benefit or who were intolerant to the combination therapy.