Carbon-Ion Radiotherapy Plus Camrelizumab for Locally Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The purpose of this trial is to examine the role of camrezlizumab in addition to carbon-ion radiotherapy (CIRT) for patients with locally recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma. According to the plan, a total of 146 patients will be recruited and randomized into: 1) CIRT alone group (control group); 2) CIRT plus camrelizumab group (experimental group).
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Induction chemotherapy|RADIATION: Carbon-ion radiotherapy|DRUG: Camrelizumab
Progression-free survival, Duration from randomization to documented disease recurrence or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2-year
Overall survival, Duration from randomization to death from any cause., 2-year|Local progression-free survival, Duration from randomization to documented local recurrence or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2-year|Regional progression-free survival, Duration from randomization to documented regional recurrence or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2-year|Distant metastasis-free survival, Duration from randomization to documented distant metastasis or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2-year|Number of participants with adverse events, Incidence of adverse events, 2-year
Treatment for locally recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma (LR-NPC) is challenging. Carbon-ion radiotherapy appeared to be an effective treatment for this group of patients, and has substantially improved the 2-year overall survival (OS) to approximately 85%, compared to photon-based intensity-modulated radiotherapy. However, a group of the patients may still develop disease progression after CIRT, and the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) was approximately 45%-50%. Camrelizumab, a programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor, has been demonstrated that it is effective in the recurrent/metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma; however, the role of camrelizumab in concurrence with radiotherapy, especially CIRT, for LR-NPC is not clear. The purpose of this phase 2 clinical trial is to compare the efficacy of CIRT plus camrelizumab and CIRT alone in the treatment of LR-NPC. Eligible participants will be randomized (1:1) to 1) CIRT alone group (control group); 2) CIRT plus camrelizumab group (experimental group). The primary endpoint is progression-free survival. Secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS), local progression-free survival (LPFS), regional progression-free survival (RPFS), and distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS) and toxicities. All efficacy analyses are conducted in the intention-to-treat population, and the safety population include only patients who receive their randomly assigned treatment.