Lenvatinib, Sintilimab Plus SIRT for Unresectable HCC
This study is conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib, sintilimab plus Y-90 selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) for patients with unresectable intermediate-advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib, sintilimab plus SIRT
Progression free survival (PFS) according to mRECIST, The time from initiation of treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2.5 years
Progression free survival (PFS) according to RECIST 1.1, The time from initiation of treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2.5 years|Objective response rate (ORR), The percentage of patients who had a best overall tumor response rating of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to mRECIST and RECIST 1.1, 2.5 years|Disease control rate (DCR), The percentage of patients who had a tumor response rating of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) according to mRECIST and RECIST 1.1, 2.5 years|Overall survival (OS), The time from initiation of treatment until the date of death from any cause., 2.5 years|Adverse Events (AEs), Number of patients with AEs assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0., 2.5 years
This is a single-center, prospective study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib, sintilimab plus SIRT (Len-Sin-SIRT) in patient with unresectable HCC.

30 patients with unresectable intermediate-advanced HCC (BCLC B/C stage) will be enrolled in this study. The patients will receive lenvatinib (body weight ≥60kg, 12mg; body weight \<60kg, 8mg; P.O. QD) and sintilimab (200mg I.V. Q3W) at 3-7 days after SIRT. Sintilimab will last up to 24 months, or until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. Lenvatinib will last until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first.

The primary end point of this study is Progression free survival (PFS) per mRECIST. The secondary endpoints are PFS per RECIST 1.1, objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), overall survival (OS) and adverse events (AEs).