Chemoembolization Using Irinotecan in Treating Patients With Liver Metastases From Metastatic Colon or Rectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as irinotecan hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or stopping them from dividing. Chemoembolization kills tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor and keeping chemotherapy drugs near the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well chemoembolization using irinotecan works in treating patients with liver metastases from metastatic colon or rectal cancer.
Liver Metastases|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: irinotecan-eluting beads|PROCEDURE: hepatic artery embolization
Time to Progression, Duration of time from start of treatment to progression|Patient Tolerance and Toxicity Profile, First treatment then 30 days after completion of treatment then every 3 months for 2 years|Overall Survival, 30 days after completion of treatment then every 3 months for 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the response rate of colorectal liver metastases (in the treated lobe) treated with DEBIRI, in refractory mCRC patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the time to progression in the treated lobe for this patient population.

II. To evaluate the overall survival for this patient population. III. To evaluate patient tolerance and the toxicity profile of treatment with DEBIRI in this patient population.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive irinotecan-eluting beads via hepatic artery embolization every 3 weeks for up to 3 (unilobar disease) or 4 (bi-lobar disease) courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for 2 years.