Specialized Radiation Therapy and Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of hypofractionated radiation therapy when given together with chemotherapy in treating patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving hypofractionated radiation therapy together with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Maximum-tolerated RT dose fraction, Up to 28 months
Radiographic response, Up to 5 years|Metabolic response, Up to 5 years|Rates of progression: local/regional/distant, Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum-tolerable radiotherapy (RT) dose fraction for accelerated hypofractionated radiotherapy with concurrent chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the rate of radiographic response to treatment. II. To estimate the rates of progression: local/regional/distant. III. To estimate the progression-free survival. IV. To estimate the overall survival.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of accelerated hypofractionated radiotherapy.

CONCURRENT THERAPY: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo accelerated hypofractionated radiotherapy using 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) once daily, 5 days a week, for approximately 4-5.5 weeks.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.