Olverembatinib Combined With Reduced-Intensity Chemotherapy and Venetoclax for de Novo Ph+ ALL
The introduction of TKIs has greatly improved the prognosis of Ph+ ALL patients. The third-generation TKI ponatinib in combination with chemotherapy has demonstrated superior efficacy to first- and second-generation TKIs. However, unfortunately, ponatinib is not available in mainland China. Olverembatinib is the only third-generation TKI drug currently approved in mainland China. Venetoclax is an oral selective inhibitor of Bcl-2, and small exploratory clinical studies have demonstrated that venetoclax in combination with ponatinib showed high rates of CR as well as molecular response in relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL. This study will explore the safety and efficacy of olverembatinib in combination with reduced-intensity chemotherapy and venetoclax in patients with newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL.
Philadelphia Chromosome Positive Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: Olverembatinib|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: Vincristine
CMR rate, Complete molecular remission rate (CMR rate) at 3 months of treatment (90 days), At 3 months of treatment (90 days)
Overall survival(OS), From the date of registration to the date of death resulting from any cause, up to 60 months|Relapse free survival, From the date of complete remission(CR) until the date of documented relapse or death due to any cause or the last follow-up day, up to 60 months|The rate of adverse events, an expected average of 24 months|complete remission (CR) rate, an expected average of 3 months|The duration of CR, up to 60 months|The duration of molecular CR, up to 60 months
The introduction of TKIs has greatly improved the prognosis of Ph+ ALL patients. The third-generation TKI ponatinib in combination with chemotherapy has demonstrated superior efficacy to first- and second-generation TKIs. However, unfortunately, ponatinib is not available in mainland China. Olverembatinib is the only third-generation TKI drug currently approved in mainland China. Venetoclax is an oral selective inhibitor of Bcl-2, and small exploratory clinical studies have demonstrated that venetoclax in combination with ponatinib showed high rates of CR as well as molecular response in relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL. This study will explore the safety and efficacy of olverembatinib in combination with reduced-intensity chemotherapy and venetoclax in patients with newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL.