VITAMIN E, C and ZINC IN PATIENTS WITH SKIN CANCER: INFLUENCE ON OXIDATIVE STRESS AND INFLAMMATORY STATE
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of supplementary antioxidant therapy on the levels of biomarkers and inflamatory citocines in patients with a previous history of non-melanoma skin cancer treated with surgery. This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Patients were randomized into two groups, one receiving placebo (n=34) and the other receiving supplementary antioxidant therapy (n=26) with vitamin C (50 mg), vitamin E (60 mg), and zinc (40 mg) for 60 days. Blood samples were obtained from patients, and the levels of oxidative stress biomarkers, including 8-isoprostane, nitrite, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, and total antioxidant capacity, were measured, as well as the inflamatory citocines (IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, TNF alfa) and it was evaluated at two different times: (1) one day before the start of supplementation or placebo administration and (2) at 60 days after intervention. Statistical analyses were performed with the SAS System for Windows 9.3 program and data were analyzed using ANOVA for repeated measures test.
Skin Neoplasms
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin C, E and Zinc
OXIDATIVE STRESS BIOMARKERS, 8-isoprostane, Thiobarbituric Acid Reactive Substances (TBARS), Nitrite, Total Antioxidant Capacity (TAC), one day before the start of supplementation or placebo administration and at 60 days after intervention|INFLAMMATORY STATE, IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, TNF alfa, one day before the start of supplementation or placebo administration and at 60 days after intervention
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of supplementary antioxidant therapy on the levels of biomarkers and inflamatory citocines in patients with a previous history of non-melanoma skin cancer treated with surgery. This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Patients were randomized into two groups, one receiving placebo (n=34) and the other receiving supplementary antioxidant therapy (n=26) with vitamin C (50 mg), vitamin E (60 mg), and zinc (40 mg) for 60 days. Blood samples were obtained from patients, and the levels of oxidative stress biomarkers, including 8-isoprostane, nitrite, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, and total antioxidant capacity, were measured, as well as the inflamatory citocines (IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, TNF alfa) and it was evaluated at two different times: (1) one day before the start of supplementation or placebo administration and (2) at 60 days after intervention. Statistical analyses were performed with the SAS System for Windows 9.3 program and data were analyzed using ANOVA for repeated measures test.