Safety and Efficacy Study of KL-7SHRNA Injection Solution in the Treatment of AIDS Patients With Lymphoma
This pilot clinical trial studies gene therapy in treating patients with HIV-1 infecetion combined with lymphoma undergoing 7shRNA lentiviral vector transduced CD34+ hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Giving chemotherapy before a stem cell transplant stops the growth of cancer cells by stopping them from dividing or killing them. After treatment, CD34+hematopoietic stem cells are mobilized and collected from the patient's peripheral blood. The CD34+stem cells are then isolated and transduced with lenti-7shRNA vector and reinfused to the patient to replace the blood-forming cells that were destroyed by the chemotherapy.
HIV Infections|Lymphoma
DRUG: KL-7SHRNA injection solution
Overall survival, Number of patients alive all over the trial, D0 post-infusion to completion of follow-up, an average of 2 year|Engraftment time of 7shRNA modified CD34+ stem cells, Haematological engraftment is defined as first day of neutrophil count \>500/mm3 and platelets \>20,000/mm3 on 7 consecutive blood counts., within day +28 after gene therapy
7shRNA VCN, Detection of 7shRNA VCN in CD4+T cells via qPRC., At week 2, months 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9，10,12，15,18,21and 24 post-transplant|Duration of interruption of HAART, At two months post-transplant, or later, HAART will be voluntarily interrupted only for participants who have a CD4 count of 200 or higher with no detectable viral load and 7shRNA VCN\>0.5, for participants in which the CD4 T-cell count has not risen to ≥ 200 cells/mm3 at the time of the planned HAART interruption, HAART will continue until the T-cell count has risen to ≥ 200 cells/mm3., Up to 24 months post-treatment|Transplantation related mortality, Number of patients die of transplantation all over the trial, Up to 24 months post-treatment
Primary objectives:

1. To determine the safety and feasibility of using lenti-7shRNA transduced hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells in the setting of autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation for treatment of HIV infection combined with lymphoma. The safety of the genetically modified product used in the transplant procedure will be assessed by monitoring each subject for adverse events (procedure related toxicity); absolute neutrophil count (ANC)/platelet engraftment (sustained recovery); and evidence of replication competent vector or vector recombination with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) quasi-species present in the patient.
2. To determine the quantity and duration of vector-marked peripheral blood cells and to characterize: the duration and level of gene marking and expression of the anti-HIV shRNA in these transduced cells, and the characterization of the integration sites of vector sequences in circulating cells if there is a clinical syndrome suggestive of a clonal expansion of hematopoietic cells. In addition, the feasibility of the process will be assessed based on the results of the release testing of the transduced cells prior to injection into the patient.
3. To measure the effect of HIV infection on the presence of HIV-resistant blood cells as measured by genetic marking for vector sequences before and after antiviral treatment interruption.