Treatment of Cutaneous Metastases With Diphenylcyclopropenone (DPCP)
Melanoma is a life-threatening cancer which poses a significant health burden, especially when metastatic or spreading to areas other than the original tumor growth. Although various treatment options are currently available for melanoma, melanomas that have metastasized widely to the skin pose a significant clinical challenge as the available therapies have limited effect. This study proposes the use of a topically applied compound named diphenylcyclopropenone (DPCP) which has been shown to be effective in treating melanoma patients whose diseases have spread widely throughout the skin. DPCP works by having a patient's own immune system, which is usually used to fight infections, attack cancerous cells. This compound has commonly been used to treat other conditions such as warts and hair loss throughout the world for many years and is known to cause limited side effects. Altering a patient's own immune system through topical treatments has also been shown to benefit patients with other cancers that have metastasized to skin such as breast cancer. In this study, the investigators will use DPCP to treat cutaneous metastases of various cancers including melanoma. Our overall intention is to get a better understanding of effective immune responses in the skin that may mediate metastatic cancer regression or cure.
Neoplasm Metastasis|Melanoma
DRUG: Diphenylcyclopropenone (DPCP)
clinically evident inflammatory response elicited by DPCP and the clinically evident efficacy of DPCP to treat cutaneous metastases, Day 142
histological and gene expression profiling of biopsy specimens, Day 142
This is an open label study to determine the efficacy and mechanism(s) of the proprietary DPCP gel composition as a topical immunotherapeutic agent for the treatment of cutaneous metastases. This study is investigator initiated, carried out only at Rockefeller University and the Sponsor holds the IND and is providing the test agent. The products to be evaluated are 0.4% DPCP, in a non-volatile gel vehicle, and 0.04% DPCP in the same gel vehicle applied to the target lesions biweekly for 14 weeks. It is our goal to apply the study drug to all cutaneous metastatic lesions, but at the Investigator's discretion, certain lesions will be avoided if they are in particularly difficult locations such as around the eyes or on the lips. The estimated duration of the study is 142 days with 112 days of treatment followed by subject examination on Day 142. If DPCP is shown to cause resolution of lesions by this visit, there will be the possibility of continuing DPCP use as long as study medication continues to be provided to The Rockefeller University.