Study Of Dacomitinib (PF-00299804) In Advanced NSCLC Patients (Post Chemo Or Select First Line) To Evaluate Prophylactic Intervention On Derm And GI AEs And PRO
To assess the impact of prophylactic treatment on the incidence of adverse events in advanced NSCLC patients (post chemotherapy) treated with dacomitinib daily as a single agent. To assess the impact of an interrupted dacomitinib dosing schedule in Cycle 1 on the incidence of adverse events in first-line advanced NSCLC patients with an EGFR mutation (HER-1 mutation, HER-2 mutation or HER-2 amplification).
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DRUG: Dacomitinib|DRUG: Dacomitinib|DRUG: Doxycycline|DRUG: Probiotic|DRUG: Alclometasone cream
Percentage of Participants With Select Dermatologic Adverse Events of Interest (SDAEI) (All Causality, All Grade) in the First 8 Weeks of Treatment by Treatment Arm for Cohort I, SDAEI of all causality and all grades were evaluated in participants in Cohort I. These SDAEIs included dermatitis acneiform, dry skin, exfoliative rash, nail discoloration, nail disorder, paronychia, pruritus, rash, skin exfoliation, skin fissures, skin infection, skin laceration and skin ulcer.

95% confidence interval (CI) calculated using exact method based on binomial distribution.

After protocol amendment 1, Arm C was removed from Cohort I and enrollment to Arm C was terminated. Only 7 participants were enrolled in Cohort I Arm C as a result. Given the smaller sample size, analyse of Outcome Measure 1 was not conducted in Cohort I Arm C., First 8 Weeks of Treatment|Percentage of Participants With SDAEI (All Causality, Grade Greater Than or Equal to [≥] 2) in the First 8 Weeks of Treatment by Treatment Arm for Cohort I, SDAEI of all causality and Grade ≥2 were evaluated in participants in Cohort I. These SDAEIs included dermatitis acneiform, dry skin, exfoliative rash, nail discoloration, nail disorder, paronychia, pruritus, rash, skin exfoliation, skin fissures, skin infection, skin laceration and skin ulcer. Adverse events (AEs) were graded for severity using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE, Version 4.0).

95% CI calculated using exact method based on binomial distribution. After protocol amendment 1, Arm C was removed from Cohort I and enrollment to Arm C was terminated. Only 7 participants were enrolled in Cohort I Arm C as a result. Given the smaller sample size, analyse of Outcome Measure 2 was not conducted in Cohort I Arm C., First 8 Weeks of Treatment|Mean Change From Baseline (Cycle 1 Day 1) Skindex-16 Scale Scores (Total Score, Symptoms Score, Emotion Score, and Functioning Score) by Treatment Arm for Cohort I, Patient Reported Outcomes (PROs) of Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) \& disease/treatment-related symptoms were assessed using Dermatologic Survey (Skindex-16) that assesses "bother". It includes 3 multi-item scales: symptoms, emotions \& functioning. Individual scaled scores \& total scores were determined. Skindex questions were transformed to a linear scale of 0 (never bothered) to 100 (always bothered). Subscale scores are an average of non-missing questions in a given scale if greater than (\>) 75% of total subscale questions are non-missing. The Total Score is an average of all non-missing questions in the Skindex if \>75% of total questions are non-missing. A negative change score represents a better quality of life. A change score of 10 points is considered clinically significant.

Skindex completion criteria were defined as completion of 3 out of 4 items for questions 1 to 4, 6 out of 7 items for questions 5 to 11, 4 out of 5 items for questions 12 to 16 for the visit., First 8 Weeks of Treatment|Percentage of Participants With Diarrhea AEs (All Causality, All Grade and Grade ≥2) in the First 8 Weeks of Treatment for Cohort II, Diarrhea AEs of all causality, all grade and Grade ≥2 were evaluated in participants in Cohort II. AEs were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE, Version 4.0.

95% CI calculated using exact method based on binomial distribution., First 8 Weeks of Treatment|Mean Change From Baseline (Cycle 1 Day 1) Modified Oral Mucositis Daily Questionnaire (OMDQ) Scores (Mouth and Throat Soreness Categories and Scale, and Diarrhea Categories and Scale) for Cohort II, Diarrhea severity was assessed using the modified-OMDQ. This questionnaire is comprised of 6 questions in total; however, only two items relate to diarrhea symptoms (item 5 and item 6). Symptoms scores were developed for both the full questionnaire and for the diarrhea-only questions for each completed survey. Mucositis questions were transformed to a score range of 0 to 10. Increasing OMDQ values are associated with greater symptom burden.

Modified OMDQ completion criteria were defined as completion of all 4 questions (questions 2, 4, 5 and 6).

M/T = mouth and throat., Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, EoT and Follow-up|Percentage of Participants With SDAEI (All Causality, All Grade) in the First 8 Weeks of Treatment for Cohort II, SDAEI of all causality and all grades were evaluated in participants in Cohort II. These SDAEIs included dermatitis acneiform, dry skin, exfoliative rash, nail discoloration, nail disorder, paronychia, pruritus, rash, skin exfoliation, skin fissures, skin infection, skin laceration and skin ulcer.

95% CI calculated using exact method based on binomial distribution., First 8 Weeks of Treatment|Percentage of Participants With SDAEI (All Causality, Grade ≥2) in the First 8 Weeks of Treatment for Cohort II, SDAEI of all causality and Grade ≥2 were evaluated in participants in Cohort II. These SDAEIs included dermatitis acneiform, dry skin, exfoliative rash, nail discoloration, nail disorder, paronychia, pruritus, rash, skin exfoliation, skin fissures, skin infection, skin laceration and skin ulcer. AEs were graded for severity using the NCI-CTCAE, Version 4.0.

95% CI calculated using exact method based on binomial distribution., First 8 Weeks of Treatment|Mean Change From Baseline (Cycle 1 Day 1) Skindex-16 Scale Scores (Total Score, Symptoms Score, Emotion Score, and Functioning Score) for Cohort II, PROs of HRQoL and disease/treatment-related symptoms were assessed using Dermatologic Survey (Skindex-16) that assesses "bother". It includes 3 multi-item scales: symptoms, emotions \& functioning. Individual scaled scores \& total scores were determined. Skindex questions were transformed to a linear scale of 0 (never bothered) to 100 (always bothered). Subscale scores are an average of non-missing questions in a given scale if \> 75% of total subscale questions are non-missing. The Total Score is an average of all non-missing questions in the Skindex if \>75% of total questions are non-missing. A negative change score represents a better quality of life. A change score of 10 points is considered clinically significant.

Skindex completion criteria were defined as completion of 3 out of 4 items for questions 1 to 4, 6 out of 7 items for questions 5 to 11, 4 out of 5 items for questions 12 to 16 for the visit., Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, EoT and Follow-up|Mean Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve From 0 to 24 Hours (AUC0-24) and From 0 to 120 Hours (AUC0-120) for Dacomitinib and Its Metabolite PF-05199265 on Cycle 1 Days 10 to 15 for Cohort III, AUC0-24 is the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) from time 0 to 24 hours post-dose. AUC0-120 is the AUC from time 0 to 120 hours post-dose. AUC was calculated by the linear trapezoidal method using a non-compartmental pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis.

ng\*hr/mL = nanogram hours per milliliter, Cycle 1 Day 10: Pre-dose and 2, 4, 6, 24, 48, 72, 96, and 120 hours post-dose (the 120 hour sample was obtained on Day 15 pre-dose).|Mean Maximum Observed Plasma Concentrations (Cmax) for Dacomitinib and Its Metabolite PF-05199265 on Cycle 1 Days 10 to 15 for Cohort III, Cmax was obtained from direct inspection of the data. ng/mL = nanograms per milliliter, Cycle 1 Day 10: Pre-dose and 2, 4, 6, 24, 48, 72, 96, and 120 hours post-dose (the 120 hour sample was obtained on Day 15 pre-dose).|Median Time of Occurrence of Cmax (Tmax) for Dacomitinib and Its Metabolite PF-05199265 on Cycle 1 Days 10 to 15 for Cohort III, Tmax was obtained from direct inspection of the data as the time of first occurence of Cmax., Cycle 1 Day 10: Pre-dose and 2, 4, 6, 24, 48, 72, 96, and 120 hours post-dose (the 120 hour sample was obtained on Day 15 pre-dose).
Percentage of Participants Receiving Any Concomitant Drug or Non-Drug Treatment for SDAEI, Diarrhea and Mucositis for Cohort I by Treatment Arm, Cohort II, and Cohort III, Medications used concomitantly for SDAEIs, diarrhea and mucositis were evaluated for all participants who received dacomitinib on a continuous basis with a preemptive prophylactic (Cohorts I and II) or as an interrupted dosing regimen (Cohort III)., Screening to the Post-Teatment Follow-Up Visit (at least 28 days and no more than 35 days after the end of dacomitinib treatment due to progression of disease, intolerance to dacomitinib treatment, or participant withdrawal)|Mean AUC From 0 to the End of the Dosing Interval (AUC0-tau) for Dacomitinib and Its Metabolite PF-05199265 on Cycle 2 Day 1 for Cohort I, AUCtau was the AUC from time 0 to the end of the dosing interval, where the dosing interval was 24 hours. AUCtau was calculated by the linear/log trapezoidal method using a non-compartmental PK analysis., Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose|Mean Cmax for Dacomitinib and Its Metabolite PF-05199265 on Cycle 2 Day 1 for Cohort I, Cmax was obtained from direct inspection of the data., Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose|Median Tmax for Dacomitinib and Its Metabolite PF-05199265 on Cycle 2 Day 1 for Cohort I, Tmax was obtained from direct inspection of the data as the time of first occurence of Cmax., Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose|Mean Apparent Clearance (CL/F) for Dacomitinib on Cycle 2 Day 1 for Cohort I, CL/F was calculated as dose/AUCtau., Cycle 2 Day 1: pre-dose and at 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours post-dose|Mean Plasma Trough Concentrations (Ctrough) for Dacomitinib by Visit for Cohorts I, II and III, Ctrough was the pre-dose plasma concentration of dacomitinib at steady state obtained from direct inspection of the data.

Number of participants analyzed is the total number of participants in the treatment group in the indicated population, n is the number of participants contributing to the summary statistics., Cohorts I to III: Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 3 to 10.|Mean Plasma Ctrough for PF-05199265 by Visit for Cohorts I, II and III, Ctrough was the pre-dose plasma concentration of the dacomitinib metabolite PF-05199265 at steady state obtained from direct inspection of the data.

Number of participants analyzed is the total number of participants in the treatment group in the indicated population, n is the number of participants contributing to the summary statistics., Cohorts I to III: Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 3 to 10.
To assess the impact of prophylactic treatment on the incidence of adverse events in advanced NSCLC patients (post chemotherapy) treated with dacomitinib daily as a single agent. To assess the impact of an interrupted dacomitinib dosing schedule in Cycle 1 on the incidence of adverse events in first-line advanced NSCLC patients with an EGFR mutation (HER-1 mutation, HER-2 mutation or HER-2 amplification).