A Phase I Study of 5-Azacytidine in Combination With Chemotherapy for Children With Relapsed or Refractory ALL or AML
This is a Phase I study with a conditional cohort expansion phase to evaluate the feasibility of, and to obtain preliminary efficacy data about, pretreatment with Azacytidine (AZA) for 5 days followed by fludarabine/cytarabine chemotherapy regimen in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients who are refractory to primary treatment or who relapsed.
Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Acute, Childhood|Myelogenous Leukemia, Acute, Childhood
DRUG: Azacytidine|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Intrathecal (IT) Cytarabine|DRUG: Intrathecal Methotrexate (IT MTX)
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), To evaluate the side effects of giving Azacytidine before and during chemotherapy using the standard drugs Fludarabine, Cytarabine, IT Cytarabine (AML patients) and IT methotrexate (ALL patients), From Day 1 to Day 42 (Cycle 1)
Disease Response Rate After Treatment, CR is defined as a bone marrow with \< 5% blast by morphology, no evidence of extramedullary disease, and recovery of peripheral counts (ANC ≥ 1000/μl and platelet counts ≥ 100,000/μl). CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi) was defined as CR without recovery of ANC and/or platelets. Partial response (PR) was defined as complete disappearance of circulating blasts and a decrease of at least 50% of blasts in the bone marrow. Progressive disease (PD) was defined as an increase of at least 25% in the absolute number of bone marrow or circulating blasts, development of new sites of extramedullary disease, or other laboratory or clinical evidence of progression of disease. Stable disease (SD) referred to patient who did not satisfy the criteria for either CR, CRi, PR or PD., Between Days 36-42 of Courses 1 and 2
Growing evidence indicates that aberrant DNA hypermethylation is associated with leukemia development, drug resistance, and relapse. It has been shown that pretreating leukemia cells with AZA or decitabine could partially reverse the aberrant DNA methylation, restore the expression of tumor suppressor gene important for apoptosis, and sensitize cells to subsequent killing by cytotoxic agent. Since cytarabine and decitabine share the same mechanisms of resistance, we use AZA to test the novel epigenetic "priming" approach. This is a phase I clinical study with expansion phase, using hypomethylating agent, 5-azacytidine (AZA), in sequential with chemotherapy to evaluate whether epigenetic "priming" can reverse aberrant DNA methylation, overcome drug resistance, and increase response in relapsed/refractory AML.

The chemotherapy regimen to be used in this study is fludarabine and cytarabine. This regimen has substantial activity in leukemia and has been widely used in treating pediatric patients with relapsed/refractory AML and ALL in the past several decades. In BFM relapsed AML 2001/01 study, FLAG (fludarabine, cytarabine and G-CSF) chemotherapy regimen showed significant activity in AML with 4 year OS around 36%. Since the use of G-CSF in conjunction with fludarabine/cytarabine didn't improve the overall survival of patient in a randomized trial, only fludarabine and cytarabine will be used in this study to decrease the incidence of leukocytosis related complications. This regimen is very similar to the chemotherapy regimen proposed for the next relapsed AML trial within the Children's Oncology Group (COG). If this trial proves to be safe and active, it will provide the foundation and smooth transition to larger statistically powered nationwide phase II clinical trials by COG.