DESI - Düsseldorfer ESD Study
Safety and effectiveness of endoscopic submucosal dissection
Oesophageal Tumour|Gastric Tumours|Duodenal Tumours|Colon Tumours|Rectal Tumours
Technical success rate, TSR, defined as rate of procedures with endoscopic en-bloc resection, during the procedure|Complication rate, Serious complications, (according to AGREE criteria), intraprocedural or late onset, through study completion, an average of 5 years|Histopahological result, Histopathological result of R0 resection (margins are clean, vertical and lateral), up to 14 days after Procedure
Complete resection rate (endoscopic), up to 14 days after Procedure till histopathological results|Clinical success rate (curative resection according to standard of care guidelines), up to 14 days after Procedure till histopathological results|Enhances clinical success rate (no curative resection according to standard of care guidelines, but no further treatment necessary (after individual discussion of cases in tumorboard), about 4 weeks after the ESD|Complication rate (total), through study completion, an average of 1 year|Contributing factors on the technical and clinical success rate originating with patient and investigator aspects, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Dissection speed and rate of complications with different ESD devices, during the procedure / 1 day|Recurrence rate after 3, 6, 12, 24 and 60 months (if available), through study completion, an average of 5 year
Background and study objective The standard of care for premalignant and malignant mucosal lesions in the gastrointestinal track with limited submucosal invasion is an endoscopic resection. A curative resection of the neoplasia often necessitates an en-bloc resection, where the resection ends within healthy tissue (R0 resection). Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is a highly sophisticated resection technique for lesions in the oesophagus, stomach, duodenum, colon and rectum. Multiple studies in Asia already established the safety and efficacy of ESD. In several spezialized centres in the western world the ESD already replaced the endoscopic mucosal resectiona (EMR) as standart of care. The en-bloc resection facilitates an exact histopathological evaluation, thus leading to lower recurrence rates. Besides specified mucosal lesions, there is an increase in the use of ESD to resect expansive and submucosal lesions. Specialised centres like Evangelisches Krankenhaus Düsseldorf have a high number of ESD cases and use ubiquitous in the gastrointestinal tract. Besides the many advantages over EMR there is still the risk of peri- and postinterventional complications with ESD due to the highly demanding technique and the longer procedure duration. This is why patient selection is crucial factor (in this study). To evaluate the safety and efficacy of ESD more prospective data analysis in western centres are necessary. This data will be useful to develop new approaches to improve the method concerning safety and efficacy and patient selection.