Panobinostat and Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer That is Metastatic and/or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Panobinostat and sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Sorafenib may also stop the growth of liver cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of panobinostat when given together with sorafenib in treating patients with liver cancer that is metastatic and/or cannot be removed by surgery.
Liver Cancer
DRUG: panobinostat|DRUG: sorafenib tosylate
Assessment of Safety and Tolerability, •Primary objective of the phase I trial will be to assess the safety and tolerability and to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of LBH 589 when combined with standard doses of sorafenib in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma., 6months to 1 year
Progression-free survival, Evaluate time to progression vs progression free survival, 6mo 1 year|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) will be measured from study entry until death from any cause., until death|Response as assessed by RECIST, To ensure comparability, baseline methods and on-study methods for response assessment must be performed using identical techniques. In addition, all subjects with evidence of objective tumor response (CR, PR or SD) should have the response confirmed with repeat assessments at least 21 days after the first documentation of response, resuming bimonthly (every 42 days) assessments thereafter. Objective tumor response will be assessed using the RECIST method., every 42 days|Adverse events and abnormal laboratory value severity as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Events should be documented and recorded at each visit. Subjects should be followed for adverse events for 30 days after the last protocol related assessment, or until drug-related toxicities have resolved, whichever is later., weekly during treatment to 30 days after treatment
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Assess the safety and tolerability of panobinostat when combined with standard doses of sorafenib tosylate in patients with metastatic and/or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.
* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of panobinostat when combined with standard doses of sorafenib tosylate in these patients.

Secondary

* Determine the response rate.
* Determine the progression-free survival.
* Determine the overall survival rate.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of panobinostat.

Patients receive panobinostat IV on days 1 and 8 and oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 30 days.