Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy Plus Chemotherapy Followed by Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy and Consolidative Immunotherapy for Locally Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Consolidative immunotherapy following concurrent chemoradiotherapy, based on the PACIFIC trial, has become the standard treatment for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (LANSCLC), leading to a 5-year survival rate of over 40%. The optimal timing of radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy still requires further exploration. This phase III, randomized controlled clinical trial is to investigate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant immuno-chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy and consolidative immunotherapy, compared with concurrent chemoradiotherapy and consolidative immunotherapy in LANSCLC patients.
Neoadjuvant Therapy|Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy|Immunotherapy|Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Neoadjuvant therapy|RADIATION: Concurrent chemoradiotherapy|DRUG: Consolidative immunotherapy
Median Progression-Free Survival, PFS measures the time from the start of treatment until the disease progresses or the patient dies from any cause, whichever occurs first., 2 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR refers to the proportion of patients who experience complete response (CR) and partial response (PR), 1-2 months after treatment|Overall survival (OS), OS is the time from the start of treatment until death from any cause., 2 years|Failure patterns, Failure patterns describe the pattern of disease progression or treatment failure, such as local recurrence or distant metastases, 2 years|Safety: Adverse Events of Grade 2 or Higher, Safety endpoints assess the frequency and severity of treatment-related adverse events (side effects). Adverse events are graded on a scale from 1 to 5, with grade 2 and above indicating more significant side effects that may require medical intervention or treatment modifications., 1 years after treatment|Quality of life assessed by Quality of Life Core 30, Patient-reported quality of life measured by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). Higher scores on functioning scales indicate better functioning, while higher scores on symptom scales indicate more severe symptoms., 1 years after treatment|Quality of life assessed by Quality of Life LC13, Patient-reported quality of life measured by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-LC13). Higher scores on functioning scales indicate better functioning, while higher scores on symptom scales indicate more severe symptoms., 1 years after treatment|The percentage of patients who are eligible for consolidative immunotherapy following chemoradiotherapy, The percentage of patients who are eligible for consolidative immunotherapy following chemoradiotherapy, 1 year
This phase III, randomized controlled trial aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant immuno-chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy and consolidative immunotherapy, compared with concurrent chemoradiotherapy and consolidative immunotherapy in LANSCLC patients. Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to the following two groups: (1) Study group: Patients in this group will receive two cycles of neoadjuvant therapy. After neoadjuvant therapy, they will undergo concurrent chemoradiotherapy, followed by consolidative immunotherapy for a maximum duration of 12 months. (2) Control group: Patients in this group will receive concurrent chemoradiotherapy, followed by consolidative immunotherapy for a maximum duration of 12 months. Patients will be stratified by the following factors: Age (\< 65 years vs. ≥ 65 years); Gender (Male vs. Female); Stage (IIIA vs. IIIB/C).