Liver Cancer and Immunotherapy in the Liquid Biopsy Era
The goal of this prospective clinical trial is to identify a predictive biomarker in patients with advanced HCC (stage B and C) using a combinatorial approach of the liquid biopsy.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Is multi-omic liquid biopsy approach able to identify a strong predictive biomarker of immunotherapy efficiency?
* Is there a correlation between tissue biopsy (PD-L1 tissue level of expression) and liquid biopsy (detection of CTC expressing PD-L1) in HCC patients?

Participants blood will be collected at several time points.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage B Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage C Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor|Liquid Biopsy
BIOLOGICAL: Liquid Biopsy
Percentage of patients with CTCs-PD-L1+ by CellSearch® technique, A CTC is being defined as: EpCAM(+)/PanCK(+)/Dapi(+)/CD45(-). The PD-L1 status will be observed only on these cells. CTC-PD-L1- = 0 vs CTC-PD-L1+ ≥1, At inclusion
Number of CTCs-PD-L1+ measured by CellSearch® technique, 0 vs. 1 vs. 2-3 vs. 4 vs. ≥5, At inclusion|Presence of CTCs at inclusion by CellSearch® technique, Percentage of patients with CTCs, At inclusion|Number of CTCs measured by CellSearch® technique, 0 vs 1 vs 2-3 vs 4 vs ≥5, At inclusion|Immune profiling, FACS study of immune system cells (T cells, NK cells, B cells, macrophages, immune-checkpoint and platelets), 24 month follow up|Expression of PD-L1 by immuno-histochemical analysis of tissue samples, PD-L1 expression on biopsy or surgical specimen previously preserved in the Montpellier University Hospital tumor library, At inclusion|Tumor control defined by mRECIST criteria, Best response: complete response + partial response + stable vs progression, 24 month follow up|Tumor control defined by RECIST criteria, Best response: complete response + partial response + stable vs progression, 24 month follow up|Overall Survival, Time from immunotherapy start date to date of death from any cause, 24 month follow-up|Progression Free Survival, Time from immunotherapy start date to date of first progression or date of death from any cause, 24 month follow-up
In solid cancers, some more aggressive tumor cells actively detach from the primary lesion and then travel through the circulating compartment to reach distant organs and form micro-metastases. Detecting CTCs in the blood is also relevant for assessing tumor progression, prognosis and therapeutic follow-up. The non-invasive, highly sensitive for CTCs analysis is called "liquid biopsy". Over the past few years, a multi-analyses approach (CTCs, circulating tumor DNA, extracellular vesicles, miRNA...) of liquid biopsy has been developed.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the predominant pathological type of primary liver cancer. It represents the sixth most common incidence worldwide and the third most common cause of cancer mortality.

Since 2021, the gold standard treatment for patients with advanced and/or unresectable HCC is the combination of atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1) and bevacizumab (VEGF inhibitor) in cases where chemoembolization is not indicated (patients with lymph node invasion and/or distant lesions or patients with portal flow abnormality). Indeed, this therapy offers a significant benefit in overall survival (19.2 vs 13.4 months, HR 0.66, p\<0.0009) as well as in progression-free survival (6.9 vs 4.3 months, HR 0.65, p=0.0001). However, to date, there is no predictive biomarker for the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI)

The purpose of this research project is to identify a predictive biomarker in patients with advanced HCC (stage B and C) using a combinatorial approach of the liquid biopsy (CTC, CTC expressing PD-L1, immune cell profiling).