Apalutamide, Abiraterone Acetate, and Prednisone in Treating Participants With Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well apalutamide and abiraterone acetate work in treating participants with castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Abiraterone acetate and apalutamide may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunosuppressive therapy, such as prednisone, is used to decrease the body's immune response and may improve bone marrow function. Giving apalutamide, abiraterone acetate, and prednisone may work better in treating participants with castration resistant prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma Without Neuroendocrine Differentiation|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: Prednisone
Progression free survival (PFS), Will be assessed using primary analysis set (PAS). Kaplan-Meier curves will be presented., From enrollment until radiographic progression, death from any cause, start of other therapy or last follow-up without progression, whichever comes first assessed up to 28 months
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03 with grade and attribution to study drug., Up to 28 months|Composite progression free survival (PFSc), Will be assessed using PAS., From protocol treatment start until Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) progression (radiographic progression, PSA progression, or clinical deterioration), death, starting new treatment or last follow-up without PCWG2 progression|Overall survival (OS), Will be assessed using PAS., Baseline until death or last contact, assessed up to 28 months|Androgen expression signaling, Will be assessed using marker evaluable set (MES). The association between the biomarker and PSA level will be estimated using Spearman's rank correlation., Baseline to week 13|Survival escape pathway signaling, Will be assessed using MES., Baseline to week 13|PSA measurement, Up to 28 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the radiographic progression free survival (PFS) of men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who are selected for treatment based on positive biomarker signature.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Safety. II. Composite progression free survival (PFSc) defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) (radiographic progression, prostate specific antigen \[PSA\] progression, or clinical deterioration).

III. Overall survival. IV. Exploratory biomarker analyses. V. Measures of prostate specific antigen (PSA) decline and associations with outcome.

VI. Radiologic response by PCWG2 criteria. VII. Measures of circulating tumor cell (CTC) and conversion to undetectable and/or favorable \< 5.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive abiraterone acetate orally (PO) once daily (QD), apalutamide PO QD, and prednisone PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for up to 16 months.