Ultra-hypofractionated Radiation in Prostate Cancer
The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate that ultra-hypofractionation of prostate cancer does not increase urinary toxicity as defined by the EPIC-26 GU domain patient reported outcome.
Early Stage Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation
Toxicity Rates, Patient reported urinary function, as defined by the EPIC-26 GU domain patient reported outcome for prostate cancer patients, up to 5 year post radiation
Biochemical Control Rate, Biochemical freedom from progression as defined by ASTRO Phoenix criteria at 3 years, 1 month post-Radiation Therapy (RT), every 3 months- post RT for the first year and then every 6 months post RT for the next 4 years|Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) Late Toxicity Rate, Rate of Grade 3+ gastrointestinal (GI) or genitourinary (GU) late toxicity at 3 years as defined by RTOG late toxicity scored on a 1 to 4 scale with a higher value representing a worse outcome., 3 year|RTOG Acute Toxicity Rate, Rate of Grade 2+ GI or GU acute toxicity within 90 days of treatment as defined by RTOG acute toxicity scored on a 1 to 4 scale with a higher value representing a worse outcome., 90 days|Oxidative stress as a predictor of toxicity, exploring the oxidative stress markers of the patient to use as a predictor of acute and late toxicty, 1 month post-RT, every 3 months- post RT for the first year and then every 6 months post RT for the next 4 years|Financial Toxicity Measurement, Determined by evaluation of patient completion of questionnaire, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 month visits only
This is a pilot clinical trial looking at 2 fraction SBRT radiation therapy as an alternative to standard of care. Data does not yet exist for the safety and efficacy of this regimen.

However, the feasibility of ultra-short radiation therapy treatments has already been demonstrated in an analogous treatment using high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy. HDR brachytherapy has been adopted at high volume cancers centers as a standard treatment for prostate cancer. Typical doses have been 26 - 27 Gy over 2 fractions (13 or 13.5 Gy per fraction). Overall, toxicity and efficacy of HDR brachytherapy have compared favorably to other treatment modalities.

Dosimetric planning models between SBRT and HDR brachytherapy suggest minor differences. HDR brachytherapy was able to achieve higher intraprostatic maximum doses and lower rectal doses, but target volume coverage and urethral dose was not significantly different. These data suggest that reducing SBRT treatments from 5 fractions to 2 fractions may be feasible, efficacious and tolerable.

Eligible patients include all patients who are otherwise eligible for standard 5 fraction SBRT prostate. Study population will be low and intermediate patients with good urinary function (as defined by small prostate volume and low IPSS score). SBRT treatment will be delivered to the prostate to 12.5 Gy x 2 fractions.

Hormonal therapy is permitted on this study. Permitted agents include: leuprolide (Lupron/Eligard), biclutamide (Casodex), and degarelix (Firmagon).

Rectal sparing with hydrogel spacer (SpaceOAR) will be encouraged.

All patients will be enrolled with interim safety analyses after every occurrence of a grade 3 acute or late toxicity. Interval safety analysis will also be performed for recurrence and decrease in EPIC GU domain quality of life. Biospecimen and financial toxicity data will also be collected.