Fasting and Nutritional Therapy in Patients With Advanced Metastatic Prostate Cancer
The aim of this trial is a first evaluation of the effectiveness of intermittent fasting as a supplementary therapy in patients with CRPC or hormone-sensitive prostate cancer with high metastatic load (1≥ visceral and ≥4 osseous metastases) in respect to quality of life, reduction of side effects and possible reduction in tumor progression.
Fasting|Prostatic Neoplasms
OTHER: Fasting|OTHER: Control
FACT-P/-Taxane/-An sum score, summarized change of FACT score from baseline to day 8 after each chemotherapy, Assessment day 0 (baseline) and 7 days after each of 6 chemotherapies (study weeks 1,4,7,10,13,16)
FACT-P/-Taxane/-An sum score, Change of score after 3 and 6 months, Assessment day 0 (baseline) and 3 and 6 months after day 0|HADS, Summarized change of score for all time Points, Assessment day 0 (baseline) and 7 days after each of 6 chemotherapies (study weeks 1,4,7,10,13,16) and after 3 and 6 months after study day 0
Differential blood count, Summarized changes of blood count, Assessment day 0 (baseline) and 7 days after each of 6 chemotherapies (study weeks 1,4,7,10,13,16) and after 3 and 6 months after study day 0|Intensity of chemotherapy- related side effects, Group difference of summarized frequency and intensity, Assessment day 0 (baseline) and 7 days after each of 6 chemotherapies (study weeks 1,4,7,10,13,16)
Prostate cancer is in Germany with approximately 25% of all cancers the most common cancer among man. Assumably there will be an increase in prostate cancer in the next few years because of demographic factors. The progressive metastatic prostate cancer often develops an androgen resistance. This so-called Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC) is not responsive to androgen deprivation therapy. Depending on symptoms and progression first-line chemotherapy - docetaxel and abiraterone are available.

Intermittent fasting as a form of caloric restriction has been studied most extensively experimentally in recent years. It showed consistent beneficial effects on relevant inflammatory and oncological pathways. In the field of preclinical oncology research groups have recently focused on intermittent fasting with chemotherapeutic treatment and promising experimental data have been published. In summary, the combination of fasting and chemotherapy was more effective in various cancer animal models than chemotherapy alone.