MARK 1A Series: Percutaneous Microwave Ablation for Patients With Lung Tumor(s)
Does lung ablation improve clinical outcomes for patients deemed to be surgically high-risk?
Lung Neoplasms|Cancer of Lung|Cancer of the Lung|Lung Cancer|Neoplasms, Lung|Neoplasms, Pulmonary|Pulmonary Cancer|Pulmonary Neoplasms|Metastatic Cancer to the Lung
PROCEDURE: Microwave ablation
Efficacy of microwave ablation., Efficacy is defined as achieving the technical success = complete ablation = achieving ablation zone size predicted/necessary for treatment., 3 months|Assessment of patient adverse events as defined by CTCAE., The safety evaluation is based on the major complication rates of performing microwave ablation. The intent is to determine if the results are within acceptable range of what is reported for RFA, cryoablation and surgery. If the microwave ablation has a safety profile that is outside the "standard of care" range, then the procedure would be deemed unacceptable and no further studies of the current generation of microwave ablation would be recommended. The study team has deemed major complication rates of 50% or greater as outside of the "standard of care" range., 3 months
Pathological response in patients receiving microwave ablation., Clinical samples and imaging will be examined to determine pathological response., 1 year
Surgical resection is the gold standard treatment for localized non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, surgery is invasive and not all patients are surgical candidates, thus providing an opportunity for percutaneous microwave ablation, for both primary and metastatic disease. Patients that are deemed inoperable are typically treated with other targeted therapies such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA), cryoablation and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), or systemic therapies. Percutaneous microwave ablation (MWA) is an alternative option for targeted treatment of cancer. Microwave tumor ablation is a procedure that uses heat made by an electric current to destroy a tumor (ablation). With imaging equipment, such as ultrasound or CT (computed tomography), and a small incision made in the skin, the tumor is located and treated with radiofrequency energy. The cells that are killed by the microwave ablation are typically not removed but are eventually replaced by fibrosis and scar tissue. Patients will be followed for 1 year by contrast enhanced chest CT, chest PET/CT and chest PET/MRI to evaluate lesion outcomes.