Cessation of Long-term Opioid Therapy in Chronic Pain Patients
This research is being done to better understand how to help patients who are not receiving enough relief from opioid prescription medications for chronic non-cancer pain. Opioids are a group of medications that includes morphine, oxycodone-, hydrocodone-, etc. These medications are also called narcotics. Research has shown that patients not benefiting from their opioid prescription medication often feel better when they stop taking it. However, stopping or reducing pain medications can be a difficult transition. Although they do not have much benefit from their medication, many patients are afraid to stop because they feel these medications are the only things giving them a bit of relief. Different strategies can be used to help patients through the period of tapering and it is not clear which one is best. The investigators will test a specific approach used during regular care in the clinic: cognitive therapy.
Chronic Pain
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Number of participants with daily opioid dose below 50% of initial dose, successful taper, 10 weeks|signs of hyperalgesia on Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST), evolution of QST scores following taper, 10 weeks
signs of hyperalgesia on QST, at 3 months follow-up from taper, evolution of hyperalgesia, 24 weeks|number of patients who are not prescribed opioids on daily basis ("full taper"), described as not taking opioids on a daily basis, within 10 weeks|Time to reach >50% taper., time to reach 50% taper will eb recorded in all individuals, 24 weeks|Pain scores (Brief Pain Inventory), 10 and 24 weeks|Absolute opioid dose reduction, calculation of absolute dose reduction, 10 and 24 weeks|Functional Impairment, Brief Pain Inventory Interference scale and National Institute of Health Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) scale, 10 and 24 weeks|Number of patients who reach a full taper amongst those having not reached this outcome at 10 weeks., 24 weeks|Anxiety and depression (HADS)., 10 and 24 weeks|Withdrawal (COWS measure)., 10 and 24 weeks|Hedonic tone (SHAPS)., 10 and 24 weeks
This research is being done to better understand how to help patients who are not receiving enough relief from opioid prescription medications for chronic non-cancer pain. Opioids are a group of medications that includes morphine, oxycodone-, hydrocodone-, etc. These medications are also called narcotics. Research has shown that patients not benefiting from their opioid prescription medication often feel better when they stop taking it. However, stopping or reducing pain medications can be a difficult transition. Although they do not have much benefit from their medication, many patients are afraid to stop because they feel these medications are the only things giving them a bit of relief. Different strategies can be used to help patients through the period of tapering and it is not clear which one is best. The investigators will test a specific approach used during regular care in the clinic: cognitive therapy.