Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation With Reduced Intensity Pre-transplant Conditioning for the Treatment of High-risk Hematological Malignancies (V3)
This is study is for patients that have been diagnosed with high-risk hematological malignancies. The main purpose of this study is to confirm previously published results of stem cell transplantation with reduced intensity pre-transplant conditioning. Patients will be assigned to 1 of 3 regimens depending on the patient's diagnosis. Participants will be followed by the transplant team for the remainder of the patient's life. Patient's will visit MUSC daily, then visits will be reduced to frequent visits for up to 6 months. After 6 months, the visits will be reduced more depending on the patient's condition.
Hematological Malignancies
DRUG: Regimen A|DRUG: Regimen B|DRUG: Regimen C
To Determine the Treatment-related Mortality Rate of Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplants Using Reduced-intensity Conditioning Regimens Within 1st 100-days., Number of subject deaths prior to day 100., 8 years
To Determine the Engraftment Rate of Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplants, To determine the engraftment rate of allogeneic stem cell transplants using reduced-intensity conditioning regimens. It will be measured as the proportion of subjects meeting criteria for engraftment before day +30 and full donor chimerism demonstrated before or at day +100. Engraftment is defined by maintenance of ANC \> 500/mm3 for at least 3 consecutive days and platelet count \> 20,000/mm3 for 3 consecutive days in absence of platelet transfusion. These criteria must have been met before Day +30. Chimerism is the pressence of donor cells and will be analyzed by FISH for sex-mismatched donor-recipient pairs and VNTR analysis for sex-mathced pairs. Chimerism by Day +100 will be documented for this outcome, Day +100|Morbidity of Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplants, To determine the morbidity, including the pattern and severity of complications, of allogeneic stem cell transplants using reduced-intensity conditioning regimens. The average number of days spent in the hospital until day +100 will be reported as a surrogate for morbidity and complications., 100 days
This is study is for patients that have been diagnosed with high-risk hematological malignancies. The main purpose of this study is to confirm previously published results of stem cell transplantation with reduced intensity pre-transplant conditioning. Patients will be assigned to 1 of 3 regimens depending on the patient's diagnosis. Participants will be followed by the transplant team for the remainder of the patient's life. Patient's will visit MUSC daily, then visits will be reduced to frequent visits for up to 6 months. After 6 months, the visits will be reduced more depending on the patient's condition.