Sapanisertib in Combination With Fulvestrant in Women With Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer After Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy
The primary purpose of this study is to compare the progression free survival (PFS) of participants treated with the combination of fulvestrant plus daily sapanisertib and fulvestrant plus weekly sapanisertib versus participants treated with single-agent fulvestrant.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Sapanisertib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to 40 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death., Up to 164 weeks|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of progression. Per RECIST v1.1, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to 40 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST v1.1 criteria. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions, non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, no progression in non-target lesion, and no new lesions., Up to 40 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best response of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) of any duration. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions, non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, no progression in non-target lesion, and no new lesions. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD., Up to 40 months|Percentage of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A TEAE is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., Up to 164 weeks
The drug being tested in this study is called sapanisertib. Sapanisertib is being tested to treat postmenopausal women with advanced or metastatic estrogen receptor (ER) positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2) negative breast cancer that has progressed during or after aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy. This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of combination of fulvestrant + daily sapanisertib and fulvestrant + weekly sapanisertib compared with fulvestrant alone.

The study will enroll approximately 153 patients. Participants will be randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the three treatment groups-which will remain undisclosed to the participant and study doctor during the study (unless there is an urgent medical need):

* Fulvestrant 500 mg
* Fulvestrant 500 mg + Sapanisertib 4 mg
* Fulvestrant 500 mg + Sapanisertib 30 mg

All participants will receive either fulvestrant 500 mg intramuscularly (IM), fulvestrant 500 mg + sapanisertib 4 mg daily or fulvestrant 500 mg + sapanisertib 30 mg weekly.

This multicenter trial will be conducted Spain and the USA. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic, and end of treatment (EOT) visit which will occur 30 to 40 days after receiving their last dose of study drug or before the start of any subsequent anticancer therapy. After EOT, participants will be followed for progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).