Google Location History Following Oesophagectomy and/or Gastrectomy
Surgery is the mainstay of treatment for patients with early-disease esophageal and gastric cancer. Open surgery for oesophageal cancer commonly involves large incisions in the chest, which is associated with a high rate of respiratory complications in the postoperative period. Patients with oesophageal or gastric cancer furthermore commonly present with significant weight loss, affecting both muscle mass and muscle strength. This could further decrease the physical fitness and increase the risk for experiencing complications after treatment. Patients also report a decreased physical functioning in quality of life at least 3 years after surgery, suggesting this is a persistent deficit. Currently, no long-term data is available assessing physical activity levels in oesophageal or gastric cancer survivors. Thus, quantifying physical activity levels in these patients may identify the period in which patients' activity levels are most likely to deteriorate. Activity levels will be assessed from Google Location History from the patient's phone, providing summary of physical activity over time. This information could be used in the future to provide adequate physical therapy intervention which might improve recovery in several aspects, such as physical fitness but also respiratory function and quality of life.
Oesophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Survivorship|Quality of Life
OTHER: Physical activity assessment
Change in physical activity pattern, The physical activity pattern will be grouped into light vs moderate vigorous activity, Data will be collected up to 5 years prior to oesophageal or gastric cancer diagnosis and up to 5 years after oesophagectomy and/or gastrectomy.
Presence of postoperative morbidity, All types of postoperative morbidity will be assessed, including postoperative pulmonary complications, neurological damage, gastrointestinal symptoms, sepsis, anastomotic leak, cardiac or renal complications, urological complications, wound infection., Thirty-day postoperative morbidity will be collected.|Health-related quality of life, The health-related quality of life will be reported using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30., Data will be collected at time of study recruitment, with HRQoL assessed at the time of recruitment (up to 5 years after surgery).
Self-reported physical activity, The self-reported physical activity will be estimated using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), Data will be collected at time of study recruitment, up to 5 years after surgery.|Health-related Quality of Life, The Health-related Quality of Life will furthermore be reported using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-OG25 questionnaire., Data will be collected at time of study recruitment, up to 5 years after surgery.|Health-related Quality of Life, The Health-related Quality of Life will furthermore be reported using the EuroQoL 5 dimensions, 5 level (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire., Data will be collected at time of study recruitment, up to 5 years after surgery.
Surgery is the mainstay of treatment for patients diagnosed with early-disease esophageal and gastric cancer. Open surgery for oesophageal cancer commonly involves large incisions in the chest, which is associated with a high rate of respiratory complications in the postoperative period. Several studies have shown that low physical activity levels are associated with increased risk for respiratory complication. Furthermore, patients with oesophageal or gastric cancer often present with significant weight loss, affecting both muscle mass and muscle strength. This could further decrease the physical fitness and increase the risk for experiencing complications after treatment. Moreover, open oesophagectomy involves thoracotomy, thus impairing respiratory mechanics with further deterioration in physical fitness. Patients also report a decreased physical functioning in quality of life at least 3 years after surgery, suggesting this is a persistent deficit. Currently, no long-term data is available assessing physical activity levels in oesophageal or gastric cancer survivors. Enhanced recovery programmes are evidence-based protocols aiming at early recovery after surgery with early mobilisation and physiotherapy, and have been shown to reduce respiratory complication rates. Thus, quantifying physical activity levels in these patients may identify the period in which patients' activity levels are most likely to deteriorate and whether these changes in physical activity are associated with changes in quality of life. Activity levels will be assessed from Google Location History from the patient's phone, providing summary of patterns of physical activity over time. This information could be used in the future to provide adequate physical therapy intervention which might improve recovery in several aspects, such as physical fitness but also respiratory function and quality of life.