A Safety Study of SGN-CD48A in Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This study will test the safety and activity of SGN-CD48A in patients with multiple myeloma. SGN-CD48A will be given on Days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28-day cycle. Prior to protocol amendment 2, SGN-CD48A was given every 3 weeks.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: SGN-CD48A
Type, incidence, severity, seriousness, and relatedness of adverse events, Through 1 month following last dose|Incidence of laboratory abnormalities, Through 1 month following last dose|Incidence of dose limiting toxicity, Through 3 weeks following first dose
Objective response rate, The proportion of patients with stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, or partial response per investigator, Through 1 month following last dose|Complete response rate, The proportion of patients with stringent complete response or complete response per investigator, Through 1 month following last dose|Duration of objective response, Up to approximately 3 years|Duration of complete response, Up to approximately 3 years|Progression-free survival, Up to approximately 3 years|Overall survival, Up to approximately 3 years|Blood concentrations of SGN-CD48A and metabolites, Through 1 month following last dose|Incidence of antitherapeutic antibodies, Through 1 month following last dose
This study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and antitumor activity of SGN-CD48A in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. This study will be conducted in 2 parts:

1. Dose escalation: This part will evaluate increasing doses of SGN-CD48A to identify the maximum tolerated dose.

   The first group of patients enrolled on the study will receive the lowest dose of SGN-CD48A. Once this dose is shown to be safe, a second group of patients will be enrolled at the next higher dose. Patients will continue to be enrolled in groups receiving increasing doses until the maximum tolerated dose level is reached. Patients can only be enrolled into a higher dose level once the lower doses have been demonstrated safe. Dose escalation will be conducted using a modified toxicity probability interval (mTPI) study design.
2. Dose expansion: This part will further evaluate the safety, tolerability, and antitumor activity of up to 2 dose levels of SGN-CD48A shown to be safe in the first part of the trial.