Randomized Study of a Hospice Video Educational Tool for Patients With Advanced Cancer and Their Caregivers
The purpose of this research study is to compare two ways to educate patients with cancer and their caregivers about hospice care services
Advanced Cancer
OTHER: Hospice Video Educational Tool|OTHER: Standard of Care
Patient Preference for Hospice Question, We will ask patients whether they would prefer to receive hospice care at the end of life (yes vs. no), immediately after the video intervention or verbal narrative
Patient knowledge about hospice Questionnaire, we will assess knowledge about hospice using 10 knowledge questions, immediately after the video intervention or verbal narrative
Patient Perception of Hospice Care Questionnaire, we will assess perception of hospice using the Hospice Perception Questionnaire, immediately after the video intervention or verbal narrative|Patient Hospice Utilization, We will assess patient hospice utilization and length of stay in hospice, 1 year after study completion|Caregiver Preference for Hospice Question, we will assess caregiver's preference for their loved one using hospice (yes vs. no), immediately after the video intervention or verbal narrative|Caregiver Knowledge about Hospice Questionnaire, we will assess knowledge about hospice using 10 knowledge questions, immediately after the video intervention or verbal narrative|Caregiver Perception of Hospice Care Questionnaire, we will assess perception of hospice using the Hospice Perception Questionnaire, immediately after the video intervention or verbal narrative|Caregiver satisfaction with end-of-life care (FAMCARE), We will use 9 items from the FAMCARE to assess caregivers' satisfaction with patient's end of life care, 1 year after study completion
The purpose of this research study is to compare two ways to educate patients with cancer and their caregivers about hospice care services - a video educational tool or a verbal narrative. The study will assess the effect of these methods on patients' and caregivers' knowledge about hospice care, as well as their perceptions and preferences for this service.

Using this research, the investigators hope to find out the best way to help patients and their loved ones better understand hospice care. The educational methods used in this study (the video educational tool or verbal narrative) are meant to serve as an introduction to hospice care. Further details about hospice should be discussed directly with your care team.

This study will enroll 150 patients with advanced cancer and up to 150 of their caregivers in this randomized clinical trial. The study will use questionnaires to measure the participant and the caregivers' knowledge of hospice care, as well as your perceptions and preferences for these services. Study assessments will be completed before and after watching the video or hearing the verbal narrative in the hospital.