Radiation Therapy With Temozolomide and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
The purpose of phase I trial is to determine the safest, most effective dose of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab), when used with radiotherapy and temozolomide for treating newly diagnosed patients with glioblastoma (GBM). Temozolomide binds to the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), changes it, and triggers the death of tumor cells. MK-3475 is an investigational drug, it is not currently approved by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) for use in treating GBM but it is approved for treating melanoma. MK-3475 works by targets the local tumor immune-protection in solid tumors. It is hoped the addition of MK-3475 to the usual treatment for GBM will improve the current treatment.
Adult Glioblastoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Temozolomide
The dose-limiting toxicity of Radiation Therapy With Temozolomide and Pembrolizumab will be evaluated, Any dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) experienced during the first cycle (9 weeks) of study treatment, will be determined. The Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) will constitute the RP2D, 9 weeks
Toxicity of Pembrolizumab, Adverse events will be described descriptively by giving frequencies of each event by type, severity, frequency, timing and attribution graded according to CTCAE version 4.0., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug
Methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) status, Correlate MGMT status with outcome based on tumor tissue that will be analyzed, Baseline|PDL1 expression in tumor, Tumor tissue will be analyzed to assess for PDL-1 levels, Baseline|Peripheral T-cell activation, Tumor tissue will be analyzed to collect peripheral markers of T-Cell activation, Up to 108 weeks (12 courses post-RT)|T-cell infiltrate in tumor, Tumor tissue will be analyzed to assess for T-cell infiltration, Baseline|Tryptophan metabolites, Tumor tissue will be analyzed to collect peripheral markers of tryptophan metabolites, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of radiation therapy (RT) + temozolomide (TMZ) + MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) followed by MK-3475 + TMZ x 6 cycles (1 cycle is 9 weeks), MK-3475 can continue for an additional 12 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

Safety of MK-3475 in GBM.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if there is a correlation of programmed cell death 1 (PD1) or programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PDL1) expression and T-cell infiltrate in pathology from first and, if applicable, second surgical specimens with outcome.

II. Assess changes in peripheral T-cell activation and tryptophan metabolites. III. Correlate o-6-methylguanine-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase (MGMT) status with outcome.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of pembrolizumab, followed by a phase II study.

RT PORTION: Patients undergo focal RT over 42 days, and receive concurrent temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-42 and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 22, and 43.

POST-RT: After completion of RT, patients receive temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5 and 29-34 of course 1 and days 1-5 and 29-33 of subsequent courses, and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 22, and 43. Treatment repeats every 9 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 courses, patients deriving benefit may continue to receive pembrolizumab for an additional 12 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2-4 months.