Incidence of Residual Neuromuscular Blockade in Fraility in OncoGynae Surgery
Frailty among patients undergoing surgery is strongly associated with an elevated risk of adverse perioperative outcomes, heightened incidence of postoperative complications, increased mortality rates, and prolonged hospital length of stay. Our focus centers on investigating the frailty index in the context of complications experienced by patients undergoing oncologic gynecology surgery. The principal objective of this research is to elucidate the extent to which residual neuromuscular blocking agents are linked to frailty.
Frailty|Neuromuscular Blockade|General Anesthetic Drug Adverse Reaction|Gynecologic Cancer|Surgical Complication
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Train of four nerve stimulator
Incidence of residual neuromuscular blockade, Incidence of residual neuromuscular blockade with the relation of frailty after gynecologic oncology surgery, 0-30 minute after surgery|Incidence of frailty, Incidence of frailty in patients undergoing gynecologic oncology surgery, 0 - 24 hours preoperative
Anesthetic technique used, Anesthetic technique used in patients undergoing gynecologic oncology surgery, Throughout Intraoperative period, an average 3-5 hours|Rate of blood transfusion, Quantity of units blood transfusion, Throughout Intraoperative period, an average 3-5 hours to 24 hours postoperative|Rate of vasopressor usage, Rate of vasopressor usage eg. ephedrine, norepinephrine, Throughout Intraoperative period, an average 3-5 hours to 24 hours postoperative|Length of hospital stay, Total number of days of hospital stay, Through study completion, an average of 1 year, an average 3 - 5 days|Rate of intensive care unit admission, Number of patients who require intensive care unit admission after surgery, 0 - 24 hours postoperative|Rate of re-intubation, Number of patients who require re-intubation, 0 - 24 hours postoperative|Rate of postoperative mechanical ventilation, Number of patients who require mechanical ventilation postoperative, 0 - 24 hours postoperative|Rate of postoperative pulmonary complications, Number of patients who have postoperative pulmonary complications eg. prolonged intubation, atelectasis, pneumonia etc., 3 days after operation|Mortality rate, Number of patients who died after surgery, 30 days after operation
Among patients undergoing oncologic gynecological procedures, such as those for vulvar cancer, endometrial cancer, and ovarian cancer, the incidence of frailty has been observed to range from 14% to 45%. Frailty directly influences the metabolism of anesthetic agents and intraoperative management. Furthermore, the prevalence of residual neuromuscular blocking agents following surgery can be as high as 26% to 53%. No prior research has investigated the correlation between residual muscle relaxants and frailty in gynecologic oncology patients. This study is designed to assess the prevalence of residual muscle relaxants in these patients with frailty. Additionally, data on the incidence of frailty and its impact on postoperative outcomes and prognosis in patients undergoing gynecologic oncology surgery will be collected and reported.