Camrelizumab in Combination With Radiotherapy for Neoadjuvant Esophageal Carcinoma.
This is an exploratory phase II clinical study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Camrelizumab in combination with standard radiotherapy as preoperative neoadjuvant therapy for patients with resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. In the study, all subjects who met the enrollment criteria are enrolled after giving full informed consent and signing the enrollment informed consent form, and received radical surgery within 4-8 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant Camrelizumab in combination with standard radiotherapy. The safety evaluation indicators for the study were so adverse events and the number and proportion of subjects who discontinued treatment due to adverse events. The main efficacy indicators of the study were the rate of major pathological remission and the rate of complete pathological remission. A total of 26 cases had to be enrolled in the study. Phase I enrollment was 12 cases, with at least 5 cases achieving efficacy to proceed to Phase II. The trial was considered successful when 14 cases were enrolled in the second phase and the total number of effective cases was greater than 13. The need for postoperative adjuvant treatment and the adjuvant treatment plan were determined by the investigator, and all subjects were required to complete the study's follow-up plan after surgery.
Esophageal Neoplasm|Immunotherapy|Radiotherapy
DRUG: Camrelizumab
Efficacy of Camrelizumab in Combination With Radiotherapy for Neoadjuvant Esophageal Carcinoma., Major pathological remission rate, 2 week after operation|Safety of Camrelizumab in Combination With Radiotherapy for Neoadjuvant Esophageal Carcinoma., Number and percentage of cases of all adverse events, 2 week after operation
Efficacy of Camrelizumab in Combination With Radiotherapy for Neoadjuvant, Complete pathology remission rate, 2 week after operation
This is an exploratory phase II clinical study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Camrelizumab in combination with standard radiotherapy as preoperative neoadjuvant therapy for patients with resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. In the study, all subjects who met the enrollment criteria are enrolled after giving full informed consent and signing the enrollment informed consent form, and received radical surgery within 4-8 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant Camrelizumab in combination with standard radiotherapy. The safety evaluation indicators for the study were so adverse events and the number and proportion of subjects who discontinued treatment due to adverse events. The main efficacy indicators of the study were the rate of major pathological remission and the rate of complete pathological remission. A total of 26 cases had to be enrolled in the study. Phase I enrollment was 12 cases, with at least 5 cases achieving efficacy to proceed to Phase II. The trial was considered successful when 14 cases were enrolled in the second phase and the total number of effective cases was greater than 13. The need for postoperative adjuvant treatment and the adjuvant treatment plan were determined by the investigator, and all subjects were required to complete the study's follow-up plan after surgery.