HAIC Combined With Sintilimab and Bevacizumab for Unresectable Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
Primary liver cancer is the sixth most common cancer worldwide, including hepatocellular carcinoma and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, of which intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma accounts for 10%-15%. Surgical resection is the only curative method for ICC, but most patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage, and only 15% of patients can undergo surgical resection. In locally advanced ICC patients without distant metastases, although the tumor was initially assessed as unresectable, these patients may have the opportunity for surgical resection after reducing the size tumor lesion and increasing the remnant liver volume through conversion therapy. The current standard first-line treatment for unresectable ICC is gemcitabine combined with cisplatin, with a median overall survival of only 11.7 months and an ORR of 26.1%. In view of the poor effect of the standard chemotherapy regimen, the NCCN guidelines recommend that patients could participate in clinical study. Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy can increase the local blood drug concentration and improve the tumor regression rate. By reducing the dose of systemic chemotherapy drugs concentration, the incidence of adverse reactions can be reduced. Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy may be a better choice for locally advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. PD-1 immunotherapy combined with targeted therapy is expected to improve the prognosis of patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. This study investigates the safety and efficacy of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy combined with sintilimab and bevacizumabin the treatment of unresectable ICC.
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: HAIC Combined with Tislelizumab and Apatinib
Response Rate, The objective response rate was calculated according to the RECIST 1.1., 12 months
Progression-free survival, defined as the time from the start of enrollment to the time of tumor progression (PD) or death or last follow-up on imaging., 12 months|Disease Control Rate, According to the RECIST 1.1 standard, complete remission + partial remission + disease control rate were calculated., 12 months|Conversion rate to resection, Defined as the rate of surgical resection among all enrolled patients., 12 months|Overall Survival time, Defined as the time from enrollment until death from any cause., 12 months
Primary liver cancer is the sixth most common cancer worldwide, including hepatocellular carcinoma and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, of which intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma accounts for 10%-15%. Surgical resection is the only curative method for ICC, but most patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage, and only 15% of patients can undergo surgical resection. In locally advanced ICC patients without distant metastases, although the tumor was initially assessed as unresectable, these patients may have the opportunity for surgical resection after reducing the size tumor lesion and increasing the remnant liver volume through conversion therapy. The current standard first-line treatment for unresectable ICC is gemcitabine combined with cisplatin, with a median overall survival of only 11.7 months and an ORR of 26.1%. In view of the poor effect of the standard chemotherapy regimen, the NCCN guidelines recommend that patients could participate in clinical study. Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy can increase the local blood drug concentration and improve the tumor regression rate. By reducing the dose of systemic chemotherapy drugs concentration, the incidence of adverse reactions can be reduced. Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy may be a better choice for locally advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. PD-1 immunotherapy combined with targeted therapy is expected to improve the prognosis of patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. This study investigates the safety and efficacy of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy combined with sintilimab and bevacizumabin the treatment of unresectable ICC.