A Prospective Trial to Reduce Post-Operative Pain in Implant Based Breast Reconstruction
The investigators hypothesize that in mastectomy patients with breast reconstruction, the addition of bupivacaine and botulinum toxin (BT) will result in better pain control in the acute and chronic setting, compared to traditional pain management techniques which rely almost exclusively on opioid analgesics and sedatives like diazepam (valium). This expectation is based on the fact that bupivacaine produces pre-emptive analgesia and BT will produce muscle relaxation, the combination of which will target different sites of pain generation, thus producing better analgesia. We also hypothesize that additional benefits may accrue from this regimen including decreased nausea and vomiting, sedation and constipation as a result of diminished opioid use1.
Post-operative Pain
DRUG: Bupivacaine|DRUG: Botulinum Toxins|DRUG: Analgesics
Pain Score Questionnaire, The patient records their feeling of pain scaled in a subjective scale from 0 to 10. 0 means that there is no pain and 10 means that the worst pain you had. The other numbers mean that pain is in perceived as in between. The investigator will also mark a pain score in the facial expression scale of Mosby© by evaluating your facial appearance., Post Operation Day 1
Pain Score Questionnaire, The patient records their feeling of pain scaled in a subjective scale from 0 to 10. 0 means that there is no pain and 10 means that the worst pain. The other numbers mean that pain is perceived as in between. The investigator will also mark a pain score in the facial expression scale of Mosby© by evaluating your facial appearance., Post Operation Week 1|Pain Score Questionnaire, The patient records their feeling of pain scaled in a subjective scale from 0 to 10. 0 means that there is no pain and 10 means that the worst pain. The other numbers mean that pain is perceived as in between. The investigator will also mark a pain score in the facial expression scale of Mosby© by evaluating your facial appearance., Post Operation One Month
The investigators hypothesize that in mastectomy patients with breast reconstruction, the addition of bupivacaine and botulinum toxin (BT) will result in better pain control in the acute and chronic setting, compared to traditional pain management techniques which rely almost exclusively on opioid analgesics and sedatives like diazepam (valium). This expectation is based on the fact that bupivacaine produces pre-emptive analgesia and BT will produce muscle relaxation, the combination of which will target different sites of pain generation, thus producing better analgesia. We also hypothesize that additional benefits may accrue from this regimen including decreased nausea and vomiting, sedation and constipation as a result of diminished opioid use1.