Autologous T Cells and Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Soft Tissue Sarcoma That is Metastatic or Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and how well giving autologous T cells with cyclophosphamide works in treating patients with soft tissue sarcoma that is metastatic or cannot be removed by surgery. Biological therapies, such as cellular adoptive immunotherapy, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving autologous T cells together with cyclophosphamide may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Liposarcoma|Adult Synovial Sarcoma|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: NY-ESO-1-specific T cells|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Incidence of treatment-related toxicity, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Patients will be monitored for treatment-related toxicities. All unexpected grade 3, 4, and 5 toxicities will be reported descriptively., Up to 10 weeks
Antitumor efficacy as determined by CT scan, Radiographic imaging and clinical assessment of residual disease will be compared with pre-infusion assessment. A complete response (CR) will be defined as total regression of all tumor, a partial response (PR) as 30% or greater decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and progressive disease (PD) as 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (RECIST criteria)., After week 8
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the feasibility, safety and toxicity of treating patients with NY-ESO-1 specific cellular adoptive immunotherapy in myxoid/round cell liposarcoma (MRCL) and synovial sarcoma patients receiving autologous cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ NY-ESO-1 specific T cells following cyclophosphamide conditioning.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the antitumor effect and persistence of adoptively transferred CD8+ antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) lines following cyclophosphamide conditioning.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -3 and -2. Patients receive NY-ESO-1-specific T cells IV on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 8 weeks.