Short Course Radiotherapy for the Treatment of Patients With Glioblastoma, SAGA Study
This phase II trial compares the effect of short course radiotherapy (RT) to standard course RT for the treatment of patients diagnosed with glioblastoma (GBM). The researchers want to learn whether the shorter course treatment is non-inferior (not worse than the standard of care), for patients with GBM. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Short course radiotherapy delivers higher doses of radiation over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects.
Glioblastoma
RADIATION: Accelerated Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Fluorodopa F 18|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Temozolomide|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Proportion of patients alive [overall survival (OS)] at 12 months, OS is defined as the time from study registration to death due to any cause., Up to 12 months after enrollment
Proportion of patients whose radiation oncologist reported a grade 3+ toxicity, Pretreatment symptoms/conditions will be graded at enrollment by the radiation oncology team and updated at each evaluation. Adverse Events will be calculated using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., 30-, 90-, and 180-days post-radiotherapy (RT)|Quality of life: EORTC QLQ-C30, Assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), a 30 item questionnaire used to assess quality of life in cancer patients. Questions are answered using a 4-point Likert scale where 1=not at all and 4=very much, except for two items which use a 7-point scale where 1=very poor and 7=excellent. Higher scores on the questions answered 1-4 indicate more severe symptoms and greater difficulty. Higher scores on the 1-7 scales indicate better overall health and quality of life., From baseline up to 3 years|Quality of life: EORTC QLQ-BN20, Assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire - Brain Neoplasm (QLQ-BN20), which consists of 20 questions answered using a 4-point Likert scale where 1=not at all and 4=very much. Higher scores reflect more severe symptoms., From baseline up to 3 years|Lymphocyte count, Assessed by blood test, lymphocyte count will be compared between arms by change in count from pretreatment to end of RT., From baseline up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To demonstrate non-inferior 12-month overall survival (OS) of patients with GBM treated with dose escalated hypofractionated radiotherapy compared to standard of care.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate the safety of short-course radiotherapy via physician-reported grade (G) 3+ toxicity.

II. To explore patient-reported outcomes to demonstrate favorable quality of life with short-course radiotherapy for GBM.

III. To analyze the impact of shortening the treatment duration on treatment related lymphopenia and absolute lymphocyte counts.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the cost-effectiveness of the 5-fraction treatment regimen compared to standard of care.

II. To explore the impact on the immune system with the 5-fraction treatment regimen. Immune phenotyping will be assessed by Flow Cytometry and cytometry by flight (CyTOF).

III. To analyze series of cytokine levels over time. IV. To assess patterns of failure, specifically focusing on differences in volume delineation via Fluorodopa F 18 (FDOPA) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and recurrences in-field versus (vs.) out of field.

V. To conduct a subgroup analysis for just patients =\< 65 cc. VI. To conduct a subgroup analysis for just patients with and without tumor treating fields.

VII. To analyze patient demographic data compared to historical controls to determine whether the short-course treatment regimen improves access to underserved populations.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients undergo short course RT for 5-10 fractions over 1-2 weeks on study. Patients also receive temozolomide orally (PO) on days 1-5 every 28 days during radiation therapy. Starting one month post-radiation, patients continue temozolomide on days 1-5 every 28 days for up to 5 adjuvant cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients undergo standard course RT for 15-30 fractions over 3-6 weeks on study. Patients also receive temozolomide PO daily (QD) concurrently with radiation therapy and for up to 6 adjuvant cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) with 18-F-DOPA administered intravenously (IV) prior to RT on study, and undergo MRI prior to RT and throughout the trial. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection during screening and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for the first year, every 3 months for the second year, and every 4 months for the third year. After 3 years, clinical outcomes are monitored at least once a year until 5 years after treatment.