Isa-Pom-Dex in Elderly/Frail Subjects With RRMM
This research study aims to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the combination of isatuximab, pomalidomide, and dexamethasone (Isa-Pd) for the treatment of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM), which refers to multiple myeloma that has returned or has not responded to prior treatment. The study will specifically investigate the impact of administering lower-than-standard doses of pomalidomide and dexamethasone. Using lower doses of pomalidomide and dexamethasone in this setting has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
Multiple Myeloma|Relapse|Refractory|Aging|Co-morbidity
DRUG: Isatuximab|DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as a partial response or better (≥PR) to study therapy at any time, based on International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria.

Complete response (CR): Negative immunofixation of serum and urine, disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas, and \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow (BM). Stringent complete response(sCR): CR plus normal free light chains (FLC) ratio and absence of clonal plasma cells in BM biopsy. Very good partial response (VGPR):-Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum M component plus urine M component \<100/24h. Partial response (PR) ≥50% reduction of serum M-protein \& reduction in 24-hour (24h) urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to \<200 mg/24h and if present at baseline, a ≥ 50% reduction in the size soft tissue plasmacytomas., Up to 12 weeks
Treatment related adverse events rate, All treatment-related adverse events as defined by changes from baseline utilizing National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) criteria version 5.0.

NCI-CTCAE is a descriptive terminology utilized for AE reporting. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each AE term. Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local, or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self-care ADL. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., Up to 12 weeks|Treatment failure-free survival (TFFS), TFFS is defined as the time start from the first day of study therapy until discontinuation for any reason, including disease progression, toxicity, or death.

Progressive disease: Serum M-protein: absolute increase must be ≥ 0.5 g/dL, ≥ 1 g/dL if the lowest M component was ≥ 5 g/dL; absolute Urine M-protein increase≥ 200 mg/24 h). In patients without measurable serum and urine M-protein levels, the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels must be \> 10 mg/dL; without measurable involved FLC levels, bone marrow plasma cell percentage irrespective of baseline status Appearance of a new lesion(s), ≥ 50% increase from nadir \> 1 lesion, or ≥ 50% increase in the longest diameter of a previous lesion \>1 cm in short axis;≥ 50% increase e in circulating plasma cells (minimum of 200 cells per μL) if this is the only measure of disease., Up to 3 years|Maximum depth of response, Maximum depth of response includes the summation of minimal response (MR), partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR), and stringent complete response (sCR) based on IMWG criteria. Minimal response(MR): ≥ 25% but ≤ 49% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-h urine M-protein by 50-89%, if present at baseline, a ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required. PR, VGPR, CR, and sCR were defined above., Up to 12 weeks|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), CBR is defined as a partial response or better (≥PR) + minimal response (MR) rate based on International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria., Up to 12 weeks|Bone marrow minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity, Bone marrow minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity will be defined as the ratio of subjects who achieved MRD to all subjects. MRD negativity will be assessed by next-generation sequencing with a minimum sensitivity of 1x10-5., Up to 12 weeks|Time to first response, Time to first response is defined as the time from the first study treatment to the achievement of PR or better as defined by IMWG criteria., Up to 12 weeks|Time to best response, Time to best response is defined as the time from the first study treatment to the achievement of best response (PR, VGPR, CR, or sCR) based on IMWG criteria., Up to 12 weeks|Duration of response, Duration of response is defined as the time from the achievement of PR or better until progressive disease (PD) based on IMWG criteria. Subjects will be censored if they die of anything other than myeloma., Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the first study treatment until confirmed PD based on IMWG criteria or death from any cause, whichever comes first., Up to 3 years|Median time to next treatment (TTNT), Median time to next treatment (TTNT) is defined as the time from the start of the study treatment to the next type of Multiple Myeloma treatment or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the first study treatment to death from any cause., Up to 3 years
This study aims to address the challenges faced in selecting appropriate therapy for elderly or highly toxicity-vulnerable patients who are poor candidates for standard (full-dose) chemotherapy regimens. Traditional clinical trials often exclude these patients, limiting the generalizability of available data. This single-arm multicenter phase II study will enroll 49 older and/or toxicity-vulnerable patients with RRMM. The study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of isatuximab when used in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone at lower than standard doses. The primary objective is to estimate the overall response rate (ORR), while secondary objectives include the estimation of additional measures of response, as well as measures of toxicity and tolerability. All participants in the trial will also be evaluated by Cancer and Aging Research Group Geriatric Assessments (CARG-GA) and patient- reported outcome (PRO) measures of quality of life (QOL). Biomarkers of aging and frailty will also be studied.

Duration of therapy:

The duration of study participation will depend on the response to the treatment. In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse events, treatment with Isa-Pd will generally continue until disease progression, unacceptable side effects, other illness or condition that prevents further study treatment, or a subject's decision to withdraw from the study. On average, subjects will most likely be treated for approximately 10 months on this study.

Duration of Follow-Up:

All participants, including those withdrawn for adverse events (AEs) will be followed after removal from study treatment until death or full subject withdrawal from the study for other reasons. Participants removed from the study treatment for unacceptable AEs will be followed for resolution or stabilization of the AEs.