Lenalidomide-Adriamycin-Dexamethasone (RAD) Induction Followed by Stem Cell Transplant in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
Subjects up to the age of 65 years with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma requiring treatment are eligible. Minimal pretreatment (2 cycles of chemotherapy; local irradiation; surgery) is permitted. After enrollment, patients are to receive four cycles of RAD induction treatment: a combination of lenalidomide (Revlimid), adriamycin, and dexamethasone. If at least a minimal response is achieved to RAD, they will undergo chemomobilization (cyclophosphamide, etoposide) of peripheral blood stem cells and one uniform cycle of high-dose melphalan chemotherapy followed by a first stem cell transplant. If any of the high-risk features (such as elevated beta 2-microglobulin, adverse cytogenetic factors, elevated LDH, Ig A isotype) were present at diagnosis, patients will be allocated to a consolidative allogeneic transplant following dose-reduced conditioning. If no appropriate donor is available, the patient does not consent or lacks of high-risk features a second autograft following high-dose melphalan will be delivered. All patients will proceed to lenalidomide maintenance (one year) following hematopoietic reconstitution.
Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: allogeneic stem cell transplant versus second autologous transplantation|DRUG: RAD
Response rate to RAD induction and transplant (stringent CR, CR, very good PR), 9 months from start of treatment
Progression-free survival (PFS), 9 months from start of treatment|Incidence and relationship of severe adverse events, 1 year from start of treatment
Subjects up to the age of 65 years with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma requiring treatment are eligible. Minimal pretreatment (2 cycles of chemotherapy; local irradiation; surgery) is permitted. After enrollment, patients are to receive four cycles of RAD induction treatment: a combination of lenalidomide (Revlimid), adriamycin, and dexamethasone. If at least a minimal response is achieved to RAD, they will undergo chemomobilization (cyclophosphamide, etoposide) of peripheral blood stem cells and one uniform cycle of high-dose melphalan chemotherapy followed by a first stem cell transplant. If any of the high-risk features (such as elevated beta 2-microglobulin, adverse cytogenetic factors, elevated LDH, Ig A isotype) were present at diagnosis, patients will be allocated to a consolidative allogeneic transplant following dose-reduced conditioning. If no appropriate donor is available, the patient does not consent or lacks of high-risk features a second autograft following high-dose melphalan will be delivered. All patients will proceed to lenalidomide maintenance (one year) following hematopoietic reconstitution.