Assessing the Efficacy of Repeat, Monthly Treatments of Cutaneous Neurofibromas (cNFs)
This study will evaluate the tolerability and effectiveness of four FDA-approved treatments in Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Cutaneous Neurofibromas. These treatments are: a 1064nm laser, a 755nm laser, and Kybella and Polidocanol injections. Each patient will have a treatment and a control site.

This study is designed with the goal of improved efficacy/tumor reduction via multiple treatment visits. If there is minimal to no clinical improvement in tumor size with one treatment after three treatment visits, the subject will be given the option of crossover treatment with the most effective of the four treatments. Three treatment visits with the crossover treatment will then take place.
Neurofibromas, Cutaneous|Neurofibromatosis 1
DRUG: Kybella|DRUG: Asclera|DEVICE: 755nm Alexandrite Laser|DEVICE: 1064nm Nd:YAG Laser
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Device based treatment will be considered tolerable if \<40% of participants treated have a \>grade 2 adverse event (AE). A grade 2 AE is defined as an event that requires treatment., Time Frame: 3 months after treatment
Numeric Rating Scale (NRS-11)/Patient Satisfaction, Patient rates degree of pain experienced prior to, during, and after treatments on a scale of 0-10. Satisfaction with each treatment modality is rated from 0 (very unsatisfied) to 5 (very satisfied)., Baseline, 5 month and if applicable, 10 month.|Skindex 16, Validated measure assessing of the effects of skin diseases on patients' quality of life on a scale of 0 (never bothered) to 5 (always bothered)., Baseline, 5 month and if applicable, 10 month.|Patient Reported Outcomes, Using questionnaires we will determine the patients' reported outcomes. Patient Global Assessment: Patient rates degree of change of treated and control cNFs on a scale from 1 (no change) to 7 (very large improvement)., Baseline, 5 month and if applicable, 10 month.|Clinician Reported Outcomes, Using questionnaires we will determine the clinicians' reported outcomes. Physician Global Assessment: Clinician rates degree of change of treated and control cNFs on a scale from 1 (no change) to 7 (very large improvement)., Baseline, 5 month and if applicable, 10 month.
Rate of healing, Measured clinically via photography completed by a member of the study team at baseline, 1 month, 2 month, 5 month and if applicable, 6 month, 7 month and 10 month post-treatment., Baseline, 1 month, 2 month, 5 month and if applicable, 6 month, 7 month and 10 month.|cNF appearance (volume), Clinically completed 2D and 3D photography Cherry Imaging. Change from baseline in volume of cNFs., Baseline, 1 month, 2 month, 5 month and if applicable, 6 month, 7 month and 10 month.|cNF appearance (height), Clinically completed 2D and 3D photography Cherry Imaging. Change from baseline in height of cNFs., Baseline, 1 month, 2 month, 5 month and if applicable, 6 month, 7 month and 10 month.
This study will evaluate the tolerability and effectiveness of four FDA-approved treatments in Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Cutaneous Neurofibromas. These treatments are: a 1064nm laser, a 755nm laser, and Kybella and Polidocanol injections. Each patient will have a treatment and a control site.

This study is designed with the goal of improved efficacy/tumor reduction via multiple treatment visits. If there is minimal to no clinical improvement in tumor size with one treatment after three treatment visits, the subject will be given the option of crossover treatment with the most effective of the four treatments. Three treatment visits with the crossover treatment will then take place.