Resilience Mobile App for Teens and Young Adults With Cancer
The goal of this pilot trial is to examine whether a mobile app version of the Promoting Resilience in Stress Management (PRISM) intervention is acceptable, easy to use, and helps improve quality of life and mental health symptoms.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: mPRISM
Acceptability of intervention, The Acceptability of Intervention Measure (AIM) is a well-validated 4-item scale that measures the perception among implementation stakeholders that a given treatment, service, practice, or innovation is agreeable, palatable, or satisfactory. Scale ranges from 4 to 20; higher scores are better., immediately post-intervention|Appropriateness of intervention, The Intervention Appropriateness Measure (IAM) is a well-validated 4-item scale that measures the perceived fit, relevance, or compatibility of the innovation or evidence-based practice for a given practice setting, provider, or consumer, and/or perceived fit of the innovation to address a particular issue or problem. Scale ranges from 4 to 20; higher scores are better., immediately post-intervention|Feasibility of intervention, The Feasibility of Intervention Measure (FIM) is a well-validated 4-item scale that measures the extent to which a new treatment, or an innovation, can be successfully used or carried out within a given agency or setting. Scale ranges from 4 to 20; higher scores are better., immediately post-intervention
Usability of intervention, The System Usability Scale (SUS) is a well-validated and widely used 10-item scale to evaluate the perceived usability of digital interventions. Items are rated on a 5-point Likert scale for a total score ranging from 0-100, and scores ≥70 considered adequate usability., immediately post-intervention|Change in health-related quality of life, The PedsQL 4.0 Generic and 3.0 Cancer Module include 50 items evaluating health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of AYAs with cancer. Queries assess physical, emotional, social, and school well-being, plus cancer-related pain and hurt, nausea, procedural anxiety, treatment anxiety, worry, cognitive problems, perceived physical appearance, and communication. Scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores indicating better HRQOL., immediately post-intervention, 3 months post-intervention|Change in resilience, The CD-RISC is a well-validated and widely used 10-item instrument to measure inherent resiliency. Questions revolve around personal problem-solving and approaches to adversity. Scores range from 0-40, with higher scores indicating higher resilience., immediately post-intervention, 3 months post-intervention|Change in distress, This 6-item scale measures "level of psychological distress experienced in the past month." The instrument strongly discriminates between community cases and non-cases of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder (DSM)-V psychiatric disorders such as serious emotional distress or serious mental illness. Scores range from 0-24, with higher scores indicating higher distress., immediately post-intervention, 3 months post-intervention|Change in anxiety and depression, 7 items assess symptoms of anxiety and depression, respectively, in patients with serious illness. It has been validated in AYAs with chronic illness and cancer survivors, with excellent reliability (α=0.83-0.82). Items are scored 0-3 (subscale range 0-21), with scores ≥8 categorized as borderline abnormal, and ≥11 categorized as abnormal., immediately post-intervention, 3 months post-intervention
Adolescents and Young Adults (AYAs) with cancer are at risk of distress, anxiety, depression, and poor quality of life. The use of mobile applications for psychosocial symptom self-management is appealing to this demographic population but this has not yet been developed and tested.

PRISM is a novel, brief, evidence-based 1:1 intervention that teaches stress management, goal-setting, meaning making, cognitive-behavioral, and mindfulness strategies. Here, we propose to test a mobile health (mHealth) version of PRISM, mPRISM. In a pilot randomized controlled trial, we will evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and exploratory efficacy of mPRISM using a waitlist control design.