Weight Cycling on Hyperandrogenemia and Insulin Resistance in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
This study prospectively includes PCOS patients with normal weight and overweight/obesity, closely follows up and intensively manages them, and observes the level and distribution of weight reduction achieved by patients after lifestyle intervention (high-protein diet for weight loss). Additionally, it aims to provide reference for setting weight loss targets for future PCOS patients by comparing the differences in clinical improvement among patients achieving different degrees of weight reduction (\<2% \[equivalent to no weight loss\], 2-5%, 5-10%, ≥10%) at different time points (3 months, 6 months) following dietary intervention. Furthermore, this study will compare the differences in reproductive and metabolic marker improvements between baseline PCOS patients experiencing weight rebound, those who successfully lost weight, and those who experienced weight rebound. This will help explore the impact of weight cycling on PCOS-related manifestations. Finally, at a genetic level, the study will analyze potential mechanisms underlying different outcome indicators by comparing differences in metagenomics, transcriptomics, and metabolomics among patient groups.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
OTHER: Adjusting dietary structure + exercise + behavioral intervention
Weight loss rate, Percentage of weight loss: (Weight after reduction - Baseline weight before reduction) / Baseline weight before reduction (%), 6 month|Levels of insulin resistance, Measuring the level of insulin resistance in patients after the intervention., 6 month
Fasting insulin level（FINS）, Measure the fasting insulin levels of patients after the intervention., 6 month|Fasting blood sugar（FBG）, Measure the fasting blood glucose level of the patient after the intervention., 6 month|Blood levels of androgen hormones (total testosterone, free testosterone index), Measure the blood testosterone levels of the patients after the intervention., 6 month|Blood lipid levels (LDL-C, HDL-C, total cholesterol), Measure lipid levels in patients after the intervention., 6 month|Levels of inflammatory factors (CRP, IL-6, TAC, GSH), Detect the level of inflammatory factors in patients after intervention., 6 month|BMI, Measuring the BMI of patients after the intervention., 6 month|Waist, Measure the waist of the patients after the intervention., 6 month|waist-to-hip ratio, Measure the waist-to-hip ratio of the patients after the intervention., 6 month|Body fat percentage and distribution, Measure the Body Fat Content and Proportion in Patients after Intervention, 6 month|Weight rebound rate, Determine the rate of weight rebound in patients after intervention. Weight rebound is defined as a rebound in weight (≥5kg or 5% above baseline weight) after weight loss., 6 month
This study is a single-center, prospective cohort study that enrolled PCOS patients after screening. The patients were categorized into two groups based on their BMI: a normal weight group (18.5 kg/m2 ≤ BMI \< 24 kg/m2) with a sample size of 45 and an overweight/obese group (BMI ≥ 24 kg/m2) with a sample size of 380, totaling 425 cases.

For the normal weight PCOS patients, interventions included control of total energy intake, adjustment of dietary structure, exercise, and behavioral intervention to prevent weight gain over a follow-up period of three months. If weight gain occurred during the follow-up period, these patients were transferred to the overweight/obese group for intensified intervention.

The overweight/obese PCOS patients received intensive intervention in accordance with high-protein diet adaptation criteria. This involved high-protein diets combined with exercise and behavioral intervention for weight reduction. After three months of follow-up, if they achieved their weight-loss goal, they transitioned to a low-energy diet and exercise intervention program to maintain their weight. If the goal was not met after three months, they continued with the high-protein weight-loss program.

The study compared differences in improvement in indicators such as insulin resistance (IR), blood androgen levels, inflammatory factors among different degrees of weight loss (\<2%, 2% ≤weight loss \<5%, 5%≤weight loss\<10%, ≥10%), analyzing potential mechanisms.

For individuals experiencing weight cycling, differences in IR levels before and after rebounding from body mass were compared alongside changes in androgen levels and other metabolic indicators. This aimed to explore the impact of body mass cycling on clinical indicators while analyzing potential causes.