A Phase I/II Study for the Safety and Efficacy of Panitumumab in Combination With TAS-102 for Patients With Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the combination of panitumumab and Triflridine/Tipiracil (FTD/TPI; TAS-102) in patients with RAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) refractory to standard chemotherapy (oxaliplatin, fluoropyrimidines, irinotecan and angiogenesis inhibitors).
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Panitumumab + TAS-102
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) With Panitumumab Plus TAS-102 Combination Therapy, DLT was evaluated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 and was defined as any of the following events: 1. Grade 4 neutropenia for more than 7 days under maximum supportive therapy; 2. Febrile neutropenia; 3. Platelet counts decreased of Grade 3 requiring platelet transfusion or blood platelet decreased of Grade 4; 4. If Course 2 was not initiated within 14 days due to AE related to the protocol treatment; 5. Grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity that was considered clinically significant, except the following cases, Grade 3 gastrointestinal symptoms that could be controlled with supportive therapy (eg, appropriate use of antiemetics, antidiarrheals), and Grade 3 or higher electrolyte abnormalities that were not deemed clinically significant., Up to approximately 1 month|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate at 6 Months, PFS rate at 6 months was defined as the crude rate of surviving participants who survived or were not determined as progressive at 6 months from the day of enrollment. Although the subjects who had no imaging data on progression at 6 months after enrollment or the subjects who had lost to follow-up were included in the denominator, these subjects were not handled as progression-free. Progression included both progression disease (PD) based on diagnostic imaging assessed according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) ver 1.1 and primary disease progression that cannot be confirmed by diagnostic imaging (clinical progression). PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Up to 6 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the period from the day of enrollment until death by all causes., From date of enrollment until the death, assessed up to approximately 29 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the period from the day of enrollment until the day of documented progression or the day of death due to all causes whichever comes earlier. Progression included both PD based on diagnostic imaging assessed according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) ver 1.1 and primary disease progression that cannot be confirmed by diagnostic imaging (clinical progression). PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., From date of enrollment until the date of progression or death, assessed up to approximately 29 months|Response Rate (RR), RR was defined as the percentage of participants who had shown complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response in accordance with the RECIST 1.1 criteria. The best overall response was CR, followed by PR, stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD), and not evaluable (NE). CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters as the best overall response after randomization., SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., From date of enrollment until the end of follow-up period, assessed up to approximately 29 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR means that the period from the day when either CR or PR is first confirmed until the day of documented PD or the day of death due to all causes, whichever occurs earlier., From date of CR or PR until the date of PD or death, assessed up to approximately 29 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who had shown CR, PR, or SD as the best overall response in accordance with the RECIST version 1.1 criteria., From date of enrollment until the end of follow-up period, assessed up to approximately 29 months|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF was defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of the decision to discontinue the protocol treatment, the date of documented progression during the protocol treatment, or the date of death from any cause, whichever had come earlier., From date of enrollment until the date of the protocol treatment discontinuation, progression or death, assessed up to approximately 29 months|Number of Participants Reporting One or More Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Adverse events (AEs) were any unfavorable medical events encountered in a participant treated with a drug. They were not limited to the events with clear causal relationship with treatment with the concerned drug. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were defined as AEs that had occurred after the initiation of protocol treatment., From first dose of the study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug or start of subsequent antineoplastic therapy, assessed up to approximately 29 months
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the combination of panitumumab and TAS-102 in patients with RAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) refractory to standard chemotherapy (oxaliplatin, fluoropyrimidines, irinotecan and angiogenesis inhibitors).

Patients who are judged eligible for the study based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be received panitumumab (6 mg/kg) every 2 weeks and TAS-102 (35 mg/m² given orally twice a day in a 28-day) in 2-week cycle of 5 days of treatment followed by a 2-day rest period, and then a 14-day rest period.

A maximum of 58 participants will be enrolled.