Daratumumab, Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone With or Without Venetoclax in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of venetoclax when given together with daratumumab, bortezomib, and dexamethasone, and how well they work in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as venetoclax and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as daratumumab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving venetoclax with daratumumab, bortezomib, and dexamethasone may work better in treating patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma compared to standard of care treatment, including chemotherapy.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Venetoclax
Maximum tolerated dose of venetoclax in combination with daratumumab, bortezomib and dexamethasone (Phase I), Highest dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity., Up to 35 days|Minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status (Phase II), Per revised International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria for next-generation sequencing (NGS) methods., After cycle 8
Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), OS distributions will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier (KM) methods and compared between treatment arms with the log-rank test. Stratified cox proportional hazards regression will produce a treatment hazard ratio estimate. Median OS by treatment arm with 95% confidence intervals will be reported., From randomization to death due to any cause, or censored at the date last known alive, assessed up to 10 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), PFS distributions will be estimated using KM methods and compared between treatment arms with the log-rank test. Stratified cox proportional hazards regression will produce a treatment hazard ratio estimate. Median PFS by treatment arm with 95% confidence intervals will be reported., From randomization until the earlier of progression or death due to any cause, or censored at date of last disease evaluation, assessed up to 10 years|Best response (Phase II), Will be based on standard IMWG criteria. Response will be tabulated by category. Response rates of very good partial response or better will be compared using the Fisher's exact test., Up to cycle 8|Time to progression (TTP) (Phase II), TTP in each arm will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods and compared between arms with the log-rank test., From randomization to progression, or censored at the date of last disease evaluation, assessed up to 10 years|Incidence of adverse events (Phase II), Will be assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Will compare worst grade 3 or higher non-hematologic and overall treatment-related toxicity rates between arms using the Fisher's exact test., Up to 10 years
Duration of treatment (Phase II), Treatment duration in each arm based on submission of the off-treatment case report form will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods and compared between arms with the log-rank test., From time of randomization to date off treatment, or censored at date of last treatment, assessed up to 10 years|Cumulative dose (Phase II), Defined as the sum of all doses taken across all cycles. Descriptive statistics will be used to assess exposure to all drugs separately based on calculations for cumulative dose, dose intensity, and relative dose intensity., Up to 10 years|Dose intensity (Phase II), Calculated as cumulative dose received divided by treatment duration. Descriptive statistics will be used to assess exposure to all drugs separately based on calculations for cumulative dose, dose intensity, and relative dose intensity., Up to 10 years|Relative dose intensity (Phase II), Calculated as the dose intensity divided by planned dose intensity. Descriptive statistics will be used to assess exposure to all drugs separately based on calculations for cumulative dose, dose intensity, and relative dose intensity., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the dose limiting toxicities and the recommended phase II dose of venetoclax in combination with daratumumab, bortezomib, and dexamethasone for patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the safety of venetoclax (VEN) in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone (DVd). (Phase I) III. To compare efficacy of DVd-VEN versus DVd as measured by minimal residual disease negative rate after 8 cycles of therapy. (Phase II) IV. To inform the role of t(11;14) as a biomarker in a subsequent evaluation of the regimen. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare rates of very good partial response between arms. II. To assess improvement in progression-free and overall survival with the addition of VEN.

III. To evaluate the safety of VEN in combination with DVd and compare overall toxicity rates between arms.

IV. To assess association of cycle 8 minimal residual disease (MRD) status with overall and progression-free survival.

V. To estimate the impact of t(11;14) status on very good partial response, overall and progression-free survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure treatment exposure and adherence. II. To estimate time to progression with the addition of VEN. III. To measure MRD levels longitudinally and assess the kinetics of relapse. IV. To assess association of MRD status after 8 cycles with survival outcomes. V. To evaluate agreement and discordance between methods determining disease-free status.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of venetoclax followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I:

Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-3 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles, bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8, dexamethasone orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8, and venetoclax PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM D: Patients receive venetoclax PO QD on days 1-21, daratumumab IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-3 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles, bortezomib SC on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM E: Patients receive daratumumab IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-3 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles, bortezomib SC on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-8. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 10 years.