A Phase II Trial of Perifosine Following Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) - Failure in Patients With Renal Cancer
This is a single-arm phase II trial of perifosine in renal cancer patients who have experienced disease progression after receiving either sorafenib or sunitinib.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Perifosine
To estimate the progression free survival, To estimate the progression free survival of Multi-Targeted Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) resistant patients with metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) who are treated with perifosine, Every 6 weeks
To determine the objective response rate of perifosine, To determine the objective response rate of TKI resistant patients with metastatic RCC treated with perifosine., Every 6 weeks|To investigate the tolerability and toxicity, To investigate the tolerability and toxicity of perifosine in TKI resistant patients, Every 6 weeks|To investigate surrogates of biologic target inhibition, To investigate surrogates of biologic target inhibition on PBMC's before and after therapy., Every 6 weeks|To collect pre-treatment tissue specimens, To collect pre-treatment tissue specimens and assess the pre-treatment activation status of the MAP-Kinase and PI3K-Akt pathways and correlate with clinical outcome., Every 6 weeks|To follow levels of pro-angiogenic cytokines, To follow levels of pro-angiogenic cytokines and surrogates of HIF activation before and during therapy., Every 6 weeks
This is a single-arm phase II trial assessing the antitumor activity as measured by progression free survival of perifosine in patients with metastatic RCC who have progressed on sorafenib or sunitinib. A total of 48 patients will be enrolled in the trial. All subjects will have histologically confirmed metastatic RCC with predominantly clear cell features (≤ 50% other histologic features). Patients who have been taken off sorafenib or sunitinib may only have been off therapy for less than three months prior to study enrollment. Patients who remain on sorafenib or sunitinib may continue on drug at their current dose until two weeks prior to the initiation of perifosine therapy.

The study consists of three periods: pre-treatment/screening, treatment, and follow-up. Day 1 will be defined as the first day of perifosine therapy. Patients will remain in the treatment phase until progression or toxicity. Patients will be seen by an MD every 3 weeks with 6 weeks defining one cycle of therapy. Tumor evaluations will occur every 6 weeks.