Assessment of Functional Capacity, Pain, Cognitive and Respiratory Functions in Lung Cancer Survivors
Serious side effects occurs with disease and treatments in survival after lung cancer. For this reason, functional capacity, cognitive status, pain perception and respiratory functions may be affected in lung cancer. The purpose of this study was to evaluate respiratory function, respiratory muscle strength and endurance, functional capacity, pain, cognitive status level, and physical activity in lung cancer patients and compare with the findings of healthy subjects
Lung Neoplasm|Survivorship
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Functional capacity
Functional capacity, Six minute walk test: Distance walked in six minute was recorded, 15 minutes
Respiratory muscle strength assessment, Respiratory muscle strength was evaluated by measuring maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP)., 10 minutes|Respiratory muscle endurance, Pressure time unit: A constant load test was used to evaluate respiratory muscle endurance. Using a PowerBreathe device (HaB International Ltd., Southam, UK), the participants were asked to breathe maintaining a constant threshold (60% of MIP) until task failure, and the test duration was recorded. Results were obtained by multiplying the set pressure by the test duration, 10 minutes|Pulmonary functions test, pulmonary functions assessment via spirometry, 15 minutes|Cognition using MoCA-Test, Cognitive function was evaluated with the secreening tool the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). The MoCA is a 30-point screening tool. Higher scores mean a better outcome., 10 minutes|Pressure pain threshold assessment, Pressure pain threshold was evaluated via algometer. The pressure at which the individual first reported pain was recorded., 15 minute|Pressure pain tolerance assessment, Pressure pain tolerance test was evaluated via algometer.The pressure at which the individual last pressure point at which they could endure the pain was recorded., 15 minute|Physical activity level, International Physical Activity Questionnaire-Short Form, 5 minutes
This study was participated lung cancer patients survivors. Patients' pulmonary function test, functional capacity, respiratory muscle strength and endurance, pain and cognitive status was assessed and recorded.

Pulmonary function testing (PFT), mouth pressure measurement (MIP- maximal inspiratory pressure and MEP- maximal expiratory pressure), respiratory muscle endurance test, six minute walk test (6MWT) and pain threshold and tolerance test were used. In addition to physiological measurements, the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) scale was used to evaluate cognitive status, the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) was used to determine the level of physical activity.