Randomized Phase 2 Trial of Axitinib and TRC105 Versus Axitinib Alone in Patients Renal Cell Carcinoma
Phase 1b: To evaluate safety and tolerability and determine a recommended phase 2 dose for TRC105 when added to standard dose axitinib in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Phase 2: To estimate the PFS of patients with advanced or metastatic RCC by RECIST 1.1 criteria in patients treated with axitinib and TRC105 compared to those treated with axitinib alone, following failure of one prior VEGF TKI
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: TRC105 and Axitinib|DRUG: Axitinib
Phase 1b: Number of Patients With DLT, Phase 1b: For dose limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluation, severity (grade) was classified according to common terminology criteria for adverse events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0)., 12 Months|Phase 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS) of Patients With RCC, Median progression free survival (PFS) of patients with advanced or metastatic RCC by RECIST 1.1. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 15 Months
Phase 1b & 2: Response Rate of Patients With RCC, Number of patients with partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 15 Months|Phase 2: Overall Response Rate of Patients With RCC by Choi, Overall response (OR) rate is the number of patients with partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) by Choi Criteria. Per Choi criteria for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), A decrease in size ≥ 10% or a decrease in tumor attenuation (Houndsfield units) ≥ 15% on CT and no new lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 15 Months|Phase 1b & 2: Trough Concentrations of TRC105 by Dose Level in Phase 1b, Trough Serum TRC105 concentrations at steady state (cycle 2 day 15) were measured using validated ELISA methods., 2.5 months (cycle 2 day 15)|Phase 1b & 2: Number of Patients With Development of Immunogenicity Antibodies., Anti-product antibody concentration were measured using validated ELISA methods., 12 months
Axitinib is an oral inhibitor of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor VEGFR-1, VEGFR-2, and VEGFR-3 at therapeutic plasma concentrations. These receptors are implicated in pathologic angiogenesis, tumor growth, and cancer progression. Axitinib is approved for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, following progression on one prior systemic therapy. TRC105 is an antibody to CD105, an important angiogenic target on vascular endothelial cells that is distinct from VEGFR. TRC105 inhibits angiogenesis, tumor growth and metastases in preclinical models and complements the activity of bevacizumab and multi-kinase inhibitors that target VEGFR. In a phase 1 study of advanced solid tumors,TRC105 therapy caused a global reduction in angiogenic biomarkers and reduced tumor burden at doses that were well-tolerated. By targeting a non-VEGF pathway that is upregulated following VEGF inhibition, TRC105 has the potential to complement VEGF inhibitors and could represent a major advance in cancer therapy. TRC105 potentiates bevacizumab and VEGFR tyrosine kinases (VEGFR TKI) in preclinical models. In a phase 1b study, the combination of TRC105 and bevacizumab produced radiographic reductions in tumor volume in bevacizumab refractory patients. Together, the use of TRC105 with axitinib may result in more effective angiogenesis inhibition and improved clinical efficacy over that seen with axitinib alone.