Retrospective Study on the Efficacy and Tolerability of Liposomal Irinotecan
The aim of this retrospective study is to confirm the efficacy and safety results obtained in the NAPOLI-1-study, when Onivyde® in combination with 5-FU/LV is used in real-life practice in Belgium. The data needed to do so will be obtained using information that is routinely collected as part of patient's medical care.
Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Onivyde® + 5-FULV
The overall survival (OS) from start of treatment with Onivyde® + 5-FU/LV, All this info is retrospectively obtained from the patients medical fistory. Data analysis is forseen to be finished 03/2022., 03/2022
Survival rate at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 months from the start of treatment with Onivyde® + 5-FU/LV, All this info is retrospectively obtained from the patients medical history. Data analysis is forseen to be finished 03/2022., 03/2022|Progression-free survival (PFS) from the start of Onivyde® + 5-FU/LV treatment, All this info is retrospectively obtained from the patients medical history. Data analysis is forseen to be finished 03/2022., 03/2022|Disease control rate of patients from the start of treatment with Onivyde® + 5-FU/LV, All this info is retrospectively obtained from the patients medical history. Data analysis is forseen to be finished 03/2022., 03/2022|Change in baseline performance status of the patient after Onivyde® + 5-FU/LV treatment, All this info is retrospectively obtained from the patients medical history. Data analysis is forseen to be finished 03/2022., 03/2022|The OS from the date of diagnosis of metastatic disease, All this info is retrospectively obtained from the patients medical history. Data analysis is forseen to be finished 03/2022., 03/2022
Patients with pancreatic cancer have a poor prognosis with a 5-years survival of only 1-2%. This arises from the fact that it is typically diagnosed late, when curative resection is impossible. These patients are thus restricted to chemotherapy, with gemcitabine-based therapies being the standard of care for patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (mPDAC). However, even after second or subsequent lines of therapy, disease progression is inevitable. Therefore, the need for new treatment options is high. Recently, the advantage of using nanoliposomal irinotecan (Onivyde®) in combination with 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin (5-FU/LV) over the use of 5-FU/LV alone was demonstrated in a phase-3 randomized clinical trial (NAPOLI-1 trial). As this study showed significant improvement on overall survival, progression-free survival, time to treatment failure, overall response rate and tumor marker CA19-9 response, on October 14 2016 this therapy was approved by the EMA to be used for patients with mPDAC previously treated with gemcitabine-based therapy.

While randomized clinical trials, like the NAPOLI-1 trial, are considered the reference standard for comparing the efficacy and safety of treatments, these studies do not always reflect the everyday clinical practice. Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Onivyde® in real-life practice in Belgium. This information would be very valuable to determine the value of the drug and improve the knowledge of the actual use of Onivyde® after marketing authorization.