Multi-points and Full-thickness Biopsy in the Diagnosis of cCR After Neoadjuvant Therapy for Rectal Cancer
Background There is currently no reliable means to restage rectal cancers after neoadjuvant chemoradiation. There are still no reliable methods to identify patients with pCR before radical surgery. As a result, clinical complete response (cCR), defined as no clinical detectable tumor by physical examination, endoscopic evaluation, and imaging, is designed as a surrogate endpoint for pCR. However, the concordance between cCR and pCR varies from 22% to 96% in different reports, which questions the clinical value of such strategies. Therefore, based on rectal diginal examination, serum CEA, MRI, endoscopy examination, we suggested to add multi-points and full-thickness biopsy technique to further improve the accuracy of cCR.
Rectal Cancer|Neoadjuvant Therapy|Complete Remission|Metastasis
PROCEDURE: multi-points and full-thickness Biopsy|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: traditional cCR
Clinical Complete Response rate, Clinical complete response rate between two groups after examinations following preoperative chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer, 8-12 weeks after preoperative chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced rectal cancer|pathological complete remission, No tumor cell found in surgical specimens, 2 weeks after patients received radical operation
Disease Free Survival, no tumor regrowth or recurrence or metastasis found, 5 years after operation or "watch and wait" approach|Overall Survival, survive during following, 5 years after operation or "watch and wait" approach
Background There is currently no reliable means to restage rectal cancers after neoadjuvant chemoradiation. There are still no reliable methods to identify patients with pCR before radical surgery. As a result, clinical complete response (cCR), defined as no clinical detectable tumor by physical examination, endoscopic evaluation, and imaging, is designed as a surrogate endpoint for pCR. However, the concordance between cCR and pCR varies from 22% to 96% in different reports, which questions the clinical value of such strategies. Therefore, based on rectal diginal examination, serum CEA, MRI, endoscopy examination, we suggested to add multi-points and full-thickness biopsy technique to further improve the accuracy of cCR.