OX-40 Protein Expression in the Sentinel Lymph Nodes of Patients With Cancer
RATIONALE: Studying protein expression in sentinel lymph node tissue from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors identify and learn more about biomarkers related to cancer. It may also help the study of cancer in the future.

PURPOSE: This laboratory study is evaluating OX-40 protein expression in the sentinel lymph nodes of patients with cancer.
Cancer
GENETIC: protein expression analysis|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: biopsy
OX-40 expression, The first ten cases will be reviewed to assess the spectrum of OX-40 expression and to devise a semiquantitative scoring system. Each slide will be scanned in its entirety and then scored according to representative views with the greatest expression of immunostaining, During immunostaining|Disease-free survival, Kaplan-Maier method will be used to estimate the disease-free survival, and a log-rank test will be used to compare the disease-free survival between high vs. low OX-40 groups, During data analysis
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the qualitative and quantitative expression of OX-40 and related markers in sentinel lymph nodes previously removed from patients with cancer.
* Determine the qualitative and quantitative expression of OX-40 and related markers in sentinel lymph nodes freshly removed from patients with cancer.
* Correlate the expression of OX-40 and related markers in sentinel lymph node tissue with expression in nonsentinel tissue from primary tumors and nonsentinel lymph nodes, tumor stage, and patient outcomes.

OUTLINE: Sections of primary tumors, nonsentinel lymph nodes, and sentinel lymph nodes will be analyzed for expression of OX-40 by immunohistochemistry. Sections of negative (no tumor metastases) lymph nodes will be used as internal controls. Fresh tissue and blood will be tested for marker analysis and in vitro assays of immune function.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 specimens from sentinel lymph nodes previously removed from cancer patients and 100 specimens from sentinel lymph nodes freshly removed from cancer patients will be accrued for this study.