Testing the Addition of Anti-cancer Drug, ZEN003694, to the Usual Chemotherapy Treatment, Cetuximab Plus Encorafenib, for Colorectal Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety, best dose, and effectiveness of ZEN003694 in combination with cetuximab and encorafenib in treating patients with colorectal cancer that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory), that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed), and that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). ZEN003694 is a protein inhibitor that binds to BET proteins. When ZEN003694 binds to BET proteins, it disrupts gene expression. Preventing the expression of certain growth-promoting genes may inhibit proliferation of tumor cells that over-express BET proteins. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Encorafenib is an enzyme inhibitor. It inhibits pathways that are responsible for controlling cell proliferation and survival, which may lead to a decrease in tumor cell proliferation. Both cetuximab and encorafenib have been approved to treat cancer. Adding ZEN003694 to cetuximab and encorafenib may be more effective at treating patients with refractory metastatic colorectal cancer than giving the usual treatment (cetuximab and encorafenib) alone.
Metastatic Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Refractory Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: BET Bromodomain Inhibitor ZEN-3694|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Encorafenib|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan
Maximum tolerated dose (dose escalation cohort), Will be determined based on the number of grade 3 or 4 adverse events in patients who participate on the study. Toxicities will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v 5.0)., Up to completion of dose escalation phase|Recommended phase 2 dose (dose escalation cohort), Will be determined based on the number of grade 3 or 4 adverse events in patients who participate on the study. Toxicities will be graded according to CTCAE v 5.0., Up to completion of dose escalation phase
Time to progression, Will be estimated according to Kaplan-Meier analysis., Time between consent onto study and progression, withdraw, or death, assessed up to 1 year|Time to death, Will be estimated according to Kaplan-Meier analysis., Time between consent onto study and death, assessed up to 1 year|MAPK inhibition, MAPK inhibition, measured by phosphorylated ERK pharmacodynamic profiling, will be evaluated to determine efficacy of the combination., Up to 1 year
Presence or absence of a given gene mutation, The presence or absence of a given gene mutation will be evaluated by next-generation sequencing., At pre-treatment and post-progression
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of BET bromodomain inhibitor ZEN-3694 (ZEN003694) when used in combination with cetuximab and encorafenib.

II. To define the safety profile of combination of ZEN003694, encorafenib, and cetuximab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To evaluate clinical response signals of the combination. III. To assess the pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of the combination as defined by MAPK inhibition.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To characterize pharmacodynamics and potential mechanisms of resistance to therapy via whole exome sequencing (WES), reverse phase protein array (RPPA), ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq), and assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with sequencing (ATACseq)/HiSeq 4000 or NovaSeq following progression on treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ZEN003694 followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive ZEN003694 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle, cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 120 minutes on days 1 and 15 of each cycle, and encorafenib PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multi-gated acquisition scan (MUGA), computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and collection of blood samples throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo biopsy at screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.