Phase I Study of APX005M in Pediatric Central Nervous System Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of APX005M in treating younger patients with primary malignant central nervous system tumor that is growing, spreading, or getting worse (progressive), or newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma. APX005M can trigger activation of B cells, monocytes, and dendritic cells and stimulate cytokine release from lymphocytes and monocytes. APX005M can mediate a direct cytotoxic effect on CD40+ tumor cells.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|High-grade Astrocytoma Not Otherwise Specified (NOS)|CNS Primary Tumor, Not Otherwise Specified (NOS)|Ependymoma, Not Otherwise Specified (NOS)|Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Gliomas (DIPG)|Medulloblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: APX005M treatment for recurrent or refractory primary malignant CNS tumor patients|BIOLOGICAL: APX005M treatment for newly diagnosed DIPG patients
Number of Patients Who Experienced Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLTs were defined as adverse events (AE) at least possibly attributed to APX005M that occurred during the first 2 courses (6 weeks) following APX005M administration. DLTs included any APX005M-related AE that led to dose reduction or permanent cessation of therapy or resulted in a treatment delay \>2 weeks. Hematologic DLTs included grade 3 neutropenia with fever, any grade 4 hematologic toxicity except lymphopenia, and grade 3 thrombocytopenia on 2 separate days or requiring platelet transfusion on 2 days within a 7-day period. Non-hematologic DLTs included any grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity, grade 3 or higher cytokine release syndrome, or any grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity with some exceptions such as grade 3 nausea/vomiting \<5 days or grade 3 diarrhea that responded to treatment within 5 days., 6 weeks|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and/or Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of APX005M in Stratum 1, Based on the 3+3 design, the MTD of APX005M was empirically defined as the highest dose level at which six patients were treated with at most one patient experiencing a DLT, and the next higher dose level was determined to be too toxic. A total of 12 subjects were to be treated at the MTD/RP2D to further define the toxicity profile. Stratum 1 consisted of patients with recurrent or refractory primary malignant central nervous system tumors., 6 weeks (first 2 courses of treatment)|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and/or Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of APX005M in Stratum 2, The starting dose level for Stratum 2 was one dose level below the RP2D determined in Stratum 1. If there were no dose-limiting toxicities in the first 3 patients enrolled on Stratum 2, then we escalated to the Stratum 1 RP2D and could treat 6 diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) patients simultaneously. The RP2D was defined as the dose level at which 6 patients were treated with no more than one dose-limiting toxicity. Stratum 2 patients were those with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG)., 6 weeks (first 2 courses of treatment)|Serum Concentration of APX005M, Serial blood samples for APX005M pharmacokinetic studies were collected during courses 1 and 2 at pre-dose, at the end of infusion, and at 4, 24 ± 1 (Day 2), and 168 ± 4 hours (Day 8) from the start of infusion in that course and during courses 3 and 4 at pre-dose and end of induction., 12 weeks
Overall Survival for Stratum 2 (DIPG) Patients, Overall survival was defined as the time interval from treatment initiation to death from any cause or to date of last follow-up for survivors. Survival was estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. The 1-year estimate of survival is reported with a 95% confidence interval; estimates are reported by dose level. Stratum 2 patients were those with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG)., 1 year|Progression-free Survival for Stratum 2 (DIPG) Patients, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time interval from treatment initiation to date of first event (relapsed or progressive disease based on imaging or clinical progression or death from any cause) or to the date of last follow-up for patients without events. PFS was estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. The 1-year estimate of PFS is reported with a 95% confidence interval. PFS estimates were reported separately by dose level. Stratum 2 patients were those with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG)., 1 year|Overall Response Rate for Stratum 2 (DIPG) Patients, Complete or partial responses were considered responses. Response was evaluated by imaging or clinical progression. The response rate (percentage of participants with responses) is reported with a 95% Blyth-Still-Casella confidence interval. Response rates are reported separately by dose level., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response for Stratum 2 (DIPG) Patients, Complete or partial responses were considered responses. Response was evaluated by imaging or clinical progression. Duration of response was measured from the time measurement criteria are met for complete or partial response until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was objectively documented., Up to 2 years
Concentration of the Cytokine Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), Concentration of the cytokine Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) (in pg/ml), Pre-treatment and up to 9 weeks post-treatment|Concentration of the Cytokine Interleukin-8 (IL-8), Concentration of the cytokine Interleukin-8 (IL-8) (in pg/ml), Pre-treatment and up to 9 weeks post-treatment|T Cell Phenotypes in Human PBMC, Characterization of T cell phenotypes in human PBMC, Pre-treatment and up to 9 weeks post-treatment|Mutational Burden Based on Whole Exome Sequencing of Tumor Tissue and PBMC, Mutational burden as detected by comparing whole exome sequencing of tumor tissue and PBMC, Day 0 of treatment|Mutational Burden Based on RNAseq of Tumor Tissue and PBMC, Mutation burden as detected by comparing the RNA sequencing of tumor tissue and PBMC, Day 0 of treatment|Mutational Burden Based on TCR Sequencing, Mutational burden as detected by comparing the TCR sequencing of tumor tissue and/or PBMC. For Stratum 2 (DIPG) patients without tumor samples, TCRseq analysis will be performed, which only requires PBMCs., Day 0 of treatment|Incidence of Anti-APX005M Antibodies, Serial blood samples for anti-drug-antibodies (ADA) are to be collected prior to dosing on courses 1 through 4, then every third course (courses 7 and 10), and then every 4 courses (courses 14, 18, 22, 26, 30, 34) until the end of therapy visit and collected into serum tubes., Approximately 2 years
This is a multicenter phase I trial of APX005M in patients with recurrent or refractory primary malignant central nervous system tumor, or newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma.

APX005M is a humanized IgG1κ mAb that binds to CD40. APX005M binds to both human and cynomolgus monkey CD40 with high affinity, triggering activation of B cells, monocytes, and dendritic cells and stimulating cytokine release from both human and monkey lymphocytes and monocytes. APX005M does not bind to mouse or rat CD40. CD40 is also expressed on many human tumor cells, and APX005M can mediate a direct cytotoxic effect on CD40+ tumor cells.

Activation of CD40 on tumor cells results in tumor cell apoptosis and inhibition of tumor growth. CD40 agonistic antibodies have demonstrated potent antitumor immune response stimulation in both animal models and cancer patients. Due to its action on both immune and tumor cells, CD40 has been studied as a target for novel cancer immunotherapy.

Apexigen has declared the adult recommended phase 2 dose to be 0.3 mg/kg because no dose limiting toxicities were encountered at that dose and the pharmacodynamic profile was similar to the 1 mg/kg maximally tolerated dose. This phase 1 clinical trial is to study APX005M in children with central nervous system tumors.