Phase II Clinical Trial of Purified Isoflavones in Prostate Cancer: Comparing Safety, Effectiveness
The purpose of our study is to recruit and treat 96 men diagnosed with prostate cancer and scheduled for a prostatectomy with a capsule form of either purified isoflavones or placebo for a 3-6 week period to see if we can slow down the rate of prostate cancer growth. A placebo is a pill or something that looks like the medicine that is being studied but has no active medicine in it. We also want to see if taking purified isoflavones is safe and if it reduces lower urinary tract symptoms. In addition, we want to study if purified isoflavones are able to slow the progression of prostate cancer, and the mechanism of action of purified isoflavones. If the safety and the effects of purified isoflavones on slowing down the progression of prostate cancer is shown in our study, this will also be a safe way of treating men who are at high risk of prostate cancer, so that we can prevent prostate cancer in the future.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Purified isoflavones|DRUG: Methyl cellulose blend
Median Change in Percent Ki-67 From Baseline, Efficacy: Change in percent Ki-67 evaluated in prostate cancer (PCa) tissue specimens after 3-6 weeks of intervention with purified isoflavones (40 mg daily) vs. Placebo., Baseline to post intervention - up to 6 weeks|Number of Toxicity Events by Final Attribution and Treatment Arm, Safety: Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs) occurring during intervention with either 20 mg purified isoflavones bid or placebo. Serious Adverse Event (SAEs) and other Adverse Event (AE) details are also reported in the Adverse Event sections., Up to 6 weeks
Biomarkers of Disease Progression - Serum PSA, Median change from baseline to post intervention: Prostatic specific antigen (PSA). All Participants (ALL); Caucasian Men only (CM only); African American Men only (AAM only)., Up to 6 weeks|Change in Plasma Concentrations of Isoflavone, Plasma concentrations of isoflavone: Genistein from baseline to post intervention by study arm., Up to 6 weeks|Biomarkers of Disease Progression - Estradiol, Median change from baseline to post intervention. Steroid hormones: pre-treatment (Pre:) versus post treatment (Post:)., Up to 6 weeks|Biomarkers of Disease Progression - Free Testosterone, Median change from baseline to post intervention. Steroid hormones: pre-treatment (Pre:) versus post treatment (Post:)., Up to 6 weeks|Biomarkers of Disease Progression - Insulin Like Growth Factor (IGF) Binding Protein -3, Median change from baseline to post intervention. Steroid hormones: pre-treatment (Pre:) versus post treatment (Post:)., Up to 6 weeks|Biomarkers of Disease Progression - IGF-1, Median change from baseline to post intervention. Steroid hormones: pre-treatment (Pre:) versus post treatment (Post:)., Up to 6 weeks|Biomarkers of Disease Progression - Sex Hormone-binding Globulin (SHBG), Median change from baseline to post intervention. Steroid hormones: pre-treatment (Pre:) versus post treatment (Post:)., Up to 6 weeks|Biomarkers of Disease Progression - Total Testosterone, Median change from baseline to post intervention. Steroid hormones: pre-treatment (Pre:) versus post treatment (Post:)., Up to 6 weeks
Patients will need to take two (2) capsules daily, one with their breakfast and one with their dinner. On the day prior or the day that patients are coming in for their pre-operative surgery blood work, we ask that they take the second dose with lunch, if their appointment is in the afternoon.

At the start of the study and at the end of the study (3-6 weeks), patients will undergo interviews, complete questionnaires, and have lab tests to determine if this drug is effective to reduce progression of prostate cancer and is safe to use.

Patients will also receive a multivitamin/mineral supplement for the 3-6 weeks that they are on this study and will be required to take one (1) every day. It is required that patients not take any other vitamin/mineral or herbal preparation containing isoflavones and avoid eating or drinking soy products.

We anticipate that most patients will be scheduled for a prostatectomy 3-6 weeks (+/- 3 days) from start of study agent. In addition to their first visit, patients will be required to come in the day of the surgery for prostatectomy.