Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) With Bevacizumab and Irinotecan for Malignant Glioma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also block blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as irinotecan, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bevacizumab together with irinotecan may kill more tumor cells. Diagnostic procedures, such as MRI, may help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and help plan the best treatment.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bevacizumab together with irinotecan works in treating patients with recurrent malignant glioma and how well MRI predicts response to treatment.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: irinotecan|PROCEDURE: dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging
Correlation of the acute permeability and blood flow response (24-48 hours) with progression-free survival (PFS), Assessed by DCE-MRI, 1 year
Overall Survival and Tumor Response, 2 years|Incidence and severity of central nervous system (CNS) hemorrhage and systemic hemorrhage, 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Examine the effect of bevacizumab and irinotecan on vascular permeability and blood flow in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas.

Secondary

* Determine the reproducibility of dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE-MRI) in malignant gliomas.
* Determine the predictive value of DCE-MRI in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas treated with bevacizumab and irinotecan.
* Describe the activity of the combination of bevacizumab with irinotecan as measured by response rate and progression-free survival.
* Describe the toxicity associated with the administration of bevacizumab with irinotecan.

OUTLINE: Patients receive bevacizumab IV on days 1, 15, and 29 and irinotecan IV on days 2, 15, and 29 during the first 6-week cycle. After the first cycle, the irinotecan and bevacizumab will be given on days 1, 15 and 29. Courses repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI 4 times.