Menadione Topical Lotion in Treating Skin Discomfort and Psychological Distress in Patients With Cancer Receiving Panitumumab, Erlotinib Hydrochloride, or Cetuximab
This clinical trial studies menadione topical lotion in treating skin discomfort and psychological distress in patients with cancer receiving panitumumab, erlotinib hydrochloride, or cetuximab. Menadione topical lotion may prevent rash or other skin discomfort and help alleviate psychological distress and pain in patients receiving treatment with panitumumab, erlotinib hydrochloride, or cetuximab
Dermatologic Complications|Malignant Neoplasm|Pain
DRUG: menadione topical lotion|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: management of therapy complications
Change From Baseline to Week 4 Face Pain Score Measuring Cutaneous Discomfort, Change from baseline to Week 4 Face pain score measuring cutaneous discomfort. Face pain scale question ("How would you describe how your face feels?") with a 0-10 Face Pain Scale, where 0 = No pain/burning and 10 = worst possible pain/burning., From Baseline to Week 4
The Number of Patients Experiencing Worst Toxicity, The number of patients experiencing treatment-related adverse events (toxicities) is reported below. The maximum grade toxicity (worst toxicity) is reported by arm., Up to 8 weeks|Long-term Cutaneous Discomfort as Measured by the Change From Baseline in Face Pain Scale at 4 Weeks (Treatment-regimen Estimand), Least Squares mean (LS) of the Face Pain Scale change from baseline at week 4 was adjusted by treatment, week, race, gender, age (\<=50 years/\>50 years), and EGFR, via a MMRM analysis. Face pain scale question ("How would you describe how your face feels?") with a 0-10 Face Pain Scale, where 0 = No pain/burning and 10 = worst possible pain/burning., Baseline, 4 weeks|Long-term Psychosocial Discomfort as Measured by the Change From Baseline in Psychological Distress Score at 4 Weeks (Treatment-regimen Estimand), Least Squares mean (LS) of the Psychological Distress Score change from baseline at week 4 was adjusted by treatment, week, race, gender, age (\<=50 years/\>50 years), and EGFR, via a MMRM analysis. Psychological Distress question ("How often have you been bothered by embarrassment about your face?") with a 0-6 scale, where 0 = Never bothered and 6 = Always bothered., Baseline, Week 4
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore the effectiveness of a menadione topical lotion to the face to prevent cutaneous and psychological discomfort from epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore the adverse event profile of a menadione topical lotion to the face to prevent rash from EGFR inhibitors.

II. Explore whether rash or adverse events worsen over a 4 week period after this 4-week intervention.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients apply menadione topical lotion twice daily (BID) for 28 days.

ARM II: Patients apply topical placebo lotion BID for 28 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.