Evaluation of Ocoxin®-Viusid® in Breast Cancer
The purpose is to determine the efficacy of the nutritional supplement Ocoxin-Viusid oral solution (OV) in the reduction of acute toxicity of Chemotherapy (CT) treatment with patients with breast carcinoma. A randomized, double-blind phase II clinical trial was designed, with a sample of 120 patients distributed in 2 arms: 60 patients will receive the CT treatment plus the OV, 60 will receive CT plus OV placebo. The OV / placebo will be administered before, during and 3 weeks after the conclusion of the CT. A better tolerance to the treatment is expected with the addition of the nutritional supplement.
Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma|Adriamycin Toxicity|Cyclosporine Toxicity
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: CT + Ocoxin-Viusid|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: CT + Placebo
The Ocoxin-Viusid effect in the treatment with chemotherapy, The effect of the treatment will be evaluated from the number of interruptions of oncospecific treatment due to acute toxic reactions to chemotherapy., 4 months|Compliance with the planned chemotherapy schedule, Dichotomous variable that will be evaluated through the answer yes or no. In cases of negative response, the cause of non-compliance will be collected. It will be collected in the evaluation corresponding to each cycle of chemotherapy and in the final evaluation., 4 months|The Ocoxin-Viusid effect in the treatment with chemotherapy, The effect of the treatment will be evaluated from the percentage of interruptions of oncospecific treatment due to acute toxic reactions to chemotherapy., 4 months
Evaluation of Quality of Life, It will be measured through the Karnofsky Index. The Karnofsky Index will be collected in each evaluation query (score of 0-100 points at intervals of 10)., 4 months|Evaluation of Quality of Life, It will be measured through quality of life scale of the EORTC QLQ-C30 (general). It's a questionnaire of 30 questions divided into 3 areas: Functional capacity (physical aspect, social role, cognitive capacity, emotional and social factors; yes or no), symptoms (asthenia, pain and nausea / vomiting; from 1 to 4) and global assessment (from 1 to 10), 4 months|Evaluation of Quality of Life, It will be measured through quality of life scale of the EORTC QLQ-BR23 (specific for breast cancer), it contains 31-53 questions, with a scale from 1-4 or 1-7 (bad-excellent):

-Functional scales:

Body image (BRBI) Sexual functioning (BRSEF) Sexual enjoyment (BRSEE) Future perspective (BRFU)

-Symptom scales / items

Systemic therapy side effects (BRST) Breast symptoms (BRBS) Arm symptoms (BRAS) Upset by hair loss (BRHL), 4 months|Evaluation of nutritional status, It will be determined through the Body Mass Index (BMI). The investigator must take into account that if the patient presents with ascites, she should indicate a paracentesis (whenever possible and the type of ascites allows it) before measuring her body weight., 4 months|Evaluation of nutritional status, It will be determined through the value of total proteins and albumin., 4 months|Side effects of the treatment, The safety of the treatment will be determined through the reporting of adverse events that are presented to the research product., 4 months
To obtain the sample size, the proportion of patients presenting adverse reactions that require interrupting chemotherapy treatment will be taken into account. In the institution, this figure is close to 15%. Since it is a dietary supplement, with extensive information on the safety of the product, the design is used in a stage of Flemming (without early stop rules). Assuming that the Ocoxin-Viusid product would clearly be declared ineffective (maximal ineffectiveness) if the proportion of patients not presenting adverse reactions was equal to less than 85% (p0), that is the maximum level of success below which the product does not shows signs of efficacy (the study does not guarantee further research) and taking a p1 value of 95%, where p1 is the minimum level of efficacy required from which the product would be declared effective (the results guarantee to continue a study phase III). Assuming an α error of 5% (probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true) and β (probability of rejecting the alternative hypothesis when it is true) of 20% (the power of the test: 1 - β = 80%), It is determined to recruit a maximum number of 59 - 60 subjects. Determine a = 54, where a is the number of responses equal and below which the product is declared ineffective (H0 is accepted). And r = a + 1 is the cut-off point, that is, the number of responses from which the efficacy level ensures to continue to a phase III study. In this case we would expect to obtain a number of successes ≥ 55.

Patients will be randomized after surgery, in the chemotherapy consultation, and once they meet the established inclusion criteria. In order to achieve the masking of the research product, these have been labeled by a balanced randomized list obtained by computer, which will be in the possession of the Biostatistician of the study of the Clinical Investigations Section of INOR and the promoter. The product under study has been consecutively labeled from 1 to 120 (60 patients in each therapeutic arm).