Siltuximab and Spartalizumab in Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This phase Ib/II trial studies the best dose and side effects of siltuximab and how well it works in combination with spartalizumab in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as siltuximab and spartalizumab, interfere with the ability of tumors cells to grow and spread.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Siltuximab|BIOLOGICAL: Spartalizumab
Maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of siltuximab that can be combined with spartalizumab, Maximal tolerated dose (MTD )is defined as the dose at which less than one-third of the subjects experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in the first 6 weeks of treatment. A DLT is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as definitely at least possibly related to study treatment treatment related that occurs within the first 6 weeks. National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03 will be used for all grading., Up to 6 weeks from study start
Overall response rate (ORR), Overall response rate is defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) in participants treated with siltuximab and spartalizumab and will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1., Up to 2 years from study start|Response duration, Will be assessed by RECIST 1.1., From treatment start until progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will be assessed by RECIST 1.1., From treatment start until progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival time, Will be assessed by RECIST 1.1., From treatment start until progression or death, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the recommended phase II dose for the combination of spartalizumab and siltuximab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Define the toxicity profile of the combination of the recommended phase II dose of spartalizumab and siltuximab.

II. Evaluate the activity of the combination of spartalizumab and siltuximab in previously treated patients with pancreatic cancer.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the effect of the combination on the immune profile in the serum and in tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of siltuximab.

Participants receive spartalizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and siltuximab IV over 1 hour on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30, 60, 90, 120, and 150 days, then every 12 weeks thereafter.