Ceritinib (LDK378) for Patients Whose Tumors Have Aberrations in ALK or ROS1 (SIGNATURE)
The purpose of this signal seeking study was to determine whether treatment with ceritinib demonstrated sufficient efficacy in select pathway-activated solid tumors and/or hematologic malignancies to warrant further study.
Tumors With Aberrations in ALK or ROS1
DRUG: Ceritinib
Percentage of Participants Overall Response Rate (ORR) and Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Utilizing RECIST 1.1 at Approximately 16 Weeks, Solid tumors were assessed using RECIST 1.1 criteria and included responses of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD). For hematologic tumors, other hematological response criteria applied. CR=disappearance of all target lesions. Pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10mm. PR=at least 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions from baseline sum diameters. SD=neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Progressive disease (PD)=at least a 20% increase in sum of diameter of measured target lesions from smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline (sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm). One or more new lesions was considered PD. Overall response rate (ORR) = (CR + PR). Clinical benefit rate = (CR + PR + SD), Baseline up to approximately 16 weeks|Number of Participants With Tumor Responses Utilizing RECIST 1.1 at Approximately 16 Weeks, For patients with solid tumors the assessment criteria was RECIST 1.1 and included responses of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD). For hematologic tumors, other hematological response criteria applied. CR=disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10mm. PR=at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD=neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Progressive disease (PD)=at least a 20% increase in sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline (sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm). One or more new lesions was also considered progression., Baseline up to approximately 16 weeks
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) was the time from the date of start of study drug to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause within 30 days of the last dose. If a patient has not had an event, progression-free survival was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment., Baseline up to approximately 27 months|Percentage of Participants With Progression-Free Survival (PFS) - Kaplan-Meier Estimates, Progression-free survival (PFS) was the time from the date of start of study drug to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause within 30 days of the last dose. If a patient has not had an event, progression-free survival was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment., Basleline up to approximately 27 months|Overall Survival (OS) - Number of Participant Deaths, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death due to any cause, Baseline up to approximately 27 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR) is defined as time from the first documented response (CR or PR) to the date first documented disease progression or relapse or death due to any cause, baseline up to approximately 30 months
This was an open label study to determine the efficacy and safety of treatment with ceritinib in patients with a diagnosis of solid tumors or hematological malignancies that had been pre-identified (prior to study consent) to have ALK or ROS1 positive mutations, translocations, rearrangements or amplifications and whose disease had progressed on or after standard treatment. The study consisted of a treatment phase where all patients received ceritinib capsules for a total dose of 750 mg daily for up to 8 cycles of 28 days. Disease assessments for clinical benefit were performed every 8 weeks until disease progression or end of treatment. Following discontinuation of treatment for any reason, patients were followed for safety for 30 days. Survival information was collected every 3 months until 2 years after the last patient had enrolled into the study. Study was amended to allow for discontinuation of survival period if primary endpoint was not met.

Study was terminated due to low enrollment.