Treatment of Breast Cancer-related Lymphedema With Stem Cells and Fat Grafting
Breast cancer-related lymphedema is one of the most common and feared consequences of breast cancer treatment. Currently, lymphedema is primarily addressed conservatively with compression garments. Regenerative medicine may provide a new treatment option for lymphedema. This Phase 3 trial will examine the efficacy, effectiveness and safety of freshly isolated adipose-derived stromal cells administered in conjunction with a fat grafting procedure to the affected axillary region.
Lymphedema
PROCEDURE: Liposuction|PROCEDURE: Fat graft|PROCEDURE: Sham graf (Saline injection)|BIOLOGICAL: Stem cell injection|PROCEDURE: Saline injection
Change in arm volume, Assessed using clinical circumference measurement, Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
Safety of treatments: Assessed by asking the patient at each visit, Any side effects to treatments. Assessed by asking the patient at each visit., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Subjective changes assessed using the LYMPH-ICF (Lymphoedema Functioning, Disability and Health) questionaire, Subjective change of lymphedema assessed by questionnaire. Range: 0-100. 100 being the most bothered., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Subjective changes assessed using DASH (DISABILITIES OF THE ARM, SHOULDER AND HAND) questionaire, Subjective change of lymphedema assessed by questionnaire. Range: 1-5. 5 being the most bothered, Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Subjective changes assessed using SF-36 questionnaire, Subjective change of quality of life assessed by questionnaire. Range: 0-100. 0 being the most bothered., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Change in lymph drainage, Change in lymph drainage assessed by indocyanine-green lymphangiography, Baseline and 12 months|Change in conservative lymphedema treatment, Change in use or type of conservative lymphedema treatments, Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Change in adverse lymphedema-related events, Change in infection rates and sick-days due to lymphedema., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Change in L-DEX score (bioimpedance), Change in L-DEX score of lymphedema arm derived from bioimpedance. Higher values mean more fluid in the lymphedema arm compared to the healthy arm., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Change in weight and arm tissue composition, Assessed using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan. Change in values from baseline., Baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
Breast cancer-related lymphedema is one of the most common and feared consequences of breast cancer treatment. Currently, lymphedema is primarily addressed conservatively with compression garments. Regenerative medicine may provide a new treatment option for lymphedema. This Phase 3 trial will examine the efficacy, effectiveness and safety of freshly isolated adipose-derived stromal cells administered in conjunction with a fat grafting procedure to the affected axillary region.