Safety Study of Nifurtimox for Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma
There is currently no curative treatment for children with relapsed/refractory neuroblastoma, and for these children the 5 year survival rate is \<10%. As such, new therapeutic approaches are needed to treat these children. This Phase 1 clinical trial is specifically designed to test the safety and toxicity of nifurtimox when given in combination with cyclophosphamide and topotecan for the treatment of relapsed and/or refractory neuroblastoma . Prior to study opening, 3 pediatric patients with neuroblastoma have received nifurtimox in combination with this chemotherapy regimen, and all have had significant measurable responses without undue toxicity. These case reports, as well as our in vitro and in vivo investigations into the biologic effect of nifurtimox on neuroblastoma cells has prompted the development of this Phase I study. This Phase I study will involve a dose escalation trial of daily oral nifurtimox alone for one 21 day cycle of therapy, followed by continuation of nifurtimox with the addition of standard doses of cyclophosphamide (5 days) and topotecan (5 days) for 3 additional 21 day cycles. Our primary aim is to evaluate the safety of nifurtimox alone and in combination with these chemotherapy agents in multiply relapsed/refractory patients. Our secondary aim will be to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of nifurtimox as well as treatment response.
Neuroblastoma
DRUG: Nifurtimox
Test the safety of nifurtimox in children with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma alone and in combination with cyclophosphamide and topotecan., 3 months
To evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of nifurtimox alone and in combination with cyclophosphamide and topotecan., 3 months|To determine the response rate to treatment with nifurtimox combined with cyclophosphamide/topotecan, 3 months
There is currently no curative treatment for children with relapsed/refractory neuroblastoma, and for these children the 5 year survival rate is \<10%. As such, new therapeutic approaches are needed to treat these children. This Phase 1 clinical trial is specifically designed to test the safety and toxicity of nifurtimox when given in combination with cyclophosphamide and topotecan for the treatment of relapsed and/or refractory neuroblastoma . Prior to study opening, 3 pediatric patients with neuroblastoma have received nifurtimox in combination with this chemotherapy regimen, and all have had significant measurable responses without undue toxicity. These case reports, as well as our in vitro and in vivo investigations into the biologic effect of nifurtimox on neuroblastoma cells has prompted the development of this Phase I study. This Phase I study will involve a dose escalation trial of daily oral nifurtimox alone for one 21 day cycle of therapy, followed by continuation of nifurtimox with the addition of standard doses of cyclophosphamide (5 days) and topotecan (5 days) for 3 additional 21 day cycles. Our primary aim is to evaluate the safety of nifurtimox alone and in combination with these chemotherapy agents in multiply relapsed/refractory patients. Our secondary aim will be to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of nifurtimox as well as treatment response.