A Study of Sativex® for Pain Relief in Patients With Advanced Malignancy.
The purpose of this study is to determine the effective dose range and to demonstrate a non-effective dose range of Sativex in patients with advanced cancer, who experience inadequate pain relief even though they are on optimized chronic opioid therapy.
Palliative Care|Pain|Cancer
DRUG: Sativex Low Dose|DRUG: Sativex Medium Dose|DRUG: Sativex High Dose
Number of Patients With at Least 30% Improvement in Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) Average Pain Score From Baseline, A positive 30% pain response is defined as a reduction of at least 30% in the mean NRS average pain score from baseline to week 5 (last 3 days). The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate the number that best describes your pain or average pain in the last 24 hours" where 0 = no pain and 10 = pain as bad as you can imagine. No pain relates to the time prior to the onset of pain due to cancer. The average pain NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening., 5 Weeks: Baseline (first 3 days) - Week 5 (last 3 days)
Change in Cumulative Average Pain Response Curves, The cumulative response to treatment is the percentage changes from baseline in the mean NRS pain score as defined as the 30% response.

The pain NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate the number that best describes your pain or average pain in the last 24 hours" where 0 = no pain and 10 = pain as bad as you can imagine. No pain relates to the time prior to the onset of pain due to cancer., Baseline to end of treatment (Week 5)|Change in Mean Daily NRS Pain Score (Average Pain)., The average pain NRS was complete at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate the number that best describes your pain or average pain in the last 24 hours" where 0 = no pain and 10 = pain as bad as you can imagine. No pain relates to the time prior to the onset of pain due to cancer. A negative value indicates an improvement in pain score from baseline., 5 Weeks: Baseline (first 3 days) - End of Treatment (last 3 days of week 5)|Change in Mean Daily NRS Pain Score (Worst Pain)., The worst pain NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate the number that best describes your worst pain in the last 24 hours" where 0 = no pain and 10 = pain as bad as you can imagine. No pain relates to the time prior to the onset of pain due to cancer. A negative value indicates an improvement in worst pain score from baseline., 5 Weeks: Baseline (first 3 days) - End of Treatment (last 3 days of week 5)|Change in Sleep Disruption NRS, The sleep disruption NRS was completed at the same time each day, i.e. bedtime in the evening. The patient was asked "on a scale of '0 to 10', please indicate how your pain disrupted your sleep last night?" where 0 = did not disrupt sleep and 10 = completely disrupted (unable to sleep at all). A negative value indicates an improvement in sleep disruption score from baseline., 5 Weeks: Baseline - End of Treatment (Last 3 days of Week 5)|Change in Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF), The BPI-SF is a 14-item questionnaire that asks patients to rate pain over the prior week and the degree to which it interferes with activities on a 0 to 10 scale, where 0=no pain and 10=pain as bad as you can imagine. Severity is measured as worst pain, least pain, average pain, and pain right now. The severity composite score was calculated as the arithmetic mean of the four severity items(range 0-10). the minimum value is zero and maximum is 10. A higher score represents a poor outcome., Baseline (Visit 2) and End of Treatment (End of Week 5 or premature termination)|Change in Patient Assessment of Constipation Quality of Life (PAC-QoL), The PAC-QoL questionnaire consists of 28 questions divided into the following areas: 4 questions on physical discomfort, 8 questions on psychosocial discomfort, 11 questions on worries/concerns and 5 questions on satisfaction. The PAC-QoL was completed at baseline and then at the end of treatment. An overall score (range 0-4) was calculated at each visit and the difference determined. A positive difference in score represents an improvement., Baseline (Visit 2) and End of Treatment (Week 5 or premature termination)|Change in Patient Global Impression of Change - PGIC, A 7-point Likert-type scale was used, with the question: 'Please assess the status of your pain due to cancer since entry into the study using the scale below' with the markers "very much improved, much improved, slightly improved, no change, slightly worse, much worse or very much worse". At Visit 2 (Baseline) patients wrote a brief description of their pain caused by cancer which was used at Week 5 to aid their memory regarding their symptoms at study start. For each of above markers the number of participants were reported., End of Week 5|Change in Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), The MADRS comprises of 10 questions that are completed by the patient to determine their depression level. The MADRS was completed at Visit 2 (Baseline) prior to receiving the study drug and at Visit 4 (Week 5 or premature termination). Each item is scored on a 0-6 scale , where 0=no sadness to 6=extreme and continuous gloom and despondency, and the MADRS score is the sum of the 10 item scores (range 0-60). The higher the score the more severe the depression., Baseline and End of Treatment (Week 5 or premature termination)
The purpose of this study is to determine the effective dose range and to demonstrate a non-effective dose range of Sativex in patients with advanced cancer, who experience inadequate pain relief even though they are on optimized chronic opioid therapy.