Safety and Tolerability Study for T-1101 (Tosylate) to Treat Advanced Refractory Solid Tumors
T-1101 (Tosylate) is a new small molecule chemical entity being developed as a potential anti-cancer therapeutic by Taivex Therapeutics Corp. T-1101 (Tosylate) is a potent anti-cancer agent in numerous human cancer cell lines. In addition, oral administration of T-1101 (Tosylate) showed tumor growth inhibition in different mouse xenograft models of human cancers. In this study, safety, tolerability and PK of T-1101 (Tosylate) will be evaluated and also the recommended dose and regimen(s) to initiate Phase 2 will be determined.
Advanced Refractory Solid Tumors
DRUG: T-1101 (Tosylate)
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of T-1101 (Tosylate) in Participants with Advanced Cancers Refractory to Standard Therapy, MTD is highest dose level in which 6 patients have been treated with at most 1 experiencing dose limiting toxicity (DLT).

When following toxicity events occur within the first 21-day cycle, these toxicity will be defined as DLT.

1. Hematological toxicities : prolonged grade 4 neutropenia for \>7 days, grade 3 febrile neutropenia (an ANC \< 1000/mm3 with a single temperature of \> 38.3°C or a sustained temperature of \> 38°C for more than 1 hour), grade 4 febrile neutropenia (febrile neutropenia with life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated), grade 3 neutropenia with grade 3 infection and grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding or grade 4 lasting 7 days.
2. Non-hematological toxicities: grade 3 or 4 toxicities, Nausea and vomiting or diarrhea must persist at grade 3 or 4 despite maximal medical therapy.

The above toxicities will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE v4.03., The first 21-day cycle
Pharmacokinetics: Peak maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) and minimum plasma concentration (Cmin) of T-1101 (Tosylate) and its metabolites, Selected time points during first 21-day cycle|Pharmacokinetics: Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) to the time of the last measurable concentration and to infinity of T-1101 (Tosylate) and its metabolites, Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to the time of the last measurable concentration (AUC0-last) of T-1101 (Tosylate) and its metabolites will be estimated using non-compartmental analysis. If data permit, area under the plasma concentration versus time curve to infinity (AUC0-∞) will be also estimated., Selected time points during first 21-day cycle|Pharmacokinetics: Time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) and terminal half-life (T½) of T-1101 (Tosylate) and its metabolites, Time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) of T-1101 (Tosylate) and its metabolites will be estimated using non-compartmental analysis. If data permit, terminal elimination half-life (T½ ) will be also estimated., Selected time points during first 21-day cycle|Pharmacokinetics: Oral plasma clearance (CL/F) of T-1101 (Tosylate) and its metabolites, Selected time points during first 21-day cycle|Pharmacokinetics: Apparent volume of distribution (Vd/F) of T-1101 (Tosylate) and its metabolites, Selected time points during first 21-day cycle|Clinical Tumor Response of T-1101 (Tosylate) in Participants with Advanced Cancers, Categorization of response based on RECIST 1.1., Up to 2 years
T-1101 (Tosylate) is a new small molecule chemical entity being developed as a potential anti-cancer therapeutic by Taivex Therapeutics Corp. T-1101 (Tosylate) is a potent anti-cancer agent in numerous human cancer cell lines. In addition, oral administration of T-1101 (Tosylate) showed tumor growth inhibition in different mouse xenograft models of human cancers. In this study, safety, tolerability and PK of T-1101 (Tosylate) will be evaluated and also the recommended dose and regimen(s) to initiate Phase 2 will be determined.