Harmonics-based in Vivo Optical Virtual Biopsy
The research aims to study the molecules and structures in human skin by the image formation of harmonic-based in vivo optical virtual biopsy.
Healthy Participants With Different Skin Types and Different Ages|Diseased Participants With Different Skin Types and Different Ages|Participants Suffered From Diabetes With Different Skin Types and Different Ages
DEVICE: Harmonic Generation Microscopy
To noninvasively provide real-time imaging of cutaneous histopathology and molecular changes., To observe some analyzed molecule (melanin density, HbA1c density, collagen density, etc) \& structure (cell size, cell height, height of rete ridges, layer thickness, etc) parameters for different skin types \& age groups. (the information above can be observed in the nonlinear images) (Cell or molecule density is defined as the cell or molecule numbers in the specific image area) (Structure can be observed and reconstructed via multiple z-depth images), one year
To provide a diagnostic tool for diseases., To diagnose if the analyzed pathological-related parameters (the parameters can be observed in the nonlinear images) (the pathological-related information includes cell shape, cell size, and molecular distribution (ex: chromatin, HbA1c, etc) in each single cell, etc) from Harmonic-based in Vivo Optical Virtual Biopsy can distinguish melanoma, basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, high \& low HbA1c groups from control., one year
In the research, the investigators use the Cr:forsterite laser as the light source, and utilize the nonlinear optical microscopic system to observe human skin via in vivo detection. In this study, images of human skin tissue will be acquired by virtual section to truly evaluate the feasibility of this system in clinical application.

This research intends to conduct the following research:

1. To study the feasibility of this technology to observe melanin in the skin: As melanin is THG-bright, the technology will help to explore the distribution and change of melanin in the skin.
2. To study the capability of this technology in the early diagnosis of skin cancers, including melanoma, basal cell carcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma: By obtaining skin images of healthy and diseased patients, we can establish an image database of normal and cancerous skin in different atages, and evaluate the efficacy of this technology for early diagnosis of skin malignancy in the future.
3. To study the ability of this technology to observe and analyze the degree of skin aging: Optical sectioning of human skin in a non-invasive in vivo manner can be used to detect the microscopic changes of skin aging and solar damage, and to find out the indicators of skin aging, so as to be used in the future to assist the therapeutic analysis of anti-skin aging treatment.
4. To study the ability of this technology to observe peripheral vasculopathy and molecular changes of microvascular structures in diabetic patients: Perform microscopic imaging on healthy and diabetes patients' skin to observe effects of structures and molecules in their skin, such as peripheral vasculopathy in diabetic patients, and the status of disease parameters, with a view to find the cause of peripheral vascular lesions and other biological information.