Testing the Safety of Adding Either Monalizumab (IPH2201) or Oleclumab (MEDI9447) to Durvalumab (MEDI4736) Plus Standard Radiation Therapy for Locally Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), ARCHON-1 Trial
This phase I trial studies the safety of adding durvalumab to accelerated hypofractionated radiation therapy (ACRT) or conventionally fractionated radiation therapy, as well as the safety of adding either monalizumab or oleclumab to durvalumab plus conventionally fractionated radiation therapy in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced). Accelerated hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab and monalizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Oleclumab is in a class of medications called monoclonal antibodies. It binds to a protein called CD73, which is found on some types of tumor cells. Oleclumab may block CD73 and help the immune system kill tumor cells. It is not yet known whether adding durvalumab to ACRT or adding monalizumab or oleclumab to durvalumab plus conventionally fractionated radiation therapy will work better in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Locally Advanced Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Locally Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Accelerated Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain with and without Contrast|BIOLOGICAL: Monalizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Oleclumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Number of Participants Experiencing a Safety Event, Safety event is defined as one of the following:

* Grade 4-5 non-hematologic protocol-defined serious adverse event (SAE) possibly, probably, or definitely related to protocol treatment occurring within 90 days from radiation therapy (RT) start for Arm 1 or within 8 weeks from RT start for Arm 2;
* Any adverse event possibly, probably, or definitely related to protocol treatment that leads to missing at least 2 doses of durvalumab within 90 days from RT start for Arm 1 or within 8 weeks from RT start for Arm 2;
* Permanent discontinuation of durvalumab due to an adverse event possibly, probably, or definitely related to protocol treatment within the first 30 days of starting durvalumab; or
* SAEs possibly, probably, or definitely related to RT that cause either an interruption or early termination of RT.

Adverse events are graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, which assigns a grade according to severity from 1=mild to 5=death., From start of study treatment to 90 (ACRT) or 56 (standard RT) days from the end of radiation treatment. (Approximately 104 or 70 days, respectively, from start of study treatment)
Percentage of Participants Who Received at Least 80% of Planned Durvalumab Dose During First 8 Weeks Following Initial Dose, From start of durvalumab to 8 weeks|Percentage of Participants Who Received at Least 80% of Planned Dose of Monalizumab or Oleclumab During the First 8 Weeks Following the Initial Dose, From start of durvalumab to 8 weeks|Distribution of Participants by Highest Grade Adverse Event, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 5.0 grades adverse event severity from 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild AE, Grade 2 Moderate AE, Grade 3 Severe AE, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE, Grade 5 Death related to AE. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data., From registration to last follow-up. Schedule: weekly during RT, every 4 weeks post-RT durvalumab, every 3 months for year 1 from end of durvalumab, every 4 months for year 2 from end of durvalumab. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 23.2 months|Percentage of Participants Experiencing a Grade 4 or Higher Non-hematologic Adverse Event, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 5.0 grades adverse event severity from 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild AE, Grade 2 Moderate AE, Grade 3 Severe AE, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE, Grade 5 Death related to AE. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data., From registration to last follow-up. Schedule: weekly during RT, every 4 weeks post-RT durvalumab, every 3 months for year 1 from end of durvalumab, every 4 months for year 2 from end of durvalumab. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 23.2 months.|Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as an increase \>= 20% of the sum of longest diameters of target lesions compared with nadir (minimum 5 mm) or progression of non-target lesions or new lesion. Progression-free survival time is defined as time from registration to the date of first progression, death, or last known follow-up (censored). Progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From registration to last follow-up. Data collection: weekly during RT, then every 4 weeks post-RT durvalumab, then every 3 months for year 1 from end of durvalumab, then every 4 months for year 2 from end of durvalumab
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if the addition of durvalumab to two schedules of radiation therapies (60 Gy in 30 fractions or 60 Gy in 15 fractions) is safe.

II. To evaluate if the addition of either monalizumab or oleclumab to radiation therapy (RT) (60 Gy in 30 fractions) + durvalumab is safe.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine if the addition of durvalumab to radiation therapy as well as the addition of either monalizumab or oleclumab is feasible.

II. To assess toxicities associated with the addition of durvalumab to radiation therapy as well as the addition of either monalizumab or oleclumab.

III. To obtain preliminary estimates of progression-free survival (PFS), using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines, in patients who received durvalumab added to radiation, and either monalizumab or oleclumab added to RT (60 Gy in 30 fractions) + durvalumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact the addition of durvalumab to RT and either monalizumab or oleclumab to RT (60 Gy in 30 fractions) + durvalumab have on progression-free survival, using Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC) guidelines.

II. To assess the changes in circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and various immune parameters during treatment with durvalumab and radiotherapy and changes after completion of treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to Arm I or Arm II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL).

ARM I (CLOSED): Starting 2 weeks prior to radiation therapy, patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo accelerated hypofractionated radiation therapy (ACRT) 1 fraction per day, 5 days per week for 15 fractions. Patients also undergo brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) scan during screening and as clinically indicated, chest CT scans on study and during follow up, and collection of blood samples during screening and on study.

ARM II (CLOSED): Starting 2 weeks prior to radiation therapy, patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo conventionally fractionated radiation therapy 1 fraction per day, 5 days per week for 30 fractions. Patients also undergo brain MRI or CT scan during screening and as clinically indicated, chest CT scans on study and during follow up, and collection of blood samples during screening and on study.

Patients are assigned to Arm III or Arm IV.

ARM III: Starting 2 weeks prior to radiation therapy, patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes and monalizumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo conventionally fractionated radiation therapy 1 fraction per day, 5 days per week for 30 fractions. Patients also undergo brain MRI or CT scan during screening and as clinically indicated, chest CT scans on study and during follow up, and collection of blood samples during screening and on study.

ARM IV: Starting 2 weeks prior to radiation therapy, patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Patients also receive oleclumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of cycles 1-2, then on day 1 of cycles thereafter. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo conventionally fractionated radiation therapy 1 fraction per day, 5 days per week for 30 fractions. Patients also undergo brain MRI or CT scan during screening and as clinically indicated, chest CT scans on study and during follow up, and collection of blood samples during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 4 months for 1 year.