Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Uterine Cancer
Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works in treating patients with advanced or recurrent uterine cancer.
Recurrent Uterine Sarcoma|Stage III Uterine Sarcoma|Stage IV Uterine Sarcoma|Uterine Carcinosarcoma
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate
Objective Overall Response Rate, Response was defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10655437#): Complete Response(CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response(PR), at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR)=CR+PR., Up to 5 years
Overall Survival, Defined as the time from the first day of therapy to the date of death. If the patient was lost to follow-up, survival was censored on the last date the patient was known to be alive., Up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival, Defined as the time from the first day of treatment until the date PD(progressive disease) or death is first reported. Patients who died without a reported prior progression was considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Patients who did not progress was censored at the day of their last tumor assessment. According to RECIST, progressive disease(PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response was measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR(complete response)/PR(partial response), whichever was first recorded, until the first date that PD(progressive disease) was objectively documented. According to the RECIST: Complete Response(CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response(PR), at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; progressive disease(PD), at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with advanced or recurrent uterine cancer treated with sorafenib.

II. Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to histology (carcinoma vs carcinosarcoma).

Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.