Biomarker Discovery in Patients With Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer
Biliary tract cancer is a rare gastrointestinal malignant neoplasm and includes intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, and gall bladder cancer. Curative surgical resection offers the only chance for cure. However, most patients with BTC are diagnosed at an unresectable stage. Therefore, the survival outcomes of patients with advanced biliary tract cancer remain dismal.

The combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin has become the current standard for advanced BTCs since the landmark ABC-02 trial in 2010. However, the median overall survival of Gem/Cis chemotherapy is less than 1 year. Recently, a triplet regimen of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel showed promising results in a single-arm phase II multicenter study.

However, biliary tract cancer is a group of heterogenous diseases by site and genetic alteration, and this diversity may lead differences in response to systemic chemotherapy.

Transcriptome analysis through RNA-sequencing has rarely been performed in advanced biliary tract cancer, and even if it has performed, only small number of patients were included. Further research on multi-omics data is needed on the necessity and clinical significance in treatment of biliary tract cancer.
Biliary Tract Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma|Gallbladder Cancer
DRUG: nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine-cisplatin
collected tumor samples, tumor samples from patients with hepatobiliary cancers (incidence of genetic alteration, association with treatment response and survival duration), through study completion, an average of 2 years|collected blood samples, blood samples from patients with hepatobiliary cancers (incidence of genetic alteration, association with treatment response and survival duration), through study completion, an average of 2 years
Multi-omics analysis, Multi-omics analysis to further subtype and find therapeutic targets of biliary tract cancer, 2 years|Biomarkers on the efficacy of Gemcitabine/Cisplatin/Nab-paclitaxel for advanced biliary tract cancer, Molecular biomarker associated with overall survival, progression-free survival and objective response rate in patients who receive Gemcitabine/Cisplatin/Nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy, 2 years
Using biopsy specimen (formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissue), in-house NGS and RNA-sequencing will be performed simultaneously. Through this, investigators will discover biomarkers based on multi-omics data that predict response to systemic chemotherapy (nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine-cisplatin). In addition, blood sampling will be performed in parallel to conduct research on cell-free DNA and circulating tumor cell analysis related to response and progression on chemotherapy; before administration of chemotherapy, 3 months after chemotherapy, 6 months after chemotherapy, the time of disease progression (if possible), before curative resection (if possible).