Assessments on Current Pain Managements in Upper Gastrointestinal Cancer Patients
Pain is one of the most common symptoms associated with cancer. The approach to pain management compresses routine pain assessments, utilizes both pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic interventions, and requires ongoing reevaluation of the patient. Cancer pain can be well controlled in the vast majority of patients if the algorithms of pain control are systematically applied, carefully monitored, and tailored to the needs of the individual patient.This study is aimed to assess the current pain managements in upper gastrointestinal cancer patients in Taiwan. The effects of neuropathic pain and depression on the enrolled patients would also be assessed.
Pain|Neuropathic Pain|Depression|Quality of Life|Upper GI Cancer
Pain, assessed by BPI-SF., Pain intensities of participants would be assessed by BPI-SF at D1., Assessed at enrolled date (Day 1)|Changes in pain, assessed by BPI-SF., Changes in pain intensities of participants would be assessed by BPI-SF. The changes in pain would be assessed again after 1 month when participants have outpatient visits or during their admission. An expected following duration average of would be 4 weeks., Baseline and 1 month.
Depression, assessed by two stem questions., Depression of participants would be assessed by questionnaires as mentioned at D1., Assessed at enrolled date (Day 1)|Changes in depression, assessed by two stem questions., Changes in depression status would be assessed by questionnaires as mentioned. The changes would be assessed again after 1 month when participants have outpatient visits or during their admission. An expected following duration average of would be 4 weeks., Baseline and 1 month.|Quality of life, assessed by EROTC QLQ C30., Quality of life of participants would be assessed by questionnaires as mentioned at D1., Day 1|Neuropathic pain, assessed by DN4 questions., Neuropathic pain of participants would be assessed by questionnaires as mentioned at D1., Day 1|Changes in quality of life. Quality of life, assessed by EROTC QLQ C30., Changes in quality of life would be assessed by questionnaires as mentioned. The changes would be assessed again after 1 month when participants have outpatient visits or during their admission. An expected following duration average of would be 4 weeks., Baseline and 1 month.|Changes in neuropathic pain. Neuropathic pain, assessed by DN4 questions., Changes in neuropathic pain would be assessed by questionnaires as mentioned. The changes would be assessed again after 1 month when participants have outpatient visits or during their admission. An expected following duration average of would be 4 weeks., Baseline and 1 month.
Pain is one of the most common symptoms associated with cancer. The approach to pain management compresses routine pain assessments, utilizes both pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic interventions, and requires ongoing reevaluation of the patient. Cancer pain can be well controlled in the vast majority of patients if the algorithms of pain control are systematically applied, carefully monitored, and tailored to the needs of the individual patient.This study is aimed to assess the current pain managements in upper gastrointestinal cancer patients in Taiwan. The effects of neuropathic pain and depression on the enrolled patients would also be assessed.