Pemigatinib + Afatinib in Advanced Refractory Solid Tumors
This study is researching whether the combination of Afatinib and Pemigatinib is safe and effective in FGFR altered unresectable or metastatic advanced solid tumors.

The study is also trying to discover the highest doses of the study drugs that can be administered without causing any intolerable side effects.

This research study involves the study drugs Afatinib and Pemigatinib.
Advanced Solid Tumor|Unresectable Solid Tumor|Metastatic Solid Tumor|Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Afatinib|DRUG: Pemigatinib
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), All patients in the dose-escalation part who have received ≥ 75% (21 days) of study drug and completed Cycle 1 through Cycle 1 Day 21 or experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Through Cycle 1 (21 Days)|Objective response rate (ORR), Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) in patients with FGFR2-fusion, rearrangement or in-frame deletion positive intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Defined as the proportion of patients achieving Complete response (CR) and partial response(PR) per RECIST v1.1, Baseline, Every 9 weeks during treatment and Off Study up to 1 year
Disease Control Rate, Defined as the proportion of patients achieving CR, PR or stable disease (SD) as assessed per RECIST v1.1, Baseline, Every 9 weeks during treatment and Off Study up to 1 year|Duration of Response, Defined as the time from first documentation of CR or PR by RECIST v1.1 until the time of first documentation of progressive disease (PD) evaluated using RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, Baseline, Every 9 weeks during treatment and Off Study up to 1 year|Overall Survival, Defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment to the date of death by any cause., Baseline, Every 9 weeks during treatment and Off Study up to 1 year|Progression-free Survival, Defined as the time from date of first dose to the earlier date of assessment of progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression, based on the time of first documentation of PD per RECIST v1.1, Baseline, Every 9 weeks during treatment and Off Study up to 1 year|Best Overall Response, The best response recorded per RECIST 1.1, from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for PD the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Baseline, Every 9 weeks during treatment and Off Study up to 1 year|Time to response, The time from the date of the first dose to the first objective tumor response (tumor shrinkage of ≥30%) observed for patients who achieved a CR or PR., Baseline, Every 9 weeks during treatment and Off Study up to 1 year|Treatment Related Adverse Events, Number of Participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 (National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0), Each visit until 30 days after study discontinuation.|Maximum Plasma Concentration [Cmax]) and C trough of pemigatinib and afatinib, To characterize the Pharmacokinetics (PK) properties of the combination of pemigatinib and afatinib, Cycle 1 day 1 and Cycle 1 day 8|Molecular correlates of response, Circulating tumor DNA, Through study completion, an average of 6 months.
This is an open-label phase Ia/Ib study to evaluate safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of the combination of pemigatinib and afatinib in patients with FGFR-altered refractory advanced solid tumors.

This study includes 2 parts: phase 1a dose escalation and phase 1b dose expansion.

* In the phase 1a dose escalation study patients with FGFR-altered refractory advanced refractory solid tumors will be enrolled.
* In the phase Ib dose expansion study, patients with FGFR-altered cholangiocarcinoma will be recruited into 2 cohorts: FGFR inhibitor-naïve cholangiocarcinoma and FGFR-inhibitor-pretreated and resistant cholangiocarcinoma.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

This research study involves the study drugs Afatinib and Pemigatinib.

Participants will receive study treatment for as long there is benefit and no unacceptable side effects. Participants will be followed for up to 1 year. It is expected that up to 70 people will take part in this research study.

This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved afatinib for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved pemigatinib for cholangiocarcinoma with an FGFR2 rearrangement or fusion.

The FDA has not approved the combination of afatinib and pemigatinib as a treatment for any disease.