Effects of Different General Anesthesia Methods on Immune Responses in Patients Undergoing Surgery for Tongue Cancer
Surgical excision is the mainstay of treatment for tongue cancer. However, surgery-induced immunosuppression has been implicated in the development of post-operative septic complications and neoplasm metastasis. General anesthesia is considered to not only suppress surgical stress, but also affect the immune function directly，such as altering the number and activity of immune cells. It is reported that some anesthetics increase susceptibility to tumor metastasis, apparently by suppressing natural killer cell activity. Different anesthetic techniques and anesthetics used in anesthesia have shown different effects on immunity. Many of the studies were animal trials or performed in vitro; in addition, most are focused on a single drug. To date, there is little published prospective clinical research designed specifically to investigate the effects of different general anesthetic technique on immune function in patients with oral malignant tumors. The aim of this study is going to characterize the immune response of patients undergoing surgery for tongue cancer under 3 types of general anesthesia.
Tongue Cancer
PROCEDURE: intravenous anesthesia|PROCEDURE: combined intravenous-inhalational anesthesia|PROCEDURE: inhalational anesthesia
Percentages of immune cells, 30 min before induction, 1 h, 3 h and 5 h after induction; at the end of operation and 24h, 48 h and 72 h after operation, 3 days
Percentages of T lymphocytes subsets, 30 min before induction, 1 h, 3 h and 5 h after induction; at the end of operation and 24h, 48 h and 72 h after operation, 3 days|Percentages of Natural Killer cells, 30 min before induction, 1 h, 3 h and 5 h after induction; at the end of operation and 24h, 48 h and 72 h after operation, 3 days|Percentages of B lymphocytes, 30 min before induction, 1 h, 3 h and 5 h after induction; at the end of operation and 24h, 48 h and 72 h after operation, 3 days
Surgical excision is the mainstay of treatment for tongue cancer. However, surgery-induced immunosuppression has been implicated in the development of post-operative septic complications and neoplasm metastasis. General anesthesia is considered to not only suppress surgical stress, but also affect the immune function directly，such as altering the number and activity of immune cells. It is reported that some anesthetics increase susceptibility to tumor metastasis, apparently by suppressing natural killer cell activity. Different anesthetic techniques and anesthetics used in anesthesia have shown different effects on immunity. Many of the studies were animal trials or performed in vitro; in addition, most are focused on a single drug. To date, there is little published prospective clinical research designed specifically to investigate the effects of different general anesthetic technique on immune function in patients with oral malignant tumors. The aim of this study is going to characterize the immune response of patients undergoing surgery for tongue cancer under 3 types of general anesthesia.