Bevacizumab Plus Irinotecan Plus Carboplatin for Recurrent Malignant Glioma (MG)
The purpose of this study is to determine whether Bevacizumab, CPT-11 and Carboplatin in combination are effective in the treatment of recurrent malignant glioma.
Malignant Glioma
DRUG: bevacizumab and CPT-11 and Carboplatin
6 Month Progression-free Survival, Percentage of participants surviving six months from the start of study treatment without progression of disease. PFS was defined as the time from the date of study treatment initiation to the date of the first documented progression according to the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria, or to death due to any cause. Progression is defined as greater than or equal to a 25% increase in the product of the largest perpendicular diameters of any enhancing lesion or any new enhancing tumor on MRI scans. Patients may also be classified as progressive disease with significant neurologic decline felt to be due to underlying tumor and not attributable to co-morbid event or concurrent medication regardless of MRI findings., 6 months
Objective Response Rate, Percentage of participants with an objective response (complete response or partial response) based on Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria. A complete response is defined as disappearance of all enhancing tumor on contrast enhanced MRI scan. Patient must be off steroids or only on adrenal maintenance doses. A partial response is defined as greater than or equal to a 50% reduction in the size (products of the largest perpendicular diameters) for all enhancing lesions. No new lesions may arise. Steroids must be stable or decreasing dose., 34 months|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time in months from the start of study treatment to the date of first progression according to RANO criteria, or to death due to any cause. Patients alive who had not progressed as of the last follow-up had PFS censored at the last follow-up date. Median PFS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve., 40 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), Time in months from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. Patients alive as of the last follow-up had OS censored at the last follow-up date. Median OS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve., 40 months|Safety of Bevacizumab (Avastin) in Combination With Irinotecan and Carboplatin, Number of patients experiencing a toxicity greater than or equal to grade 2 treatment-related toxicity, 34 months
Three cohorts will accrue and will be assessed independently. Each cohort will evaluate a separate malignant glioma subpopulation. Cohort A will assess recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) subjects who have not previously failed either bevacizumab, irinotecan or carboplatin. Cohort B will assess recurrent grade 3 malignant glioma subjects who have not previously failed either bevacizumab, irinotecan or carboplatin. Cohort C will assess recurrent GBM subjects who have failed prior bevacizumab therapy but who have not failed prior irinotecan or carboplatin. The primary endpoint of each cohort will be 6-month progression-free survival. This study will be conducted at The Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Center at Duke.

For each cohort, bevacizumab will be administered at 10 mg/kg with irinotecan every other week. The dose of irinotecan will be 125 mg/m2 for subjects not on Cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A (CYP3A)-inducing anti-epileptics (EIAEDs) and 340 mg/m2 for subjects on EIAEDs. All subjects will also receive carboplatin on day 1 of each 28-day treatment cycle. Carboplatin will be dosed to achieve an area under the curve (AUC) of 4.

Within 2 weeks of starting the study, subject's medical history and current medical conditions will be recorded. A physical examination including vital signs (temperature, respiratory rate, blood pressure, and pulse), height and weight, and neurological examination will be done. Subject will be asked about his or her ability to perform everyday tasks. Blood tests for assessment of a complete blood count including monitoring liver and kidney function and a urine test to check kidney function will be performed. For women of childbearing potential, a blood test to rule out pregnancy will be done prior to the start of treatment. Blood tests will also check for a specific gene, which may affect how much irinotecan subject is given. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of will be performed within 2 weeks before starting study drugs as well as after every eight weeks to determine response and progression.

In total, approximately 3 teaspoons (15 mL) of blood will be drawn for the evaluations before starting study drug. These tests will be repeated every 8 weeks (blood chemistries), except a complete blood count (approximately 1 teaspoon), which will need to be repeated every week as well as when it is deemed clinically necessary to repeat. Every 4 weeks a urine test will be performed to test the amount of protein in subject's urine.

Placement of a central venous line may be required. Subjects will be seen in the clinic for a physical and neurological examination every four (4) weeks. Urine and blood laboratory tests will also be obtained at these visits. In addition, a complete blood count (about 1 teaspoon) will be obtained every week. Blood pressure measurement will be required every 2 weeks. MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) scans will be done every 8 weeks (after every 2 cycles) to determine the effectiveness of the study drugs. If the tumor remains the same size or smaller, subject will continue to receive study drugs for 12 cycles unless there are bad side effects or unless there is evidence that the drug is not working. If evaluations show that there may be persistent tumor after 12 cycles, subject may continue treatment. Study drugs will stop if the subject's tumor gets larger.

Additional tests may be done at the discretion of the doctor as part of regular care throughout the study. These exams and tests will be done to monitor the effects of the study interventions.