HSRT and IMRT Chemoradiotherapy for Newly Diagnosed GBM
This study aims to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the combination of 30Gy/5fx HSRT and 20Gy/10fx IMRT adjuvant therapy. The total biological effective dose (BED) of the PTV is 72 Gy in a ratio of alpha/beta ratio of 3, which equals to the conventional 60Gy/30fx treatment. This study can provide evidence for future non-inferiority phase III randomized controlled trials. The abbreviated course of radiotherapy can reduce the treatment time by half, benefit patients, and utilize the health resource.
Glioma, Malignant
DEVICE: Radiation|DEVICE: Radiation|DRUG: Temozolomide
Overall survival (OS), Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, From the start of treatment to the date of death or the last follow-up, up to approximately 24 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, From the start of treatment to the date of disease progression or death, up to approximately 24 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) prior to progression or any further therapy., Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or progressive disease (PD), up to approximately 24 months|Quality of Life score (QoL), European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) version 3.0, Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or PD, up to approximately 24 months|Cognitive function, Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE, score range 0 to 30) to evaluate the cognitive function. Any score of 24 or more (out of 30) indicates a normal cognition. Below this, scores can indicate severe (≤9 points), moderate (10-18 points) or mild (19-23 points) cognitive impairment., Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or PD, up to approximately 24 months|Toxicity rate, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0 to assess the toxicity. Estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval., Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or PD, up to approximately 24 months
This study aims to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the combination of 30Gy/5fx HSRT and 20Gy/10fx IMRT adjuvant therapy. The total biological effective dose (BED) of the PTV is 72 Gy in a ratio of alpha/beta ratio of 3, which equals to the conventional 60Gy/30fx treatment. This study can provide evidence for future non-inferiority phase III randomized controlled trials. The abbreviated course of radiotherapy can reduce the treatment time by half, benefit patients, and utilize the health resource.