A Trial of Romidepsin for Progressive or Relapsed Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the activity of romidepsin in patients with progressive or relapsed peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) who have already been treated with systemic therapy.
Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Romidepsin
Percentage of Participants With a Complete Response According to the International Workshop Response Criteria (IWC) for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (NHL) Assessed by an Independent Review Committee, Complete Response (CR): \>75% decrease in size aggregate of nodal index lesions (large and small), complete disappearance of extranodal and non-index lesions; total disappearance of clinical disease including skin involvement; disease-related signs and symptoms, normalization of biochemical abnormalities and reduction in size of spleen or liver so no longer palpable. Unconfirmed CR: all above criteria except all nodal index lesions must have regressed \>75% in the sum of the product diameters (SPD) from baseline. Individual nodes previously confluent must have regressed by \>75% in their SPD., Response was assessed after every 2 cycles of treatment and at completion of therapy, up until 30 September 2012 (data cutoff for analysis). Maximum duration on study was 1931 days.
Percentage of Participants With Objective Disease Response, Objective disease response was defined as patients with a Complete Response, Unconfirmed Complete Response or a Partial Response (PR) according to the IWC 1999 assessed by an independent review committee: CR, Cru defined above, PR defined as ≥50% decrease in size of 6 largest dominant nodes and/or nodal masses \& extranodal index lesions and no increase of non-index lesions, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease evident; skin lesions decreased by ≥50%., Response was assessed after every 2 cycles of treatment and at completion of therapy, up until 30 September 2012 (data cutoff for analysis). Maximum duration on study was 1931 days.|Duration of Objective Disease Response, Duration of response was defined as the number of days from the date of the first disease response (Complete, Unconfirmed Complete or Partial Response) until the date of progression and was determined using Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates. Progression was defined as: a ≥50% increase from the nadir in the individual sum of the products of the diameters of any index lesion; the reappearance of pathology, enlargement of liver/spleen, or unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease or appearance of any new lesions., Response was assessed after every 2 cycles of treatment and at completion of therapy, up until 30 September 2012 (data cutoff for analysis). Maximum duration on study was 1931 days.|Duration of Complete Disease Response, Duration of response was defined as the number of days from the date of the first disease response (Complete or Unconfirmed Complete) until the date of progression and was determined using Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates. Progression was defined as: a ≥50% increase from the nadir in the individual sum of the products of the diameters of any index lesion; the reappearance of pathology, enlargement of liver/spleen, or unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease or appearance of any new lesions., Response was assessed after every 2 cycles of treatment and at completion of therapy, up until 30 September 2012 (data cutoff for analysis). Maximum duration on study was 1931 days.|Time to Disease Progression, Time to progression (≥50% increase from the nadir in the individual sum of the products of the diameters of any index lesion; the reappearance of pathology, enlargement of liver/spleen, or unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease or appearance of any new lesions) was defined as the duration from the date of the first study drug dose to the date of relapse or progression as reported by the independent review committee and was determined using Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates., Response was assessed after every 2 cycles of treatment and at completion of therapy, up until 30 September 2012 (data cutoff for analysis). Maximum duration on study was 1931 days.|Change in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, The ECOG scale is as follows: Grade 0: Fully active, able to perform all pre-disease activities without restriction; Grade 1: Restricted in physically strenuous activity, ambulatory, able to carry out light work; Grade 2: Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to work. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours; Grade 3: Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair \> 50% of waking hours; Grade 4: Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Confined to bed or chair. Data reported is the shift from Baseline ECOG score to best on-study assessment score., From Baseline up until 30 September 2012 (data cutoff for analysis). Maximum duration on study was 1931 days.|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event or experience (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence, which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A serious AE is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: results in death; is life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; is an important medical event or condition. Related AEs are defined as those considered by the Investigator to have a possible, probable, or very likely/certain relationship to the study drug. AEs were graded as mild (1), moderate (2), severe (3), lifethreatening (4), or death (5). TEAEs occurred from the first dose of study medication through the end of the study (30 days post last dose) or any event that was present at baseline but worsened in intensity or was subsequently considered drug-related by the Investigator through end of study., From first dose of study treatment until the final study visit, which occurred 30 days after receiving the last dose. Mean duration of treatment up until 30 September 2012 (data cutoff for analysis) was 169 days.
This is a Phase II, non-randomized, open-label, single-arm trial. This study is designed on the basis of complete response (CR) or unconfirmed CR \[CR(u)\] as the measure of efficacy, based on the best overall response of each patient. The sample size of 65 patients evaluable for efficacy would yield lower 95% confidence limits on the rate of CR + CR(u) that would range from 2.2% to 7.7%, if the observed rate of CR + CR(u) ranges from 8% to 15%. The study was amended to include an Extension Phase, during which patients at non-US sites who are benefitting from treatment can continue to receive romidepsin. The Extension Study Phase is active in EU countries where currently no Marketing Authorisation exists for romidepsin. Patients may remain on study until progressive disease occurs or they withdraw their consent and only serious adverse events and study drug administration data will continue to be collected and reported for these patients.