Glutamic Acid in Reducing Nerve Damage Caused by Vincristine in Young Patients With Cancer
RATIONALE: Glutamic acid may help lessen or prevent nerve damage caused by vincristine. It is not yet known whether glutamic acid is more effective than a placebo in preventing nerve damage in patients receiving vincristine for Wilms' tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying glutamic acid to see how well it works compared to a placebo in reducing nerve damage caused by vincristine in young patients receiving vincristine for Wilms' tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Kidney Cancer|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Neurotoxicity|Peripheral Neuropathy|Sarcoma
DRUG: glutamic acid|OTHER: placebo
Neurotoxicity as Measured by a Scored Neurologic Examination at Baseline, 5 Weeks, and 10 Weeks (if Applicable), A neurological exam will be completed at baseline and at study week 5 for both strata. An additional exam at week 10 will be done for patients in Stratum 1. Additional exams will be done at any time if the treating oncologist deems it clinically necessary . Neurotoxicity will be scored using a standardized neurological exam form developed for the study that is based on the Modified "Balis" Pediatric Scale of Peripheral Neuropathies. Treatment groups will be compared with respect to the proportion experiencing a grade 2 or higher toxicity from the following list of neurologic toxicities captured on the Neurologic Exam Form including sensory neuropathy, motor neuropathy, laryngeal nerve, constipation/neuro-constipation, jaw pain, or other specified abnormalities noted by the attending physician. Percentage of patients with one or more Grade 2 or higher noted neurotoxicity symptoms on any item in the Balis scale will compared between arms., 10 weeks
Number of Participants With Neurotoxicity Observed, Number of participants with neurotoxicity observed treated with l-glutamic acid hydrochloride as compared to the number of participants with neurotoxicity observed in the placebo control group, 10 weeks|Ability to Receive All Scheduled Doses of Vincristine, We will determine if a greater proportion of patients receiving l-glutamic acid hydrochloride are able to receive 100% of their scheduled doses of vincristine as compared to those in the placebo control group, 10 weeks|Types of Neurotoxicities, Types of neurotoxicities reported. Each patient was only counted once for each type of neurotoxicity, but a patient could be counted in more than 1 type of neurotoxicity. For example, if a patient experienced constipation 3 times, they are included once for constipation. If a patient experienced sensory changes and motor changes, they are included once for sensory changes and once for motor changes., 10 Weeks
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Compare the effect of glutamic acid vs placebo, in terms of decreasing neurotoxicity as measured by a scored neurologic examination, in young patients undergoing vincristine-containing treatment for Wilms' tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Secondary

* Compare the frequency and types of neurotoxicity observed in patients treated with glutamic acid versus placebo.
* Determine if a greater proportion of patients receiving glutamic acid are able to receive 100% of their scheduled doses of vincristine versus those not treated with glutamic acid.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease and duration of planned vincristine-containing treatment (Wilms' tumor or rhabdomyosarcoma with treatment planned for ≥ 9 consecutive weeks \[stratum 1\] vs acute lymphoblastic leukemia or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with treatment planned for ≥ 4 consecutive weeks \[stratum 2\]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive oral glutamic acid 3 times daily beginning prior to the first dose of vincristine and continuing through week 5 (stratum 2) for a total of 4 doses of vincristine or week 10 (stratum 1) for a total of 9 doses of vincristine.
* Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo 3 times daily beginning prior to the first dose of vincristine and continuing through week 5 (stratum 2) for a total of 4 doses of vincristine or week 10 (stratum 1) for a total of 9 doses of vincristine.

All patients undergo neurologic examination at baseline and at 5 weeks. Patients in stratum 1 also undergo additional neurologic examination at week 10.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 250 patients will be accrued for this study.