Nivolumab + Cabiralizumab + Gemcitabine in Patients With Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see if the combination of nivolumab + cabiralizumab + gemcitabine can give prolonged disease control in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer compared to gemcitabine alone.
Pancreatic Cancer Stage IV
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nivolumab 10 MG/ML Intravenous Solution [OPDIVO]|DRUG: Cabiralizumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS), To estimate Progression Free Survival (PFS rates) at 6 months by RECIST1.1, 6 months
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Grade 2-5 Adverse Events assessed using NCI CTCAE v5.0 toxicity criteria, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Grade 2-5 Adverse Events assessed using NCI CTCAE v5.0 toxicity criteria, 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS), 6 months
The purpose of this study is to see if the combination of nivolumab + cabiralizumab + gemcitabine can give prolonged disease control in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer compared to gemcitabine alone.

Cabiralizumab is an antibody (a type of protein) that binds to a molecule called CSF-1r. CSF-1r is a molecule present on different types of cells in your immune system that controls parts of your immune system. Blocking CSF-lr could potentially stop the cancer cells which it appears on from escaping the immune system, which could then act to kill the cancer cells.

Nivolumab is an anti-PD-1 antibody that boost the body's immune system. It works by attaching to and blocking a molecule on white blood cells called PD-1. PD-1 is a protein that is present on different types of cells in your immune system and controls parts of your immune system by shutting it down. Antibodies that block PD-1 can potentially prevent PD-1 from shutting down the immune system, thus allowing immune cells to recognize and destroy cancer cells.

Gemcitabine is currently used to treat advanced or metastasized (spread) pancreatic cancer. It is used in patients whose disease cannot be removed by surgery and who have already been treated with other chemotherapy