Nimotuzumab in Combination With Chemoradiation for Nasopharyngeal Cancer
Nimotuzumab is an IgG1 humanized monoclonal antibody that recognized an epitope located in the extra cellular domain of the human epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Clinical trials are ongoing globally to evaluate nimotuzumab in different indications. Nimotuzumab has been granted approval for use in squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck (SCCHN), glioma and nasopharyngeal cancer in different countries. The Clinical efficacy has been shown in adult with head and neck cancer. The study assessed the clinical efficacy, and safety of the combination of Nimotuzumab administered concomitantly with chemotherapy and radiotherapy in patients with advanced nasopharyngeal cancer.
Nasopharyngeal Cancer
DRUG: Nimotuzumab|DRUG: placebo plus chemoradiotherapy
To determine the local-regional control rates of the disease in the advanced nasopharyngeal cancer patients subject to the treatment with Nimotuzumab in combination with chemoradiation, 3 months after the Nimotuzumab treatment finished|To determine the safety of the treatment with Nimotuzumab in combination with chemoradiation, within study period
To determine the Disease-free survival、Tumor control probability、Distant recurrence rate in the patients subject to the treatment at years 1,2,3, 3 year|To determine the Progression free suivival、Diease free survival、Overall survival in the patients subject to the treatment, 3 years
Patients with advanced nasopharyngeal cancer will be randomized to 2 arms. The patients in experimental arm will be treated with Nimotuzumab which will be used concurrently with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The chemotherapy regimen were Cisplatin monotherapy. The active comparator arm will be administered chemotherapy and radiotherapy only. The dose and regimen were the same with experiment arm. The patients'hematopoietic , hepatic and renal function tests will be monitored weekly, a physical exam and reassessment of the tumor will be performed at the first and the fourth month, and followup every six months to evaluate the survival index in three years after the study.