The Efficacy and Safety of Medicurtain® in Patients With Total Laparoscopic Hysterectomy (Pivotal Study)
This study was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of MEDICURTAIN. Patients who underwent total laparoscopic hysterectomy were randomly assigned either into Medicurtain® treatment group or non-treatment control group. Adhesion formations at 8 weeks after the index surgery were compared between the two groups by using the well-defined grade scale and image recording.
Laparoscopy|Tissue Adhesion, Surgery-Induced|Leiomyoma of the Uterine Body
DEVICE: Medicurtain®|DEVICE: Placebo
Comparison of the adhesion rate between the groups, Adhesion rate = (number of subjects who developed adhesion in a group)/ (Total number of subjects for each group), 8 weeks after surgery
Comparison of adhesion grade based on the severity between the groups, Adhesive grade evaluation standards are classified into Grade 0(None), Grade 1(Mild), Grade 2(Moderate), Grade 3(Severe)., 8 weeks after surgery
The incidence rate of adverse events, Safety and tolerability by collecting adverse events (AEs), follow up to 8 weeks|The incidence rate of adverse device event, Safety and tolerability by collecting adverse device event (ADEs), follow up to 8 weeks|The incidence rate of serious adverse events, Safety and tolerability by collecting serious adverse events (SAEs), follow up to 8 weeks|QT interval on a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) tracing, Change From baseline in QT Interval, follow up to 8 weeks
This study was designed as multi-center, randomized, evaluator-blinded, comparative study. Subjects were woman between 20\~80 years of age reserved with total laparoscopic hysterectomy. Subject screening was conducted for the subject who signed an informed consent form. Subjects who met the inclusion criteria were randomly assigned into either treatment (Medicurtain®) or control group.

Each subject visit clinic for follow-up examination 1week (Visit 2) and 8 weeks (Visit 3) after the index surgery and before the visit subjects were received phone calls. Since the target population was the patient who scheduled elective total laparoscopic hysterectomy, subjects who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria after the examination for the surgery signed on the informed consent at Visit 1 (Baseline: 0 day) and randomly assigned either into the treatment and control group.

At visit 2 (1week±2days), 1week after the index surgery adverse events and general health were examined. At visit 3 (8week±5days), 8 weeks after the index surgery, the investigator inserted endoscope into abdominal cavity and took video clip and still images. If it was necessary, adhesion was removed surgically. An independent evaluator evaluated the records and graded the adhesion rate and its severity according to the grading system. If it was difficult to collect images with endoscope, the investigators recorded his observation for statistical analysis.

The investigator inserted endoscope into abdominal cavity and took video clip and still images at 8weeks after total laparoscopic hysterectomy to evaluate the adhesion formation and its grade. An independent evaluator evaluated the records and graded the adhesion rate and its severity according to the grading system. If it was difficult to collect images with endoscope, the investigators recorded his observation for statistical analysis. The adhesion grading system was proposed by American Fertility Society (AFS) in 1988, grades adhesion with Grade 0, Grade 1, Grade2 and Grade 3. Grade 0 means there is no adhesion formation, Grade 1\~Grade 3 means there is adhesion formed, severity increases with the grade. Adhesion rate and grade were evaluated between the treatment and control groups suing Grade 0\~3 scales.

General safety of the study device was evaluated based on the adverse event rate, laboratory tests, ECG test. The laboratory tests were conducted before and after the index surgery to evaluate whether the device cause toxicity such as hepatic and renal toxicity for safety evaluation.