A Phase 1 Trial of CD25/Treg-depleted DLI Plus Ipilimumab for Myeloid Disease Relapse After Matched-HCT
In this research study, our main goal for the ipilimumab portion of the study is to determine the highest dose of ipilimumab that can be given safely in several courses and to determine what side effects are seen in patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS), Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPN), Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (CMML), or Myelofibrosis (MF).
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myeloproliferative Neoplasms|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelofibrosis
DRUG: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: CD25hi Treg depleted DLI
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety (MTD) of CD25/Treg-depleted donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) plus Ipilimumab in patients with myeloid relapse after matched-HCT. Participants will be evaluated for dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) at day 43. DLTs explained within section 5.4 of the protocol., Day 43 (6 weeks)
Response rate as determined by Complete remission (CR) and CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi), Complete remission will be evaluated for each disease, along with duration of complete remission. AML morphological complete remission can be found in Appendix E (E.1.1.), and Relapse from CR/CRi is in E.1.3. MDS/MPN complete remission criteria is found in Appendix F (F.1.1), and criteria for relapse is found in F.1.5., Day 43 (6 weeks)|Progression Free Survival, Duration of time from start of treatment to time of objective disease progression or death, whichever comes first. AML progressive disease is defined in Appendix E (E.1.7.), and criteria for MDS/MPN is in Appendix F (F.1.4.)., Day 92 and Week 60|Overall Survival, Duration of time from start of treatment to time of death., Day 92 and Week 60|Incidence and Severity of Acute GVHD Rates, Incidence of aGVHD will be measured at the below time point, and grading severity of aGVHD will be standardized using the chart and information in Appendix C., Day 92|Incidence and Severity of Chronic GVHD Rates, Provider will assess study subject for severity of cGVHD per 2014 NIH consensus criteria at day 92., Day 92
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved ipilimumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses. This drug has been used in other research studies and is now FDA-approved for the treatment of melanoma. Many people have also received ipilimumab on research studies for possible treatment of prostate cancer, lymphoma, kidney cancer, ovarian cancer and HIV infection. Information from those other research studies suggests that ipilimumab may help to treat the participant's cancer.

Ipilimumab is an antibody that acts against CTLA-4. An antibody is a common type of protein produced by the body that the immune system (a system that defends the body against potentially harmful particles) uses to find and destroy foreign molecules (particles not typically found in the body) such as bacteria and viruses.