Capecitabine or 5-FU With Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b in Unresectable/Metastatic Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to find out if the combination of two established anti-cancer therapies are beneficial in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Specifically, investigators want to determine if the combination of 5-FU/Capecitabine (oral pills) and Interferon alpha-2b (injection) can help people with advanced cases of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. For participants that are not approved for oral capecitabine, treating physicians will use continuous infusion 5-FU. Both 5-FU/Capecitabine and Interferon alpha-2b have been used separately to treat squamous cell carcinoma of the skin and are FDA approved in other cancer types.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Skin|Carcinoma, Squamous Cell
DRUG: Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: 5-FU
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR: Stable Disease (SD); Partial Response (PR); Complete Response (CR). Response according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions; PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., 9 weeks per participant
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS: Alive without RECIST progression. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), OS: The time from registration to death or date of last contact. Participants with overall survival at 1 year. Kaplan-Meier estimator will be utilized., 1 year|Occurence of Treatment Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Number of participants with treatment emergent SAEs, overall and per Event Description., 1 year
The purpose of this study is to find out if the combination of two established anti-cancer therapies are beneficial in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Specifically, investigators want to determine if the combination of 5-FU/Capecitabine (oral pills) and Interferon alpha-2b (injection) can help people with advanced cases of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. For participants that are not approved for oral capecitabine, treating physicians will use continuous infusion 5-FU. Both 5-FU/Capecitabine and Interferon alpha-2b have been used separately to treat squamous cell carcinoma of the skin and are FDA approved in other cancer types.