Pilot Study to Evaluate the Effect of Multiple Passes on Port Wine Stain Treatments With the Cutera Excel V™ Laser.
Two limitations of single pulse, laser treatment of port-wine stains (PWS) are: (i) hemorrhage and purpura which may lead to post-treatment pigmentation and (ii) the necessity for repeated treatment sessions. In contrast, multiple pulses induce summation of irreversible, thermal injury from a series of lower-peak temperature heating cycles and may therefore reduce mechanical injury while preserving the selectivity of photothermal injury. Ideally, hemorrhage could be prevented and the efficiency of vessel closure could be greater. A clinical and histological pilot study of 10 adults with either facial or non-facial PWS is therefore proposed here.
Port-Wine Stain
DEVICE: Cutera excel V™ Laser
Optimal Fluence based on efficacy and safety measurements using photographs, Find the optimal fluence in a multiple split port wine stain treatment, with 2 J/cm2 (low fluence control) vs 4 J/cm2 vs 6 J/cm2 vs 8 J/cm2 in the multiple-pass approach, compare it to our standard single-pass approach at 8 J/cm2.

-The efficacy of treatment assessed by improvement in PWS among the 5 treated areas using before and after digital photographic assessment. Each digital photographic image will include a color card, so that changes can be compared from day 0 to final visit.

The hypothesis is that the effect of multiple passes on Port Wine Stain treatments with the Cutera excel V™ Laser would be more effective than the current single pass treatment., 6 months
Optimal Fluence based on efficacy and safety measurements using questionnaires/surveys., - Safety will be assessed by questionnaires/surveys about frequency and severity of post treatment side-effects among the 5 treated areas after one treatment throughout the study, such as using the Visual Analog Score for Pain.

The hypothesis is that the effect of multiple passes on Port Wine Stain treatments with the Cutera excel V™ Laser would be more safe than the current single pass treatment., 6 months
Histologic differences in microvasculature post-treatment based on punch biopsies, • Compare histology among the 5 treated areas after treatment to evaluate the differences in microvasculature.

- This will be done by obtaining punch biopsies from the different treated areas and analyzing the histological slides for differences in microvasculature., 6 months
Two limitations of single pulse, laser treatment of port-wine stains (PWS) are: (i) hemorrhage and purpura which may lead to post-treatment pigmentation and (ii) the necessity for repeated treatment sessions. In contrast, multiple pulses induce summation of irreversible, thermal injury from a series of lower-peak temperature heating cycles and may therefore reduce mechanical injury while preserving the selectivity of photothermal injury. Ideally, hemorrhage could be prevented and the efficiency of vessel closure could be greater. A clinical and histological pilot study of 10 adults with either facial or non-facial PWS is therefore proposed here.