Effects of White Button Mushroom on Inflammation in Obese Postmenopausal Women at High Risk of Breast Cancer
This clinical trial studies the effects of dietary white button mushroom on inflammation (the body's process of fighting against harmful things) and immune cells (white blood cells) in postmenopausal women with both high body mass index or BMI (percentage of body fat) and high risk of breast cancer. The body is in a constant state of alert when inflammation lingers at a low level and becomes chronic, as with having button mushroom is a dietary supplement that may improving responses of immune cells (white blood cells) and decreasing chronic inflammation.

Information gathered from this study may help researchers determine whether white button mushroom have any effects on body fat and breast cancer risk.
Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: White Button Mushroom Extract
Relative change in levels of circulating myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) within the peripheral blood mononuclear (PBMC) compartment, Will assess relative change in % of MDSCs of PBMCs., Baseline up to 3 months|Relative change in immune cell composition within the peripheral blood mononuclear (PBMC) compartment, Will assess relative change in % of mononuclear cells of PBMCs, Baseline up to 3 months
Relative change in inflammatory cytokine gene expression in PBMC compartment, Will assess relative change in % cytokine gene expression, Baseline up to 3 months|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity will be defined per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version. 5.0., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine effects of white button mushroom (WBM) on circulating immune cell profiles, and specifically myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), in obese (BMI \>= 30 kg/m\^2, Asian BMI \>= 25 kg/m\^2) postmenopausal women at high risk of breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in circulating biomarkers of inflammation. II. To evaluate changes in immune cell profiles and inflammation in breast adipose tissue samples.

III. To evaluate tolerability of WBM in a study cohort of obese postmenopausal women.

IV. To evaluate changes in BMI, central adiposity (waist circumference), and metabolic health (glucose, insulin, lipid panel, alanine aminotransferase \[ALT\], aspartate aminotransferase \[AST\]).

V. To evaluate effects of WBM on diet quality and composition (food frequency questionnaires, 24 hour recall, red blood cell fatty acid profiles).

OUTLINE:

Participants receive white button mushroom orally (PO) daily for 3 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.