Compare Fentanyl Nasal Spray With Intravenous Opioids to Treat Severe Pain
The goal of this clinical research study is to compare fentanyl nasal spray with a standard drug given by vein (hydromorphone hydrochloride) to help reduce pain related to cancer in patients coming to the emergency department.
Advanced Cancers|Pain
DRUG: Fentanyl Nasal Spray|DRUG: Hydromorphone Hydrochloride|BEHAVIORAL: Phone Call
Non-inferiority of Fentanyl Nasal Spray Versus Intravenous Opioids in the Change in the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) Pain Intensity Score at One Hour, Starting From the Time of Drug Delivery (Treatment Initiation)., The median change in Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) pain intensity scores (assessed on an 11-point Likert scale with 0 = no pain and 10 = worst pain) from randomization, estimate of treatment initiation, to one hour post-treatment calculated for both treatment arms., Baseline, One hour post time of drug delivery/treatment initiation
Number of Participants With Change in Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) Pain Intensity Score, Change in NRS pain intensity scores from randomization to one hour after treatment start based on the percentage of participants with severe pain, NRS score = 7-10, one hour after treatment start for both treatment arms. Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) pain intensity scores (assessed on an 11-point Likert scale with 0 = no pain and 10 = worst pain)., One (1) hour after treatment start.
Study Groups and Drug Administration:

If participant agrees to take part in this study, they will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group is better, the same, or worse than the other group. Participant will have an equal chance of being in either group:

* If participant is in Group 1, they will receive the fentanyl nasal spray. The study staff will help participant use the nasal spray.
* If participant is in Group 2, the emergency center nurse will give them the hydromorphone hydrochloride by vein.

Study Procedures:

Participant will stay in the emergency department for at least 4 hours and will be monitored after receiving fentanyl or hydromorphone hydrochloride. During this time, participant will be asked about their pain and any side effects they may be having every 15 minutes for 2 hours and then every 30 minutes for another 2 hours. The study staff will also monitor participant's vital signs, and ask them a few more questions at the end of the study.

Length of Study Participation:

Although participant will stay in the emergency department for at least 4 hours, the average length of stay for participants with severe pain is about 9 hours. When participant is discharged from the emergency department or admitted to the hospital, their active participation in the study is over.

Follow-Up Phone Call:

About 24 hours after patient's active participation is over, the study nurse will call them to ask if they had any other side effects since taking part in the study. The phone call should last about 5 minutes. If participant is still an inpatient at the hospital, the study nurse may visit them and ask them these questions in person.

This is an investigational study. Hydromorphone hydrochloride is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of pain. Fentanyl nasal spray is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of pain. Its use to help with cancer pain in the emergency department is investigational.

Up to 84 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.