Multicenter Phase II of CD26 Using Sitagliptin for Engraftment After UBC Transplant
The main purpose of this trial is to assess the efficacy and safety of sitagliptin in enhancing engraftment following umbilical cord blood transplantation (recovery of blood counts after transplant).
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Lymphoid Leukemia|Hematopoetic Myelodysplasia|Leukemia, Myelogenous, Chronic|Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
DRUG: Sitagliptin
The Percent of Subjects Engrafting by Day +30 After Transplantation, Percent of patients and the 95% Binomial Confidence interval who were able to achieve neutrophils engraftment (defined as the date of the first of three consecutive ANC values obtained on different days after transplantation during which the absolute neutrophils count (ANC) is at least 0.5 x109/l) by 30 days following transplant., Day 0 to Day +30 post transplant
Time to Neutrophil Engraftment, Time to neutrophil engraftment will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. The time to engraftment of neutrophils is defined as the time from day 0 to the date of the first of three consecutive days after transplantation during which the absolute neutrophils count (ANC) is at least 0.5 x109/l. Patients surviving at least 14 days after transplant will be evaluable for this endpoint. Patients who did not have neutrophil engraftment before death will be censored at the date of death. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Transplant (Day 0) up to 1 year|Time to Platelet Engraftment, Time to platelet engraftment will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. The time to engraftment of platelets is defined as the time from day 0 to the first of three consecutive Complete Blood Counts (CBCs) obtained on different days after transplantation during which the platelet count is at least 20 x109/l. The CBCs obtained should be at least seven days after the most recent platelet transfusion. Only patients who achieved engraftment of platelets will be included in the analysis. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Transplant (Day 0) up to 1 year|Number of Subjects With Treatment Related Adverse Events Grade 3 and 4 Non-hematological Toxicities, Number of unique patients who had a treatment related (possible, probable or definite) non-hematological adverse event that was graded 3 or greater., Day 0 up to 3 years
Umbilical cord blood (UCB) is more commonly used for transplantation in children but is being used in adults more often. However, because adults are larger than children, the relatively smaller stem cell dose in UCB is major limitation for transplantation in adults and engraftment can be delayed. This study is trying to find out if the drug sitagliptin can be used to increase and speed up engraftment in adults receiving UCB transplantation.