Troriluzole or Placebo Plus Ipi Plus Nivo in Mel Brain Mets
The purpose of this research is to test the safety and effectiveness of the investigational combination of Troriluzole, ipilimumab, and nivolumab, and to learn whether this combination works in treating melanoma that has spread to the brain.
Melanoma|Metastatic Melanoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Troriluzole|DRUG: Placebo
Median Global Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Global PFS is defined as the time from random assignment to the earlier of death or documented disease progression in the intracranial or extracranial compartments. The follow-up of patients who have neither died nor progressed will be censored at the date of the last follow-up visit. Disease assessment was based on RECIST 1.1 for all extracranial lesions and modified RECIST 1.1 for all brain lesions. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated,, Participants would be followed up to 5 years.
Median Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive. Estimates of OS would be from a PHMC model., Participants were followed up to 5 years.|Intracranial Response Rate (RR), Intracranial response rate was defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on modified RECIST 1.1., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years|Intracranial Progression-free Survival (PFS), Intracranial PFS was defined as the time from first dose of study therapy to documented intracranial progression or death, whichever occurs first. Per modified RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated., From date of randomization until the date of first documented intracranial progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years.|Extracranial Response Rate (RR), The extracranial response rate was defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved complete response or partial response based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) for all extracranial lesions., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years|Extracranial Progression-free Survival (PFS), Extracranial PFS is defined as the time from first dose of study therapy to documented extracranial progression (per RECIST) or death, whichever occurs first. Evaluated using the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1)39 for all extracranial lesions and modified RECIST 1.1 for all brain lesions, From date of randomization until the date of first documented extracranial progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years.|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Version 5.0, The number and proportion of adverse events, graded as defined by CTCAE version 5.0 will be tabulated by type and grade., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years|Number of Induction, Number of induction cycles was defined as the number of induction cycles administered., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years|Number of Maintenance Cycles, Number of maintenance cycles was defined as the number of maintenance cycles administered., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years|Corticosteroids Usage, Corticosteroids usage was defined by number of participants who require prednisone ≥1 mg/kg or equivalent., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years|Frequency of Clinically-indicated Stereotactic Radiation Therapy to the Brain, Frequency of clinically-indicated stereotactic radiation therapy to the brain was defined as the number of participants who received on-study brain-directed stereotactic radiation., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years|Frequency of Clinically-indicated Surgical Intervention to the Brain, Frequency of clinically-indicated surgical intervention to the brain was defined as the number of participants who received on-study surgical intervention to the brain., From enrollment to end of treatment up to 5 years
This is a multi-center, double-blind, randomized, phase II signal-detection trial with a non-randomized safety run-in to assess the efficacy and safety of adding troriluzole to ipilimumab/nivolumab induction and nivolumab maintenance in patients with melanoma that has metastasized to the brain. Measuring the shrinking or growth of melanoma in participants will allow researchers to learn about these study drugs and provide information on the safety and effectiveness of this combination in treating melanoma.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Troriluzole as a treatment for any disease. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved nivolumab, ipilimumab, and the combination of these two drugs as treatment options for melanoma that has metastasized to the brain.

Ipilimumab and nivolumab are drugs that treat cancer by blocking certain molecules in the body. This blocking action prevents other molecules from binding to cells involved in the immune system. With these changes, the immune system is more likely to become active, and will react more intensely when activated. The immune system is able to destroy cancer cells and reduce the size of tumors, so activating the immune system is an important part of cancer treatment. Ipilimumab blocks a molecule called cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein-4 (CTLA-4), which normally decreases the activation of the immune system by binding to T-Cells, which are important immune system cells that can attack cancer cells. Nivolumab blocks a molecule called programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1), which also normally decreases the activation of the immune system.

Troriluzole is a drug that modulates glutamate, the most abundant excitatory neurotransmitter in the human body. The primary mode of action of Troriluzole is reducing synaptic levels of glutamate. This may change parts of the immune system in the brain, which is could improve treatment outcomes with anti-cancer drugs such as ipilimumab and nivolumab that can work in the brain. This study is testing Troriluzole's ability to increase the effectiveness of ipilimumab and nivolumab treatment in melanoma that has spread to the brain, as well as testing the safety of the combination of these three drugs.

Participation in this research is expected to last up to 4 years: 1 year of treatment and 3 years of follow up.

About 108 subjects will take part in this research.