A Study Assessing Efficacy and Safety of SAR125844 in NSCLC Patients With MET Amplification
Primary Objective:

To determine objective response rate (ORR).

Secondary Objectives:

To assess duration of response (DR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

To evaluate global safety profile. To determine pharmacokinetic profile. To assess clinical utility of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assay in selection of patients with mesenchymal-epithelial hybridization (MET) gene amplification.

To assess lung cancer symptoms, health-related quality of life and treatment satisfaction.
Neoplasm Malignant
DRUG: SAR125844
Determination of the objective response rate of SAR125844 as per RECIST 1.1, every 6 weeks up to 34 months
Progression-free survival rate, up to 34 months|Overall survival rate, up to 34 months|Proportion of patients with adverse events, up to 40 months|Assessment of pharmacokinetic parameters: maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), up to 3 days|Assessment of pharmacokinetic parameters: area under curve (AUC), up to 3 days|Assessment of pharmacokinetic parameters: total clearance (CL), up to 3 days|Assessment of pharmacokinetic parameters: half-life (t1/2), up to 3 days|Assessment of lung cancer symptoms by Core Quality of Life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) +LC13, every 3 weeks up to 34 months|Assessment of health-related quality of life by QLQ-C30/LC13, every 3 weeks up to 34 months|Assessment of treatment satisfaction by Cancer Therapy Satisfaction Questionnaire, every 6 weeks up to 34 months
The duration of the study for 1 patient will include a screening period of up to 3 weeks, a 3-week treatment cycle(s) and a follow-up period. The patients will be treated for 6 cycles in case no response is observed, and treatment may be continued beyond 6 cycles in case of partial response/complete response (PR/CR) or significant clinical benefit until progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity, willingness to stop the study treatment or until study termination by sponsor. After the completion of the study treatment each patient will be followed every 6 weeks until death or the study cut-off date, whichever comes first. For patients who went-off study treatment prior disease progression is documented, date of disease progression and further anticancer treatment will be collected in follow-up visit.

The cut-off date corresponds to the date at which all the treated patients will have 3 post-baseline tumor assessments or will early discontinue whatever the reason. Beyond cut-off date, patient can continue study treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient's refusal, provided clinical benefit is established.