Testosterone Revival Abolishes Negative Symptoms, Fosters Objective Response and Modulates Enzalutamide Resistance
Asymptomatic men with progressive metastatic Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) post- treatment with abiraterone acetate (pre-chemotherapy for metastatic disease) will be treated on a randomized, multi-Institutional open label study to determine if treatment with intramuscular T given on a dose/schedule designed to result in rapid cycling from the polar extremes of supraphysiologic to near castrate levels \[i.e. Bipolar Androgen Therapy (BAT)\] will improve primary and secondary objectives vs. enzalutamide as standard therapy.
Castration Resistant Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Testosterone cypionate|DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Testosterone Enanthate
Progression Free Survival as Measured by Number of Months Until Clinical or Radiographic Progression, Time to clinical progression will be defined as months from randomization to any of the following (whichever occurs earlier):

* Cancer pain requiring initiation of chronic administration of opiate analgesia (oral opiate use for ≥3 weeks; parenteral opiate use for ≥7 days. Patients with cancer pain requiring opiate analgesia for relief should also be assessed by the investigator for the need for initiating systemic chemotherapy or palliative radiation.
* Development of a skeletal-related event (SRE): pathologic fracture, spinal cord compression, or need for surgical intervention or radiation therapy to the bone.
* Development of clinically significant symptoms due to loco-regional tumor progression (e.g. urinary obstruction) requiring surgical intervention or radiation therapy., up to 2 years
Radiographic Progression, Number of months until 20% increase in the sum of target lesions on CT scans., up to 2 years|Prostate-Specific Antigen Response Rate, Number of participants achieving a Prostate-Specific Antigen decline ≥ 50% according to Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG2) criteria., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate as Determined by RECIST, Number of participants with partial (PR) or complete response (CR) as defined by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST), where CR is a disappearance of all target lesions and PR is ≥30% reduction in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 2 years|Time to Prostate-Specific Antigen Progression, Reported as number of months till Prostate-Specific Antigen increase of greater or equal to 50% according to Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG2) criteria., Up to 2 years|Quality of Life as Assessed by the Positive Affect Score of the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), The Positive Affect Score is calculated by adding the scores on items 1, 3, 5, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 17, and 19. Scores can range from 10 - 50, with higher scores representing higher levels of positive affect., up to 1 year|Quality of Life as Assessed by the Negative Affect Score of the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), The Negative Affect Score is calculated by adding the scores on items 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 15, 18, and 20. Scores can range from 10 - 50, with lower scores representing lower levels of negative affect., up to 1 year|Change in Quality of Life as Assessed by the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) Questionnaire, The IIEF assesses erectile function (EF), orgasmic function (OF), sexual desire (SD), intercourse satisfaction (IS), orgasmic satisfaction (OS). Each of domains are scored on a scale of 0 to 5 with a lower score indicating a bad quality sex life. The IIEF questionnaire has a total score that ranges from 5 to 25 with lower score indicating less erectile dysfunction. A positive change in the score reflects better outcome., up to 1 year|Quality of Life as Assessed by Short Form 36, All questions are scored on a scale from 0 to 100. The total score from all of the questions answered is divided by the total number of the questions answered yielding a global score from 0-100 with 100 representing the highest level of functioning possible., up to 1 year|Quality of Life as Assessed by FACIT Fatigue Scale, The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue has a score range of 0-52 with higher scores indicating better quality of life., up to 1 year|Pain Severity as Assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory, Severity is calculated by adding the scores for questions 2, 3, 4 and 5 and then dividing by 4. This gives a severity score out of 10, high score indicates more severe pain., 1 year|Pain Interference as Assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory, Interference is calculated by adding the scores for questions 8a, b, c, d, e, f and g and then dividing by 7. This gives an interference score out of 10, higher score indicates more pain interference., 1 year|Overall Survival, Time until death for any reasons, up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival on Crossover Treatment, Time from initiation of therapy to progression on crossover treatment, up to 2 years
Eligible patients will have metastatic CRPC with no disease related symptoms and progression on Androgen deprivation therapy and will have progressed post-treatment with abiraterone. Patients will continue on Androgen deprivation therapy with Luteinising Hormone Releasing Hormone agonist (i.e. Zoladex, Trelstar, Eligard or Lupron) or Luteinising Hormone Releasing Hormone antagonist (Degarelix) if not surgically castrated throughout the duration of the study to inhibit endogenous testosterone production. Patients will be randomized 1:1 and stratified based on duration of prior abiraterone acetate therapy (6 months or less or greater than 6 months). Patients randomized to BAT (Arm A) will receive intramuscular injections with either testosterone cypionate or testosterone enanthate at a dose of 400 mg every 28 days. This dose was selected based on data demonstrating that it produces an initial supraphysiologic serum level of T (i.e. \> 1500 ng/dL or 3-10 times normal level) with eugonadal levels achieved at the end of two weeks and near castrate levels after 28 days. Patients randomized to enzalutamide (Arm B) will receive daily oral dose of 160 mg. Each cycle is defined as 28 days.

Patients will have Prostate-specific antigen level and symptoms assessment checked every cycle. Every 3 cycles patients will have repeat bone/CT scans to evaluate treatment response status. On CT scan, radiographic progression will be defined by RECIST criteria (i.e. \>20% increase in the sum of target lesions). On bone scan, radiographic progression will be defined by PCWG2 criteria as ≥ 2 new bone lesions. However, for the first reassessment scan only, patients should remain on study and have a confirmatory scan performed 12 weeks (3 cycles) later. If this confirmatory scan shows 2 or more additional new lesions, this defines progression. The date of progression is the date of the first reassessment bone scan. If the confirmatory scan does not show any additional new lesions, patient remains on study. If progression is observed on subsequent bone scans, a confirmatory scan is not required; the date of this bone scan is the date of progression.

Patients with Prostate-specific antigen progression but with disease response or stable disease on imaging studies will remain on study until radiographic or other clinical progression criteria are met. Patients with radiographic disease progression will not receive continued BAT (arm A) or enzalutamide (arm B) and will be eligible for crossover to the opposite therapy. Patients on the BAT arm A can cross over to receive enzalutamide at time of progression or can choose to go off study and be treated with other standard of care treatments. Patients on the enzalutamide arm B will be allowed to cross-over to receive BAT or can choose to go off study and be treated with other standard of care treatments.

Patients with clinical progression due to prostate cancer must meet study exclusion criteria to be permitted to cross-over to the opposite treatment. Patients with clinical progression due to pain from prostate cancer are not permitted to cross-over.