Radiotherapy for Oligometastatic Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this phase II study is to evaluate the outcomes of patients treated with an investigational radiation regimen using stereotactic radiotherapy for oligometastatic prostate cancer and to establish efficacy (producing a desired result or effect) and safety in this setting.
Oligometastatic Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotactic radiation
Improvement in median progression-free survival in patients with metastatic prostate cancer over historic control rates in hormone receptive and castration resistant subgroups., Over the 78 month period, any occurrence of toxicity and/or treatment failure will be monitored via regular patient follow-up interviews. The cumulative rate at 78 months is analytic outcome of interest for each type of secondary outcome., 78 months after radiation treatment
Improvement in overall survival of patients with metastatic prostate cancer., Over the 78 month period, any occurrence of toxicity and/or treatment failure will be monitored via regular patient follow-up interviews. The cumulative rate at 78 months is analytic outcome of interest for each type of secondary outcome., 78 months after radiation treatment|Treatment failure rates in patients treated with stereotactic radiation for metastatic prostate cancer., Over the 78 month period, any occurrence of toxicity and/or treatment failure will be monitored via regular patient follow-up interviews. The cumulative rate at 78 months is analytic outcome of interest for each type of secondary outcome., 78 months after radiation treatment|Quality of life in patients treated with stereotactic radiation for metastatic prostate cancer., Over the 78 month period, any occurrence of toxicity and/or treatment failure will be monitored via regular patient follow-up interviews. The cumulative rate at 78 months is analytic outcome of interest for each type of secondary outcome., 78 months after radiation treatment
This study will serve as a component of a larger program investigating the benefits of stereotactic radiotherapy in patients with metastatic disease.

This particular study will serve as a benchmark analysis.

All patients will receive stereotactic radiotherapy directed at metastatic tumors.

If primary prostate cancer is active and has not previously been treated with radiation therapy, conventional radiation therapy (6-8 weeks of daily treatment) may be recommended. The metastatic tumor will be treated at the same time.

Hormone therapy will be recommended for all patients.

Patients will be asked to complete questionnaires at regular intervals.