Pharmacogenomic Study for Providing Personalized Strategy to the Treatment of Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) IIIB/IV
The primary objective of this randomized phase II study is to compare the Response Rate of each sequence of treatment approach in patients with advanced NSCLC. Additionally, development of gene expression profiles and genotypes that can predict response to commonly used chemotherapy may provide a unique opportunity to better utilize drugs shown to be effective in first- or second-line therapy. Here, the investigators will conduct a pharmacogenomic study to provide rational approach to the treatment of NSCLC by developing predictors of cisplatin (first-line agent) and pemetrexed or docetaxel (second-line agents) sensitivity and demonstrating the clinical value of identifying the most appropriate drug on the basis of sensitivity profile for the treatment regimen of each individual patient. Such an approach is likely to maximize response to chemotherapy and may change the current empirical paradigm of NSCLC therapy.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: IP|DRUG: GP
Response Rate, every 6 weeks
Overall survival (OS), from the first day of treatment to death, every 8 weeks|Progression-free survival (PFS), as the period between the day of the treatment and the date of progression or death, every 6 weeeks|adverse event, from C1D1 to 30 days after the last dose administration, every 3 weeks|Pharmacogenomic study using tumor tissue and blood for providing rational strategy to the treatment of advanced NSCLC, at baseline and time to disease progression, 2 times
Cisplatin-based chemotherapy is currently considered to be the standard treatment in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, overall response is only 30-40%, suggesting that a majority of the patients do not respond to platinum. Subsequently, those patients who experience treatment failure with platinum-based therapy typically received pemetrexed or docetaxel as second-line treatment, with response rate of approximately 7% to 10%. The primary objective of this randomized phase II study is to compare the Response Rate of each sequence of treatment approach in patients with advanced NSCLC. Additionally, development of gene expression profiles and genotypes that can predict response to commonly used chemotherapy may provide a unique opportunity to better utilize drugs shown to be effective in first- or second-line therapy. Here, we will conduct a pharmacogenomic study to provide rational approach to the treatment of NSCLC by developing predictors of cisplatin (first-line agent) and pemetrexed or docetaxel (second-line agents) sensitivity and demonstrating the clinical value of identifying the most appropriate drug on the basis of sensitivity profile for the treatment regimen of each individual patient. Such an approach is likely to maximize response to chemotherapy and may change the current empirical paradigm of NSCLC therapy.