Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Endometrial Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well bevacizumab works in treating patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival Greater Than 6 Months, Disease Progression is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest dimension (LD) of target lesions taking as references the smallest sum LD or the appearance of new lesions within 8 weeks of study entry., 6 months|Best Tumor Response, Response is measured according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v 1.0):

Complete Response (CR) is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart.

Partial Response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD.

Disease Progression is at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions taking as references the smallest sum LD or the appearance of new lesions within 8 weeks of study entry.

Stable Disease is any condition not meeting the above criteria.

Indeterminate is defined as having no repeat tumor assessments following initiation of study therapy for reasons unrelated to symptoms or signs of disease., study entry through completion|Number of Patients With Toxicity of Bevacizumab as Assessed by CTCAE v3.0 in This Cohort of Patients., Up to 5 years
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle for the first 6 months; then every 4 cycles until progression or death, up to 5 years.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., Every cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next 5 years.|Initial Performance Status, Performance Status 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction Performance Status 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of light or sedentary nature, e.g., light housework, office work Performance Status 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours., Baseline|Histologic Grade, G1 - Highly differentiated adenomatous carcinoma. G2 - Differentiated adenomatous carcinoma with partly solid areas. G3 - Predominantly solid or entirely undifferentiated carcinoma., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the activity of bevacizumab, in terms of 6-month progression-free survival rate and objective tumor response, in patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of bevacizumab in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival of these patients.

II. Determine the effects of prognostic factors, including performance status and histological grade.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.