A Pilot Feasibility Study of Oral 5-Fluorocytosine and Genetically-Modified Neural Stem Cells Expressing E.Coli Cytosine Deaminase for Treatment of Recurrent High Grade Gliomas
RATIONALE: Genetically-modified neural stem cells (NSCs) that convert 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) into the chemotherapy agent 5-FU (fluorouracil) at sites of tumor in the brain may be an effective treatment for glioma.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial studies genetically-modified NSCs and 5-FC in patients undergoing surgery for recurrent high-grade gliomas.
Adult Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Recurrent Grade III Glioma|Recurrent Grade IV Glioma|Adult Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Adult Brain Tumor|Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Adult Mixed Glioma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor|Adult Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma|Recurrent High Grade Glioma
DRUG: flucytosine|OTHER: polymerase chain reaction|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|BIOLOGICAL: gene therapy|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: 3-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|BIOLOGICAL: E. coli CD-expressing genetically modified neural stem cells
Determination of the safety and feasibility of intracerebral administration of genetically-modified neural stem cells (NSCs) in combination with oral 5-fluorocytosine., Measures of feasibility include the incidence of clinically symptomatic intratumoral hemorrhage, CNS infection, seizures, altered mental status, development of focal neurologic deficits, as well as chemotherapy-associated toxicities. All toxicities at each dose level will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Day 60
Relationship between intracerebral and systemic concentrations of 5-FC and 5-FU with increasing NSC dose level, Summarized by NSC dose cohort using descriptive statistics and graphs. The Macdonald Criteria will be used to assess response. As of 11/30/2012 patients will no longer undergo these tests., Up to Day 10|Presence of 5-FU in the brain using 19F-MRS, As of 5/1/2012, study patients will no longer undergo 19F-MRS., Day 60|Assessment of development of immunogenicity against NSCs, As of 11/30/2012 patients will no longer undergo these tests., Day 60|Obtain preliminary imaging data regarding perfusion permeability parameters and imaging characteristics as shown on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies due to the presence of NSCs in the brain., Day 60|Assessment of the fate of NSCs at autopsy when feasible, At autopsy|Assess the intracerebral distribution of NSCs using iron-labeling as a cellular tracker., Up to Day 10
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and feasibility of intracerebral administration of NSCs in combination with oral 5-FC in patients with recurrent high-grade gliomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the relationship between intracerebral and systemic concentrations of 5-FC and 5-FU with increasing NSC dose level.

II. To non-invasively assess the presence of 5-FU in the brain with the use of fluorine (19F)-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS)(no longer in effect as of 5/1/2012).

III. To assess for the possible development of immunogenicity against the NSCs.

IV. To assess the intracerebral distribution of NSCs using iron-labeling as a cellular tracker.

V. To gather preliminary imaging data regarding perfusion permeability parameters and imaging characteristics as shown on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies due to the presence of NSCs in the brain.

VI. To determine, at time of autopsy, the fate of the NSCs.

OUTLINE:

This is a dose-escalation study.

After biopsy or surgery to resect tumor, study patients receive injections of genetically modified NSCs directly into brain tissue on day 0. Patients then take oral 5-FC every 6 hours during days 4-10 which is converted to 5-FU in the brain by the NSCs.

Follow-up MRIs of the brain are performed on days 32, 60, and every 2 months thereafter to assess for response and side effects.