Ablation of Oligometastasis Combined With Lenvatinib and PD-1 Inhibitor for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Ablation has been an effective approach for treating intrathoracic metastases. However, for hepatocellular carcinoma with oligometastasis, ablation of metastases remains relatively unexplored.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Oligometastasis|Ablation|Anti-PD1 Antibody|Lenvatinib
PROCEDURE: ablation of oligometastasis
Progression-Free-Survival (PFS), Progression-Free-Survival (PFS), 24 months
Overall survival (OS), OS is the length of time from the date of inclusion until death from any cause., 24 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR, as determined based on tumor response according to RECIST 1.1, is defined as the proportion of all included patients whose best overall response (BOR) is either a complete response or partial response., 12 months|Adverse events, Safety will be evaluated according to the NCI CTCAE Version 4.03. All observations, 24 months
Systemic therapy is the standard treatment for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with metastasis. However, metastases with limited number (oligometastasis) can represent a subtype and transition point between localized disease and widespread metastases. Thus, eliminating metastases could be advantageous and beneficial to the prognosis if feasible and permitted. Image-guided ablation therapy, such as microwave ablation (MWA), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), and cryoablation, has attracted great interest as a minimally invasive approach against intrathoracic metastases. Recently, ablation has been used on patients with pulmonary metastases from various cancers. This technique yields high proportions of sustained complete responses and is associated with relatively low morbidity. Thus, we conduct this multicenter single arm study to explore the efficacy, safety of lenvatinib and PD-1 inhibitor with metastases-directed ablation in advanced HCC. This study focuses on the management of ablation of oligometastasis therapy combined with lenvatinib and PD-1 inhibitor. This study aims to evaluate the survival benefits of ablating oligometastasis for advanced HCC.