A Study of Efficacy of Treatment With Bortezomib (in Combination With Doxorubicin and Dexamethasone) in Previously Untreated Patients With Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to determine efficacy of treatment with bortezomib (in combination with doxorubicin and dexamethasone) in previously untreated patients with Multiple Myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: PAD induction
Overall Response Rate (ORR): Number of Participants Who Are Responders (Had Stringent Complete Response [sCR], CR, Very Good Partial Response [VGPR] or Partial Response [PR]) After 4 Cycles of Bortezomib, Doxorubicin and Dexamethasone (PAD) Induction, International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria - CR: negative immunofixation on the serum and urine, no soft tissue plasmacytomas and \<5% plasma cells in the bone marrow; sCR: CR+normal free light chain ratio, no clonal cells in bone marrow by immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence; VGPR: serum and urine M-protein detected by immunofixation but not electrophoresis, \>90% in serum M-protein+urine, M-protein level \<100 mg/24hour; PR: ≥50% decrease of serum and M-protein, 24 hour urinary M-protein decrease by ≥90% or \<200 mg/24hour, 84 days
Disease Response After 4 Cycles of Bortezomib, Doxorubicin and Dexamethasone (PAD) Induction, Number of participants who achieved stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD)., 84 days|Overall Response Rate (ORR) to Bortezomib, Doxorubicin and Dexamethasone (PAD) Induction 3-months Following Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT)., Responders are the number of participants who achieved stringent complete response (sCR)/ complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR) following PAD induction., 3-months following ASCT|Disease Response 3-months After Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT), Number of participants who achieved stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) and relapse as per IMWG criteria., 3-months after ASCT|Event Free Survival (EFS), Percentage of participants who did not have any of the following events: Death, Disease progression, Relapse, Cardiovascular accidents, Deep vein thrombosis, Pulmonary embolism, Fracture, Acute renal failure, Nervous system disorders 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD)., 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of PAD|Overall Survival, Percentage of participants who had no event of death 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD)., 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of PAD|Assessment of Quality of Life (AQoL) Scores, The AQoL is a multi-attribute utility health-related quality of life (HRQoL) instrument. It combines the 4 dimensions of independent living, relationships, senses and mental health into a single utility score. The AQoL instrument scores between 1 (best HRQoL) and -0.04 (worst possible HRQoL)., Up to 2 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Stratified by Protein Expression (p53), Number of participants who are responders and nonresponders after 4 cycles of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) induction stratified by protein expression (p53)., 84 days|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Stratified by Protein Expression (Cyclin D1)., Number of participants who are responders and nonresponders after 4 cycles of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) induction stratified by protein expression (Cyclin D1)., 84 days|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Stratified by Protein Expression (Bcl-2), Number of participants who are responders and nonresponders after 4 cycles of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) induction stratified by protein expression (bcl-2), 84 days|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Stratified by Protein Expression (FGFR3), Number of participants who are responders and nonresponders after 4 cycles of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) induction stratified by protein expression (FGFR3), 84 days|Overall Survival (OS) Stratified by Protein Expression (p53)., Percentage of participants who had no event of death 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) stratified by protein expression (p53)., 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of PAD|Overall Survival (OS) Stratified by Protein Expression (Cyclin D1), Percentage of participants who had no event of death 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) stratified by protein expression (Cyclin D1)., 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of PAD|Overall Survival (OS) Stratified by Protein Expression (Bcl-2), Percentage of participants who had no event of death 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) stratified by protein expression (bcl-2)., 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of PAD|Overall Survival (OS) Stratified by Protein Expression (FGFR3), Percentage of participants who had no event of death 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (PAD) stratified by protein expression (FGFR3)., 2 years after Day 1 Cycle 1 of PAD
This is an open-label, single-arm, multicentre study which will enroll approximately 105 patients. Open-label means all people involved in the study know the identity of the intervention. Single-arm means there is one group of patients, all receiving the same treatment. Four 21-day cycles of a combination of bortezomib i.v. (intravenous) 1.3 mg/m2 (Days 1, 4, 8 and 11), doxorubicin i.v. 20 mg/m2 (days 1 and 4) and dexamethasone p.o. (by mouth) (days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11 and 12) (PAD) will be given. Patients will be discontinued if disease progresses, or unacceptable treatment-related toxicity occurs. Following PAD treatment, patients will have peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) collected, and an autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) will be performed. Patients will then make monthly visits to the Study Doctor until 1 year after start of treatment, and attend a final follow-up visit at 2 years. Efficacy assessment of response to PAD will be made using the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. The primary outcome is to compare the overall response rate following 4 cycles of PAD induction therapy between patients with and without extra copies of the long arm of the first chromosome (1q21) measured by fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) in their marrow at baseline. Patient reported outcomes will be assessed using the AQoL (Assessment of Quality of Life). Safety will be evaluated throughout the study by assessment of adverse events including changes in physical examination, concomitant medication, ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) scores, vital signs and clinical laboratory findings. A sample size of 105 provides 80% power (a=0.05) to detect a difference in overall response rate of 28% at the end of 4 cycles of PAD. This is based on the assumptions that 44% of patients have amplification of 1q21 1, 2, the overall response rate with PAD combination therapy is 80%; the overall response rate with PAD if PAD therapy does not overcome 1q21 amplification is assumed to be 64%, while without 1q21 amplification it is assumed to be 92%. That is: Overall Response Rate (ORR) = P1q21 amplified x ORRamplified + P1q21 not amplified x ORRnot amplified i.e. 80% = 44% x 64% + 56% x 92%. The sample size of 105 allows for a 20% drop-out rate. Four 21-day cycles of PAD: a combination of bortezomib i.v. (intravenous) 1.3 mg/m2 (Days 1, 4, 8 and 11), doxorubicin i.v. 20 mg/m2 (days 1 and 4) and dexamethasone p.o. (by mouth) (days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11 and 12).