Decision Aids in Improving Knowledge in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies how well decision aids work in improving knowledge in patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer. Decision aids may improve patients' knowledge of their condition and options for treatment, and may also help when talking with their doctor.
Stage II Prostate Cancer|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer|Stage I Prostate Cancer|PSA Level Five to Ten|PSA Level Less Than Five|PSA Level Ten to Fifty
OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Knowledge Assessed by Prostate Cancer Treatment Questionnaire, The primary outcome, knowledge, will be assessed by a standardized questionnaire (i.e., Prostate Cancer Treatment Questionnaire) administered once, immediately after the clinical consultation while the patient is still at the study site. The number correct from this 12-item measure will be reduced to a percentage of total number correct. With 100%(12 out of 12 item average) being the best possible outcome and 0%(0 out of 12 item average) the worst possible outcome, 12 months
Decisional Quality as Measured by Decisional Conflict Scale Decisional Regret, The Decisional Regret Scale is a short, 5-item scale measuring "distress or remorse after a (health care) decision." The instrument has been validated in other decision aid studies. Questions are answered on a 5-point agreement scale. A score of 0 means no decisional regret and 5 is the maximum level of regret. The median scores for each cohort were grouped into two categories, 0(no regret) and 1+(at least some regret)., 12 months|Clinical Time Required, Will be compared across DA types using linear mixed models. In particular, this model will include fixed effects for Prostate Choice and Knowing Your Options and a random, site-specific intercept to allow for subjects within the same site to be correlated. Will explore whether the overall effects of interventions on patient knowledge, quality of life, and treatment utilization differ by racial/ethnic subgroups., 12 months|Quality of Life Assessed by Questionnaire, The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite(EPIC-26) measures health-related quality of life and returns summary scores for urinary, bowel, sexual, and hormonal domains with high test-retest reliability and internal consistency. Scores will be converted into continuous summary scores using standard algorithms. For the EPIC-26 questionnaire, scores were transformed into 0 to 100 scales, with a score of 0 representing the worst possible health-related quality of life and a score of 100 representing the most favorable health-related quality of life. The questionnaire will be administered once; 12 months after the patient's initial consultation., 12 months|Utilization as Determined by Chart Review, Will be categorized by the type of treatment the patient received. Will be compared across DA types using linear mixed models. In particular, this model will include fixed effects for Prostate Choice and Knowing Your Options and a random, site-specific intercept to allow for subjects within the same site to be correlated. Will explore whether the overall effects of interventions on patient knowledge, quality of life, and treatment utilization differ by racial/ethnic subgroups., 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the comparative effectiveness of decision aids (DA's) on patient knowledge.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the impact of in-visit DA's alone compared to usual care on quality of life outcomes and treatment utilization.

II. To test the impact of out-of-visit DA's alone compared to usual care on quality of life outcomes and treatment utilization.

III. To test the impact of combined in-visit and out-of-visit DA's compared to both usual care and individual DAs on quality of life outcomes and treatment utilization.

IV. To test the comparative effectiveness of DA's on minority men's knowledge. V. To compare clinic time required to administer the DA's across arms.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 4 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive decision aids "Knowing your Options" before and "Prostate Choice" during their consultation visit.

ARM B: Patients receive "Knowing your Options" decision aid before their consultation visit.

ARM C: Patients receive "Prostate Choice" decision aid during their consultation visit.

ARM D: Patients undergo usual care.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 12 months.