Promoting Radon Testing Via Smartphone App: A Clinical Trial in a High Radon State
This research will compare (1) the effectiveness of a mobile radon-education app (vs. traditional brochures) and (2) that of the radon app with in-app reminders (vs. the radon app without in-app reminders and the no app use with postal reminders) to increase radon awareness and testing among North Dakotans. The prevalence of exceptionally high levels of residential radon in North Dakota (ND), coupled with public's poor understanding of this hazard, is a critical public health problem.
Lung Cancer
OTHER: The radon app|OTHER: Print brochure
Ordering a Free Radon Test Kit, The rate at which participants order a free radon test kit, Through the study completion - 3 months|Using the Radon Test Kit, The rate at which participants use the radon test kit to test their houses, Through the study completion - 3 months
Change From Baseline Radon Knowledge at 3 Months, Radon knowledge was measured by the number of accurate responses to 20 True-False statements in T1 (baseline) and T2 (at 3 months), as used in Kim, Brewster, and Schwartz (2020) (PMID: 32321499). The response options were: "true," "false," and "I don't know." Participants' responses to each statement were then re-coded to 1 ("correct") or 0 ("incorrect" or "I don't know"). After that, two radon knowledge index variables (continuous) were created by summing participants' responses to each statement in T1 (baseline) and T2 (at 3 months). Thus, two radon knowledge scores can range from 0-20 with higher scores indicating better knowledge., Change from baseline knowledge level to the completion of study at 3 months
This research will compare (1) the effectiveness of a mobile radon-education app (vs. traditional brochures) and (2) that of the radon app with in-app reminders (vs. the radon app without in-app reminders and the no app use with postal reminders) to increase radon awareness and testing among North Dakotans. The prevalence of exceptionally high levels of residential radon in North Dakota (ND), coupled with public's poor understanding of this hazard, is a critical public health problem.