Evaluation of Response to Abiraterone/Prednisone by Race/Ethnicity and Other Factors in Metastatic Hormone Naive Prostate Cancer
The investigators are conducting this study with men that have prostate cancer and are getting standard of care treatment with the drugs abiraterone acetate and prednisone. The study will follow men with prostate cancer from initiation of participation in the study and for up to 10 years. The reason for the study is that researchers think that there may be a connection between the race and ethnicity of men with prostate cancer and how well the standard treatments work for the participants.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic|Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Prednisone
PSA Response Rate, The proportion of subjects with PSA levels less than 4 ng/ml at the given time point., Treatment start until 7 months after start of ADT
Depth of PSA Response, Measure of the absolute amount of change in PSA levels, or measure of proportional change in PSA levels., Treatment start until nadir, or up to 7 months after start of ADT if no nadir|Frequency of Potentially Deleterious Polymorphisms, Number of potentially deleterious polymorphisms in proteins involved in androgen metabolism, stratified by race/ethnicity., Measured at baseline|Progression Free Survival, Measure of time until disease progression., Treatment start until event or up to 3 years after start of ADT|Time to PSA Progression, Measure of time until PSA progression., Treatment start until event or up to 3 years after start of ADT|Time to Subsequent Prostate Cancer Therapy, Measure of time until start of subsequent prostate cancer therapy., Treatment start until event or up to 3 years after start of ADT|Time to Initiation of Chemotherapy, Measure of time until start of chemotherapy., Treatment start until event or up to 3 years after start of ADT
This is a single arm study in metastatic hormone naïve prostate cancer. Standard of care in these men is either to offer Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) + abiraterone acetate/low-dose prednisone or, in men with higher tumor burden, to offer ADT + Docetaxel/prednisone. The investigator\&#39;s experience is that even men with increased tumor burden often opt for abiraterone because of the improved side effect protocol as compared to chemotherapy.

Approximately 130 PSA response evaluable subjects will be enrolled, of which the investigators expect 50% to be African American based on clinic population and previous experience with clinical trial enrollment.

The study will enroll men with newly diagnosed hormone naïve prostate cancer within 42 days of receiving the first dose of ADT (LHRH agonist or antagonist) or undergoing orchiectomy. Patients will continue ADT throughout the study. Abiraterone acetate and low dose prednisone will continue until progression as defined by standard PCWG2 criteria.