Investigating Targetable Metabolic Pathways Sustaining Pancreatic Cancer
This clinical trial investigates the nutrients pancreatic cancers depend on in which to survive and the processes these tumors use (metabolism) to obtain these nutrients. Giving U-13C-glucose during surgery may allow doctors to trace the metabolic activity of pancreatic cancer in research experiments done in the laboratory. These experiments may help researchers understand how cancer cells manage their nutrients when compared to normal pancreatic cells.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|OTHER: Uniformly-labeled [13C]glucose
To measure glycolysis metabolism dependencies via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), To describe and discover new insights into the glucose metabolic dependencies of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The measure is to analyze in vivo U13C-glucose labeled pancreatic cancer biopsies. The blood collection will to allow for in depth evaluation of glycolysis metabolism, Up to 2 years
To measure lipid metabolic dependencies via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), To describe and discover new insights into the lipid metabolic dependencies of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis of in vivo U13C-glucose labeled pancreatic cancer biopsies. The measure is to analyze in vivo U13C-glucose labeled pancreatic cancer biopsies. The blood collection will to allow for in depth evaluation of lipid metabolism, Up to 2 years
To measure amino acid metabolism dependencies via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), To describe and discover new insights into the amino acid metabolic dependencies of Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis of in vivo U13C-glucose labeled pancreatic cancer biopsies. The measure is to analyze in vivo U13C-glucose labeled pancreatic cancer biopsies. The blood collection will to allow for in depth evaluation of amino acid metabolism, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe and discover new insights into the glucose, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, amino acid, and lipid metabolic dependencies of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis of in vivo uniformly-labeled \[13C\]glucose (U-13C-glucose) labeled pancreatic cancer biopsies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive uniformly-labeled \[13C\]glucose intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes and then over up to 120 minutes until time of biopsy. Patients then undergo surgery and biopsy per standard of care.