Genomic Sequencing in Determining Treatment in Patients With Metastatic Cancer or Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This pilot clinical trial studies patients' genomic sequencing in determining specific treatments, also called Precision Medicine, in patients with cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) and/or cannot be removed by surgery. Examining the genetic code of a patient's tumor, a mutation (a change in the deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] sequence of a cell or gene) may be identified and matched with available treatment that targets the mutated gene or an alternative treatment that may provide benefit for the patient with the mutation identified. Precision medicine may impacts patient's response to treatment by targeting specific mutations and may increase survival and improve quality of life.
Metastatic Neoplasm|Recurrent Neoplasm|Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Unresectable Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Targeted Therapy
Feasibility in terms of the ability to monitoring patient outcomes across separate treatment protocols and study teams., Typical patient outcome measures will necessarily vary by disease, so survival will be the overarching outcome measure., Up to 2 years|Proportion of patients enrolled on this protocol who are subsequently enrolled in a clinical trial based on the results of the genomic sequencing, Baseline|Proportion of patients enrolled on this protocol who have a clinical trial identified for them to be enrolled in based on the results of the genomic sequencing, The observed proportion and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be estimated., Baseline|Proportion of patients with an actionable mutation, Each patient enrolled will be dichotomized into either having a clinical trial identified (yes/no) that the results of their genomic sequencing suggests. The observed proportion and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be estimated., Baseline|Feasibility in terms of the ability to monitoring patient adverse events across separate treatment protocols and study teams., Up to 2 years
Change in patient-reported symptoms of cancer and cancer treatment, as assessed by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory, Baseline to up to 48 weeks|Patient's perceived quality care, as assessed by 3 items adapted from Arora, et al, Up to up to 48 weeks|Patient's satisfaction with treatment decision-making and decisional regret, as assessed by an adapted Satisfaction with Decision scale, Up to up to 48 weeks|Self-perceived burden, as assessed by the Self-Perceived Burden Scale-Short form for measuring chronic disease patients' feelings of being a burden on their caregivers, Up to up to 48 weeks|Survival rate in patients who receive targeted treatment versus those who do not receive targeted treatment, Kaplan Meier curves will be estimated and groups will be compared using Log-Rank tests. These analyses will be performed across all disease sites and then stratified by disease site., Up to 6 months|Survival rate in patients who receive targeted treatment versus those who do not receive targeted treatment, Kaplan Meier curves will be estimated and groups will be compared using Log-Rank tests. These analyses will be performed across all disease sites and then stratified by disease site., Up to 12 months|Treatment response rates in patients who receive targeted treatment versus those who do not receive targeted treatment, For each patient a clinical response assessment will be ascertained and compared between groups. 95% confidence intervals will be estimated for the response rates (with stable disease \[SD\], partial response \[PR\] and complete response \[CR\] pooled together) and the repeated with PR and CR pooled together., Up to 2 years
Genetic variant data, Exploratory statistical genetic and bioinformatics analyses will be made using the data derived from the genomic sequencing to catalogue additional important variants and determine whether there are any patterns or associations among patient level risk factors, their outcomes and genomic information that was not identified by the original genomic sequencing analyses, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility of implementing a Precision Oncology protocol in the treatment of patients who undergo genomic sequencing.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine treatment response rates in patients who receive targeted treatment versus those who do not receive targeted treatment.

II. To assess survival in patients who receive targeted treatment versus those who do not receive targeted treatment.

III. To assess changes in patient-reported outcomes in patients who receive targeted treatment versus those who do not receive targeted treatment.

IV. To perform exploratory statistical genetic and bioinformatics analyses using the data derived from the genomic sequencing to catalogue additional important variants and determine whether there are any patterns or associations among patient level risk factors, their outcomes and genomic information that was not identified by the original genomic sequencing analyses.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive treatment based on the results of their genomic sequencing analyses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.