Lapatinib With Trastuzumab in Treating Patients With HER2-Negative/HER2 Mutant Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effectiveness of lapatinib ditosylate (lapatinib) together with trastuzumab in treating patients with HER2-negative breast cancer that carries HER2 gene mutations. Lapatinib may kill tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell division and growth. Trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody, may block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving lapatinib together with trastuzumab may provide a more effective treatment for patients with this type of cancer.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate|BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab
Overall clinical benefit rate (CBR; CD + PR + SD) of lapatinib and trastuzumab in patients with breast cancer that carry HER2 mutations, Responses assessed using RECIST guidelines version 1.1; duration of SD must be \>= 6 months; CBR and its 80% confidence interval will be calculated., 6 months
PFS of patients treated with lapatinib and trastuzumab, Assessed using RECIST guidelines version 1.1, 2 years|Correlation of HER2 mutation with histology subtype (invasive lobular vs. invasive ductal cancer), Baseline|Correlation of HER2 mutation with tumor grade (1-2 vs. 3), Baseline|Correlation of HER2 mutation with tumor staging at initial diagnosis (I vs. II or III vs. IV), Baseline|Correlation of HER2 mutation with disease free survival, 2 years|Occurrence of HER2 mutation in paired primary and metastatic sites, Baseline
This phase II trial studies the effectiveness of lapatinib ditosylate (lapatinib) together with trastuzumab in treating patients with HER2-negative breast cancer that carries HER2 gene mutations. Lapatinib may kill tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell division and growth. Trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody, may block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving lapatinib together with trastuzumab may provide a more effective treatment for patients with this type of cancer.