Combination Paclitaxel, Carboplatin and Temozolomide
The purpose of this study is to determine the maximum tolerable dose of temozolomide in combination with fixed dose of paclitaxel and carboplatin and to determine the overall tumor response rate with this combination and to determine the duration of response.
Lung Diseases|Cancer
DRUG: Combination Treatment - Cohort 1|DRUG: Combination Treatment - Cohort 2|DRUG: Combination Treatment - Cohort 3|DRUG: Combination Treatment - Cohort 4
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Temozolomide in Combination with Fixed Doses of Paclitaxel and Carboplatin, Temozolomide was administered at different dose levels (see Cohorts 1-4) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was reached. MTD is the dose at which 0/6 or 1/6 patients in the cohort experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first 4 week cycle with the next higher dose having at least 2/3 or 2/6 patients experiencing DLT. DLT will have occurred when the patient has 1 or more Grade 4 hematologic or nonhematologic toxicities. A DLT must occur in the first cycle of the combination and must be at least possibly attributed to the treatment regimen. Toxicities will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE Version 3.0., 4 months
Tumor response rate, Tumor response is evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0 as determined by the investigator. Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. Partial response (P): \>= 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter of all lesions. CR and PR criteria should be met again after 4 weeks and before 6 weeks after initial assessment. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient increase to qualify for PD nor sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR. Progressive disease (PD) for target lesions: \>= 20% increase in the sum of diameters of the target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum on study, and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered . PD for non-target lesions is defined as unequivocal appearance of one or more new malignant lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., 7 months
The objective of the research study is to test a combination of drugs to treat small cell lung cancer which has spread beyond the lungs (extensive cancer) or come back after earlier treatment (recurrent cancer).