Conversion Effects of PD-1 Antibody Camrelizumab Combined With Nab-POF Regimen Chemotherpy in Patients With Initially Unresectable Locally Advanced or Limited Metastatic Gastric or Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma：FDZL-GC001 Trial
This study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of domestic programmed death 1（ PD-1） antibody (Camrelizumab for injection) combined with fluorouracil plus leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and albumin bound paclitaxel (Nab-POF) regimen in the treatment of patients with unresectable locally advanced or limited metastatic gastric cancer. The primary efficacy endpoint is R0 resection rate.
Metastatic Gastric Cancer|Locally Advanced Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Gastric Cancer Adenocarcinoma Metastatic
DRUG: Camrelizumab plus mFLOT regimen|PROCEDURE: R0 surgery
margin-free-(R0) resection rate, R0 resection was defined as no tumor identified on microscopic examination of proximal, distal,or circumferential margins., 6-9 weeks after immunochemotherapy
pathological complete response (pCR), 6-9 weeks after immunochemotherapy and R0 surgery|overall response rate (ORR), up to 24 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, up to 24 months|sugery complications, sugery complications, up to 2 months after the period of surgery|progression free survival (PFS), randomisation to disease progression, relapse, or death; surgical morbidity and mortality, up to 24 months|overall survival (OS), up to 24 months
This is an open, single center, prospective phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of domestic PD1 antibody (Camrelizumab for injection) combined with Nab-POF regimen in the treatment of unresectable locally advanced or limited metastatic gastric cancer. This study will be carried out in our center, about 40 patients will be enrolled.

Patients with unresectable locally advanced or limited metastatic gastric cancer who had not received any prior antitumor therapies were treated with domestic PD1 antibody (Caerelizumab for injection) commbined with mFLOT regimen, and human epidermal-growth-factor receptor 2 (HER-2) positive patients were treated with Herceptin. The efficacy of therapy was evaluated every 3 treatment cycles. After 6 cycles, surgical experts evaluated the resectability of the tumor, and the patients who were confirmed to be resectable received surgery within 3-6 weeks after immunochemotherapy. The patients with good postoperative recovery continued to receive the same immunochemotherapy in 3-6 weeks, and totally at most 12 cycles. Patients who were evaluated as progressive disease (PD) at any time withdrawn from the study as conversion failure.Patients who did not PD at 6 cycles of treatment but did not reach the criteria for R0 resection, continued to receive another 3 cycles of the prior chemotherapy. If resectable then, surgical treatment was performed, if still unresectable, the immunochemotherapy for transformation was evaluated as unsuccessful. The patients were treated according to the principle of palliative treatment until the disease progressed or intolerable toxicity. The efficacy and safety will be continuously monitored and evaluated throughout the study period (including a 30 day follow-up period). 40 cases were expected to be enrolled: 3-4 cases per month, completed in 1 year and finished in 2 years.