China Early Esophageal Cancer Cohort
With the development of endoscopy, more and more patients with superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) receive endoscopic resection rather than traditional surgery. However, there is still no complete consensus on the risk factors for lymph node metastasis (LNM) and recurrence of ESCC after endoscopic resection. The existing curative resection criteria are strict to a certain extent, and a considerable number of patients are overtreated according to the current standard of additional treatment. Thus, we aim to conduct a multi-center retrospective and prospective study to construct a large cohort of ESCC based on the previously established multi-center collaborative research network and clinical big data, analyze the risk factors of LNM and recurrence in patients with early esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after ESD, establish an accurate and simple risk prediction model, and evaluate the discrimination efficiency of this model.
Early Esophageal Cancer
OTHER: observational study
Noncurative Resection, Noncurative resection was defined as the presence of residual tumor or lymph node metastasis at the vertical margin of the lesion confirmed by pathology after surgery, or local recurrence, lymph node metastasis, or distant metastasis attributable to the primary tumor during follow-up., 2022-12 Complete the preliminary clinical study preparation. 2023-10 Complete patient data analysis and sorting. 2024-10 Construct an accurate evaluation system. 2025-10 Conduct validation analysis of the evaluation system.
With the development of endoscopy, more and more patients with superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) receive endoscopic resection rather than traditional surgery. However, there is still no complete consensus on the risk factors for lymph node metastasis (LNM) and recurrence of ESCC after endoscopic resection. The existing curative resection criteria are strict to a certain extent, and a considerable number of patients are overtreated according to the current standard of additional treatment. Thus, we aim to conduct a multi-center retrospective and prospective study to construct a large cohort of ESCC based on the previously established multi-center collaborative research network and clinical big data, analyze the risk factors of LNM and recurrence in patients with early esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after ESD, establish an accurate and simple risk prediction model, and evaluate the discrimination efficiency of this model.