A Feasibility and Safety Study of CD38 CAR-T Cell Immunotherapy for Relapsed B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia After CD19 CAR-T Adoptive Cellular Immunotherapy
CD19-directed CAR-T cell therapy has shown promising results for the treatment of relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies; however, a subset of patients relapse due to the loss of CD19 in tumor cells. CD38 CAR-T cells can recognize and kill the CD19 negative malignant cells through recognition of CD38. This is a phase 1/2 study designed to determine the safety of the gene-edited specificity CD38 CAR-T cells and the feasibility of making enough to treat patients with relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia after CD19 CAR-T adoptive cellular immunotherapy.
Relapsed B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia After CD19 CAR-T ACI
BIOLOGICAL: Specificity CD38 CAR-T Cells
Number of Participants with Severe/Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, 24 weeks|MTD of specificity CD38 CAR-T cells, The highest dose of specificity CD38 CAR-T cells that is estimated to result in defined Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) with the exception of allowable 'expected' AEs associated with the intravenous infusion of specificity CD38 CAR-T cells., 4 weeks|Copies numbers of CAR in peripheral blood(PB), bone marrow(BM)and lymph nodes, 24 weeks
Six-month Objective response rate of complete remission and partial remission, 24 weeks|Six-month Overall survival, 24 weeks|Six-month Progression free survival, 24 weeks
1. PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

   1. To evaluate the feasibility and safety of specificity CD38 CAR-T cells in patients with relapsed or refractory leukemia and lymphoma.
   2. To evaluate the duration of in vivo persistence of adoptively transferred T cells, and the phenotype of persisting T cells.

   Real Time polymerase chain receptor (RT-PCR) and Flow cytometry(FCM) analysis of PB,BM and lymph node will be used to detect and quantify survival of CD38 CAR-T cells over time.
2. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

   1. For patients with detectable disease, measure anti-tumor response due to specificity CD38 CAR-T cell infusions.
   2. The CAR-T cells will be administered by i.v. injection over 20-30 minutes as a using Day 0: 1-5x10e6/kg total dose on day 0.