Evaluation of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI in Patients With Metastatic Radioactive Iodine Refractory Thyroid Cancer
Increased fibroblast activation protein expression is positively correlated with the dedifferentiation and aggressiveness of thyroid cancer. Radiolabeled fibroblast activation protein inhibitor therapy, also known as radioligand therapy has become a novel treatment for patients with radioactive iodine refractory thyroid cancer and disease progression after first-line treatment. However, a major problem in the therapeutic use of 177Lu-DOTA-FAPI has been its short half-life and fast rate of clearance. This study was designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of a long-lasting radiolabeled fibroblast activation protein inhibitor 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI in mRAIR-TC patients with PD after TKIs treatment.
Refractory Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Hurthle Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI 1 radionuclide therapy|DRUG: 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI 2 radionuclide therapy|DRUG: 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI 3 radionuclide therapy
Incidence of treatment-related adverse events (safety and tolerability), Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0. Dose-limiting toxicity was defined as any 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI-related AE ≥ grade 3 (G3)., From date of involvement until 6 weeks after the second treatment cycles|To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The MTD is the dose level below that which 2 out of 6 subjects in a cohort have DLT, From date of involvement until 6 weeks after the second treatment cycles
Objective response rate (ORR), 68Ga-Fibroblast activation protein inhibitor 46 will be performed for efficacy evaluation by RECIST 1.1. Particularly, 68Ga-FAPI-46 will be performed at baseline, and 6 weeks after each treatment cycle., baseline, 6 weeks after each treatment cycle|Dosimetry, Dosimetry, measured as absorbed dose in tumor and normal organs (Gy/GBq), was estimated in the first treatment cycle for each patient., Dosimetry was estimated in the first treatment cycle for each patient
This dose-escalation study will include a maximum of 20 mRAIR-TC subjects with progressive disease after tyrosine kinases inhibitors (TKIs) treatment, with an increased radiotracer uptake in tumors on 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET/CT. The initial dose of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI is 2.22GBq (60 mCi), and subsequent cohorts receive an incremental 50% dose increase until dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was observed. Treatment is planned for up to 2 cycles, and the time interval between cycles is 6 weeks. The primary endpoint assessed the safety and maximum tolerated dose of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI used for radioligand therapy in patients with advanced mRAIR-TC. Secondary endpoints included dosimetry and determination of the preliminary treatment efficacy of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI.