Clinical Effectiveness and Safety of Trastuzumab Deruxtecan (T-DXd) in Chinese Patients With HER2m NSCLC (RERUN)
Trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) is an approved therapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in China. Despite the clinical trial evidence, there is no real-world data of T-DXd used in Chinese lung cancer patients with HER2 mutations.

This real world, prospective study will assess the effectiveness and safety of T-DXd in patients with locally advanced or metastatic, HER2 mutation-positive NSCLC in real-world setting.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: No drug
Progression-free survival (PFS) by Investigator Assessment in Real-world Setting (rwPFS), rwPFS is defined as the time from the initiated date of ≥ second-line treatment of T-DXd until disease progression or death by investigator report as recorded in the electronic case report forms (eCRF)., Baseline up to approximatley 2 years
Time to Treatment Discontinuation or Death (TTD), TTD is defined as the time from the initiated date of ≥ second-line treatment of T-DXd to the date of treatment discontinuation or death from any cause., Baseline up to approximately 2 years|Best Overall Response Rate (BORR), BORR is defined as the percentage of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by investigator for ≥ second-line treatment of T-DXd. Based on RECIST guidelines, CR was defined as a disappearance of all target lesions and PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions., Baseline up to approximately 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the initiated date of ≥ second-line treatment of T-DXd until death due to any cause., Baseline up to approximately 2 years|Number of Patients Reporting Treatment-related Adverse Events (TRAEs), Adverse Events of Special Interests (AESIs), and AEs Leading to Dose Interruption, Reduction, Discontinuation, TRAEs, AESIs and AEs leading to dose interruption, reduction, discontinuation will be graded by the investigators using National Cancer Institute (NCI) common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and coded using the medical dictionary for regulatory activities (MedDRA)., Baseline up to approximately 2 years
T-DXd is an approved therapy in China for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 mutations (HER2m). In previous clinical trials, T-DXd demonstrated efficacy and manageable safety profiles in the ≥ second-line setting for NSCLC harboring HER2m. However, patient populations are more diverse in routine practice and no real-world data of T-DXd used in Chinese lung cancer patients with HER2 mutations exist.

This study will assess the effectiveness of ≥ second-line treatment of T-DXd in real-world setting as the primary objective. Secondary objectives will further assess the effectiveness and overall survival of ≥ second-line treatment of T-DXd in real-world setting as well as evaluate the safety and tolerability of any-line treatment of T-DXd in real-world setting. This is an non-interventional, observational study. No drug will be provided or administered as part of this protocol; however, participants on T-DXd will be enrolled in this study.