PET/CT Characterization of Treatment Resistance
This study will use different types of medical imaging to assess how lesions from advanced prostate cancer become resistant to second-generation AR-targeted therapy, and how the different types of imaging compare in that assessment. Participants in this study have advanced prostate cancer and are either scheduled to start a second-generation androgen receptor (AR) targeted therapy (such as enzalutamide, abiraterone, or apalutamide) or are already being treated with one. Participants can expect to be in the study for at least 9 months, and up to 2 years.
Prostate Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET)|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: prostate-specific membrane antigen positron emission tomography (PSMA PET)
Characterize intrinsic resistance based on FDG and PSMA PET through change in individual lesion update levels., Changes in individual lesion update levels (ΔiSUVtotal) will be calculated. SUVtotal is a metric of activity, for which less activity is better., Baseline to 12 weeks|Characterize change in intrinsic resistance based on FDG and PSMA PET., Changes in individual lesion update levels (ΔiSUVtotal) will be calculated. SUVtotal is a metric of activity, for which a decrease in activity is better., Baseline to 12 weeks|Characterize change in intrinsic resistance based on FDG and PSMA PET., Changes in individual lesion update levels (ΔiSUVtotal) will be calculated. SUVtotal is a metric of activity, for which a decrease in activity is better., 12 weeks to 36 weeks|Characterize change in intrinsic resistance based on FDG and PSMA PET., Changes in individual lesion update levels (ΔiSUVtotal) will be calculated. SUVtotal is a metric of activity, for which a decrease in activity is better., Baseline to 36 weeks|Characterize acquired resistance at the time of progression, Percentage and absolute changes in individual lesion update levels (ΔiSUVtotal) will be calculated., Baseline to 36 weeks
Correlate amount of intrinsic resistance on FDG and PSMA PET to predict time to PSA progression, Analysis will be conducted to evaluate whether changes in lesion uptake values predict time to PSA progression. PSA progression will be 25% increase and \>2 ng/mL above PSA nadir, Baseline to 36 weeks|Correlate amount of intrinsic resistance on FDG and PSMA PET to predict time to radiographic progression, Analysis will be conducted to evaluate whether changes in lesion uptake values predict time to radiographic progression. Time to radiographic progression will be defined as the number of days to confirmed radiographic progression using Prostate Cancer WorkingGroup 3 (PCWG3) criteria., Baseline to 36 weeks|Correlate amount of intrinsic resistance on FDG and PSMA PET to predict time duration on treatment, Analysis will be conducted to evaluate whether changes in lesion uptake values predict duration of treatment. Duration of treatment will be defined as the time from treatment start, to treatment discontinuation (and reason for discontinuation) using PCWG3 criteria., Up to 36 weeks
There are two groups, or cohorts, in this study. Participants are assigned to Cohort A if they have advanced prostate cancer and are scheduled to start a second-generation AR-targeted therapy (such as enzalutamide, abiraterone, darolutamide, or apalutamide) or PSMA directed radiotherapy (e.g. Lu177-PSMA radio-ligand therapy. Participants are assigned to Cohort B if they have advanced prostate cancer, are already on a second-generation AR-targeted therapy, and have shown an increase in their PSA (prostate-specific antigen) levels.

There are two medical imaging scans that will be done for research purposes in this study. One is called 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) and the other is prostate-specific membrane antigen positron emission tomography (PSMA PET). These scans are done simultaneously with computed tomography (CT) scanning. Participants will be scheduled to have 6 scans, 3 FDG PET/CT scans and 3 PSMA PET/CT scans.