RADIOSO MILAN I (RADar Reflector localisatiOn-SCOUT for carcinOma Mammae, the MILAN IEO Experience I)
This is a monocentric prospective observational study for patients with clinical undetectable breast lesions and indications to breast conserving surgery for histological characterization.

The SCOUT® Radar occult breast lesion Localization (SRL) consists of an implantable reflector, a detector handpiece and a console and it uses non-radioactive micro-impulses to guide surgical excision in real time.

The study describes the experience with 300 patients at the European Institute of Oncology.

The primary endpoints of the study are the rates of successful positioning, localization and recovery of the reflector SRL.
Breast Cancer|Occult Breast Carcinoma
DEVICE: SCOUT® Radar occult breast lesion Localization
Rate of successful positioning of the reflector, Percentage of reflectors successfull positioned, 1 week|Rate of successful localization of the reflector, Percentage of reflectors successfull localized, 6 months|Rate of successful recovery of the reflector, Percentage of reflectors successfull recovered, 6 months
Rate of cases with negative margins, percentage of cases with negative margins, 6 months|Rate of cases that have required a second excision, Percentage of cases that have required a second excision, 6 months
It has been estimated that 31,8% of breast cancer patients undergo pre-operational lesion localization. Of them, 19% have been previously administered neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT). Based on retrospective data, NACT administration is believed to steadily increase by 1,3%, each year.

The IEO Breast Division Program aims at improving the treatment and planning options available to patients referred for radio guided breast surgery.

At IEO, ROLL remains the standard of care. From its inception 25 year ago to the present day,the investigators have gained significant expertise and now perform more than 1000 procedures per year.

The investigators believe that SRL (SCOUT® Radar occult breast lesion Localization) could be added to the procedure of reference in the following cases, still under investigation, where it seems to present some advantages when compared to ROLL:

1. Long-term positioning of the reflector, as in the case of patients undergoing neoadjuvant treatment
2. Reflector placement in malignant lymphadenopathy prior to neoadjuvant chemotherapy
3. Placement of multiple reflectors, or use of both SRL and ROLL in patients with multifocal or multicentric neoplasia referred for conservative surgery
4. BI-RADS 5 patients suspected for ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and eligible for conservative surgery, could undergo reflector placement after vacuum-assisted breast biopsy (VABB) and also be scheduled for Monday morning surgery
5. Placement of the reflector using MR-compatible introducer needles