Comparison of Liver and Renal Function After Transarterial Chemoembolization for Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Iso-osmolar Contrast Media and Low Osmolar Contrast Media
Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma (PHC) is one of the most common malignant tumors in the world. In men is the fifth most frequently diagnosed cancer worldwide but the second most frequent cause of cancer death. In women, it is the seventh most commonly diagnosed cancer and the sixth leading cause of cancer death. An estimated 748,300 new liver cancer cases and 695,900 cancer deaths occurred worldwide in 2008. Half of these cases and deaths were estimated to occur in China. Surgical resection and liver transplantation can be curative treatment options, but less than 20% of PHC patients are candidates for surgery. The prognosis of patients with unresectable PHC is poor; if left untreated, the median survival is less than 6 months. Since transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) was introduced as a palliative treatment in patients with unresectable HCC, it has become one of the most common forms of interventional therapy. However, the possibility of treatment-related complication may offset the survival benefit, especially by the worsening of liver functions.TACE increases several parameters of hepatic cytolysis and decreases the metabolic activity of the liver. Such a deterioration of liver function due to ischemia following TACE may result in liver failure, or even death. TACE also may have an adverse effect on the kidney. Radiographic contrast medium is used to obtain the hepatogram before TACE. It has been shown that the use of contrast medium increases the risk of renal failure, especially the low-osmolar contrast media. The aim of this trials was to compare the change of liver and renal function after TACE for HCC of iso-osmolar contrast media with that of low-osmolar contrast media.
Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Change from Baseline in serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, γ-glutamyltransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase, cholinesterase., Follow-up on the 2th and 5th days after TACE
This was a prospective, randomized, single centre, single-blind study. Patients were randomized (1:1) to use Low-osmolar contrast media or iso-osmolar contrast media for TACE.

On the morning of 2th and 5th days after TACE, a hematologic check was performed, the hematologic check including serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, γ-glutamyltransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase, cholinesterase. Then, comparing them with the data before TACE.