Association of Capecitabine Pharmacokinetics and Toxicity With Aging
This is a multi-centre prospective non-interventional study designed to evaluate the effects of patient age on the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and its metabolites 5'DFCR, 5'DFUR, and 5-FU. In addition, the study will assess the correlation between the pharmacokinetic parameters calculated and cytidine deaminase, biomarkers of aging, clinical frailty, treatment outcome, and toxicity. To be enrolled, patients must have breast or colorectal cancer and be eligible to receive capecitabine monotherapy in accordance with its approved clinical usage in the UK. Treatment will be administered according to NICE guidelines as well as the clinical judgement of the prescribing physician. One hundred patients (50 breast cancer patients, 50 colorectal cancer patients) who are about to start treatment with capecitabine monotherapy will be recruited to the study and undergo study procedures within the first week of treatment.
Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine
Area under the curve (AUC) of capecitabine and metabolites, Measurement of AUC of capecitabine and its metabolites 5'deoxy-5-fluorocytidine (5'DFCR), 5'deoxy-5-fluorouridine (5'DFUR), and 5-fluorouracil., 0 (pre-dose), 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours post dose
Toxicities and grades as scaled by Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) version 4.03, Toxicity grade(s) as measured by CTCAE version 4.03 (published by the U.S. Department of Heath and Human Services 2009). General grading scheme is as follows: Grade 1: Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2: Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living (ADL). Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5: Death related to AE., Six months|Progression free survival as measured by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1, Progression free survival as measured by the RECIST criteria version 1.1 (Eisenhauer et al., 2009). The RECIST criteria define progression as 'at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)', From time of enrollment until first documented progression|Response as measured by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version 1.1, Complete or partial response as measured by the RECIST criteria version 1.1. (Eisenhauer et al., 2009) Complete response = 'Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial response = 'At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.', From time of enrollment to first documented response|Grip strength measured in kg, Grip strength measured in kg by the grip strength test (using the Takei handheld dynamometer), During 6-hour pharmacokinetic study session|Frailty as measured by the Edmonton Frail Scale, Frailty as measured by the Edmonton Frail Scale. A 17 point scale that measures 9 frailty domains. 0-5: not frail; 6-7: vulnerable; 8-9: mild frailty; 10-11: moderate frailty; 12-17: severe frailty., During 6-hour pharmacokinetic study session|Nutritional status as measured by the Mini Nutritional Assessment questionnaire, Nutritional status as measured by the Mini Nutritional Assessment questionnaire, a 30 point test on nutritional status. Scoring: 24 to 30 points: Normal nutritional status.

17 to 23.5 points: At risk of malnutrition. Less than 17 points: malnourished., During 6-hour pharmacokinetic study session|Quality of life as assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life (EORTC-QLQ-C30 version 3) questionnaire, Quality of life as measured by the EORTC-QLQ-C30 version 3 questionnaire. This questionnaire assesses the quality of life of cancer patients in a series of 30 questions, with 28 of the questions on a scale of 1 to 4 where 1 is 'not at all' and 4 is 'very much'. Final two questions relate to overall quality of life and health on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 is 'very poor' and 7 is 'excellent'., During 6-hour pharmacokinetic study session|Plasma cytidine deaminase activity (measured in units/mg protein by spectrophotometric assay), Plasma cytidine deaminase activity (measured in units/mg protein by spectrophotometric assay)., 0 hours post dose (pre-dose)|Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of capecitabine and metabolites, Cmax of capecitabine and its metabolites 5'deoxy-5-fluorocytidine (5'DFCR), 5'deoxy-5-fluorouridine (5'DFUR), and 5-fluorouracil., 0 (pre-dose), 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours post dose|Time of maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) of capecitabine and metabolites, Cmax of capecitabine and its metabolites 5'deoxy-5-fluorocytidine (5'DFCR), 5'deoxy-5-fluorouridine (5'DFUR), and 5-fluorouracil., 0 (pre-dose), 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours post dose
This is a multi-centre prospective non-interventional study designed to evaluate the effects of patient age on the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and its metabolites 5'DFCR, 5'DFUR, and 5-FU. In addition, the study will assess the correlation between the pharmacokinetic parameters calculated and cytidine deaminase, biomarkers of aging, clinical frailty, treatment outcome, and toxicity. To be enrolled, patients must have breast or colorectal cancer and be eligible to receive capecitabine monotherapy in accordance with its approved clinical usage in the UK. Treatment will be administered according to NICE guidelines as well as the clinical judgement of the prescribing physician. One hundred patients (50 breast cancer patients, 50 colorectal cancer patients) who are about to start treatment with capecitabine monotherapy will be recruited to the study and undergo study procedures within the first week of treatment.