ELEVATE Acceptability Study
This study includes a community-based, two-arm prospective acceptability study, whereby arm 1 consists of an educational session on sexual health and cervical cancer (screening) and a follow-up assessment after 3 months. Arm 2 consists of an educational session on sexual health and cervical cancer (screening) and self-sampling, additionally women will be asked to take a self-sample on-site, followed by a follow-up assessment after 3 months. Attitudes, uptake and users' experiences related to the use of a HPV self-sampling test will be assessed, additionally, the impact on looking for follow up care of self-sampling with standard cervical screening strategies will be assessed and finally the feasibility of an HPV self-sampling in hard-to-reach groups versus educational sessions and standard care will be compared (arm 1 and 2).
Cervical Cancer|HPV Infection|Acceptability of Health Care
BEHAVIORAL: Educational session|BEHAVIORAL: Self-sampling|BEHAVIORAL: Follow-up assessment
Uptake of cervical cancer screening, Compare the on-site uptake of self-sampling (arm2) with uptake of standard care (follow-up of arm1), First encounter (day 0) and 3 months follow-up (day 90)
Attitudes towards HPV self-sampling, Attitudes towards self-sampling: reasons to accept/decline the self-sample; advantages and disadvantages versus conventional screening., First encounter (day 0)|User's experiences of HPV self-sampling, User experiences among those who took a self-sample (easy/difficult; painless/painfull; trustworthy/untrusty; etc.), First encounter (day 0)
ELEVATE, a five-year project conducted by an international research alliance led by Ghent University, aims to develop a new test and approach for cervical cancer screening in hard-to-reach populations. The test will combine self-sampling with a new low-cost, portable measurement device and will be validated in dedicated screening trials in Belgium, Brazil, Ecuador, and Portugal. The ELEVATE project targets women in Europe and Latin America who have never been screened or are not regularly screened. These women have a higher risk of developing cervical cancer. The project is supported by the European Union's Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for Research and Innovation Action, project number 825747.

To address the gaps in cervical cancer screening, the ELEVATE project is developing a screening strategy to make cervical screening more accessible to hard-to-reach women. This strategy will include the introduction of a new on-site HPV self-sampling screening tool and a portable testing device, able to detect the presence of HPV and cancer biomarker proteins. This portable, low-cost, on-site HPV testing tool will allow to streamline follow-up care for women at risk of developing cervical cancer.

This study is part of the ELEVATE project and takes place in hard-to-reach communities, focusing on socio-economically vulnerable women to assess the acceptability of educational sessions and self-sampling in these communities. This study includes a two-arm prospective acceptability study, whereby arm 1 consists of an educational session on sexual health and cervical cancer (screening) and a follow-up assessment after 3 months. Arm 2 consists of an educational session on sexual health and cervical cancer (screening) and self-sampling, additionally women will be asked to take a self-sample on-site, followed by a follow-up assessment after 3 months. Attitudes, uptake and users' experiences related to the use of a HPV self-sampling test will be assessed, additionally, the impact on looking for follow up care of self-sampling with standard cervical screening strategies will be assessed and finally the feasibility of an HPV self-sampling in hard-to-reach groups versus educational sessions and standard care will be compared (arm 1 and 2).