Mosunetuzumab With Lenalidomide Augmentation as First-line Therapy for Follicular and Marginal Zone Lymphoma
BrUOG-401 is a prospective, single-arm, phase 2 trial of first-line therapy in adult patients with previously untreated FL or MZL. All patients will be assigned the same initial treatment plan, modified by interim response assessment (IRA) after Cycle 4. All patients will start treatment with four 21-day cycles (C1-4) of mosunetuzumab alone (using step-up dosing during C1), followed by IRA. Patients who achieve CR at IRA will continue with additional 4 cycles (C5-8) of mosunetuzumab. Patients who achieve PR at IRA will receive mosunetuzumab with lenalidomide augmentation during C5-8. Primary response assessment (PRA) will occur after C8. Patients who remain in PR at PRA will continue for additional 4 cycles (extended augmentation).
Follicular Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma|B-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Mosunetuzumab|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Complete Response Rate, The rate of complete response at the time of primary response assessment (PRA)., At the end of Cycle 8 (each cycle is 21 days)
Progression Free Survival, PFS will be determined according to the guidance from the International Working Group. The following events will be counted for PFS: disease progression, disease recurrence, initiation of new line of therapy, or death from any cause., Time of study registration through end of follow-up, approximately 5 years.
BrUOG-401 is a prospective, single-arm, phase 2 trial of first-line therapy in adult patients with previously untreated FL or MZL. All patients will be assigned the same initial treatment plan, modified by interim response assessment (IRA) after Cycle 4. All patients will start treatment with four 21-day cycles (C1-4) of mosunetuzumab alone (using step-up dosing during C1), followed by IRA. Patients who achieve CR at IRA will continue with additional 4 cycles (C5-8) of mosunetuzumab. Patients who achieve PR at IRA will receive mosunetuzumab with lenalidomide augmentation during C5-8. Primary response assessment (PRA) will occur after C8. Patients who remain in PR at PRA will continue for additional 4 cycles (extended augmentation).