A Randomized Trial of a Mobile Health Exercise Intervention for Older Adults With Myeloid Neoplasms
This is a phase 2 randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the preliminary efficacy of the a mobile health exercise intervention (GO-EXCAP) versus a chemotherapy education control in 100 older patients with MN receiving outpatient chemotherapy on physical function and patient-reported outcomes (fatigue, mood, and quality of life). We will also explore the effect of the intervention on TNFα and related cytokine gene promoter methylation and their gene and protein expression.
Cancer|Myeloid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: GO-EXCAP Mobile App|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Placebo Control
Difference between experimental and active comparator arms- Physical Function, Changes in physical function measured using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) which an objective physical assessment evaluating lower extremity physical function (score ranges from 0-12; higher score indicates better physical function). It is comprised of 3 components: a four-meter walk, repeated chair stands and a balance test (the score for each component ranges from 0-4)., 12 Weeks
Difference between experimental and active comparator arms -Fatigue, Changes in fatigue measures using the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) which is a 9-item, patient-reported instrument. The score for each item ranges from 0-10, a higher score indicates higher self-reported levels of fatigue., 12 Weeks|Difference between experimental and active comparator arms -Depression, Changes in depression measured using the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) which is a 20-item depression scale. The score for each item ranges from 0-3, a higher score indicates higher self-reported depression levels., 12 Weeks|Difference between experimental and active comparator arms -Quality of Life, Changes in quality of life measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Leukemia (FACT-Leu) scale. It consists of 44 items divided into 5 subscales: physical well-being (PWB), social well-being (SWB), emotional well-being (EWB), functional well-being (FWB) and leukemia-specific concerns. The score for each item ranges from 0-4. After reversing the scoring of negatively worded items, all the scores are summated. A higher score indicates better quality of life., 12 Weeks
Difference between experimental and active comparator arms -Inflammatory cytokines, Inflammatory cytokines including TNFα, sTNFR1, sTNFR2, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6, sIL-6R, IL-8, IL-10, 12 Weeks|Difference between experimental and active comparator arms- DNA methylation in the TNFα promoter region, DNA methylation in the TNFα promoter region, 12 Weeks|Difference between experimental and active comparator arms- TNFα gene expression, TNFα gene expression by PCR, 12 Weeks
Up to 98% of older patients with myeloid neoplasms experience physical function decline, fatigue, and mood disturbances. Mobile health exercise interventions are promising strategy to prevent physical function decline and improve fatigue and mood disturbances, but older patients with myeloid neoplasms receiving outpatient chemotherapy are understudied. The proposed study will investigate whether a novel mobile health exercise intervention that is adapted to this population can prevent physical function decline, improve fatigue and mood disturbances, and prevent worsening quality of life.