Lapatinib and Capecitabine for Second Line Treatment of Pancreas Cancer
Patients are being asked to participate in this study who have locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer (cancer of the pancreas that has spread to another part of the body) that has gotten worse after first-line chemotherapy.

The purpose of this study is to see if the drugs, Capecitabine and Lapatinib (two chemotherapy agents), prolong survival and improve quality of life as compared to supportive care alone.

Lapatinib in combination with a drug called capecitabine, has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. It has not yet been approved to treat this type of cancer. Both of these drugs are pills.

This research is being done because it is not known if the combination of Capecitabine and Lapatinib is better than supportive care alone for pancreatic cancer.
Pancreas Cancer
DRUG: Lapatinib and Capecitabine
Overall Survival, Time of study entry to time of death, 24 months
Clinical Benefit Response, number of participants who had stable disease or partial response or complete response per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors.

Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Progressive Disease: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.

Stable Disease: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 3 months|Progression Free Survival, Time of study entry to cancer progression., 24 months|Adverse Events, Grade 3 or 4 toxicities, 2 years
This is an open-label single-arm Phase II trial for patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who have failed first line Gemcitabine-based therapy. Patients will be treated with a combination of Capecitabine and Lapatinib, a dual tyrosine-kinase inhibitor of EGFR and HER-2.