HPV Message Testing and Social Media Campaign
This project involves a social media campaign to increase parent's knowledge and acceptance of the HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccine. The current vaccine protects against nine types of HPV, including seven that are known to cause cancer. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that the current HPV vaccine could prevent 90% of cancer cases caused by HPV, including cases of cervical cancer, oropharyngeal (mouth and throat) cancer, anal cancer, and others. About 150 and 104 cases of HPV-associated cancers are diagnosed each year in New Hampshire and Vermont, respectively-many of which could be prevented through vaccination. Currently, only 49.8% of New Hampshire adolescents and 44.3% of Vermont adolescents were not up-to-date for HPV vaccination as of 2016. This social media campaign is testing a set of campaign messages with parents locally and nationally to see which messages are most effective in improving their knowledge and acceptance of the vaccine. A study survey link will monitor the number of people reached and will measure parental intention to get their children vaccinated against HPV.
Vaccine|Human Papilloma Virus
OTHER: Social Media Message about HPV and HPV vaccine|OTHER: Social media message about risk of electronic cigarettes.
Change in Attitudes About HPV Vaccine, Change in Attitudes about HPV vaccine: Pre to post test comparison of summated 9 items measured on a 7-point scale of HPV vaccine attitudes. Scores range from a minimum of 9 to a maximum of 63. Higher scores indicated more positive attitudes toward HPV vaccination. Change was calculated from two time points, the later time point(\<1 hour post messaging intervention) minus value at baseline., Post test completed < 1 hour post messaging intervention
Behavioral Intention to Vaccinate Their Child With HPV Vaccine, A sub-group of parents of 9-14 year old children who had not been vaccinated were asked on pre- and post-test: How likely is it that she/he will receive the HPV vaccine in the next 12 months? Responses range form 1 (very likely) to 5 (not very likely).

HPV vaccination behavioral intent change scores were calculated by subtracting pre- and post- test values. It is a negative-value scale, in which smaller values indicate more positive attitude change after exposure to the viewed message., Ore test immediately before viewing message and post- test immediately after viewing message. Approximately one hour.
This project involves a social media campaign to increase parent's knowledge and acceptance of the HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccine. The current vaccine protects against nine types of HPV, including seven that are known to cause cancer. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that the current HPV vaccine could prevent 90% of cancer cases caused by HPV, including cases of cervical cancer, oropharyngeal (mouth and throat) cancer, anal cancer, and others. About 150 and 104 cases of HPV-associated cancers are diagnosed each year in New Hampshire and Vermont, respectively-many of which could be prevented through vaccination. Currently, only 49.8% of New Hampshire adolescents and 44.3% of Vermont adolescents were not up-to-date for HPV vaccination as of 2016. This social media campaign is testing a set of campaign messages with parents locally and nationally to see which messages are most effective in improving their knowledge and acceptance of the vaccine. A study survey link will monitor the number of people reached and will measure parental intention to get their children vaccinated against HPV.