Testing the Addition of a New Immunotherapy Drug, Atezolizumab (MPDL3280A), to the Usual Chemoradiation (CRT) Therapy Treatment for Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (LS-SCLC)
This phase III trial studies how well chemotherapy and radiation therapy (chemoradiation) with or without atezolizumab works in treating patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as etoposide, cisplatin, and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving chemoradiation with or without atezolizumab may work better in treating patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer.
Limited Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Overall survival (OS), Hazard ratios will be estimated using a stratified Cox regression model. Event rates over time will be estimated within each treatment group using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Progression free survival (PFS), The rates at various timepoints (e.g., every 6 months after randomization) and medians of PFS for each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The associated 95% confidence interval (CI) will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Stratified log-rank test will be used to compare PFS between the treatment arms. Cox proportional hazards model, stratified by the protocol-defined stratification factors, will be used to estimate the HR between the two treatment arms and its 95% confidence interval (CI)., Time from randomization to any documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, For each patient, the maximum severity reported for both immune mediated and non-immune mediated adverse events will be used in the summaries. Adverse events will be summarized regardless of relationship to protocol treatment as assessed by the investigator. All adverse events, adverse events leading to withdrawal, interruption or modification of protocol treatment, Grade \>= 3 adverse events, and serious adverse events will be summarized. Deaths and cause of death will be summarized. The rate of treatment-related adverse events using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, v.5.0) will be reported with the frequency and severity (e.g., type, grade, and attribution) by arm; the analysis will be performed at the time of the primary endpoint analyses. All adverse events will be classified as either immune or non-immune mediated., Up to 5 years|Objective response rate (ORR), The 95% CI for the difference in confirmed ORRs between the two treatment arms will be computed using the normal approximation to the binomial distribution. The 95% CI of the confirmed ORR will be calculated for each treatment arm using the Clopper-Pearson method., Up to 5 years|Time to progression, Will be defined as freedom from local progression, in which a failure is defined as intrathoracic tumor progression by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Local control will be analyzed as competing risks data based on cause-specific hazards approaches, where deaths without local failure will be considered as a competing event and analyzed as "censoring" of local failure. The rates at various timepoints (e.g., every 6 months after randomization) and medians of PFS for each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method (1958). The associated 95% CI will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Results from an unstratified analysis will also be provided., Up to 5 years|Distant metastases-free survival (DMFS), The rates at various timepoints (e.g., every 6 months after randomization) and medians of DMFS for each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method (1958). The associated 95% confidence interval (CI) will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Stratified log-rank test will be used to compare DMFS between the treatment arms. Cox proportional hazards model, stratified by the protocol-defined stratification factors, will be used to estimate the HR between the two treatment arms and its 95% confidence interval (CI)., Time between the date of randomization and the first date of documented distant metastases or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Quality of life (QoL), Will be measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Trial Outcome Index (FACT-TOI). Fisher's exact test will be used to compare the proportions of patients experiencing clinically meaningful deterioration (CMD) between the two arms. FACT-TOI deterioration rates and associated 95% confidence interval will be calculated for each treatment group, based on all randomized subjects. Clopper-Pearson method will be used for calculating 95% CI. The deterioration rates of each arm will also be compared using the CMH test, stratified by histology. FACT-TOI at baseline and at each subsequent assessment, as well as their change from baseline will be summarized using descriptive statistics by treatment group as randomized. The scores at baseline and subsequent time points, as well the changes from baseline at each time point for each treatment group will be compared using the two-sample t-test., Up to 15 months after the end of the 4th cycle of chemotherapy|Quality-adjusted survival, Assessed using score from the 5-level EuroQol 5-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L). Defined as the weighted sum of different time episodes added up to a total quality-adjusted life-year. Subjects' overall health state on a visual analog scale (VAS) at each assessment time point will be summarized using descriptive statistics by treatment group, as randomized. Proportion of subjects reporting problems for the five EQ-5D-5L dimensions at each assessment time point will be summarized by level of problem and by treatment group, as randomized. Percentages will be based on number subjects assessed at assessment time point. Subjects' overall health state on a visual analog scale (EQ-VAS) at each assessment time point will be summarized using descriptive statistics by treatment group, as randomized. Proportion of subjects reporting problems for the five EQ-5D dimensions at each assessment time point will be summarized by level of problem and by treatment group, as randomized., Up to 2 years|Level of fatigue, Will be measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS). Baseline and PROMIS at each subsequent assessment, as well as their change from baseline will be summarized using descriptive statistics by treatment group as randomized. The change from baseline to subsequent timepoints may be compared between treatment arms using a t-test, or Wilcoxon test if the data is non-normal., Up to 2 years|Molecular subtyping, Up to 5 years
Patient-reported symptomatic toxicities, Will be measured by Patient Reported Outcomes - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE). For each symptom and each domain (i.e., frequency, severity, and interference), counts and frequencies will be summarized for the worst score experienced by the patient by treatment arm., Up to 15 months after completion of chemoradiation therapy|Concordance between tumor and circulating cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) molecular subtypes, The concordance between molecular subtypes obtained via ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq) on tumor tissue and methylation analysis on cfDNA will be assessed among patients who have both evaluable RNAseq and methylation results, where Cohen's Kappa and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported. In addition, the sensitivity and specificity of dichotomized cfDNA molecular subtypes (considering RNAseq as reference standard), along with the associated 95% confidence intervals, will be reported. Spearman rank correlation and associated 95% confidence intervals based on bootstrap between RNAseq and methylation will be reported., Up to 5 years|Treatment effect by sex, Estimates of the primary outcome treatment effect and the corresponding 95% CIs by sex will be provided., Up to 5 years|Treatment effect by race, Estimates of the primary outcome treatment effect and the corresponding 95% CIs by race will be provided., Up to 5 years|Treatment effect by ethnicity, Estimates of the primary outcome treatment effect and the corresponding 95% CIs by ethnicity will be provided., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare overall survival (OS) for patients with LS-SCLC treated with chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare progression free survival (PFS) for patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer (LS-SCLC) treated with chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.

II. To determine overall response rate (ORR), rates of local control, and distant metastases free survival with chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.

III. To characterize immune mediated and non-immune mediated toxicity from chemoradiotherapy plus atezolizumab.

IV. To compare quality of life, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Trial Outcome Index (FACT-TOI), for patients undergoing chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.

V. To evaluate the quality-adjusted survival, using scores from the 5-level EuroQol 5-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), of chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab for patients with LS-SCLC.

VI. To characterize fatigue, as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS), following chemoradiation +/- atezolizumab.

VII. To determine the association of small cell lung cancer (SCLC) molecular subtypes with clinical outcomes.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect biospecimens at baseline, day 1 and 3 months after the end of chemoradiotherapy, to allow for future analyses.

II. To characterize patient-reported symptomatic toxicities measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE).

III. To characterize the concordance between tumor and circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA)-determined molecular subtypes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive etoposide intravenously (IV) on days 1-3 and cisplatin IV or carboplatin IV on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) or intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) twice daily (BID) for approximately 3 weeks or once daily (QD) for approximately 6-7 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood specimen collection throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive treatment as in Arm I. Patients also receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 or 2 of each chemotherapy cycle. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for 17 cycles (1 year) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood specimen collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, then annually thereafter.