Neoadjuvant PD-1 Inhibitor Dostarlimab (TSR-042) Vs. Combination of Tim-3 Inhibitor Cobolimab (TSR-022) and PD-1 Inhibitor Dostarlimab (TSR-042) in Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to test the effects of anti-PI-1 inhibitor (TSR-042) or anti-PD-1/anti-TIM-3 combination (TSR-042 / TSR-022) in patients with operable melanoma.
Melanoma Stage III|Melanoma Stage IV
DRUG: Dostarlimab (TSR-042) (singly)|DRUG: Dostarlimab (TSR-042) and TSR-022 (combination)
Major Pathologic Response (MPR), Proportion of patients with an RVT (residual volume of viable tumor) of ≤10% remaining in post-therapy specimen using immunotherapy-specific pathologic assessment of neoadjuvant treated melanoma specimens., 54 weeks
Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events Attributed to Treatment, Number o f participants experiencing adverse events (per CTCAE v5.0) that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment, will be tabulated by category, grade and relatedness., Up to 56 months|Frequency of Delays in Surgery, Number of delayed of surgeries., Up to 56 months|Frequency of Cancellations of Surgery, Number of canceled surgeries., Up to 56 months|Relapse-free Survival, The length of time from initiation of study drug(s) until melanoma relapse (disease progression) as defined by RECIST v1.1, or death. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 56 months|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from initiation of study drug(s) that patients remain alive., Up to 56 months
Percentage of Circulating immune cells, Percentage of immune cells present in circulating peripheral blood., Up to 56 months|Percentage of Intratumoral immune cells, Percentage of immune cells present in tumor., Up to 56 months
This is a randomized phase II neoadjuvant study comparing neoadjuvant therapy with PD-1 inhibitor Dostarlimab (TSR-042) to the PD-1/TIM-3 inhibitor combination Dostarlimab (TSR-042)/TSR-022 in patients with resectable regionally advanced or oligometastatic melanoma.

Patients with stage III B/C/D or oligometastatic stage IV A melanoma with lymph node (LN) and/or in-transit and/or oligometastatic disease who have yet to undergo definitive surgery are eligible to enroll.

Suitable patients will be identified pre-operatively. Patients will undergo screening evaluation consisting of systemic/CNS staging scans, tumor biopsy, blood studies to confirm suitability. Subjects will receive neoadjuvant therapy (Dostarlimab (TSR-042) or Dostarlimab (TSR-042)/TSR-022 combination for 6 weeks prior to planned surgery (pre-operative phase). Surgery will occur 1-4 weeks after completion of pre-operative therapy. After recovery from surgery subjects will receive Dostarlimab (TSR-042) (Post-Operative phase) for approximately 48 weeks; for a total of 54 weeks of study drug(s) administration in total.