A Study of Elacytarabine (CP-4055) Plus Idarubicin as Second Course Remission-Induction Therapy in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukaemia
The main objective of this study is to assess the biological activity of elacytarabine in combination with idarubicin in patients with acute myeloid leukaemia who has failed the first course of a remission-induction treatment with cytarabine (ara-C). In addition, the correlation between hENT1 (human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1) and overall survival will be studied.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Elacytarabine plus idarubicin
Determine the rate of complete remission (CR), including complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) in patients with AML who have not attained blast clearance after the first course of a ara-C based remission-induction therapy., Day 21 in each course
Obtain indication on the independence between hENT1 expression level and CR or CRi. Obtain guidance on disease free survival (DFS). Obtain guidance on event free survival (EFS). Characterize the safety profile of elacytarabine plus idarubicin., Day 21 in each course|Duration of disease free survival (DFS), defined as time from CR + CRi to relapse, Study end|Duration of event free survival (EFS), defined as time from day one of therapy until relapse or death from any cause, Study end|Characterize the safety profile of elacytarabine plus idarubicin in this patient population, Study end
Elacytarabine (CP-4055) is a pro-drug of ara-C currently used in the treatment of patients with acute myeloid leukaemia. Patients with nucleoside transporter deficiency (hENT1) seem to have less benefit from cytarabine compared to those with a high expression of the transporter. Preclinical studies indicate that elacytarabine is independent of this transporter. Therefore, patients with low expression of hENT1 and treated with elacytarabine are anticipated to have a better outcome compared to patients treated with ara-C. The main objective of this study is to assess the biological activity of elacytarabine in combination with idarubicin in patients with acute myeloid leukaemia. In addition, the correlation between hENT1 (human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1) and overall survival will be studied. Patients will be treated with elacytarabine plus idarubicin independent of their hENT1 status. Determination of the patients' hENT1 expression level will be done retrospectively. This study will also explore the safety profile of elacytarabine in combination with idarubicin.