uTRACT Jelmyto Registry: A Registry of Patients With Upper Tract Urothelial Cancer (UTUC) Treated With Jelmyto
The purpose of this registry is to evaluate real world experience and outcomes of patients with Upper Tract Urothelial Cancer (UTUC) treated with Jelmyto in the United States.
Urothelial Carcinoma|Urothelial Carcinoma Recurrent|Urothelial Carcinoma Ureter|Urothelial Carcinoma Ureter Recurrent|Urothelial Cancer of Renal Pelvis|Urothelial Carcinoma of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Carcinoma, Transitional Cell|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of Renal Pelvis
DRUG: Jelmyto (mitomycin) for pyelocalyceal solution
Rate of CR or no evidence of disease (NED) at first evaluation post-treatment, 3 months
Duration of response, 3 years|Rate of progression, 3 years|Rates and clinical significance of AEs, 3 years
Patients may be enrolled prospectively, at the time of receiving Jelmyto, or after receiving Jelmyto for retrospective data capture and prospective follow up. Patients will be followed until 3 years after the first dose of Jelmyto or death.

Data will be captured to address specific clinical questions and data gaps related to real world use of Jelmyto.

Example clinical questions:

1. How is Jelmyto used in the real world setting?
2. What adverse events (AEs) and at what rates and time points are they observed in the real world setting?
3. What is the disease volume before and after resection/ablation prior to treating with Jelmyto?
4. Did the use of Jelmyto impact clinical decision making and management?
5. What is the complete response (CR) rate, duration of response, and rate of progression, including subgroups of interest?
6. What are the rates of, time to, and pathology at radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) by response to treatment and number of Jelmyto doses received?
7. What are outcomes for non-responders or partial responders? What are the rates of surgical and therapeutic treatment options received following response assessment, including additional Jelmyto?
8. What was the outcome of patients with solitary kidney and/or chronic kidney disease (CKD)? Did Jelmyto prevent dialysis by avoiding nephrectomy in solitary kidney or in patients with baseline CKD?
9. What is the rate and timing of bladder cancer occurrence and/or recurrences?