Thoracic Paravertebral Block With Methylene Blue Visual Confirmation for Postoperative Pain After VATS Lobectomy
The goal of this study is to compare the efficacy in controlling postoperative pain of paravertebral block (PVB) with methylene blue visual confirmation and thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA). This is a single center, parallel-group, prospective study. Patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either PVB or TEA. Primary end-point is pain relief measured with Postoperative Numeric Rating Scale. The secondary end-points are time to perform TEA and PVB, total opioid consumption, postoperative outcomes.
Post Operative Pain|Thoracic Cancer
PROCEDURE: Paravertebral block with methylene blue|PROCEDURE: Thoracic Epidural Anesthesia
Change From Baseline in Pain Scores on the Postoperative Numeric Rating Scale in the first 48 hours postoperatively, Pain scores at rest and after cough will be evaluated in the first 48 hours postoperatively using Postoperative Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) ranging from 0 (absence of pain) to 10 (maximum level of pain), 1 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours after surgery
Opioids consumption, Cumulative dose of intravenous opioids administered as rescue analgesic will be registered during the post-operative period., through the entire hospital stay, an average of 8 days"|Time to perform PVB or TEA, Time needed to perform PVB or TEA will be recorded, From the identification of the site of injection to the start of general anesthesia, up to 1 hour|Chest tube duration, Total days of chest tube duration will be recorded, From chest tube placement to chest tube removal, up to 20 days|Length of hospital stay, Total days of hospital stay will be recorded, From hospital admission to discharge, up to 20 days
The management of postoperative pain in patients undergoing thoracoscopic lobectomy is a fundamental part of the process of recovery. Uncontrolled thoracic pain in the early postoperative period may interfere with the mobilization of the patients, leading to increased morbidity and reduction in the quality of life.

Thoracic paravertebral block (PVB) is an effective strategy for controlling postoperative pain after video-assisted thoracoscopic (VATS) lobectomy, but it may be subjected to a high rate of failure due to incorrect identification of the site of local anesthetic injection.

Thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA) is considered a reliable technique for regional thoracic anesthesia, however potential side effects may limit its use.

Herein the investigators reported a new technique using methylene blue as a visual confirmation of the correct anesthetic diffusion during PVB. Then, the investigators will compare the efficacy of methylene blue PVB with TEA for the management of postoperative pain in patients undergoing VATS lobectomy.

This is a single center, parallel-group, prospective study. Participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either PVB with methylene blue or TEA.

All participants will receive postoperatively intravenous acetaminophen as additional analgesics and intravenous tramadol as rescue analgesic. Primary end-point is pain relief measured with Postoperative Numeric Rating Scale at at 1, 12, 24, 48 hours postoperatively. The secondary end-points are: (i) time to perform TEA and PVB, (ii) total opioid consumption, (iii) postoperative outcomes (including complications, chest drainage duration and length of hospital stay).