A Phase 1 Study of Intravesical VAX014 for Instillation in Subjects With Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and activity of VAX014 for Instillation (VAX014) in patients with low-grade Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC). VAX014 is a targeted oncolytic agent designed to kill tumor cells following instillation into the urinary bladder.
Urothelial Carcinoma of the Urinary Bladder
DRUG: VAX014
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VAX014, The MTD will be defined as the dose level at which at most one of six patients experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) after 28 days of treatment have occurred, with the next higher dose having at least 2/3 or 2/6 patients experiencing a DLT, up to 28 days|Incidence of Treatment-Emergence Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Toxicities will be assessed in each subject by tracking the occurrence of graded Adverse Events (AEs). AEs will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0, Through study completion, an average of 20 weeks
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of intravesical VAX014, The RP2D will be determined following the determination of the MTD and an overall assessment of safety as determined by the Safety Committee, up to 5 weeks|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), The peak plasma concentration (Cmax) will be measured as part of pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. In the event early analysis determines that VAX014 is not detectable in whole blood, PK sampling and analysis will be suspended., Day 1|Trough Plasma Concentration (Cmin), The trough plasma concentration (Cmin) will be measured as part of pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. In the event early analysis determines that VAX014 is not detectable in whole blood, PK sampling and analysis will be suspended., Day 1|Time to Peak Plasma Concentration (Tmax), The time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) will be measured as part of pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. In the event early analysis determines that VAX014 is not detectable in whole blood, PK sampling and analysis will be suspended., Day 1|Volume and Distribution (Vd), The volume and distribution (Vd) will be measured as part of pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. In the event early analysis determines that VAX014 is not detectable in whole blood, PK sampling and analysis will be suspended., Day 1|Half Life (t[1/2]), The half life (t\[1/2\]) will be measured as part of pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. In the event early analysis determines that VAX014 is not detectable in whole blood, PK sampling and analysis will be suspended., Day 1|Area Under Curve (AUC), The area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) will be measured as part of pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. In the event early analysis determines that VAX014 is not detectable in whole blood, PK sampling and analysis will be suspended., Day 1|Clearance (Cl), The clearance (Cl) will be measured as part of pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. In the event early analysis determines that VAX014 is not detectable in whole blood, PK sampling and analysis will be suspended., Day 1|Overall Response Rate, Response rate will be evaluated for low-grade Ta lesions. Lesions will be assessed with cystoscopy and change in tumor size will be recorded., Up to 20 weeks|Anti-Drug Antibodies (Immunogenicity), The presence or absence of anti-drug antibodies (ADA) in serum will be assessed by assay., Up to 20 weeks
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of VAX014 using a 3+3 dose escalation design to determine a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) followed by a dose expansion at the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D). Both phases of the study will use a Window of Opportunity study design where patients with a single, low-grade Ta lesion will receive VAX014 via a urinary catheter into the bladder, weekly for 6 weeks prior to undergoing Transurethral Resection of Bladder Tumor (TURBT) to assess antitumor activity against the mapped lesion.

Patients enrolled in this study must have low-grade (Ta) Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer. However, eligible patients may have up to 5 low-grade Ta lesions at screening, and all but a single mapped lesion will be resected prior to receiving VAX014. The mapped lesion is assessed for anti-tumor activity.

VAX014 is a formulation of recombinant bacterial minicells which is designed to selectively target two NMIBC-associated integrin heterodimers to de-stabilize tumor cell membranes, with the result being tumor cell lysis.