Efficacy and Safety Study of Apaziquone vs. Placebo in Patients With Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC)
This is an international, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study. All eligible patients entering the open label phase of the study will receive a single immediate instillation of apaziquone (4 mg in 40 mL diluent), post transurethral resection-bladder tumor (TURBT). Following Central Pathology review of histology and Double Blind Phase qualification, patients with confirmed eligibility will be randomized to receive either 6 weekly intravesical instillations of apaziquone or matching placebo and undergo cystoscopic and safety assessments every 3 months for 24 months. Patients with histologic evidence of recurrent disease during the study will be treated according to current treatment guidelines or local standard of care. Safety and efficacy assessments will be performed at 3 month intervals for all randomized patients throughout the study. Patients who receive single dose of apaziquone immediately following TURBT and are not eligible for randomization will be followed for 3 months by cystoscopic exam and safety assessments.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Apaziquone|DRUG: Placebo
Time to Recurrence, Time from randomization to the date of first histologically confirmed recurrence of bladder cancer, 24 Months
2-Year Recurrence Rate, Proportion of patients with recurrence at or before 24 months, 24 Months
This is an international, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study. All eligible patients entering the open label phase of the study will receive a single immediate instillation of apaziquone (4 mg in 40 mL diluent), post transurethral resection-bladder tumor (TURBT). Following Central Pathology review of histology and Double Blind Phase qualification, patients with confirmed eligibility will be randomized to receive either 6 weekly intravesical instillations of apaziquone or matching placebo and undergo cystoscopic and safety assessments every 3 months for 24 months. Patients with histologic evidence of recurrent disease during the study will be treated according to current treatment guidelines or local standard of care. Safety and efficacy assessments will be performed at 3 month intervals for all randomized patients throughout the study. Patients who receive single dose of apaziquone immediately following TURBT and are not eligible for randomization will be followed for 3 months by cystoscopic exam and safety assessments.