Vinorelbine With Trastuzumab Emtansine in Pre-Treated HER2-Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
The study proposes to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) and vinorelbine in HER2+ metastatic breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Trastuzumab Emtansine
Phase 1 - Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Vinorelbine in Combination With a Fixed Dose of Trastuzumab Emtansine., Identifying the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Vinorelbine combined with a fixed dose of Trastuzumab Emtansine to be recommended for the phase II portion of the study (RP2D)., 2 years|Phase 2 - Rate of Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Rate of Progression-Free Survival (PFS) in participants receiving the RP2D of vinorelbine in combination with Trastuzumab Emtansine therapy. PFS is defined as the time from date from first treatment received on study until documented disease progression or death (by any cause, in the absence of progression). In progression-free patients, PFS will be censored at the last evaluable tumor assessment according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., Up to 5 years|Phase 1 - Rate of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events, Rate of participants experiencing adverse events including dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and serious adverse events (SAEs)., 18 months
Phase 2 - Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Rate of participants achieving best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) for \>/= 6 months on protocol therapy, according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria, Up to 5 years|Phase 2 - Overall Survival (OS) Rate, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the elapsed time from date from first treatment received on study to death or date of censoring. Patients alive or those lost to follow-up will be censored at the last date of contact (or last date known to be alive)., Up to 5 Years|Phase 2 - Objective Response Rate (ORR), Rate of participants achieving a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to protocol therapy according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v. 1.1 criteria., Up to 5 Years
This is a Phase I/II, single arm, open-label clinical trial designed to establish the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of vinorelbine with a fixed dose of trastuzumab emtansine. The study will also evaluate the safety and efficacy of the RP2D in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic, locally advanced, or unresectable breast cancer. The study will be opened to accrual at the University of Miami Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center (SCCC) main campus and constituent satellite sites, Deerfield Beach and Plantation.

This phase I/II study will have a total of 50 enrolled patients, taking into account 10% drop-out in the phase II follow-up. The duration anticipated to enroll all study subjects in Phase I/II is 2 years. The estimated duration for the Investigators to complete this study (Phase I/II) is 4.5 to 5 years.

For the phase I portion, standard 3+3 dose escalation/de-escalation design will be applied. Approximately 15 to 21 patients will be needed to establish the recommended phase II dose (RP2D). For the phase II portion of the study, up to 35 patients will be treated at the RP2D (MTD) including 6 patients treated at RP2D in phase I. Patients may remain on treatment with the combination until disease progression or unmanageable toxicity.

Tumor assessments will be conducted every 6 weeks (±7 days) to week 18. Thereafter, these assessments will be done every 12 weeks (±7 days). These will shall occur regardless of dose delays or dose interruptions, until Investigator-assessed progressive disease (PD), or death, whichever occurs first. More frequent tumor assessments may be performed as clinically indicated, at the discretion of the treating Investigator.

For the phase II portion of the study - patients who discontinue treatment for reasons other than PD will continue to have required tumor assessments completed until PD or the initiation of a new therapy. Once patients have progressed, they will be followed for survival approximately every 3 months for at least 3 years. Subsequent anti-cancer therapies will be documented until study completion.

Patients who are discontinued from study treatment will return for the Study Treatment Discontinuation Visit approximately 30 days (±7 days) after the last dose of study treatment.