CRLX101(NLG207) in Combination With Bevacizumab for Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (mRCC) Versus Standard of Care (SOC)
This study to evaluate treatment in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) which has progressed through 2 to 3 prior lines of therapy, with the investigational drug CRLX101 in combination with bevacizumab compared to treatment with a standard of care therapy. The study will compare which treatment resulted in longer time before progression of the RCC. Patients will be treated and followed for progression of their disease on average for up to 6 months.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: CRLX101|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Standard of Care (Investigator Choice)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), To assess progression free survival (PFS) in patients with clear cell metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) treated with CRLX101 in combination with bevacizumab (CRLX101+bevacizumab) vs. standard of care (SOC) per investigator's choice, as assessed by blinded independent radiological review (IRR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, at least 6 months
Overall Safety and tolerability (AEs, SAEs, Clinical Laboratory Parameters, Vital Signs, Concomitant Medications), AEs will be coded using MedDRA and graded according to CTCAE (v 4.03). The number and percentage of patients with any treatment-emergent AE (TEAE) will be summarized for each treatment group. The number of patients with TEAEs assessed by the Investigator as at least possibly related to treatment will be tabulated. The number of patients with any CTCAE grade ≥ 3 treatment-emergent AE will be tabulated. Serious AEs (SAEs) will also be tabulated.

For Clinical Laboratory Parameters - Shift tables that present changes from baseline to worst on-study values relative to CTCAE grading will be produced.

For Vital Signs - By-patient data listings of vital sign measurements will be presented.

For Concomitant Medications - The use of concomitant medications will be included in by-patient data listings. A summary table of concomitant medications by WHO drug class will also be provided., at least 30 days post last dose of study drug|Overall survival, To compare time to death between treatment groups of CRLX101 in combination with bevacizumab compared to SOC., on average 12 months after discontinuation of study treatment|Objective response rate, Evaluate response rates comparing the investigational treatment of CRLX101 in combination with bevacizumab compared to SOC as assessed by blinded IRR as well as by the Investigator, at least 6 months|Duration of Response, Evaluate time to response comparing the investigational treatment of CRLX101 in combination with bevacizumab compared to SOC as assessed by blinded IRR as well as by the Investigator, at least 6 months|PFS, To assess PFS in patients with clear cell metastatic RCC treated with CRLX101+bevacizumab vs. SOC per investigator's choice, as assessed at the site level by the Investigator according to RECIST version 1.1, at least 6 months|PFS, To assess PFS (as assessed at the site level by the Investigator and separately by blinded IRR) in clear cell RCC patients treated with CRLX101+bevacizumab compared to bevacizumab treatment alone, at least 6 months
This study to evaluate treatment in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) which has progressed through 2 to 3 prior lines of therapy, with the investigational drug CRLX101 in combination with bevacizumab compared to treatment with a standard of care therapy. The study will compare which treatment resulted in longer time before progression of the RCC. Patients will be treated and followed for progression of their disease on average for up to 6 months.