Veliparib, Bendamustine Hydrochloride, and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Lymphoma, Multiple Myeloma, or Solid Tumors
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and the best dose of veliparib when given together with bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab and to see how well they work in treating patients with lymphoma, multiple myeloma, or solid tumors that have come back or have not responded to treatment. Veliparib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as bendamustine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Others interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving veliparib together with bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab may kill more cancer cells.
Adult B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-Cell Lymphoma|Adult Solid Neoplasm|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Cutaneous B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|Intraocular Lymphoma|Lymphomatous Involvement of Non-Cutaneous Extranodal Site|Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma|Small Intestinal Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Testicular Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Bendamustine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Veliparib
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Veliparib When Combined With Bendamustine Hydrochloride, Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) reflects the highest dose of Veliparib when combined with Bendamustine Hydrochloride that did not cause a DLT. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was defined as the highest dose level at which 33% of patients experienced DLT., 28 days|Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI and/or CT: Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for a Partial Response nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progression of Disease (POD); POD, 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions; Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions., 2 years|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse events assessed by NCI CTCAE version 4.0 (Phase Ib) See adverse events section., 2 years
Complete Response (CR) to Study Treatment (Phase IIa), Summary statistics will be used for CR. Responses will be evaluated by the International Uniform Response Criteria for Multiple Myeloma., 2 years|Duration of Remission (Phase IIa), From the first documented response to the first documented progression or death, assessed up to 30 days post-treatment|Overall Survival (Phase IIa), Kaplan-Meier estimates will be calculated and log-rank tests will be employed when certain comparisons are needed., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Veliparib (Phase Ib), Area Under the Curve from time zero to 12 hours following Veliparib administration, From time zero to 12 hours on day 2 of course 1|Progression-free Survival Using RECIST Version 1.1 (Phase IIa), Kaplan-Meier estimates will be calculated and log-rank tests will be employed when certain comparisons are needed. Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria., 2 years|Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities, 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of ABT-888 (veliparib) in combination with bendamustine (bendamustine hydrochloride) in patients with solid tumors, lymphoma, or multiple myeloma. (Phase Ib) II. To establish the safety of ABT-888 in combination with bendamustine and rituximab in an expansion cohort of patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). (Phase Ib) III. To assess the toxicity profile of this regimen in the above patients. (Phase Ib) IV. To determine the complete response (CR) rate in patients with indolent NHL or mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) treated with ABT-888 + bendamustine + rituximab. (Phase IIa)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess response rates and survival parameters of patients treated with ABT-888 + bendamustine +/- rituximab. (Phase Ib) II. To assess pharmacokinetic parameters of ABT-888 in this regimen. (Phase Ib) III. To assess progression-free survival, overall survival, and duration of remission of patients with indolent NHL and MCL treated with ABT-888 + bendamustine + rituximab. (Phase IIa)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 and bendamustine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Once the maximum-tolerated dose is determined, a cohort of patients receives veliparib and bendamustine hydrochloride as above and rituximab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.