Responding to Late Effects in Survivors of Childhood Cancer
Survivors of childhood cancer need ongoing support to navigate their needs after cancer treatment. Using technology may offer us new ways to collect and share information about cancer survivorship follow-up with young survivors, their carers, and primary care providers.

Through the support of the Kids Cancer Project, in Phase 1 of this study, will co-design an electronic survivorship 'portal' that links young survivors with their cancer treatment information, and health care teams. In later Phases we will implement and evaluate the survivorship portal.
Survivorship|Model of Care|Support
OTHER: Model of Care
Caregiver Quality of Life Cancer, The scale is a validated and reliable measure, comprising 35 items on a 5-point Likert scale, which we have widely used in other studies with this population (Weitzner et al., 1999). We will compare outcomes of a historical control group (N=100), matched for child age and diagnosis, as closely as possible to identify any significant differences between groups that may be attributed to the RECOVER Model of care., Baseline, Sixth and twelfth month|Pediatric Integrated Care Survey, Pediatric Integrated Care Survey, Baseline, Sixth and twelfth month|Distress Thermometer for Parents, The DT-P is a valid and reliable short screening tool for identifying parental distress. It was developed to determine parents' distress who had chronically ill children (0-18 years). The DT-P consists of a thermometer score from 0 (no distress) to 10 (extreme distress) and a problem list (practical, social, emotional, physical, cognitive, and parenting domains) (Haverman et al., 2013)., Baseline, Sixth and twelfth month
The RECOVER study aims to develop and implement a comprehensive Model of Care for childhood cancer survivors, integrating technology and a human-centered co-design approach to provide continuous, holistic care. Our primary objectives are to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the RECOVER Model of Care in routine pediatric oncology practice. Secondary objectives include evaluating preliminary efficacy results and identifying factors that influence the successful adoption and integration of the model.

Data Sources: This project will be conducted in three settings in Australia. The study will use a mixed methods approach, starting with a feasibility study (Phase 1), following implementation science methods to assess the integration of the new Model of Care (Phase 2), and culminating in a Type 2 Hybrid Implementation/Effectiveness non-randomized controlled trial (Phase 3) to compare historical and prospective data. The quantitative component of RECOVER (non-randomized controlled study) will involve the use of digital technologies to (1) enable multimodal, real-world data collection, (2) provide patients and caregivers with an interactive, supportive digital interface, and (3) equip healthcare professionals with a comprehensive patient-monitoring system. The qualitative component will determine end-user feasibility and acceptability through focus group workshops, surveys, and interviews.