Virtual Reality for Improving Pain and Distress in Patients With Advanced Stage Colorectal Cancer
Patients with advanced colorectal cancer often experience high levels of debilitating pain and pain-related psychological distress. Pain in cancer patients is typically treated with analgesics. There is growing agreement that non-pharmacological pain management strategies are needed to treat pain in advanced cancer patients. Recent evidence suggests Virtual Reality (VR) experiences can lead to reductions in acute pain; however, VR has not been tested in advanced cancer patients having persistent pain. VR could represent a valuable addition to our current armamentarium of treatments for persistent pain in palliative care patients. VR provides individuals with an immersive computer-generated environment that can reduce pain, tension and distress.

The proposed study builds upon and extends preliminary research in healthy participants conducted by Luana Colloca, MD, PhD. Dr. Colloca is a consultant on this project and the proposed study would be the first to extend VR Blue to a clinical population and test its effects on clinical pain. The objective is to gather initial data on advanced colorectal cancer patients' immediate response to a single VR session. The investigators will examine feasibility, acceptability, safety, and impact of exposure to VR Blue on the clinical pain experience of advanced colorectal cancer patients. The study will collect data on pain, tension and distress pre-, midpoint, and post-VR. The investigators will also examine how pre- to post-VR changes in key cognitive variables (i.e., pain catastrophizing, pain self-efficacy) relate to VR-related changes in pain, tension and distress.

The investigators will also collect qualitative data following participants' VR experience to better understand patients' preferences, thoughts and feelings about the VR experience. Data will be used to optimize VR Blue for future study, including developing an intervention to support a multi-session VR protocol for advanced colorectal cancer patients. The proposed study represents the first step in a program of clinical research that seeks to test the efficacy of VR in improving pain and pain-related symptoms in advanced colorectal cancer patients. In the proposed study, the investigators will collect quantitative and qualitative data on the impact of VR Blue on pain and pain-related outcomes in 20 advanced colorectal cancer patients.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: VR Blue
Feasibility, Assessed by Examining Number of Participants Accrued, Feasibility was assessed by examining number of participants accrued., 6 months|Feasibility, Assessed by Examining Number of Participants With >80% Adherence to the Protocol, Feasibility will be assessed by examining protocol adherence (\>80% adherence to the protocol \[defined in this study as the degree to which participants are willing and able to complete the 30-minute VR exposure\]), 30 minutes|Feasibility, Assessed by Number of Participants With Completed Data, Feasibility will be assessed by examining completed data (\>80% data collected at the study appointment, including pre-, midpoint, and post-VR assessments), 90 minutes|Acceptability Using the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire, This questionnaire contains 10 items rated from 1=low acceptability to 4=high acceptability; scores are created by utilizing the Likert Scale to average Client Satisfaction Questionnaire answers resulting in a score range from 1-4. The participant will complete this acceptability questionnaire as part of their post-VR session assessment., 90 minutes|Number of Participants With VR Side Effects, Safety of the VR protocol will be assessed based on participants' report of VR side effects, such as motion sickness, dizziness, headache, nausea, or other negative physical reactions, 30 minutes
Change in Pain Severity as Assessed With the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Pain will be assessed with the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Patients will rate their "pain right now" from 0=no pain to 10=worst pain imaginable. An average of the responses to these items is used to create a single pain severity score., Pre-, post-VR session, approximately 90 minutes|Pain Interference as Assessed With the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) - Pain Interference Scale, Pain interference will be assessed with the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) - Pain Interference Scale. Patients will rate how much pain interfered with a variety of activities and mood states over the last 7 days from 0=does not interfere to 10=completely interferes. An average of the responses to these items is used to create a single pain severity score., Pre-VR session assessment|Change in Tension as Measured With the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Visual Analog Scale (VAS) items are rated on a 0-100 scale. 0=no tension at all, 100=maximum tolerable tension. An average of the responses at each time-point were used to create a single score of change from pre-VR session to post-VR session., Pre-, post-VR session. Full study visit starting at pre-VR and ending at Post-VR is approximately 90 minutes.|Change in Distress as Measured With the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Visual Analog Scale (VAS) items are rated on a 0-100 scale. 0=no stress at all, 100=maximum tolerable stress. An average of the responses at each time-point were used to create a single score of change from pre-VR session to post-VR session., Pre- and post-VR session, Full study visit starting at pre-VR and ending at Post-VR is approximately 90 minutes.|Change in Pain Catastrophizing as Measured With the Coping Strategies Questionnaire's Pain Catastrophizing Subscale, Items will be rated on a scale ranging from 0=never do to 6=always do when in pain. An average of the responses to these items is used to create a single score of change from pre-VR session to post-VR session., Pre- and post-VR session, approximately 90 minutes|Change in Pain Self-efficacy as Measured Using Items Adapted From the Self-efficacy for Pain Management Subscale of the Chronic Pain Self-Efficacy Scale, Self-efficacy will be measured using items adapted from the self-efficacy for pain management subscale of the Chronic Pain Self-Efficacy Scale. Items are rated on a 10-point scale ranging from 10=very uncertain to 100=very certain. Scores are averaged to give an overall value of change from pre-VR session to post-VR session for pain self-efficacy., Pre- and post-VR session, approximately 90 minutes
Patients with advanced colorectal cancer often experience high levels of debilitating pain and pain-related psychological distress. Pain in cancer patients is typically treated with analgesics. Unfortunately, analgesics are not uniformly effective and often are associated with poorly tolerated side effects (e.g., constipation, nausea, sedation). There is growing agreement that non-pharmacological pain management strategies are needed to treat pain in advanced cancer patients. Recent evidence suggests Virtual Reality (VR) experiences can lead to reductions in acute pain; however, VR has not been tested in advanced cancer patients having persistent pain. VR could represent a valuable addition to our current armamentarium of treatments for persistent pain in palliative care patients.

VR provides individuals with an immersive computer-generated environment that can reduce pain, tension and distress. VR may be particularly likely to positively impact cognitive pathways by changing pain-related cognitions (e.g., decreasing pain catastrophizing, increasing self-efficacy for pain control). VR-based interventions have the potential to alter these negative ways of thinking, and advanced cancer patients with persistent pain and pain-related distress may be particularly likely to benefit.

The proposed study builds upon and extends preliminary research in healthy participants conducted by Luana Colloca, MD, PhD. That study found that exposure to a 30-minute virtual underwater/sea environment (VR Blue) produced significant increases in pain tolerance for thermal pain stimuli compared to control conditions. Dr. Colloca is a consultant on this project and the proposed study would be the first to extend VR Blue to a clinical population and test its effects on clinical pain. The objective is to gather initial data on advanced colorectal cancer patients' immediate response to a single VR session. The investigators will examine feasibility, acceptability, safety, and impact of exposure to VR Blue on the clinical pain experience of advanced colorectal cancer patients. The study will collect data on pain, tension and distress pre-, midpoint, and post-VR. The investigators will also examine how pre- to post-VR changes in key cognitive variables (i.e., pain catastrophizing, pain self-efficacy) relate to VR-related changes in pain, tension and distress.

The investigators will also collect qualitative data following participants' VR experience to better understand patients' preferences, thoughts and feelings about the VR experience. Data will be used to optimize VR Blue for future study, including developing an intervention to support a multi-session VR protocol for advanced colorectal cancer patients. The proposed study represents the first step in a program of clinical research that seeks to test the efficacy of VR in improving pain and pain-related symptoms in advanced colorectal cancer patients. In the proposed study, the investigators will collect quantitative and qualitative data on the impact of VR Blue on pain and pain-related outcomes in 20 advanced colorectal cancer patients.

The long-term goal of this research is to improve quality of life in advanced colorectal cancer patients by decreasing pain, tension and distress. This project will provide preliminary data that will be used to inform and optimize development of a multi-session VR protocol to be tested in patients with advanced stage colorectal cancer that could be generalizable to other palliative care populations with pain.