Testing of the Cancer Thriving and Surviving Breast Cancer Program
The adjusted Cancer Thriving and Surviving Program (CTS) for women with breast cancer living in Switzerland (CTS-BC-CH) is a course of 7 weekly sessions of 2.5 - 3 hours led by trained peer-leaders (women with breast cancer experience). This pilot study aims to explore the reach of the CTS-BC-CH program (integrated into the clinical pathway) and to investigate its preliminary effectiveness with regard to Swiss breast cancer patients' self-efficacy and self-management.
Breast Neoplasm|Early-Stage Breast Cancer|Self-Management|Intervention|Cancer Survivorship
BEHAVIORAL: CTS-BC-CH
Reach of intervention assessed by ratio of eligible patients vs. participating patients, 21 weeks after baseline|Changes in self-management skills assessed by heiQ, Assessed by the Health Education Impact Questionnaire (heiQ), Change from baseline to 20 weeks after baseline
Change in patient-reported self-efficacy assessed by SES6G, Assessed by the Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease Scale (SES6G), Change from baseline to 20 weeks after baseline|Change in patient-reported health literacy assessed by HLS-EU-Q6, Assessed by the Health Literacy Scale Europe (HLS-EU-Q6), Change from baseline to 20 weeks after baseline|Change in patient-reported symptom burden assessed by BCPT Symptom Scales, Assessed by the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) Symptom Scales, Change from baseline to 20 weeks after baseline|Change in patient-reported health service navigation assessed by heiQ, Assessed by a subscale of the Health Education Impact Questionnaire (heiQ), Change from baseline to 20 weeks after baseline|Change in nurse-reported self-efficacy and self-management support practices assessed by SEPSS, Assessed by the Self-Efficacy and Performance in Self-management Support (SEPSS) measure, Change from baseline to 30 weeks after baseline
In 2016/17, the self-management program for cancer survivors, the Cancer Thriving and Surviving Program (CTS) was translated into German. The content of the CTS was adapted to breast cancer specific needs in three interdisciplinary workshops based on a participatory approach including active patient engagement. Additional disease-specific topics were developed and confirmed applying a multi-stakeholder e-rating approach. After a consensus meeting with the participation of breast cancer survivors, health care professional and international experts in the field of self-management, consensus on the program was reached in June 2017, resulting in the CTS-BC-CH program, i.e. a standardized manual for course leaders.

This pilot study aims to explore the reach of the CTS-BC-CH program (integrated into the clinical pathway) and to investigate its preliminary effectiveness for female Swiss breast cancer patients. The CTS-BC-CH is delivered in two breast cancer centers in in the German-speaking part of Switzerland as a group-based program with seven weekly sessions of 2.5 - 3 hours led by trained peer-leaders. Course leaders have to complete a 4-days training provided by certified master trainers. First, participants are enrolled for usual care, followed by participants who will attend the CTS-BC-CH course. Participants will complete self-reported questionnaires at three time points over a period of 6 months.