Durvalumab, Tremelimumab and Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of durvalumab, tremelimumab and hypofractionated radiation therapy in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma that has come back (recurrent) or that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab and tremelimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Giving durvalumab, tremelimumab, and hypofractionated radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Tremelimumab|PROCEDURE: Hypofractionated Image-Guided Radiation Therapy
Number of Patients With Adverse Effects Graded According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 4.0, Toxicities will be summarized as the number and percentage of patients with each type of toxicity, per Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, From the start of study treatment up to 3 months after last study treatment, up to 38 months
Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Survival estimates will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression free survival is measured in months. PFS is defined as the amount of time between treatment initiation and when the disease progresses per RECIST 1.1 criteria, From the date of study enrollment for up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Survival estimates will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Overall survival is measured in months. OS is defined as the amount of time between treatment initiation and when the patient is deceased., From the date of study enrollment for up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To demonstrate safety and tolerability of durvalumab and tremelimumab and palliative radiation therapy in patients with recurrent metastatic squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck previously exposed to an anti PD-1 or PDL-1 monoclonal antibody.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Measure objective response rates based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. criteria in patients receiving the durvalumab, tremelimumab and palliative radiation therapy (RT) combination.

II. Determine overall and progression free survival in patients enrolled in the study.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tremelimumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1, week 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 4 cycles or every 6 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1, week 16. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 9 cycles or every 6 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy using either hypofractionated, image-guided radiotherapy (HIGRT) or stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) over 3 fractions every other day (QOD) during week 3.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 10 months, and then every 12 months.