MGD013 Monotherapy and Combination With Brivanib Dose Escalation and Expansion Study in Advanced Liver Cancer Patients
This study consists of two parts: Phase I is a dose escalation study to determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of MGD013 monotherapy and that of MGD013 when in combination with Brivanib Alaninate (ZL-2301) in subjects with advanced liver cancer (including hepatocellular carcinoma and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma). Phase II is a dose expansion study and consists of two parts: Part 1 is to assess the safety and efficacy of MGD013 monotherapy and MGD013 in combination with ZL-2301 in subjects with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); in Part 2, a therapeutic method (MGD013 monotherapy or MGD013 in combination with ZL-2301, determined by the sponsor according to the obtained data) will be selected for dose expansion study in HCC subjects who have previously failed immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment, to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of the study treatments in the specific group of subjects.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
DRUG: MGD013 monotherapy|DRUG: MGD013 in combination with Brivanib Alaninate
Phase 1: Number of Participants With Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLT was defined as the adverse events (AEs) listed in the protocol occurring within 4 weeks (the first 2 cycles, 28 days) after the investigational drugs which were at least possibly related to the study drugs. AE severity was graded from 1 to 5 according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0., The first two cycles (Cycle 1 and Cycle 2) of the study treatment(s). A cycle lasted for two weeks (14 days) in the study.|Phase 1 and Phase 2: Safety, All adverse events (AEs) occurring on or after the first study treatment were listed and summarized. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) was defined as an AE that had an onset date or a worsening in severity from baseline on or after the first dose of study treatment (any component of combination treatment whichever is first) up to 30 days following study treatment (any component of combination treatment whichever was last) discontinuation. All adverse events were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0., AEs would be collected throughout the clinical trial, from the signing of the informed consent form (ICF) to the end of the trial (until 30 days after the last dose of investigational drugs). Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR) Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) According to RECIST 1.1, ORR was defined as the proportion of participants with a confirmed objective response, either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), before progression based on RECIST v1.1. Participants who had no measurable disease at baseline and/or no post-baseline tumor assessment due to any reason will be considered nonresponders. An estimate of ORR was calculated for each treatment arm, and its 95% CI was calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Radiologic examinations were conducted at baseline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.
Phase 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR) by Investigator Assessment According to RECIST 1.1, ORR was defined as the proportion of participants with a confirmed objective response, either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), before progression based on RECIST v1.1. Participants who had no measurable disease at baseline and/or no post-baseline tumor assessment due to any reason will be considered nonresponders. An estimate of ORR was calculated for each treatment arm, and its 95% CI was calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Radiologic examinations were conducted at baseline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 2: Disease Control Rate (DCR) by BICR / Investigator Assessment According to RECIST 1.1, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who attained a best overall response status of CR, PR, and SD. If best overall response is SD, the SD should be stable SD, that is the date of SD should be at least 6 weeks after first dose. DCR was analyzed using the same methodology as specified for ORR., Radiologic examinations were conducted at basline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 2: Time to Response (TTR) by Investigator Assessment According to RECIST 1.1, TTR was defined as the time from the first dose date to the date of the earliest confirmed response assessed using RECIST V1.1. Only responders were included in the analysis., Radiologic examinations were conducted at baseline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 2: Duration of Response (DoR) by Investigator Assessment According to RECIST 1.1, DoR was defined for subjects with a confirmed objective response as the time from the first occurrence of response (CR or PR) to disease progression or death, whichever occurred first. Participants who had no progression or death would be censored., Radiologic examinations were conducted at baseline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 2: Progression-Free Survival (PFS) by Investigator Assessment According to RECIST 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study treatment (any component of combination treatment whichever is first) to the first documented disease progression as determined by the investigator or BICR with the use of RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate the median PFS for each treatment arm and to construct survival curves for each treatment arm. The Brookmeyer-Crowley methodology was used to construct the 95% CI for the median PFS for each treatment arm (Brookmeyer and Crowley 1982)., Radiologic examinations were conducted at baseline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 2: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment (any component of combination treatment whichever was first) to the date of death from any cause. Participants who were alive at the time of the analysis data cutoff would be censored at the last date they were known to be alive. Participants with no post-baseline information were censored at the date of the first dose of study treatment (any study treatment component for combo therapy)., From the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of death from any cause. Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 1: Objective Response Rate (ORR) by Investigator Assessment According to RECIST 1.1, ORR was defined as the proportion of participants with a confirmed objective response, either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), before progression based on RECIST v1.1. Participants who had no measurable disease at baseline and/or no post-baseline tumor assessment due to any reason will be considered nonresponders. An estimate of ORR was calculated for each treatment arm, and its 95% CI was calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Radiologic examinations were conducted at baseline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.|Phase 1: Disease Control Rate (DCR) by Investigator Assessment According to RECIST 1.1, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who attained a best overall response status of CR, PR, and SD. If best overall response is SD, the SD should be stable SD, that is the date of SD should be at least 6 weeks after first dose. DCR was analyzed using the same methodology as specified for ORR., Radiologic examinations were conducted at basline within 28 days prior to the start of study medication and every 8 weeks (±7 days) dated from the first day of the first cycle until disease progression. Up to approximately 24 months.
This study consists of two parts: Phase I is a dose escalation study to determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of MGD013 monotherapy and that of MGD013 when in combination with Brivanib Alaninate (ZL-2301) in subjects with advanced liver cancer (including hepatocellular carcinoma and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma). Phase II is a dose expansion study and consists of two parts: Part 1 is to assess the safety and efficacy of MGD013 monotherapy and MGD013 in combination with ZL-2301 in subjects with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); in Part 2, a therapeutic method (MGD013 monotherapy or MGD013 in combination with ZL-2301, determined by the sponsor according to the obtained data) will be selected for dose expansion study in HCC subjects who have previously failed immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment, to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of the study treatments in the specific group of subjects.