A Study of Pembrolizumab With Standard Treatment in Patients With Recurrent Platinum-resistant Ovarian Cancer
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-PD-1 antibody MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Defined as complete or partial response per RECIST 1.1 criteria with assessment every 6 weeks during first 6 cycles of therapy and every 9 weeks thereafter. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 2 years
Overall Response Rate by iRECIST, Per Immune Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (iRECIST) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI, where the threshold is reset if RECIST 1.1 progression is followed at the next assessment by tumor shrinkage: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months and at 12 Months, Percentage of patients who have not progressed at 6 and 12 months with progression-free survival calculated from the start of treatment to the date of progression or death from any cause. Progression is measured by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Progressive Disease (PD), At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest sum on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., 6 months and 12 months|Time to Progression, Calculated in months from the start of treatment to disease progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Progressive Disease (PD), At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest sum on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 2 years|Duration of Response, Calculated in months as time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression, Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Calculated in months from the start of treatment to the date of death from any cause, Up to 2 years|Frequency and Intensity of Adverse Events (CTCAE v.4), Deemed at Least Possibly Related to Study Participation, As measured at each visit, during safety follow up (30 days after discontinuation of treatment) and during follow up (every nine weeks after discontinuation). Adverse events graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4, with events graded from 1 to 5, where a higher grade reflects greater symptom severity., Up to 2 years
This is a single-arm, open-label, phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-PD-1 antibody MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in combination with standard of care gemcitabine and cisplatin chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer (encompasses ovarian, peritoneal and fallopian tube cancer). Subjects will receive 2 cycles of gemcitabine and cisplatin chemotherapy followed by 4 cycles of gemcitabine and cisplatin combined with pembrolizumab in 21-day treatment cycles. Subjects will continue to receive single-agent pembrolizumab every 21 days as maintenance therapy for up to 2 year until progression or the subject meets withdrawal criteria. Tumor imaging with CT scan will occur at baseline and every 6 weeks (after each second cycle) during chemotherapy treatment and every 9 weeks thereafter. The primary endpoint is efficacy as defined overall response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v.1.1). Secondary endpoints for efficacy include progression free survival at 6 and 12 months, time to progression, duration of response and overall survival. Safety and tolerability of the regimen will be determined by assessing the frequency and intensity of adverse events as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v.4). Quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30).