Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy With Nivolumab for Early-Stage Operable Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Stage 1 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) carries up to 30% chance of relapse in 5 years. This a phase 2 study that aims to determine the pathological complete response of the combination of stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) plus nivolumab as neoadjuvant treatment in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. The patients will receive standard SABR + nivolumab at a dose of 360 mg every 21 days for 3 doses. The patient will undergo surgery 10 weeks after the last radiotherapy dose.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage I
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: nivolumab
Percentage of Pathologic complete response (pCR) after Pre-operative therapy, pCR is defined as absence of viable tumor cells after neoadjuvant therapy, evaluated on surgical specimen, 12 weeks after first day of neoadjuvant therapy
Major pathological response (MPR), MPR will be defined as \<10% of viable tumor cells, 12 weeks after first day of neoadjuvant therapy|Safety: Treatment-related adverse events with continuous toxicity measure as per CTCAE v4.0, Treatment safety will be evaluated as per CTCAE v4.0, Every 21 days during the 3 doses of nivolumab and during a 100-day period after the last dose of study-treatment|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be evaluated as per RECIST v1.1, At 10 (+/- 2) weeks after treatment start.|Relapse-free survival (RFS) at 12 months, Relapse-free survival will be measured from the enrollment date until the date of radiological progression, unequivocal clinical progression or death., 12-month rate|Overall survival (OS), OS will be measured on the date of treatment D1 until date of death (regardless of cause), 12-month rate|Resectability Rate, Rate of complete surgical resections after study treatment, From baseline to the day of surgery (12+-2 weeks)|30-day surgical mortality, Proportion of patients alive after 30 days from surgical resection, 30 days after surgery|Number of pathologic positive lymph nodes, Number of pathologic lymph nodes that were clinically negative and were found to be positive after surgery, From baseline to the day of surgery (12+-2 weeks)|Correlated translational endpoints, The following will be evaluated: mutation profile, transcriptome, immunohistochemical profile, and inflammatory infiltrate by flow cytometry from peripheral blood. Flow cytometry will be repeated for all patients in the surgical specimen and peripheral blood. The mutation profile, transcriptome and immunohistochemical profile will be repeated for patients who do not reach a pathological complete response in viable cells to evaluate for potential resistance mechanisms. The intestinal microbiome will be sequenced before and after treatment and correlated with the endpoints., Baseline and at surgery
Stage 1 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) carries up to 30% chance of relapse in 5 years. Surgery is standard-of-care for this population. For patients who are not candidate for surgery, stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) is standard, with good local control but locoregional and distant failure. The use of preoperative SABR leads to a pathological complete response rate (pCR) of 60%. Anti-PD-1 has the ability to provoke a pCR in around 20% of patients as a single agent. Moreover, it has synergic activity with radiotherapy.

This a phase 2 study that aims to determine the pathological complete response of the combination of stereotactic ablative radiotherapy plus nivolumab as neoadjuvant treatment in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. The patients will receive standard SABR, given either as 3, 5 or 8 fractions (depending on tumor size and location) + nivolumab at a dose of 360 mg every 21 days for 3 doses. The patient will undergo surgery 10 weeks after the last radiotherapy dose. We will measure translational biomarkers associated with either pCR or resistance to therapy.