Acalabrutinib in CNSL
This research study is a Phase 1/2 clinical trial testing the safety, tolerance and efficacy of the drug Acalabrutinib for people with recurrent or refractory central nervous system lymphoma (CNSL).
Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Refractory Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Recurrent Central Nervous System Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD), Highest dose of acalabrutinib that did not cause a dose limiting toxicity. Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) rates will be summarized and 95% exact binomial confidence interval (CI) will be reported., Enrollment to end of treatment up to 2 years
Objective response rate (ORR)., Clinical assessment and International Primary cns lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG) criteria (Abrey, 2005), Enrollment to end of treatment up to 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), Clinical assessment and International Primary cns lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG) criteria (Abrey, 2005), Every 8 weeks up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Evaluated by the Kaplan-Meier method and medians will be provided with 95% CI, Enrollment to end of treatment up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Evaluated by the Kaplan-Meier method and medians will be provided with 95% CI, Time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive.|Treatment-related toxicity, Assessed by CTCAE version 5.0., Enrollment to end of treatment up to 2 years
This is an open-label, dose-escalation phase 1/2 study to determine the safety, pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of Acalabrutinib in patients with recurrent or refractory CNS lymphoma (R/R CNSL).

Acalabrutinib has been studied in lab experiments and in other types of cancer, and information from these studies suggests that acalabrutinib may be beneficial for people with recurrent or refractory central nervous system lymphoma (CNSL). Acalabrutinib targets a vulnerable part of cancer cells which leads to an inhibition of the growth of cancer cells.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved acalabrutinib for recurrent or refractory central nervous system lymphoma (CNSL) but it has been approved for other uses.

The research study procedures include: screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment for up to 2 years as long as they do not have serious side effects and their disease does not get worse.

Approximately 15 to 21 participants will be enrolled in phase1 and approximately 28 patients will be enrolled Phase 2.

AstraZeneca, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing funding for the research study and the study drug, acalabrutinib.