Breast Cancer Genome Guided Therapy Study (BEAUTY)
The purpose of this research study is to better understand the reasons why or why not breast cancers are destroyed by standard chemotherapy. This information will be used to develop new and better cancer therapies.
Invasive Breast Cancer
DNA From the Germline and Breast Tumor for the Identification of Novel Somatic Changes Within Gene and Gene Pathways., To obtain DNA from the germline and breast tumor for the identification of novel somatic changes within gene and gene pathways that are potentially "druggable" in men or women with breast cancer undergoing a standard neoadjuvant paclitaxel (with or without trastuzumab), followed by a standard anthracycline containing regimen (e.g. doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide) for breast cancer. We will report the median frequency and range of mutations observed for 30 mutated genes of interest., 1 year 3 months|Frequency of Known Tumor Mutations for Which Current Drug Therapies Already Exist., To determine the number of patients with one or more known tumor mutations for which current drug therapies already exist (e.g. BRAF, C-KIT, EGFR mutation, KRAS, PTEN, PI3K)., 1 year 3 months|Association Between Breast Cancer Events and Patient-derived Xenografts (PDX) Engraftment, Using breast cancer tissue obtained prior to chemotherapy in all patients and following the completion of chemotherapy (in patients with residual tumors \> 2 cm or residual nodal disease), to develop tumor xenograft cell lines for mechanistic and functional studies to determine whether mutations identified are associated with the malignant phenotype and response to associated drugs which target the gene and/or pathways. The breast cancer relapse rate of patients that received pre-NAC PDX engraftment will be reported., 1 year 3 months|Somatic Alterations Identified Are Associated With Pathologic Complete Response to Therapy., To determine whether somatic alterations identified above are associated with pathologic complete response (pCR) to therapy. The number of patients experiencing a pCR with one or more somatic alterations will be reported., 1 year 3 months
99mTc-sestamibi Uptake and Pathologic Response Following Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy., Assess the association between changes in 99mTc-sestamibi uptake and pathologic response following neoadjuvant chemotherapy (MCR participants only). Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value after NAC at MRI and MBI will be reported., 1 year 3 months
The purpose of this research study is to better understand the reasons why or why not breast cancers are destroyed by standard chemotherapy. This information will be used to develop new and better cancer therapies.