Testing Atezolizumab Alone or Atezolizumab Plus Bevacizumab in People With Advanced Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well atezolizumab or atezolizumab plus bevacizumab works in treating patients with alveolar soft part sarcoma that has not been treated, has spread from where it started to other places in the body (advanced) and cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Atezolizumab works by unblocking the immune system, allowing the immune system cells to recognize and then attack tumor cells. Bevacizumab works by controlling the growth of new blood vessels. Giving atezolizumab alone or atezolizumab with bevacizumab may shrink the cancer.
Metastatic Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma|Unresectable Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma
DRUG: Atezolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography
Objective response rate, Will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. If at least 3 responses (at least 12.5%) are observed among the 24 evaluable patients, this regimen would be considered worthy of further testing in this disease., Up to 4 weeks after the last dose of study treatment
Duration of response, Will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Exploratory evaluations will be performed, with results reported with appropriate caveats about the exploratory nature of the analysis, and without formal adjustment for multiple comparisons., Baseline until disease progression, death, loss to follow-up, initiation of another anti-cancer treatment, withdrawal of consent, or study, assessed up to 4 weeks after the last dose of study treatment|Progression free survival, Will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Exploratory evaluations will be performed, with results reported with appropriate caveats about the exploratory nature of the analysis, and without formal adjustment for multiple comparisons., Baseline until disease progression, death, loss to follow-up, initiation of another anti-cancer treatment, withdrawal of consent, or study, assessed up to 4 weeks after the last dose of study treatment|Immune biomarkers in paired biopsies, Response will be correlated with expression of potential immune biomarkers in paired biopsies. Exploratory evaluations will be performed, with results reported with appropriate caveats about the exploratory nature of the analysis, and without formal adjustment for multiple comparisons., Up to 4 weeks after the last dose of study treatment|Immune-related response, Will be evaluated by immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors. Response evaluated with immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 will be compared to immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors. Exploratory evaluations will be performed, with results reported with appropriate caveats about the exploratory nature of the analysis, and without formal adjustment for multiple comparisons., Up to 4 weeks after the last dose of study treatment|Pediatric pharmacokinetics and anti-drug antibodies, Analyses are descriptive in nature., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate (ORR) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 of atezolizumab in patients with advanced alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) in adult subjects \>= 18 years and in pediatric/adolescent subjects \>= 2 years.

II. Determine the ORR using RECIST v 1.1 of atezolizumab and bevacizumab in subjects \>= 18 years old with advanced ASPS that has progressed on atezolizumab monotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine duration of response (DOR) to atezolizumab monotherapy or atezolizumab plus bevacizumab using RECIST v 1.1 and/or change in clinical symptoms.

II. Measure progression-free survival (PFS) time for patients receiving atezolizumab monotherapy or atezolizumab plus bevacizumab as determined by investigator using RECIST v 1.1.

III. Assess the number of activated CD8+ T cells infiltrating the tumor before and after treatment with atezolizumab monotherapy or atezolizumab plus bevacizumab, and correlate treatment-induced changes with clinical response.

IV. Measure and describe the atezolizumab pharmacokinetics (PK) and anti-drug antibodies (ADA) in patients ages 2-11 years old.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare RECIST v 1.1 vs immune RECIST (iRECIST) in patients with ASPS on atezolizumab and atezolizumab + bevacizumab.

II. Assess the post-progression response rate among patients who progress while on treatment holiday and then resume treatment.

III. Analyze the genomic and immune profiles of tumors expressing type 1 or type 2 ASPL-TFE3 fusions and correlate findings with response to atezolizumab or atezolizumab in combination with bevacizumab.

IV. Measure and describe the atezolizumab pharmacokinetics (PK) in patients \>= 12 years old.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients in arm I who do achieve disease progression may cross-over to arm II. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) imaging, and collection of blood and urine at baseline. (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL)

ARM II: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT imaging, and collection of blood and urine at baseline.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 27-30 days. Patients who are progression-free at the end of a 2-year treatment holiday are followed every 6 months.