Radiation Therapy Plus Carboplatin and Lobradimil in Treating Children With Newly Diagnosed Brain Stem Gliomas
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs such as carboplatin and lobradimil may make the tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining radiation therapy with carboplatin and lobradimil in treating children who have newly diagnosed brain stem gliomas.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: cereport|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Progression Free Survival, A MRI scan will be performed six (6) weeks after completion of radiation, plus at three-month intervals thereafter for two years, as long as there is no evidence of progressive disease. Children who are progression-free two years after treatment will have MRI scanning at six-month intervals, thereafter, for three more years
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated duration of lobradimil plus carboplatin with radiotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed brain stem gliomas.
* Determine the toxic effects of this treatment regimen in these patients.
* Assess the response to radiotherapy in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients receive radiotherapy for 5 consecutive days a week for 6.5 weeks, for a total of 33 doses. Patients receive carboplatin IV over 15 minutes followed by lobradimil IV over 10 minutes concurrently with radiotherapy.

The first cohort of 3-6 patients receives treatment with carboplatin and lobradimil for the first three weeks of radiotherapy, with the duration of chemotherapy increasing by one week with each subsequent cohort until the maximum duration of 6.5 weeks is reached or until unacceptable toxicity occurs in 2 of 6 patients.

Patients are followed at 6 weeks; every 3 months for 2 years; every 6 months for 3 years; and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-24 patients will be accrued for this study within 36 months.