Ivosidenib in Locally Advanced or Metastatic Cholangiocarcinoma With IDH1 R132 Mutation After at Least One Prior Systemic Treatment - an Observational Study
Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare and aggressive tumor of the bile duct associated with a poor prognosis and very limited treatment options. The IDH1 inhibitor ivosidenib provides a new, targeted treatment option for this disease. Ivosidenib was approved by European Medicines Agency (EMA) in May 2023 as monotherapy in adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with an IDH1 R132 mutation who were previously treated by at least one prior line of systemic therapy.

The prospective, multicenter, observational study IDHIRA will collect first real-world data on ivosidenib treatment in a broad patient population in Germany. Ivosidenib will be administered according to the current SmPC. Thus, IDHIRA will generate real-world evidence on effectiveness, quality of life (QoL) and safety of ivosidenib.
Cholangiocarcinoma
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time interval measured from the day of first ivosidenib administration to first progression or death, whichever comes first. Patients without tumor progression or death at the time of analysis will be censored at their date of last contact., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time interval measured from the day of first ivosidenib administration to time of death from any cause. Time to last contact will be used if a patient has no documented date of death and OS for the patient will be considered censored., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Timt to treatment failure (TTF), TTF is defined as the time interval measured from the day of first ivosidenib until discontinuation of treatment for any reason including progression, toxicity, start of a new antineoplastic therapy, or death, whichever occurs first. Patients dropping out without knowledge of a potential ending of therapy (e.g., lost to follow up) will be censored with the last date of contact., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete or partial response as best response. Patients without response measurement are considered non-responders., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of patients achieving complete response, partial response, or stable disease as best response. Patients without response measurement are considered non-responders., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|(Serious) adverse events ((S)AE)), The case- and patient-based incidence of (S)AEs will be provided., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|(Serious) adverse drug reactions ((S)ADR) related to ivosidenib, The case- and patient-based incidence of (S)ADRs will be provided., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Adverse events of special interest (AESI), The case- and patient-based incidence of AESIs will be provided., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Global health-related quality of life during course of treatment, The change from baseline (i.e., difference) in the scales of the EORTC QLQ-C30 (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire C30) will be displayed for each point in time, using boxplots.

The scales of the EORTC QLQ-C30 range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Cholangiocarcinoma-related quality of life during course of treatment, The change from baseline (i.e., difference) in the scales of the EORTC QLQ-BIL21 (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire BIL21) will be displayed for each point in time, using boxplots.

The scales of the EORTC QLQ-BIL21 range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Assessing parameters of physician treatment decision making, Frequencies of distinct impact ratings for parameters affecting ivosidenib therapy choice will be visualized using stacked bar charts., max. 30 months (recruitment period)|Assessing parameters of physician treatment satisfaction, Frequencies of distinct satisfaction levels with ivosidenib treatment effectiveness and AE management will be visualized using stacked bar charts., max. 32 months (recruitment period plus 8 weeks)|Cumulative ivosidenib dose, Summary tables containing descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviation, median, 25th and 75th percentiles, minimum, and maximum) will be provided., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Absolute dose intensity of ivosidenib, Summary tables containing descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviation, median, 25th and 75th percentiles, minimum, and maximum) will be provided., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Relative dose intensity of ivosidenib, Summary tables containing descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviation, median, 25th and 75th percentiles, minimum, and maximum) will be provided., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Frequency of dose modifications, Frequency of dose modifications will be presented., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Type of dose modifications, Type of dose modifications (i.e., dose reductions, dose escalations, and interruptions) will be presented., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Reasons for dose modifications, Reasons for dose modifications will be presented., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Duration of treatment with ivosidenib, Duration of treatment with ivosidenib, max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Reasons for end of treatment (EOT), Reasons for end of treatment will be displayed, max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Type of last previous therapy, Type of substances given in the last previous therapy will be displayed., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Frequency of last previous therapy, Frequency of different substances given in the last previous therapy will be displayed., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Duration of last previous therapy line, Duration of last previous therapy line will be displayed., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Concomitant medications, Frequency of concomitant medications in total will be displayed., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Concomitant medications known to induce QT prolongation, Frequency of concomitant medications known to induce QT prolongation (e.g., antiarrhythmic medicines, fluoroquinolones, triazole anti-fungals, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists) will be displayed., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)|Subsequent antineoplastic therapies, Frequency and type of subsequent antineoplastic therapies by line of therapy will be displayed., max. 38 months (FPI - LPLV)
Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare and aggressive tumor of the bile duct associated with a poor prognosis and very limited treatment options. The IDH1 inhibitor ivosidenib provides a new, targeted treatment option for this disease. Ivosidenib was approved by European Medicines Agency (EMA) in May 2023 as monotherapy in adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with an IDH1 R132 mutation who were previously treated by at least one prior line of systemic therapy.

The prospective, multicenter, observational study IDHIRA will collect first real-world data on ivosidenib treatment in a broad patient population in Germany. Ivosidenib will be administered according to the current SmPC. Thus, IDHIRA will generate real-world evidence on effectiveness, quality of life (QoL) and safety of ivosidenib.