Measuring the Impact of MANNA s Medically Tailored Meal Program in Patients With a Non-terminal Cancer Diagnosis
This study identifies patient-important outcome measures and develops a survey that assesses the impact of nutritional interventions among cancer patients. Currently, data on the impact of medically tailored meals on outcomes that are meaningful to patients, providers, and payers are limited. For this reason, access to medically tailored meals as a covered benefit for cancer patients is limited. Thus, there is a need to explore the efficacy of nutritional interventions among this population. This study identifies outcome measures for nutritional interventions that are meaningful to patients and providers.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Survey Administration
identify patient-important outcomes related to receiving nutrition services by engaging patients with cancer and clinicians, Reported as average time required to complete each assessment., At study completion; approximately 60 minutes|Usability, Reported as average time required to complete each assessment., At study completion; approximately 60 minutes|Feasibility, Reported as the number of participants who are able to complete the entire list of assessments to receive nutrition services., At study completion; approximately 60 minutes
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify patient-important outcomes related to receiving nutrition services by engaging patients with cancer and clinicians.

II. To conduct cognitive interviews to assess comprehension, acceptability, and appropriateness of patient-identified outcomes in aim 1.

III. To pilot test the use of the nutrition-related outcome measures identified in aim 1 among a sample of oncology patients.

OUTLINE:

Part I: Patients and clinicians attend semi-structured interviews over 20-30 minutes or cognitive interviews over 60 minutes in support of survey refinement.

Part II: Patients complete survey over 15 minutes.