Phase 2 Study of the Monoclonal Antibody MGAH22 (Margetuximab) in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Advanced Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine if margetuximab is effective in the treatment of certain patients with relapsed or refractory advanced breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Margetuximab
Best Overall Response, Response based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria based on Cycle 2, Day 21 computed tomography (CT) scans. Response is categorized as complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions, confirmed at ≥ 4 weeks; partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in target lesions from baseline, confirmed at ≥ 4 weeks; progressive disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase over smallest sum observed with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or appearance of new lesions; and stable disease (SD): neither PR or PD criteria met.

A Simon two-stage design was planned in which an initial cohort of 21 patients was treated. If 2 or more responses (PR or CR) are seen at the first tumor re-evaluation on day 21 of Cycle 2, the study would be expanded to include up to 41 patients (20 additional patients in Cohort 2, the second stage of the study) in order to determine whether further development of the drug is warranted (5 or more responses in 41 evaluable patients)., Cycle 2, Day 21
Response Rate, Response rate is the proportion of patients achieving a best response of complete response or partial response when such responses are confirmed at least 28 days after initial observation of response.

Response based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria based on Cycle 2, Day 21 computed tomography (CT) scans. Response is categorized as complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions, confirmed at ≥ 4 weeks; partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in target lesions from baseline, confirmed at ≥ 4 weeks; progressive disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase over smallest sum observed with an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or appearance of new lesions; and stable disease (SD): neither PR or PD criteria met., Day 49
In the pivotal study that established that Herceptin® was highly effective when added to standard chemotherapy in the front-line treatment of women with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer, benefit appeared to accrue to those patients whose tumors expressed the HER2 oncoprotein at the 3+ level by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or those patients whose tumors demonstrated evidence of HER2 gene amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) testing. Similarly, when Herceptin® was used as a single therapy in women with metastatic breast cancer that had progressed following cytotoxic chemotherapy, 3+ overexpression of HER2, but not 2+ expression, was associated with response to treatment. These and other studies have led to the recommendation that Herceptin® should be administered to patients with breast cancer whose tumors exhibit 3+ overexpression or gene amplification. This study will evaluate whether treatment of patients with tumors that would not be expected to respond to Herceptin® therapy, namely those that lack HER2 gene amplification and express the oncoprotein at the 2+ level by IHC, may benefit from the use of the anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody, MGAH22. If 5 or more responses are seen in 41 evaluable patients, then further clinical development of margetuximab will be justified.