Pulmonary Rehabilitation Before Lung Cancer Resection
This is a study funded by the National Institute of Health. The rationale for the need of this research is the lack of any well proven risk-reducing intervention that may decrease the morbidity of lung cancer resection in patients with COPD or that may improve their quality of life trajectory, a meaningful outcome in the overall disease progression. The proposed intervention is unique as it combines exercise and behavioral interventions that were pilot tested in a randomized single-blinded controlled design in the proposed population and proved feasible and potentially effective. The aim is to test the effect of the proposed rehabilitation on length of stay, pulmonary complications and quality of life trajectory.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)|Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
OTHER: education|PROCEDURE: rehabilitation|DEVICE: pedometer|OTHER: education|PROCEDURE: surgery
Hospital Length of Stay Assessed With Complete Admission Hospital Records, The coordinator at each site will be responsible for sending complete de-identified hospital records from each patient to Dr. Benzo's staff, where a nurse blinded to the study arm will abstract the main outcome (length of stay and postoperative complications).

The primary endpoint will be assessed at Dr. Benzo's office (Mayo Clinic) with the complete admission hospital records in order to extract the length of stay. The records will be mailed from the sites to Johanna Hoult in a pre-stamped envelope., Up to 6 months
Post-operative Pulmonary Complications Assessed by Chart Review, The following events will be considered postoperative pulmonary complications: pneumonia (new infiltrate + either fever (\>38.5 C) and white cell count \>11,000 or fever and purulent secretions), severe atelectasis (requiring bronchoscopy), prolonged chest tubes (\>6 days), and respiratory failure (intubation or prolonged mechanical ventilation (\>24 hours). These outcomes will be obtained by chart review by a nurse trained in the abstraction of the desired outcomes from the medical records and blinded to treatment assignment., Up to 6 months|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire, Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire (CRQ) (four domains: dyspnea, fatigue, emotional function and mastery). This instrument will be the primary tool to assess QoL given that it was specifically designed for COPD. Specifically, the CRQ represents one of the most well known, widely-applied, and psychometrically-sound patient reported outcomes for use in clinical trials involving patients with COPD. Each domain includes 4 to 7 items, with each item graded on 7-point Likert scale; item scores within a domain are summated to provide a total score for each domain. The endpoint value is the 6 month values minus the baseline values. Therefore the endpoint score may range from minus-7 to 7. Higher scores indicate better HRQL. A negative change from baseline to study completion indicates a worsening score., At baseline and at 6 months|Quality of Life (QOL) Assessed by Linear Analog Self-Assessment, LASA (single-item numerical analogue quality of life Questionnaire) individual QOL domain scores have been validated previously for lung cancer patient populations and for assessment of patient-reported outcomes in similar trials. Survey is based on 6 questions that are scored on a 0-10 scale with 0 being "as bad as it can be" and 10 being "As good as it can be." A negative change in score from baseline indicates a worsening score., Up to 6 months
Prospectively, 194 patients will be randomized to either ten sessions of preoperative pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) vs. standard care at a number of healthcare centers throughout the United States. This study will be open for 36 months. Randomization will be stratified by three variables: very severe lung function (yes vs. no), prior neo-adjuvant chemotherapy for this operation (yes vs. no) and open thoracotomy vs. video assisted thoracoscopy. The primary and secondary objectives are provided below.

Primary Objective:

To prospectively determine the effect of 10 sessions of customized preoperative PR on the length of hospital stay in patients that undergo a lung cancer resection and have COPD compared to a matched control group. Hypothesis: Ten sessions of customized preoperative PR will significantly reduce the length of hospital stay.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To prospectively determine the effect of 10 sessions of customized preoperative PR on the number of postoperative complications in patients that undergo a lung cancer resection and have COPD compared to a matched control group.

   * Hypothesis: Ten sessions of customized preoperative PR will significantly reduce the number of postoperative pulmonary complications.
2. To prospectively determine the effect of a 10-session preoperative PR on the trajectory of quality of life at 3 and 6 months after the curative resection compared to a matched control group.

   * Hypothesis: Ten sessions of customized preoperative PR will significantly and meaningfully (more than the minimal clinically important difference) improve quality of life after surgery compared to a control group.

Patients will be followed at 3 and 6 months post-surgery.