Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With Relapsed Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome
RATIONALE: Lenalidomide may stop the growth of mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome by blocking blood flow to the cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well lenalidomide works in treating patients with relapsed mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome.
Lymphoma
DRUG: lenalidomide
Response to Treatment, In general response to treatment is defined as either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) assessed using Composite Assessment (CA) of index lesion disease severity and is defined as the following:

CR =CA ratio=0/no evidence of new disease (abnormal or pathologically positive lymph nodes, cutaneous or other tumor manifestations, visceral disease) present over 4 weeks. Patients with Sézary Syndrome must have no evidence of circulating Sézary cells (\< 5% Sézary cells=not significant). Skin biopsy is required for documentation of CR. Confirmatory CT scans are required, if baseline CTs were abnormal.

PR= CA ratio ≥0.5/no new clinically abnormal lymph nodes/no progression of existing clinically abnormal lymph nodes (\<25%)/no new cutaneous tumors/no new pathologically positive lymph nodes or visceral disease in an area previously documented as-ve for at least 4 weeks. In patients with circulating Sézary cells at least a 50% reduction of malignant lymphocytes is required., After cycle 4 of treatment (1 cycle =28 days)|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined from the time of treatment initiation until documentation of progressive disease or death from any cause.

Progressive disease is defined as (PD) ≥25% increase in CA ratio, ≥25% increase in no. or area of clinically abnormal lymph nodes/new tumors/new pathologically positive lymph nodes/visceral disease/an increase \>25% in no. of Sézary cells., From time of treatment initiation until progression or death from any cause (up to a possible maximum of approximately 6 years)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as time of initial documentation of response to the time of documentation of progression in patients who achieve either a complete response (CR) and partial response (PR), From time of initial response until progressive disease (up to approximately 1 year)
Number of Patients Who Experience Toxicity as Assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0, Toxicity is defined as the number of patients who patients who experienced an adverse event that was determined to be at least possibly related to study drug and determined to be a grade 3 or higher in severity as assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v3.0 (CTCAE) where generally:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE, From treatment initiation until up to 30 days post treatment with possible 4 cycles of initial treatment (1 cycle =28 days) and up to 2 further years of treatment permitted if meeting response criteria
Specific Immune Effector Cell Recruitment and Augmentation of Antitumor Response at Baseline and Day 15 of Course 1 (Northwestern University Only), After all patients have completed thru day 15 of course 1.|Correlation of Antiangiogenetic and Costimulatory Effects With Clinical Activity at Baseline and After Course 1, After all patients have completed 1 course
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the response rate and duration of response in patients with relapsed mycosis fungoides/Sézary syndrome treated with lenalidomide.
* Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.

Secondary

* Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.
* Correlate the antiangiogenetic and costimulatory effects of this drug with clinical activity in skin biopsies from these patients.
* Assess the specific immune effector cell recruitment and augmentation of antitumor response in these patients. (Northwestern University only)

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses. Patients with progressive disease are removed from study. Patients achieving complete response receive 2 additional courses of treatment beyond complete response. Patients achieving partial response or stable disease may continue to receive lenalidomide as above for up to 2 years. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo tissue biopsies at baseline and on day 1 of course 2. Tissue specimens are analyzed for vessel density, presence of adhesion molecules, and immunophenotyping of dermal infiltrate.\*

NOTE: \*At Northwestern University only, blood and tissue samples from 5-10 patients are collected. Peripheral blood samples are analyzed for immune cell repertoire (CD4+, CD8+ T cells, NK cells, NKT cells, CD4+, CD25+ T-regulatory cells, monocytes, and dendritic cell subsets), cell surface molecules, and for TH1/TH2-associated cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-10, IL-12, interferon gamma, and tumor necrosis factor alpha, by flow cytometry at baseline, day 15 of course 1, and at the end of course 1. Immunological activation is assessed by analyzing surface expression of CD45RO and CTLA-4 on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in blood and skin samples. Skin specimens are stored for future research studies on predictive markers of lenalidomide activity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study.