Acceptance and Commitment Therapy on Fatigue Interference in Patients With Advanced Lung Cancer and Caregiver Burden (ACT)
Lung cancer is a malignant tumour that has transformed from a single cancer disease into one of the most striking global health problems. Lung cancer has an insidious onset, and most patients are first diagnosed with the middle and advanced stages. Cancer-related fatigue is the most common and distressing symptom reported by lung cancer patients. For cancer patients, fatigue has a lasting impact on physical, psychological and social functions, and interferes with activities and participating in life events, thereby worsening the health-related quality of life. Family members have a key role in providing advanced lung cancer patients with informational, instrumental, and emotional support, which is crucial to patients' adaptation to the advanced illness and living a meaningful cancer life. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) is the third-wave cognitive behavioural therapy to improve functioning and health-related quality of life by increasing psychological flexibility. The study aims to examine test the feasibility and acceptability, and preliminary effects of online ACT on fatigue interference in patients with advanced lung cancer and caregiver burden.
Lung Cancer|Advanced Cancer|Caregiver Burden
BEHAVIORAL: Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) plus health education|OTHER: Health education
Eligibility rate, The eligiblity rate is defined as the percentage of participants fulfilling the inclusion criteria amongst the participants screened for the eligibility, Before baseline|Recruimtment rate, The recruitment rate is defined as the percentage of participants who consented to participate in the study amongst the participants eligible for the study, Before baseline|Attrition rate, The attrition rate is defined as the percentage of participants who withdrew from the study before completion, After the 6-week intervention|Adherence rate, The adherence rate is defined as the frequency of the practice of mindfulness and session attendance, After the 6-week intervention|Change from baseline in the score of fatigue interference assessed by The Fatigue Symptom Inventory at one week after the intervention, A 13-item instrument that measures the intensity and interference of fatigue over the previous 7 days. The first four items are used to assess the intensity of fatigue, Item 5 - Item 11 are to assess the degree to which fatigue in the past week was judged to interfere with different aspects, such as general activity, bathe and dress ability, work activity, concentration ability, relation with others, enjoyment of life and mood, using a 11-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (no interference) to 10 (extreme interference). 0 indicates no fatigue and 127 indicates the worst fatigue intensity and interference., Baseline (T0) and post-intervention (T1, one week after the 6-week intervention)|Change from baseline in the score of caregiver burden assessed by The Zarit Caregiver Burden Inventory at one week after the intervention, 12 items score from 1(not always) to 5 (always) to assess caregiver burdens of caregivers of advanced lung cancer patients, including three domains: role strain, self-criticism, and negative emotion. The overall score can be obtained by adding all subscale scores. 12 indicates low caregiver burden and 60 indicates the highest caregiver burden., Baseline (T0) and post-intervention (T1, one week after the 6-week intervention)
Change from baseline in the score of health-related quality of life assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung, Version 4 at one week after the intervention, 36 items scored from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much) to assess QoL of lung cancer patients, including 5 domains: physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being, and additional concerns about lung cancer. The overall score can be obtained by adding all subscale scores. 0 indicates no quality of life and 144 indicates the highest quality of life.

Change= (One week after the intervention score - Baseline score), Baseline (T0) and post-intervention (T1, one week after the 6-week intervention)|Change from baseline in the score of meanfing of life assessed by The Meaning of Life questionnaire (MLQ) at one week after the intervention, 8 items score from 0 (not at all) to 7 (totall agree) to assess meaning of life of caregivers of advanced lung cancer patients, including 2 domains: the Presence of Meaning subscale and the Search for Meaning subscale. The overall score can be obtained by adding all subscale scores. 0 indicates no meaning of life and 56 indicates the highest meaning of life., Baseline (T0) and post-intervention (T1, one week after the 6-week intervention)|Change from baseline in the score of psychological flexibility assessed by Comprehensive assessment of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy processes at three months after the intervention, A comprehensive ACT process measure to evaluate the level of psychological flexibility (and constituent sub-process) within the ACT model with 18 items ranged from 18 to 90. 18 indicates low level of psychological flexibility and 90 indicates the high level of psychological flexibility., Baseline (T0) and post-intervention (T1, one week after the 6-week intervention)|Change from baseline in the score of mindful attention assessed by Mindful Attention Awareness Scale at one week after the intervention, The trait MAAS is a 15-item scale designed to assess a core characteristic of mindfulness, scored from 1 (almost never) to 6 (almost always). 15 indicates low level of awareness and attention to present moment and 90 indicates the high level of awareness and attention to the present moment., Baseline (T0) and post-intervention (T1, one week after the 6-week intervention)
Acceptability of the intervention, A convenience sample of 10 dyads in the intervention group will be recruited for focus group interviews to explore their ACT experience and overall satisfaction. The interview guide was developed based on the previous studies., After the 6-week intervention
A two-arm, assessor-blind randomised controlled trial will be conducted to investigate the effects of ACT on advanced lung cancer patients and caregivers compared to educational control. Participants in the same ward will be randomised at a 1:1 ratio to the intervention group or control group. Block randomization will be conducted by an independent research assistant using randomly varying block sizes of 4 and 6 to avoid selection bias. The study aims to examine the feasibility and acceptability, and preliminary effects of online ACT on fatigue interference in patients with advanced lung cancer and caregiver burden. The Specific objectives are:

1. To investigate the feasibility and acceptability of the online 6-week ACT in patients with advanced lung cancer and caregivers in rural areas in China;
2. To investigate the preliminary effects of the online 6-week ACT in patients with advanced lung cancer and caregivers in rural areas in China;
3. To explore how patients and caregivers perceive the ACT experience during the intervention process.