Pembrolizumab and Chemotherapy Treatment or no Treatment Guided by the Level of TILs in Resected Early-stage TNBC
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a group of tumors that occurs mainly in young, premenopausal women and accounts for 10-20% of breast cancers. Over the past decade, the incidence of women diagnosed with early-stage TNBC has significantly increased due to the widespread use of screening mammography. Treatment of patients with localized TNBC mainly involves surgery and (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. However, the benefit of chemotherapy may be controversial in patients with early-stage TNBC defined by small size and absence of lymph node involvement, and with significant tumor lymphocyte infiltration.

The ETNA study is a phase II trial designed to evaluate a chemotherapy de-escalation strategy in patients with TNBC T1b/c N0M0 and stromal TILs (sTILs) ≥ 30%. ETNA comprises two cohorts defined according to the level of TILs and the age of patients. Patients aged \> 40 years with 30% ≤ sTILs \< 50% and those aged ≤ 40 years with 30% ≤ sTILs \< 75% will be included in the cohort 1 and will receive adjuvant pembrolizumab 200 mg every three weeks for 9 cycles and Paclitaxel 80 mg/m² weekly for 12 cycles. Patients aged \> 40 years with sTILs ≥ 50% and those aged ≤ 40 years with sTILs ≥ 75% will be included in cohort 2 and will not receive adjuvant treatment, they will undergo standard surveillance every six months.
Triple-negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab 25 mg/ml|DRUG: Paclitaxel injection
Distant disease-free survival (DDFS), Distant disease-free survival is defined as the delay between date of inclusion and distant tumor relapse, second cancer, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 5 year
Invasive disease-free survival (IDFS), Invasive disease-free survival is defined as the delay between date of inclusion and invasive breast tumor recurrence, distant recurrence, second cancer, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., From inclusion up to 5 year|Distant recurrence-free survival (DRFS), Distant recurrence-free survival is defined as the delay between date of inclusion and distant recurrence of breast cancer or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., From inclusion up to 5 year|Overall survival (OS), The overall survival is the length of time from inclusion that patients enrolled in the study are still alive., From inclusion to death from any cause, up to 5 year|Incidence of Adverse Events, The National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 (NCI-CTCAE v5) is widely accepted in the community of oncology research as the leading rating scale for adverse events. This scale, divided into 5 grades (1 = "mild", 2 = "moderate", 3 = "severe", 4 = "life-threatening", and 5 = "death") determined by the investigator, will make it possible to assess the severity of the disorders., Throughout study completion, up to 5 year|Quality of life questionnaire - Core 30 (QLQ-C30), Developed by the EORTC, this self-reported questionnaire assesses the health-related quality of life of cancer patients in clinical trials.

The questionnaire includes five functional scales (physical, everyday activity, cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting), a health/quality of life overall scale, and a number of additional elements assessing common symptoms (including dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, and diarrhea), as well as, the perceived financial impact of the disease.

All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., At baseline, every 3 weeks for 6 months then every 6 months up to 5 years|Quality of Life Questionnaire - Breast cancer module (QLQ-BR23), This EORTC breast cancer specific questionnaire is intended to supplement the QLQ-C30.

The QLQ-BR23 contains 23 items incorporating five multi-item scales to assess systemic therapy side effects, arm symptoms, breast symptoms, body image and sexual functioning. In addition, single items assess sexual enjoyment, hair loss and future perspective. All items are rated on a four-point Likert-type scale (1 = "not at all", 2 = "a little", 3 = "quite a bit", and 4 = "very much"), and are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale. For all items but sexual functioning and sexual enjoyment, higher scores indicate more severe symptoms., At baseline, every 3 weeks for 6 months then every 6 months up to 5 years|Quality of Life Questionnaire - Cancer-related fatigue (QLQ-FA12), This EORTC cancer related fatigue questionnaire is intended to supplement the QLQ-C30.

The QLQ-FA12 contains 12 items organized in three subscales: physical fatigue (5 items), emotional fatigue (3 items), and cognitive fatigue (2 items). The remaining two items serve as global indicators for interference of fatigue with daily activities and social sequelae of fatigue. All items are rated on a four-point Likert-type scale (1 = "not at all", 2 = "a little", 3 = "quite a bit", and 4 = "very much"), and are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores indicating greater degree of fatigue., At baseline, every 3 weeks for 6 months then every 6 months up to 5 years|Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS), The HADS is a 14 items questionnaire: 7 items related to anxiety and 7 items related to depression scored on a scale. Scores for items in each subscale of the HADS are summed to produce an anxiety score (HADS-A) or a depression score (HADS-D), or can be added to produce a total score corresponding to emotional distress (HADS-T). Each item is rated on a 4-point Likert scale (1 = "not at all", 2 = "a little", 3 = "quite a bit", and 4 = "very much"), for a total score ranging from 0-21 for each subscale. The entire scale (emotional distress) range from 0 to 42, with higher scores indicating more distress., At baseline, every 3 weeks for 6 months then every 6 months up to 5 years
(Neo)adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer is associated to long-term persistent QoL deterioration in patients with early breast cancer, with a greater negative impact in patients that were premenopausal at diagnosis. Because triple negative breast cancer (TNBC), which accounts for 10-20% of breast cancers, presents a poorer prognosis as compared to the other subtypes, international guidelines endorse the use of adjuvant chemotherapy from TNBC tumors measuring \> 5 mm. Nevertheless, a number of retrospective studies have reported excellent prognosis for patients with small, lymph node-negative and high TILs TNBC, even without chemotherapy, with 5-year overall survival (OS) of 98%. Findings from multiple data sets consistently demonstrated that TILs represent a robust prognostic and predictive biomarker in early-stage TNBC, being now the first biological prognostic marker for TNBC included in several international guidelines for early-stage disease, such as 2019 St Gallen consensus conference and European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Guidelines for early-stage breast cancer.

In clinical practice, oncologists have taken different approaches in patients with stage I TNBC. While some have de-escalated anthracyclines, other did not held back on the standard chemotherapy options with anthracyclines, taxanes, and cyclophosphamide. Based on unpublished data from the TNBC pooled analysis with sTILs on 2211 patients not treated by systematic therapy, performed at Gustave Roussy, the 5-year distant disease free-survival (DDFS) is 87%, 91%, and 93% for those with stage I and sTILs ≥ 30%, 50%, and 75%, respectively. Given these compelling findings from historical observations, it is reasonable to anticipate that the absolute benefit of chemotherapy would be modest among these patients as their tumors generally exhibit a favorable prognosis, resulting in reduced benefits with the use of adjuvant chemotherapy.

ETNA is a phase II, multicenter, biomarker-driven study that is designed to characterize the clinical course of patients with stage I TNBC and sTILs ≥ 30%.

ETNA includes patients with stage I and sTILs ≥ 30% TNBC in 2 cohorts:

* Cohort 1 will include patients age \> 40 years with 30% ≤ sTILs \< 50% and those aged ≤ 40 years with 30% ≤ sTILs \< 75%. Patients will receive 9 cycles of adjuvant pembrolizumab 200 mg every three weeks for 9 cycles and Paclitaxel 80 mg/m² weekly for 12 cycles.
* Cohort 2 will include patients aged \> 40 years with sTILs ≥ 50% and those aged ≤ 40 years with sTILs ≥ 75% who will undergo standard surveillance (no adjuvant systemic treatments).