Study of Tozuleristide and the Canvas Imaging System in Pediatric Subjects With CNS Tumors Undergoing Surgery
Many types of cancer are primarily treated with surgery and patient survival is directly related to the extent to which the tumor is able to be removed. It is often difficult for surgeons to distinguish tumor tissue from normal tissue or to detect tumor cells that have spread from the original tumor site, resulting in incomplete removal of the tumor and reduced patient survival. In some sites, such as the brain, it is critical to avoid damage to normal tissue around the tumor to prevent adverse effects of surgery on function. Tozuleristide is a drug that is thought to attach to tumor tissue and then fluoresces (glows) when a special light from the Canvas is shined on it. It is hypothesized that tozuleristide, when imaged with the Canvas, will improve surgical outcomes by allowing surgeons to visualize the edges of the tumor or other ambiguous tissue in real-time as they operate. The purpose of this study is to evaluate how well tozuleristide imaged with Canvas work at helping to distinguish between tumor and normal tissue during surgery in pediatric primary central nervous system tumors.
Pediatric Central Nervous System Tumor
DRUG: tozuleristide|DEVICE: Canvas System
Sensitivity and Specificity of Tozuleristide Fluorescence to Detect Tumor in Equivocal (Ambiguous) Tissue During Surgery When Imaged With the Canvas System, Sensitivity and specificity of tozuleristide imaged with the Canvas system to fluorescently identify tumor in equivocal tissue will be evaluated based on central pathology consensus assessment of tumor and by imaging operator fluorescence assessment. These measures will be compared to the sensitivity and specificity of surgical designation of tumor (more likely tumor or less likely tumor) under white light. Sensitivity reflects the probability that tumor tissue evaluated is fluorescent. Specificity reflects the probability that normal tissue evaluated is not fluorescent. Equivocal tissues are those that the surgeon considers abnormal but ambiguous as tumor vs. not tumor under normal (white light) conditions., During surgery (which occurs at least 1 hour post tozuleristide administration)|Ratio of Tozuleristide Sensitivity Compared to Surgeon Sensitivity, Tozuleristide sensitivity as assessed by imaging operator fluorescence assessment compared to sensitivity of surgeon designation of tumor under white light in equivocal tissue biopsies. Sensitivity reflects the probability that tumor tissue evaluated is fluorescent. Equivocal tissues are those that the surgeon considers abnormal but ambiguous as tumor vs. not tumor under normal (white light) conditions., During surgery (which occurs at least 1 hour post tozuleristide administration)|Ratio of Tozuleristide Specificity Compared to Surgeon Specificity, Tozuleristide specificity as assessed by imaging operator fluorescence assessment compared to specificity of surgeon designation of tumor under white light in equivocal tissue biopsies. Specificity reflects the probability that normal tissue evaluated is not fluorescent. Equivocal tissues are those that the surgeon considers abnormal but ambiguous as tumor vs. not tumor under normal (white light) conditions., During surgery (which occurs at least 1 hour post tozuleristide administration)
Subjects who provide voluntary written informed consent, or have it provided by their legally acceptable representative, will be screened for eligibility. Subjects meeting all of the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be eligible to participate.

Surgical excision will occur at least 1 hour and no more than 36 hours after tozuleristide administration. Surgery will be performed by a neurosurgeon and the Canvas will be operated by a designated Imaging Operator. Fluorescence of tumor and ambiguous tissue during surgery will be assessed and scored. Biopsy samples of these tumor and ambiguous tissues will be collected for pathology analysis.

All subjects will be monitored for safety during their participation in the study.