Treatment of Relapsed and/or Chemotherapy Refractory CD33 Positive Acute Myeloid Leukemia by CART-33
RATIONALE: Placing a tumor antigen chimeric receptor that has been created in the laboratory into patient autologous or donor-derived T cells may make the body build immune response to kill cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is to study genetically engineered lymphocyte therapy in treating patients with CD33 positive acute myeloid leukemias that is relapsed (after stem cell transplantation or intensive chemotherapy) or refractory to further chemotherapy.
Relapsed Adult Myeloid Leukemia|Chemotherapy Refractory Adult Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: CART33 cells|BIOLOGICAL: anti-CD33 CART|BIOLOGICAL: anti-CD33 CAR T cells
Occurrence of study related adverse events, defined as \>= Grade 3 signs/symptoms, laboratory toxicities, and clinical events) that are possibly, likely, or definitely related to study treatment, Until week 24
Anti-leukemia responses to CART-33 cell infusions, up to 24 weeks
in vivo existence of CART33, 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and feasibility of the chimeric antigen receptor T cells transduced with the anti-CD33 vector (referred to as CART-33 cells).

II. Determine duration of in vivo survival of CART-33 cells. RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) analysis of whole blood will be used to detect and quantify survival of CART-33 TCR zeta:CD137 and TCR (T-cell receptor) zeta cells over time.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. For patients with detectable disease, measure anti-leukemia response due to CART-33 cell infusions.

II. To determine if the CD137 transgene is superior to the TCR zeta only transgene as measured by the relative engraftment levels of CART-33 TCR zeta:CD137 and TCR zeta cells over time.

III. Estimate relative trafficking of CART-33 cells in bone marrow.

IV. For patients with stored or accessible leukemia blasts, determine leukemia cell killing by CART-33 cells in vitro.

V. Determine if cellular or humoral host immunity develops against the murine anti-CD33, and assess correlation with loss of detectable CART-33 (loss of engraftment).

VI. Determine the relative subsets of CART-33 T cells (Tcm, Tem, and Treg).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 group according to order of enrollment.

Patients receive anti-CD33-CAR (coupled with CD137 and CD3 zeta signalling domains)vector-transduced autologous T cells on days 0,1, and 2 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed intensively for 6 months, every 3 months for 2 years, and annually thereafter for 13 years.