Multiple Myeloma Yoga Pilot Study
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of implementing a weekly yoga intervention in patients with multiple myeloma on active therapy. This study aims to analyze the impact of yoga intervention on physical symptoms (e.g. pain, fatigue, sleep), psychological symptoms (e.g. anxiety, depression), and overall health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in multiple myeloma patients on active treatment.
Multiple Myeloma
OTHER: Immediate yoga intervention|OTHER: Delayed yoga intervention
Compliance rate of weekly yoga intervention, Evaluate the feasibility of implementing a weekly 40-minute yoga intervention in patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment for 12 weeks by measuring compliance and overall completion rate of the program.

Measurement: Compliance will be measured by overall percentage of patients completing 40 minutes of weekly yoga sessions in at least 8 out of 12 weeks of intervention. Completion rate will be measured by overall percentage of patients completing the 12 weeks of intervention without withdrawing or dropping out from the study.

Hypothesis: Implementation of a weekly mindful yoga intervention will be feasible in multiple myeloma patients as demonstrated compliance of at least 70% patients completing 40 minutes of weekly yoga sessions in 8 out of 12 weeks of intervention., 12 weeks|Accrual rate of yoga intervention study, Evaluate the feasibility of implementing a weekly 40-minute yoga intervention in patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment for 12 weeks by measuring accrual rate.

Measurement: Accrual rate will be measured by overall percentage of participants enrolled in the study at the end of 3-month accrual period compared to goal accrual of total 40 participants.

Hypothesis: Implementation of a weekly yoga intervention will be feasible in multiple myeloma patients as demonstrated by accrual of 40 patients (100%) over 3 months., 12 weeks
Short-term impact of yoga intervention on symptom burden, Evaluate the short-term impact of weekly yoga intervention in patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment on symptom burden by measuring Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS-r) after each session weekly.

Measurement: Patient-reported scores will be measured after 40-minute yoga intervention each week using ESAS-r and they will be compared to baseline. Symptom assessment scale ranges from 0 (best) to 10 (worst).

Hypothesis: Patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment will have statistically significant improvement in symptom burden compared to baseline after 40-minute yoga intervention each week., 12-weeks|Short-term impact of yoga intervention on health-related quality of life (HRQOL), Evaluate the impact of a weekly 12-week yoga intervention program in patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) over 12 weeks by measuring HRQOL questionnaire, European Organization For Research and Treatment Of Cancer-Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), responses at baseline, 6 and 12 weeks.

Measurement: Overall health-related quality of life in participants will be measured at baseline, 6 and 12 weeks using EORTC QLQ-C30 assessment tool and scores will be compared to baseline. Scores range from 0 to 100 with higher numbers indicating higher function and quality of life. Subscale for symptom burden will indicate higher symptom burden with higher score values. Hypothesis: Patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment will have statistically significant improvement in HRQOL scores (measured by EORTC QLQ-C30) at 6 and 12 weeks compared to baseline and controls due to 12-week mindful yoga intervention., 12-weeks|Short-term impact of yoga intervention on total daily activity, Evaluate the impact of a 12-week mindful yoga intervention program in patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment on total daily activity measured by total daily steps using wearable device (FitBit).

Measurement: Total daily steps will be measured in each participant using a wearable device (FitBit), and mean values from each week will be compared at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks.

Hypothesis: Patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment undergoing yoga intervention will have increased total daily activity (daily steps) at 6 weeks and 12 weeks., 12-weeks|Short-term impact of yoga intervention on resting heart rate, Evaluate the impact of a 12-week mindful yoga intervention program in patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment on resting heart rate using wearable device (FitBit).

Measurement: Resting heart rate will be measured in each participant using a wearable device (FitBit), and mean resting heart rate values from each week will be compared at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks.

Hypothesis: Patients with multiple myeloma on active treatment undergoing yoga intervention will have decreased resting heart rate at 6 weeks and 12 weeks., 12-weeks
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of implementing a weekly yoga intervention in patients with multiple myeloma on active therapy. This study aims to analyze the impact of yoga intervention on physical symptoms (e.g. pain, fatigue, sleep), psychological symptoms (e.g. anxiety, depression), and overall health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in multiple myeloma patients on active treatment.