Radiosurgery Dose Reduction for Brain Metastases on Immunotherapy (RADREMI): A Prospective Pilot Study
This study will evaluate the rate of radiation necrosis following treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) treatment and radiation therapy in subjects with metastatic brain cancer. Subjects will be treated with the standard of care immunotherapy followed by radiation therapy via stereotactic radiosurgery at a reduced dose.
Brain Tumor|Brain Metastases|Brain Cancer
RADIATION: Reduced Dose SRS
Symptomatic Radiation Necrosis Proportion, The observed proportion of evaluable patients with symptomatic radiation necrosis by 6-months. Symptomatic radiation necrosis was defined as the rate of clinical symptomatology requiring steroid administration (i.e. Decadron) and/or operative intervention concomitant with advanced and routine brain imaging findings consistent with radiation necrosis., 6 months
Symptomatic Radiation Necrosis Rate, Symptomatic radiation necrosis was defined as the rate of clinical symptomatology requiring steroid administration (i.e. Decadron) and/or operative intervention concomitant with advanced and routine brain imaging findings consistent with radiation necrosis. This measure details the estimated 6-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to the presence of symptomatic radiation necrosis was calculated. Patients who did not experience the outcome were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 6 months|Symptomatic Radiation Necrosis Rate, Symptomatic radiation necrosis was defined as the rate of clinical symptomatology requiring steroid administration (i.e. Decadron) and/or operative intervention concomitant with advanced and routine brain imaging findings consistent with radiation necrosis. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to the presence of symptomatic radiation necrosis was calculated. Patients who did not experience the outcome were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Symptomatic Radiation Necrosis by SRS Group, Symptomatic radiation necrosis was defined as the rate of clinical symptomatology requiring steroid administration (i.e. Decadron) and/or operative intervention concomitant with advanced and routine brain imaging findings consistent with radiation necrosis. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to the presence of symptomatic radiation necrosis was calculated. Patients who did not experience the outcome were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Symptomatic Radiation Necrosis by Brain Metastases Group, Symptomatic radiation necrosis was defined as the rate of clinical symptomatology requiring steroid administration (i.e. Decadron) and/or operative intervention concomitant with advanced and routine brain imaging findings consistent with radiation necrosis. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to the presence of symptomatic radiation necrosis was calculated. Patients who did not experience the outcome were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Symptomatic Radiation Necrosis by Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor (ICI) Group, Symptomatic radiation necrosis was defined as the rate of clinical symptomatology requiring steroid administration (i.e. Decadron) and/or operative intervention concomitant with advanced and routine brain imaging findings consistent with radiation necrosis. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to the presence of symptomatic radiation necrosis was calculated. Ppatients who did not experience the outcome were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Local Control, Local control was defined as the rate of any new, recurrent, or progressing tumor as defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria within the planning target volume. This measure details the estimated 6-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to local failure was calculated. Patients who did not experience local failure were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 6 months|Local Control, Local control was defined as the rate of any new, recurrent, or progressing tumor as defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria within the planning target volume. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to local failure was calculated. Patients who did not experience local failure were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Local Control by SRS Group, Local control was defined as the rate of any new, recurrent, or progressing tumor as defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria within the planning target volume. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to local failure was calculated. Patients who did not experience local failure were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Local Control by Brain Metastases Group, Local control was defined as the rate of any new, recurrent, or progressing tumor as defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria within the planning target volume. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to local failure was calculated. Patients who did not experience local failure were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Local Control by Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor (ICI) Group, Local control was defined as the rate of any new, recurrent, or progressing tumor as defined by Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria within the planning target volume. This measure details the estimated 12-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to local failure was calculated. Patients who did not experience local failure were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months|Radiographic Radiation Necrosis Rate, Radiographic radiation necrosis was defined as brain imaging findings on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance (MR) perfusion, MR Spectroscopy, and/or positron emission tomography (PET) imaging consistent with radiation necrosis. This measure details the estimated 6-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to the presence of radiographic radiation necrosis was calculated. Patients who did not experience the outcome were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 6 months|Radiographic Radiation Necrosis Rate, Radiographic radiation necrosis was defined as brain imaging findings on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance (MR) perfusion, MR Spectroscopy, and/or positron emission tomography (PET) imaging consistent with radiation necrosis. This measure details the estimated 6-month survival and associated 95% confidence interval from the Kaplan Meier method. The time from treatment start to the presence of radiographic radiation necrosis was calculated. Patients who did not experience the outcome were censored at the date last known alive or at the date of death if they expired., 12 months
This is a prospective, single arm, pilot study to determine the symptomatic radiation necrosis rate at 6 months utilizing dose-reduced stereotactic radiosurgery with immunotherapy for subjects with a diagnosis of 1-10 brain metastases from MRI and tissue diagnosis of primary malignancy.

Primary end-point is 6 month symptomatic radiation necrosis, defined as a 6-month rate of clinical symptomatology requiring steroid administration (i.e. Decadron) and/or operative intervention concomitant with advanced and routine brain imaging findings consistent with radiation necrosis. Follow-up MRIs will be fused with the planning scan for this assessment.