Prospective Randomized Trial of Streamlined Genetic Education and Testing for Ovarian Cancer Patients
Current guidelines recommend universal genetic testing for all patients with ovarian, fallopian and peritoneal cancer. The purpose of this trial is to investigate the non-inferiority of streamlined genetics education and testing for this patient population when compared to the traditional model of referral to genetic counseling. Patients will be randomized to either the streamlined or the traditional counseling arm. Those in the streamlined group will watch a brief educational video and have the option of immediate testing; The traditional counseling arm will instead be referred for a formal genetics consultation, after which they can choose to be tested. The primary outcome will be a patient reported outcome scale that assesses patient satisfaction with genetic counseling; patient anxiety and distress and cost effectiveness when using both strategies will also be evaluated. The study poses minimal risk to the patients that would not be encountered during standard of care genetic counseling.
Ovarian Cancer, Epithelial|Peritoneal Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Streamlined Education|BEHAVIORAL: Traditional Education
Demographic Information, Number of participants with children, Baseline|Numeracy assessment, Numeracy as assessed by the Newest Vital Sign survey, Baseline|Electronic Family History, Family cancer history up to past 3 generations, Completed at least 1 week prior to genetic sample being taken|Change in anxiety and depression as measured by the IES Scale, The Impact of Events Scale (IES) has been used widely as a means of measuring patient distress (particularly intrusive thoughts or avoidance) over a defined incident. This evaluation will be used to identify trends in anxiety or depression in both arms throughout the education and testing process. In this trial, the "incident" will be described as "the risk of my cancer being hereditary.", Baseline, approximately 7 days post-education, and approximately 7 days post-results disclosure|Distress as measured by MICRA, The multidimensional impact of cancer risk assessment questionnaire (MICRA) is a 25-question validated tool that measures the impact of result disclosure in patients, particularly markers of distress, Approximately 7 days post-results disclosure
Current guidelines recommend universal genetic testing for all patients with ovarian, fallopian and peritoneal cancer. The purpose of this trial is to investigate the non-inferiority of streamlined genetics education and testing for this patient population when compared to the traditional model of referral to genetic counseling. Patients will be randomized to either the streamlined or the traditional counseling arm. Those in the streamlined group will watch a brief educational video and have the option of immediate testing; The traditional counseling arm will instead be referred for a formal genetics consultation, after which they can choose to be tested. The primary outcome will be a patient reported outcome scale that assesses patient satisfaction with genetic counseling; patient anxiety and distress and cost effectiveness when using both strategies will also be evaluated. The study poses minimal risk to the patients that would not be encountered during standard of care genetic counseling.