Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation in Relapsed/Refractory T-, NK/T-cell Lymphomas
Relapsed and refractory T-cell lymphomas have been reported to have dismal outcomes. The role of allogeneic stem cell transplantation have been demonstrated in these patients. This clinical trial is studying the efficacy and safety of busulfan plus fludarabine as conditioning therapy followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation (Allo-SCT) in T- and NK/T-cell lymphoma patients who have relapsed or are refractory to previous chemotherapies including autologous transplantation.
T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Lymphoma, Extranodal NK-T-Cell
DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Fludarabine
2-year progression-free survival, 2 year progression-free survival rate from the date of allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Median value will be provided., 2 years
Response rate, Response will be measured after 3 months of the date of allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Mean value will be provided., 3-months|Time to neutrophil engraftment, Summarized using standard descriptive statistics along with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., Day 30|Time to platelet engraftment, Summarized using standard descriptive statistics along with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., Day 30|2-year overall survival, 2 year overall survival rate from the date of allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Median value will be provided., 2 years|100-days treatment-related mortality, Summarized using standard descriptive statistics., Days 100|Rate of regimen-related toxicities, Toxicity according to CTCAE version 4.03. Summarized using standard descriptive statistics., Day 30|Rate of hepatic venoocclusive disease (HVOD), Summarized using standard descriptive statistics., Day 30|Acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) grades I-IV, Summarized using standard descriptive statistics., Day 100|Chronic GVHD grades I-IV, Summarized using standard descriptive statistics., 2 year|Rate of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, Summarized using standard descriptive statistics., 2 year
Conditioning therapy

* Busulfan (Busulfex®; Patheon Manufacturing Services LLC, Greenville, NC 27834) 3.2 mg/kg + 5% DW (the diluent quantity should be 10 times the volume of Busulfan, so that the final concentration of busulfan becomes approximately 0.5 mg/mL), intravenously for 3 hours once daily for 3 days (days -7 to -5)
* Fludarabine (Fludarabine®, Zydus Hospira Oncology Private Ltd., Ahmedabad, India) 30 mg/m2 + 5% DW 100㎖, intravenously for over 1 hour once daily for 6 days (days -8 to -3)

  * Busulfan should be infused as soon as completion of fludarabine infusion

Primary objective of this study I. To determine the 2-year progression-free survival of this reduced toxicity conditioning in relapsed or refractory T- and NK/T-cell non-hodgkin lymphoma patients.

Secondary endpoints I. To evaluate the response rate, engraftment rate and time to engraftment, 2-year overall survival, 100-days treatment-related mortality, regimen-related toxicities by CTCAE version 4.03, post-transplantation complications (HVOD, acute/chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection,CMV disease) of this reduced toxicity conditioning in relapsed or refractory T- and NK/T-cell non-hodgkin lymphoma patients.