Alvocidib, Cytarabine, and Mitoxantrone in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This randomized phase II trial is studying two different schedules of alvocidib to compare how well they work when given together with cytarabine and mitoxantrone in treating patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as alvocidib, cytarabine, and mitoxantrone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not yet known which schedule of alvocidib is more effective when given together with cytarabine and mitoxantrone in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Multilineage Dysplasia Following Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: alvocidib|DRUG: mitoxantrone hydrochloride|DRUG: cytarabine|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Complete Response, Bone marrow showing less than 5% leukemic blasts with normal maturation of all cell lines, an ANC of at least 1000/uL and a platelet count of 100,000/uL, absence of blast in peripheral blood, absence of identifiable leukemic cells in the bone marrow, clearance of disease-associated cytogenetic abnormalities, and clearance of any previously existing extramedullary disease. Repeat marrow confirmation 4-6 weeks following the marrow documenting CR is not required due to the need for continued treatment in CR., 1 year
Number of Participants Experiencing Death From Any Cause Within 60 Days of Starting FLAM, Toxicity defined as death from any cause within 60 days of starting FLAM., 60 days|Disease-free Survival, This will be defined as the time between study entry and the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, or death from any cause occurs., up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the efficacy of two different schedules (bolus vs "hybrid bolus-infusion") of alvocidib followed by cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with poor-risk features.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the toxicities of these regimens. II. To determine the disease-free survival and overall survival of patients who demonstrate a response to these regimens.

III. To compare the pharmacokinetics of alvocidib when administered in two different schedules (bolus vs "hybrid bolus-infusion").

IV. To describe alvocidib-induced alterations in AML blast cell expression of selected target mRNA and proteins.

V. To describe alvocidib-induced alterations in AML blast cell growth kinetic parameters.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to antecedent hematologic disorder of \>= 6 months duration prior to transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and any prior antecedent therapy for myelodysplastic syndromes or myeloproliferative disorder. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive alvocidib IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, cytarabine IV continuously over 72 hours on days 6-8, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 60-120 minutes on day 9.

ARM II: Patients receive alvocidib IV over 30 minutes followed by alvocidib IV over 4 hours on days 1-3. Patients also receive cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride as in arm I.

Patients achieving partial or complete response (CR) after the first course of treatment may receive a second course of treatment 35-63 days following blood count recovery and/or undergo allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Patients \>= 50 years of age with t (8;21), inv (16), or t(16;16) AML who achieve CR after the first course of treatment may receive 3-4 courses of high-dose cytarabine consolidation therapy.

Bone marrow and/or blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for correlative laboratory studies, including pharmacokinetic studies by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry, analysis of blast cell growth kinetic parameters by flow cytometry, and blast cell expression of selected target mRNA and protein by quantitative RT-PCR and western blotting.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.