DETERMINE Trial Treatment Arm 02: Atezolizumab in Adult, Paediatric and Teenage/Young Adult Patients With Cancers With High Tumour Mutational Burden (TMB) or Microsatellite Instability-high (MSI-high) or Proven Constitutional Mismatch Repair Deficiency (CMMRD) Disposition
This clinical trial is looking at a drug called atezolizumab. Atezolizumab is approved as standard of care treatment for adult patients with urothelial cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, extensive-stage small cell lung cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma and triple negative breast cancer. This means it has gone through clinical trials and been approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the UK.

Atezolizumab works in patients with these types of cancers which have certain changes in the cancer cells called high tumour mutational burden (TMB) or high microsatellite instability (MSI) or proven (previously diagnosed) constitutional mismatch repair deficiency (CMMRD).

Investigators now wish to find out if it will be useful in treating patients with other cancer types which are also TMB/MSH-high or show CMMRD. If the results are positive, the study team will work with the NHS and the Cancer Drugs Fund to see if these drugs can be routinely accessed for patients in the future.

This trial is part of a trial programme called DETERMINE. The programme will also look at other anti-cancer drugs in the same way, through matching the drug to rare cancer types or ones with specific mutations.
Malignancy|Malignant Neoplasm|Lymphoproliferative Disorders|Neoplasms by Histologic Type|Neoplasms by Site|Cancer|Colorectal Neoplasms|Endometrial Neoplasms|Melanoma|Solid Tumours
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Objective Response (OR), An OR is defined as the confirmed occurrence of either a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) Version 1.1 criteria (or immune related \[ir\]-RECIST or standard imaging criteria for specific disease e.g. Response Evaluation in Neuro Oncology criteria \[RANO\]). In patients with leukaemia, OR will be defined as the occurrence of CR, CRi (CR incomplete neutrophil recovery) or CRp (CR with incomplete platelet recovery). The trial will report the proportion of patients with an OR and 95% credible interval., Disease assessments to be performed up to 24 weeks from the start of trial treatment.|Durable Clinical Benefit (DCB), DCB is defined as the absence of disease progression for at least 24 weeks from the start of trial treatment according to RECIST Version 1.1 criteria (or ir-RECIST or standard imaging criteria for specific disease e.g. RANO criteria) and, where relevant (e.g. for haematological malignancies), by standard bone marrow response assessment criteria. Alternative definitions of DCB based on different time points may be pre-specified for particular sub-cohorts if 24 weeks is not clinically relevant. The trial will report the proportion of patients with a DCB and 95% credible interval., Disease assessments to be performed up to 24 weeks from the start of trial treatment.
Duration of response (DR), DR is defined as the time from the date of the first confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST 1.1 or ir-RECIST or standard imaging criteria for specific disease e.g. RANO criteria to the date of disease progression. The trial will report the median DR and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment every 2 cycles of atezolizumab (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of atezolizumab for up to 2 years.|Best percentage change in sum of target lesion / index lesion diameters (PCSD), PCSD is defined as the greatest decrease or least increase in the sum of target lesion diameters (RECIST) or index lesion diameters (irRECIST) as a percentage compared to the baseline measurement. The trial will report the mean PCSD and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment every 2 cycles of atezolizumab (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of atezolizumab for up to 2 years.|Time to treatment discontinuation (TTD), TTD is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of discontinuing trial treatment, in days estimated by the median of the posterior inverse gamma probability distribution. The trial will report the median TTD and 95% credible interval., From first dose of atezolizumab to discontinuation of trial treatment up to 5 years.|Progression-Free Survival time (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of progression or date of death without a previous progression recorded estimated by the median of the posterior inverse gamma probability distribution., Disease assessment every 2 cycles of atezolizumab (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of atezolizumab for up to 2 years.|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of progression or date of death without recorded progression censored rather than events. The trial will report the median TTP and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment every 2 cycles of atezolizumab (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of atezolizumab for up to 2 years.|Growth Modulation Index (GMI), GMI is defined as the ratio of TTP with the trial protocol treatment to TTP on the most recent prior line of therapy. The trial will report the mean GMI and 95% credible interval., Disease assessment every 2 cycles of atezolizumab (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT. After 24 weeks, it can be done every 12 weeks, on discussion with Sponsor. Follow-up visits are every 3 months after last dose of atezolizumab for up to 2 years.|Overall Survival time (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of starting trial treatment to date of death from any cause estimated by the median of the posterior normal probability distribution., Time of death or up to 2 years after the EoT visit.|Occurrence of at least one Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction (SUSAR), The trial will report the number of patients who experience at least one SUSAR to atezolizumab., From the time of consent until 90 days after last dose of atezolizumab (up to 5 years) or until patient starts another anti-cancer therapy, whichever came first. An average time frame will be presented with results entry.|Occurrence of at least one Grade 3, 4 or 5 atezolizumab related AE, Number of patients who experience at least one atezolizumab related Grade 3, 4 or 5 AE according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0., From the time of consent until 90 days after last dose of atezolizumab (up to 5 years) or until patient starts another anti-cancer therapy, whichever came first. An average time frame will be presented with results entry.|EORTC-QLQ-C30 Standardised Area Under Summary Score Curve (QLQSAUC) in adult patients, For adult populations, multiple measures of Quality of Life (QoL) will be generated from patient completion of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQ-C30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30) questionnaire (15 measures). For each patient the Summary Score from the questionnaire will be generated at each time point and the area under the curve generated by these scores over time will be calculated and standardised by the time frame. The trial will report the mean QLQSAUC and 95% credible interval., QoL surveys performed prior to inclusion, every cycle (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT visit (up to 5 years).|EQ-5D Standardised Area Under Index Value Curve (EQ5DSAUC) in adult patients., For adult populations, two measures of QoL will be generated from patient completion of the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire. For each measure, scores based on responses from the questionnaire will be generated at each time point and the area under the curve generated by these scores over time will be calculated and standardised by the time frame. The trial will report the mean EQ5DSAUC and 95% credible interval., QoL surveys performed prior to inclusion, every cycle (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT visit (up to 5 years).|Mean change from baseline in the PedsQL 4.0 Standardised Area Under total Scale Score Curve (PedsSAUC) in paediatric patients., For paediatric populations multiple measures of QoL will be generated from patient completion of the PedsQL 4.0 (4 measures). The Summary Score from the questionnaire will be generated at each time point and the area under the curve generated by these scores over time will be calculated and standardised by the time frame. The trial will report the mean PedsSAUC and 95% credible interval., QoL surveys performed prior to inclusion, every cycle (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT visit (up to 5 years).|Mean change from baseline in the PedsQL 4.0 Standardised Area Under total Scale Score Curve (PedsSAUC) in parents of paediatric patients., For paediatric populations multiple measures of QoL will be generated from patient's parent completion of the PedsQL 4.0 (4 measures). The Summary Score from the questionnaire will be generated at each time point and the area under the curve generated by these scores over time will be calculated and standardised by the time frame. The trial will report the mean PedsSAUC and 95% credible interval., QoL surveys performed prior to inclusion, every cycle (each cycle is 21 days) and at EoT visit (up to 5 years).
DETERMINE Treatment Arm 02 (atezolizumab) aims to evaluate the efficacy of atezolizumab in adult, paediatric and teenage/young adult (TYA) patients with rare\* cancers with high TMB or high MSI or proven CMMRD disposition and in common cancers where high TMB/MSI or proven CMMRD is considered to be infrequent.

\*Rare is defined generally as incidence less than 6 cases in 100,000 patients (includes paediatric and teenagers/young adult cancers) or common cancers with rare alterations.

This treatment arm has a target sample size of 30 evaluable patients. Sub-cohorts may be defined and further expanded to a target of 30 evaluable patients each.

The ultimate aim is to translate positive clinical findings to the NHS (Cancer Drugs Fund) to provide new treatment options for rare adult, paediatric and TYA cancers.

OUTLINE:

Pre-screening: The Molecular Tumour Board makes a treatment recommendation for the participant based on molecularly-defined cohorts.

Screening: Consenting patients undergo biopsy and collection of blood samples for research purposes.

Treatment: Patients will receive atezolizumab until disease progression without clinical benefit, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent. Patients will also undergo collection of blood samples at various intervals while receiving treatment and at EoT.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.

THE DETERMINE TRIAL MASTER (SCREENING) PROTOCOL:

Please see DETERMINE Trial Master (Screening) Protocol record (NCT05722886) for information on the DETERMINE Trial Master Protocol and applicable documents.