A Study of Novel Anti-cancer Agents in Patients With Metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This study is designed to determine the efficacy and safety of durvalumab in combination with novel oncology therapies with or without paclitaxel and durvalumab + paclitaxel for first-line metastatic triple negative breast cancer
Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Capivasertib|DRUG: Oleclumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan|DRUG: Datopotamab deruxtecan
Incidence of adverse events, Part 1: Assessment of safety and tolerability of each treatment arm

Part 2:

Endpoints based on Investigator assessment according to RECIST 1.1: ORR (objective response rate): The percentage of evaluable patients with a confirmed Investigator-assessed visit response of CR (complete response) or PR (partial response)., Part1: From informed consent until the safety follow-up visit 3 months after the last dose of study drug. Part 2: From informed consent until the safety follow-up visit 3 months after the last dose of study drug.|Laboratory findings, Assessment of safety and tolerability of each treatment arm, Part 1: From informed consent until the safety follow-up visit 3 months after the last dose of study drug. Part 2:From informed consent until the safety follow-up visit 3 months after the last dose of study drug.
Objective response rate (ORR), Assessment of the efficacy of each treatment arm according to RECIST 1.1. ORR: The percentage of evaluable patients with a confirmed Investigator-assessed response of CR (complete response) or PR (partial response) Applicable for Part 1 and Part 2., Approx. 30 months|Progression-free survival (PFS)., Assessment of the efficacy of each treatment arm according to RECIST 1.1. PFS: Time from date of first dose until the date of objective radiological disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression)

Applicable for Part 1 and Part 2, On-study tumor assessments occur every 8 weeks (Arms 1-5),every 6 weeks (Arms 6-8) until week 48 and then every 12 weeks thereafter until radiological progression, death, withdrawal of consent or study completion up to approx. 30 months|Duration of response (DoR), Assessment of the efficacy of each treatment arm according to RECIST 1.1. DoR: Time from date of first detection of objective response (which is subsequently confirmed) until the date of objective radiological disease progression Applicable for Part 1 and Part 2, On-study tumor assessments occur every 8 weeks (Arms 1-5), every 6 weeks (Arms 6-8) until week 48 and then every 12 weeks thereafter until radiological progression, death, withdrawal of consent or study completion up to approx. 30 months|Overall survival (OS), OS: Time from date of first dose until the date of death by any cause

Applicable for Part 1 and Part 2, Approx. 30 months|Serum concentration of durvalumab and serum or plasma concentration of novel oncology therapies, Assessment of pharmacokinetics (PK) Applicable for Part 1 (Arms 1-8) and for Part 2 (Arm 7), From cycle 1 day 1 until cycle 7 day 1 (Arms 1-5), from cycle 1 day 1 until cycle 8 day 1 (Arms 6-8) (each cycle is 28 days) and every 12 weeks thereafter until study completion approx. 30 months|Presence of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) for durvalumab and applicable novel oncology therapies, Investigation of the immunogenicity of durvalumab and novel oncology therapies in all applicable treatment arms Applicable for Part 1 (Arms 1-8) and for Part 2 (Arm 7), From cycle 1 day 1 until cycle 7 day 1 (Arms 1-5), from cycle 1 day 1 until cycle 8 day 1 (Arms 6-8) (each cycle is 28 days) and every 12 weeks thereafter until study completion approx. 30 months|Progression-free survival (PFS 6), PFS at 6 months following date of first dose Applicable for Part 2, On-study tumor assessments occur every 8 weeks until week 48 (Arms 1-5), every 6 weeks until week 48 (Arms 6-8) and then every 12 weeks thereafter until radiological progression, death, withdrawal of consent or study completion up to approx. 30 months
This is a Phase IB/II, 2-stage, open-label, multicenter study to determine the efficacy and safety of durvalumab in combination with novel oncology therapies (i.e. therapies designed for immune modulation) with or without paclitaxel and durvalumab + paclitaxel as first-line treatment in patients with metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). The study is designed to concurrently evaluate potential novel treatment combinations with clinical promise using a 2-stage approach. The study will use a Simon 2-Stage design to evaluate which cohorts may proceed to expansion.

Part 1 is a Phase IB study of safety and initial efficacy, and Part 2 may expand patient enrollment if adequate efficacy signal is observed in Part 1. The treatment regimens evaluated in Part 2 will depend on the evaluation of safety and efficacy outcomes in Part 1.