Prognostic Analysis of Esophageal Cancer with Complete Pathological Response After Neoadjuvant Therapy
Esophageal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide, with high invasiveness and lethality. Currently, the treatment for resectable locally advanced esophageal cancer mainly consists of a treatment model centered on surgical treatment with the participation of multiple disciplines. Neoadjuvant treatment regimens include chemotherapy, chemoradiotherapy, and chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy. Complete pathological response (pCR)is currently regarded as one of the important indicators for evaluating the efficacy of neoadjuvant treatment. Previous studies have shown that 14%-39% of patients with complete pathological response after neoadjuvant treatment still experience recurrence and metastasis within two years after surgery, suggesting that pCR after esophageal cancer surgery does not mean clinical cure. Perhaps there is a highly risk clinical subgroup need to research. Therefore, based on the prospective clinical database of the National Cancer Center and in cooperation with multiple national cancer regional medical centers, this study analyzes and explores the prognosis of patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma with pCR after neoadjuvant treatment, characterized by the Chinese population.
Esophageal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Neoadjuvant therapy with PD-L1 inhibitor
Disease-Free Survival, The time from the postoperative period of the patient to the first occurrence of recurrence or metastasis., The postoperative follow-up period should last for at least one year.
Overall Survival Rate, the proportion of patients who are still alive for a certain period of time after surgery among all the patients who have undergone the surgical operation., The postoperative follow-up period should last for at least one year.
Metastasis rate of different parts or organs, The postoperative follow-up period should last for at least one year.
Esophageal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide, with high invasiveness and lethality. Currently, the treatment for resectable locally advanced esophageal cancer mainly consists of a treatment model centered on surgical treatment with the participation of multiple disciplines. Neoadjuvant treatment regimens include chemotherapy, chemoradiotherapy, and chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy. Complete pathological response (pCR)is currently regarded as one of the important indicators for evaluating the efficacy of neoadjuvant treatment. Previous studies have shown that 14%-39% of patients with complete pathological response after neoadjuvant treatment still experience recurrence and metastasis within two years after surgery, suggesting that pCR after esophageal cancer surgery does not mean clinical cure. Perhaps there is a highly risk clinical subgroup need to research. Therefore, based on the prospective clinical database of the National Cancer Center and in cooperation with multiple national cancer regional medical centers, this study analyzes and explores the prognosis of patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma with pCR after neoadjuvant treatment, characterized by the Chinese population.