Pancreatic Tumor Cell Vaccine (GVAX), Cyclophosphamide, SBRT, and FOLFIRINOX in Patients With Resected Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas
The purpose of this study is to estimate safety of GVAX Pancreas Vaccine (GVAX) with immune modulating doses of cyclophosphamide (Cy) followed by SBRT and FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy in pancreatic cancer patients after surgery.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: GVAX Pancreas Vaccine|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation|DRUG: FOLFIRINOX
Dose Limiting Toxicities, The number of participants experiencing grade 3-4 diarrhea, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia within the first 2 cycles (8 weeks) of treatment, regardless of attribution. The rates of each of these toxicities were considered unacceptable if they were 40%, 60%, and 40%, respectively. A decision rule similar to the traditional 3+3 design was used to determine whether it was safe to continue on to the next cohort., 8 weeks|Grade 3 or Higher Cy/GVAX-related Adverse Events, Number of participants with grade 3 or above adverse event attributed to Cy or the GVAX pancreas vaccine. Each adverse event (as defined by NCI CTCAE v4.0) was counted only once for a given subject., 116 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS was measured as the amount of time from date of surgery until death or end of follow-up. OS was censored on the date the subject was last known to be alive for subjects without documentation of death at the time of analysis. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 96 months|Disease-free Survival (DFS), DFS was measured as the time from date of surgery until pancreatic cancer recurrence or death. Disease status was monitored by radiologic scans done approximately every 12 weeks. DFS was censored on the date of last radiologic scan for subjects without documentation of cancer recurrence or death at the time of analysis. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 96 months|Distant Metastases Free Survival (DMFS), DMFS was measured as the amount of time from date of surgery until metastatic disease progression or death. Metastatic disease progression is the appearance of one or more new lesions outside the primary tumor area (pancreas). Disease status was monitored by radiologic scans done approximately every 12 weeks. DMFS was censored on the date of last radiographic scans for subjects without documentation of metastatic disease progression or death at the time of analysis. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 96 months|Freedom From Local Progression (FFLP), FFLP was measured as the time from date of surgery until disease recurrence in the pancreas or death. Disease status was monitored by radiologic scans done approximately every 12 weeks. FFLP was censored on the date of last radiographic scans for subjects without documentation of local disease recurrence or death at the time of analysis. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 96 months
This study enrolled patients with surgically resected adenocarcinoma of the pancreas who had titanium clips placed at the time of surgery in order to guide SBRT treatment.

Enrollment was based on traditional 3+3 design with grade 3-4 diarrhea and/or neutropenia defined as the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) within the first 2 cycles (8 weeks) of FOLFIRINOX. The first group of 3 patients (Cohort 1) received SBRT and full dose FOLFIRINOX. The second group of 4 patients (Cohort 2) received SBRT and modified FOLFIRINOX, and the third group of 12 patients (Cohort 3) received SBRT and modified FOLFIRINOX as well as Cy/GVAX vaccinations.

Cy/GVAX (patients 8-19): cyclophosphamide (Cy) at 200 mg/m\^2 intravenously over 30 minutes the day before each vaccine. Each vaccination (GVAX) consists of six total intradermal injections of vaccine, two each in the upper right and left thighs, and two in the upper non-dominant arm. Each injection consists of approximately 2.5x10\^8 cells of each cell line (PANC 6.03/PANC 10.05) for a total of 5x10\^8 cells. The first dose of Cy/GVAX was given within 6-10 weeks from surgery.

Adjuvant SBRT was given 13-17 days after the first dose of Cy/GVAX. Patients receive 5 days of SBRT (6.6 gray (Gy) daily for 33 Gy total) to the tumor bed as delineated by surgical clips placed by the surgeon.

Six 28-day cycles of FOLFIRINOX, starting at least one week after completion of SBRT.

This was permitted to be given locally. Patients were evaluated for dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) within the first 2 cycles (8 weeks).

Cy/GVAX #2-5 was given every 28 days (+/- 3 days), starting 35 days (+/- 7 days) after completion of FOLFIRINOX. Patients without evidence of recurrence could then qualify for additional Cy/GVAX boosts every 6 months (every 12 months with Amendment #10) until disease recurrence, toxicity, withdrawal, or death.