Multi-peptide Vaccination Adjuvanted With XS15 in Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients
The aim of this Phase I study is to evaluate the immunogenicity along with safety and toxicity as well as first efficacy of a multi-peptide vaccine adjuvanted with the TLR1/2 ligand XS15 emulsified in Montanide ISA 51 VG (AML-VAC-XS15) in AML patients who have achieved CR or CRi with first line treatment.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Adult
DRUG: Vaccines, Peptide
immunogenicity, Blood will be taken before peptide vaccination and during vaccination phase and follow-ups at each visit

IFN-gamma ELISPOT Counts

Percentage of patients with induction of an AML-VAC-XS15-specific specific T-cell response until End of study visit (EOS) compared to baseline as determined by IFNγ ELISPOT., Visit 1( Day 0); Visit 2 (Day 42); End of Treatment (Day 70); Follow-Up (Day160); Follow-Up 1(Day 188); Follow-Up 2 (Day 250)
Peptide vaccine: Multi-peptide vaccine cocktail comprising 9 different immunopeptidome-defined mutated and non-mutated AML/ leukemia stem and progenitor cell (LSC)-associated HLA class I and HLA class II peptides.

The vaccine cocktail is synthesized and formulated in the GMP-certified Wirkstoffpeptidlabor at the University of Tübingen (headed by Juliane Walz).

Treatment schedule:

The vaccine cocktail will be administered subcutaneously (s.c.) together with the (toll-like receptor )TLR1/2 ligand XS15 (50 µg) emulsified in Montanide ISA 51 VG (1:1) as adjuvant.

Two vaccinations within a 6-week interval are planned, with the option of one additional booster in case of insufficient response after the first two vaccinations.

Peptide vaccination will take place in AML patients that have achieved a morphological complete remission (CR) or a complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) with standard first line treatment. Minimal residual disease (MRD) positivity is permitted.

Vaccination will start 4-28 weeks after last application of intensive chemotherapy). Any maintenance treatment, e.g. with oral azacytidine or midostaurin, or ongoing low intensity therapy, e.g. with HMA, venetoclax etc. is permitted, can be applied throughout the vaccination and continued after study treatment according to the treating physician's decision.