Ph I Vorinostat in the Treatment of Advanced Staged Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RATIONALE: Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays and other types of radiation to kill tumor cells. Giving vorinostat together with chemotherapy and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with cisplatin and radiation therapy in treating patients with stage III or stage IVa squamous cell cancer of the oropharynx which is either unresectable or borderline resectable.
Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: cisplatin|RADIATION: radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: Correlative Studies
Maximum tolerated dose of vorinostat in combination with concurrent chemoradiation therapy, Weekly during treatment; Every 2 weeks for the first month after treatment completion; Then every 4 weeks until day 153|The toxic effects of the combination of vorinostat and cisplatin using NCI CTCAE v. 4.0, Weekly during treatment; Every 2 weeks for the first month after treatment completion; Then every 4 weeks until day 153
Tumor responses to vorinostat or vorinostat combined with chemoradiation., Days 35, 56 then after Day 153 every 12 weeks for 24 months|Complete response rate, Days 35, 56 then after Day 153 every 12 weeks for 24 months|Overall survival, Days 35, 56 then after Day 153 every 12 weeks for 24 months|Progression free survival, Days 35, 56 then after Day 153 every 12 weeks for 24 months|Relationship between Vorinostat therapy and tumor suppressor genes product assessed by Fas and FasL protein expression level in tumor and the normal mucosa, Before, post SAHA treatment, and post the concurrent chemoradiation /SAHA therapy|HPV-specific T-cell in patients with HPV+ tumors, After the run in period of vorinostat but before the start of RT; Day 35; 2 weeks after the completion of RT; Day 153
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose of Vorinostat in combination with concurrent chemoradiotherapy for the treatment of advance stage OPSCC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

l. To determine the complete response rate, overall survival and progression free survival using the maximally tolerated dose of Vorinostat.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess treatment related acute and late toxicities when combining Vorinostat with chemoradiation and correlate these toxicities to molecular markers of apoptosis in tumor and normal oral mucosa.

II. To evaluate the effect of Vorinostat on tumor immune surveillance, particularly in HPV positive patients.

III. To illustrate that Vorinostat alters the methylation status of commonly methylated genes in OPSCC.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vorinostat. Patients receive oral vorinostat on days 0-2 and cisplatin IV on days 7, 21, and 35. Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week beginning on day 7. Patients also receive concurrent oral vorinostat along with the radiotherapy to be given 3 days per week (Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday). Treatment continues for 7 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.