Lenvatinib Following Liver Transplantation in Patients of Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Portal Vein Tumor Thrombus
The aim of this study is to observe the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib in preventing recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma patients with portal vein tumor thrombus after liver transplantation.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Portal Vein Tumor Thrombus|Liver Transplantation
DRUG: lenvatinib|DRUG: Placebo
3 years recurrence-free survival rate, Tumor-free survival in 3 years, 3 years
1 year recurrence-free survival rate, Tumor-free survival in 1 years, 1 years|1 year overall survival rate, Overall survival refers to the time from treatment to death for any reason., 1 year|3 years overall survival rate, Overall survival refers to the time from treatment to death for any reason., 3 years|5 years overall survival rate, Overall survival refers to the time from treatment to death for any reason., 5 years
The research is an open, randomized, single-center study. Patients of hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein cancer thrombus who underwent liver transplantation are included according to the criteria of admission. After operation, the regimen of calcineurin inhibitors, mycophenolate mofetil, sirolimus or everolimus with glucocorticoids removed at an early stage are used. Patients enrolled in the study were randomly allocated in the lenvatinib group (54 patients) and the control group (54 patients) after stable condition. Patients in the control group are given supportive treatment and regular follow-up. Patients in the lenvatinib group are given lenvatinib within 1-2 months after operation (dose: body weight \< 60 kg: 8 mg/day, body weight ≥ 60 kg 12 mg/day). The baseline data of patients are collected before allocation. Serum and imaging examination are checked regularly every month to monitor the recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma and the side effects of lenvatinib. The efficacy and safety of lenvatinib in patients of hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein tumor thrombus are observed, and the clinicopathological factors affecting the efficacy of lenvatinib are analyzed. When side effects of lenvatinib occur, the dosage can be reduced according to the patients' condition until discontinuation. When tumor recurrence occurs, a multidisciplinary team will draw up specific treatment plans according to the patients' condition, including surgical resection, interventional therapy, radiofrequency therapy, radiotherapy and targeted therapy (Patients in the control group can add lenvatinib, and patients in the lenvatinib group can decide whether to continue using it according to the patients' condition).