FLT3 Ligand, CD40 Agonist Antibody, and Stereotactic Radiotherapy
The purpose of this study is to test a new way of treating the most common form of lung cancer. The investigators are testing a combination of radiotherapy with two new forms of immunotherapy. This study is testing the safety and effectiveness of this treatment approach as compared to standard treatment options.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Lung Cancer
DRUG: FLT3 Ligand (CDX-301)|BIOLOGICAL: anti-CD40 antibody (CDX-1140)|RADIATION: SBRT
Phase I: Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Defined as Follows:, Death

Any ≥ Grade 3 non-hematological toxicity, with the following exceptions:

Grade 3 alopecia, vitiligo, or endocrinopathies controlled by hormone replacement therapy Grade 3 nausea that resolves to ≤ grade 2 with or without treatment within 72 hours Grade 3 vomiting and diarrhea that resolves to ≤ grade 2 with or without treatment within 72 hours Grade 3 fatigue that resolves to ≤ grade 2 within 5 days Grade 3 hypertension in the absence of maximal medical therapy Grade 3 adverse event of tumor flare (defined as local pain, irritation, or rash localized at sites of known or suspected tumor) of ≤ 7 days in duration Grade 3 amylase or lipase abnormalities that are not associated with symptoms or clinical manifestations of pancreatitis. It is recommended to consult with the Principal Investigator for grade 4 amylase or lipase abnormalities

Grade 3 clinically significant laboratory abnormalities that are asymptomatic and can be reversed within 72 hours, however:

Any Grade 4, up to 8 weeks after initiation of study therapy|Phase II: Progression-free Survival (PFS) Duration, defined as time from study registration until disease progression (scored using iRECIST) or death, whichever comes first up to 51 weeks.
Overall Survival (OS) Duration, Length of time that patient survives from time of study registration, From date of registration until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Radiographic Responses Using Descriptive Statistics, The clinical benefit rate (CBR) will be defined as the percentage of subjects who achieve best response of confirmed CR or PR, or stable disease (SD) for at least four months., From date of registration, assessed up to 4 months|Quality of Life Using EORTC QLQ-LC13 (Quality of Life Questionnaire, Lung Cancer), Summary statistics (mean, standard deviation, median, 25th and 75th percentiles, and range) and the mean change from baseline of linear-transformed scores will be reported for all the items and subscales of the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire and the QLQ-LC13, according to the EORTC scoring manual guidelines. higher scores are a better level of functioning, 1 year|Quality of Life Using QLQ-C30 (Quality of Life Questionnaire), Summary statistics (mean, standard deviation, median, 25th and 75th percentiles, and range) and the mean change from baseline of linear-transformed scores will be reported for all the items and subscales of the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire and the QLQ-LC13, according to the EORTC scoring manual guidelines. Most items are scored 1 to 4, higher scores are a better level of functioning., 1 year|Daily Step Count Using Descriptive Statistics, Average daily step counts, 1 year
This is a randomized, open-label phase I/II study. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive FLT3 ligand (CDX-301), anti-CD40 antibody (CDX-1140) and SBRT (Arm 1) versus standard care (Arm 2). Subjects on either study arm with limited disease will receive SBRT to all evident sites of active disease. Subjects on Arm 1 with extensive disease will initially receive SBRT to a single site of disease but may receive additional "cycles" of FLT3 ligand (CDX-301) anti-CD40 antibody (CDX-1140), and SBRT at later time points. Subjects on Arm 2 with extensive disease are expected to receive some form of standard systemic therapy (e.g., docetaxel). Subjects on Arm 2 with limited disease may also receive standard systemic therapy following completion of SBRT to all sites of evident disease, at the discretion of the treating physicians. All subjects will be followed closely for treatment-related toxicities. Whole-body PET/CT and CT imaging will be performed prior to study entry, and restaging CT will be performed every 8 weeks thereafter.

In the phase I component of this study, subjects will be randomized between study arms until 6 subjects have been randomized to Arm 1. Study accrual will then be halted until 8 weeks after the last study subject begins treatment.

If the pre-specified safety criteria are achieved in the Phase I portion of this study, the study will proceed to phase II. The total sample size (Phase I and Phase II) will be 46 subjects. All 46 subjects will be included in efficacy analyses.

If the pre-specified safety criteria are not achieved in the Phase I portion of this study, the investigators and Celldex will review safety data from this trial as well as other trials using CDX-301 and CDX-1140 and determine if the experimental treatment regimen should be altered (e.g., by reducing the CDX-1140 dose). The study protocol would be amended accordingly, and Phase I component with the new treatment regimen would be added.