Alvespimycin Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Relapsed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, or B-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and the best dose of alvespimycin hydrochloride in treating patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), or B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (B-PLL). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as alvespimycin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: alvespimycin hydrochloride|OTHER: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacogenomic studies|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose of 17-DMAG, Defined as the maximum dose level where at most 1 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity., 21 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 17-DMAG in patients with relapsed CLL/SLL and B-PLL.

II. To define the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of 17-DMAG in patients with relapsed CLL/SLL and B-PLL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess preliminary efficacy of 17-DMAG in patients with relapsed CLL/SLL and B-PLL.

II. To determine the pharmacokinetics of 17-DMAG in patients with relapsed CLL/SLL and B-PLL.

III. To determine the feasibility of measuring pharmacodynamic markers of 17-DMAG including the Hsp90 client proteins Akt and IKK-alpha/IKK-beta.

IV. To determine if FoxD3 and downstream genes such as EPHA7 and ID4 are re-expressed in CLL cells following treatment with 17-DMAG.

V. To correlate pharmacokinetic features of 17-DMAG with response, toxicity and pharmacodynamic endpoints.

VI. To correlate risk parameters such as ZAP-70 with response to 17-DMAG.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive alvespimycin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years.