CA-4948 Added to Standard Chemotherapy to Treat Metastatic or Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of emavusertib (CA-4948) in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel in treating patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). CA-4948 is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of abnormal proteins called interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) that signal cells to multiply. This may help keep cancer cells from growing. The usual approach for patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is treatment with chemotherapy drugs gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. Gemcitabine is a chemotherapy drug that blocks the cells from making DNA and may kill cancer cells. Paclitaxel is in a class of medications called anti-microtubule agents. It stops cancer cells from growing and dividing and may kill them. Nab-paclitaxel is an albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel which may have fewer side effects and work better than other forms of paclitaxel. Giving CA-4948 in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel may shrink or stabilize metastatic or unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Emavusertib|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Dose limiting toxicity rate, Done to determine the maximum tolerated dose for the combination of CA-4948 and gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy backbone. Data analysis of the study will be descriptive in nature. Demographic and clinical characteristics of the sample, toxicity by severity, as well as loss to follow-up will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Safety endpoints will be listed for each dose level., Up to 1 year
Incidence of adverse events, Tabulations of adverse events will be produced by severity and by relationship to study drug., Up to 1 year|Overall response rate (ORR), For efficacy data in the expansion cohort, ORR and its 95% confidence interval will be calculated., Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be described using Kaplan-Meier product limit methods., From start of study treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Will be described using Kaplan-Meier product limit methods., Up to 1 year
Pharmacodynamic effect of CA-4948 in combination with chemotherapy, Pharmacodynamic indices from biopsies obtained from expansion cohorts will be summarized using descriptive statistics (means, median, and standard deviations) at each measurement time point and the change will be compared by paired t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test as appropriate., Up to 1 year|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of both CA-4948 and nab-paclitaxel, Done to confirm whether a clinically relevant drug-drug interaction occurs. Plasma concentration-time curves will be analyzed by noncompartmental methods using routines supplied in the Phoenix WinNonlin Professional software package. Exposure obtained by noncompartmental methods will also be compared to toxicity and efficacy outcomes using graphical and statistical programs. A formal population PK or exposure-response analyses may be conducted based on these initial findings., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess dose limiting toxicities and determine the recommended phase 2 dose of emavusertib (CA--4948) in combination with chemotherapy in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of CA-4948 and chemotherapy.

III. To determine preliminary signals of efficacy, as measured by objective response rate (ORR), CA-4948 response, progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate pharmacodynamic effect of CA-4948 in combination with chemotherapy.

II. To evaluate pharmacokinetics of CA-4948 in combination with chemotherapy. III. To explore biomarkers and genomic alterations associated with treatment response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of CA-4948 in combination with fixed-dose gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive CA-4948 orally (PO), gemcitabine intravenously (IV), and nab-paclitaxel IV on study. Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) scan, positron emission tomography (PET) scan, and/or x-ray imaging throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tumor biopsies and blood sample collection during screening and on study.