Paricalcitol and Hydroxychloroquine in Combination With Gemcitabine and Nab-Paclitaxel for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial investigates how well paricalcitol and hydroxychloroquine work when combined with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced or metastatic). Paricalcitol (a form of vitamin D) works by blocking a signal in the cancer cells that leads to growth and spreading of the tumor. Hydroxychloroquine (an autophagy inhibitor) enhances the activity of standard chemotherapy on cancer cells and prevent them to utilize energy to grow. Chemotherapy drugs, such as gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving paricalcitol and hydroxychloroquine together with standard chemotherapy (gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel) may work better in treating patients with pancreatic cancer compared to either paricalcitol or hydroxychloroquine alone.
Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Hydroxychloroquine|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Paricalcitol
Change from baseline tumor size as measured by cross sectional imaging at 8 weeks.(every 8 weeks), Assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Tumor measurements will be performed every 8 weeks. Response rate will be estimated, and a 90% exact confidence interval will be reported using the Clopper-Pearson method., From date of study entry until date of first documented progression or death from any cause whichever comes first up to 100 months.
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities will be presented as worst toxicity per patient and will be reported as percent toxicity. The number of subjects with skipped doses, dose delays and dose reductions as well as major reasons for dose modifications will be summarized. Adverse events will be classified using MedDRA System Organ Classes and Preferred Terms. Furthermore, serious adverse events (SAEs), adverse events (AEs) with a severity grade of 3 or above using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, AEs deemed related to study drug, AEs leading to discontinuation of study drug, and AEs leading to death will also be summarized in preferred term by system organ class and listed on an individual subject basis., Up to 28 days post treatment from study start|Progression-free survival, Assessed using RECIST 1.1. Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years from study start|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years from study start
Changes in selected biomarkers in tumor microenvironment and circulation, Will evaluate changes in selected biomarkers in tumor microenvironment and circulation before and after treatment with PH when added to gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel treatment and their relationship., From date of study start until date of first documented progression assessed up to 100 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of the combination of paricalcitol plus hydroxychloroquine (PH) when added to gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel treatment by assessing the overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of paricalcitol plus hydroxychloroquine (PH) when added to gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel treatment in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.

II. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of the combination of paricalcitol plus hydroxychloroquine (PH) when added to gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel treatment by assessing progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

TERTIARY/EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the effects of PH on cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) and immune cells using mass cytometry (CyTOF) to characterize the presence and distribution of these cells.

II. Multiplex immunohistochemistry (IHC) to evaluate these pathways including TGF-beta1, TGF-beta1 RII, SMAD4, LC3 in addition to markers of fibrosis (collagen) and tumor (cytokeratin).

OUTLINE:

Beginning day -14, patients receive paricalcitol intravenously (IV) three times weekly and hydroxychloroquine orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Patients also receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes and nab-paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 days and every 12 weeks thereafter.