First in Man Clinical Study to Evaluate Safety and Tolerability of an Oncolytic Adenovirus in Prostate Cancer Patients.
This open label, dose escalating study is a phase I/IIa first in man study designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of intratumoral administration of a novel oncolytic adenovirus (ORCA-010) in treating diagnosed treatment naïve Patients with localized prostate cancer.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
BIOLOGICAL: ORCA-010
Safety profile of ORCA-010, To evaluate safety and tolerability of intratumoral administration of ORCA-010 according to CTCAE V5.0. The primary endpoint of this study is to assess Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) and the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) for ORCA-010 to determine the final safety dose of administration for Phase IIa/Part B., 365 days
Biological activity of ORCA-010, To explore the biological activity of intratumoral administration of ORCA-010. Biological activity of ORCA-010 will be measured by assessing viral replication by measuring ORCA-010 virus DNA in blood. In addition, virus replication and spread will be assessed by staining prostate cancer tissue obtained through prostate biopsies with adenovirus specific antibodies. Subject's serum will be assayed for antibody responses against ORCA-010., 365 days|Antitumor immune responses, To evaluate potential antitumor immune responses following ORCA-010 administration. Subject's serum will be analyzed for antibody responses against tumor-associated antigens (e.g. PSA, PSMA, PCA3, and Prostein). Subject's Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs) will also be analyzed for cellular immune responses against tumor-associated antigens.

Prostate biopsies will be taken to detect local antitumor immunological reactions (eg. infiltration and activation of T cells)., 365 days|Shedding of ORCA-010, Shedding of ORCA-010 will be assessed by detection of vector DNA in blood and urine using quantitative-PCR (Q-PCR)., 365 days
The study is divided into two parts. In Part A of the study, cohorts of subjects will be administered escalating doses of ORCA-010, using the 3+3 design. When the Maximum Tolerated Dose has been determined in Part A, a group of 12 new subjects will be treated in Part B of the study at this dose, with two administrations separated by a 2-week interval.