Niraparib Combined With Anlotinib in Homologous Recombination Repair (HRR) Gene-mutated Advanced Solid Tumors
Homologous Recombination Repair (HRR) gene mutations can be detected in many solid tumors, patients with HRR gene mutations may benefit from PARP inhibitor. Antiangiogenic drugs can induce hypoxia and increase the sensitivity to PARP inhibitor. The combination of PARP inhibitor and antiangiogenic drug can play a synergistic anti-tumor role and achieve good efficacy in HRR gene-mutated tumors. The purpose of the study is to determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of Niraparib plus Anlotinib in HRR gene-mutated advanced solid tumors, and evaluate the safety and effectiveness of this combination therapy preliminarily.
HER2-negative Breast Cancer|Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Cholangiocarcinoma|Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Anlotinib
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD), 4 weeks
The frequency and severity of adverse events, The frequency and severity of adverse events and toxicity based upon NCI CTCAE version 5.0 during subjects receiving the treatment, Baseline through 1 year|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is a combination of CR (the target lesion completely disappeared over 4 weeks) and PR (Target lesions were reduced by more than 30% for more than 4 weeks)., at 6 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from enrollment to first documentation of tumor progression, or to death due to any cause in the absence of previous documentation of objective tumor progression., at 6 months
This is a single-arm, single-center, phase I study to investigate the DLT and MDT, safety and efficacy of Niraparib combined with Anlotinib in the treatment of advanced solid tumors with HRR gene mutations. In this study, 52 histological or cytological diagnosis, previous treatment failure patients of HER2 negative breast cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, gastric adenocarcinoma and pancreatic cancer are included and receive Niraparib combined with Anlotinib. Patients are required to carry pathogenic or suspected pathogenic gBRCA or sBRCA mutations, or HRR gene mutations defined by the inclusion criteria. The study will be divided into two phase. The first phase will include 6-12 patients on a 21-day cycle to determine the DLT and MTD. In the second phase, 40 patients will be included to treated with Niraparib plus Anlotinib until disease progression or intolerable toxicity or withdrawal of the trial.