Phase II Single Arm Trial of Low Dose Capecitabine in Patients With Advanced Breast Cancer
This is a phase II study aiming at evaluating capecitabine prospectively at a dose of 1000 mg once daily in patients with advanced breast cancer who are ≥60 years of age, or frail at any age, with a greater risk of complications and poorer outcomes with other treatments.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine Pill
Objective response rate (RR) evaluation, Evaluate response rate (RR) as defined per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria (v 1.1). Response and progression of disease will be evaluated in this study using the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee; version 1.1. Patients will be evaluated for response every 12 weeks per RECIST Criteria., Baseline up to 12 weeks
Progression-free survival (PFS), Initiation of treatment to the occurrence of disease progression or death. The RECIST v. 1.1 criteria will be used to evaluate progression-free survival as well as CT and PET scans. Baseline to the date of first documented progression to date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 36 months., Up to 36 months|Overall survival (OS), The time which begins at diagnosis (or at the start of treatment) and up to the time of death., Baseline up to 36 months|Number of adverse events, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 5.0. Safety, tolerability, satisfaction, and quality of life assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Core Questionnaire 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) questionnaire, as well as the PRO-CTCAE (Patient reported outcomes - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) questionnaire., Baseline up to 36 months
The study is a phase II, single arm study in which all patients will receive the study drug. Participants will include older/frail patients with metastatic breast cancer.

All patients will be treated with capecitabine 1000 mg daily. There will be a total of 40 participants with measurable disease on this trial.

The study will encompass participants with locally advanced unresectable/metastatic breast cancer with measurable disease, who progressed on at least 1 prior therapy in the metastatic setting. Breast cancer subtypes include HR+ HER2 negative, or TNBC, age ≥ 60 years old, or frail patients at a younger age. ECOG PS 0- 2.

The study will discontinue if progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity is noted.