Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Colorectal, Stomach, or Pancreatic Cancer
RATIONALE: Vaccines made from a gene-modified virus may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vaccine therapy in treating patients with colorectal, stomach, or pancreatic cancer.
Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Gastric Cancer|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Stage III Colon Cancer|Stage III Gastric Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Rectal Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Gastric Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay|OTHER: flow cytometry|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique|BIOLOGICAL: modified vaccinia virus ankara vaccine expressing p53
Safety and tolerance of modified vaccinia virus ankara vaccine expressing p53 assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 toxicity scale, Safety data for each administered dose will be summarized using descriptive numbers and 95% confidence intervals from the exact binomial distributions, Assessed up to 12 months
Immunogenicity, Assessed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for humoral response, lymphoproliferation for cluster of differentiation (CD)4+ T cell response, and intracytoplasmic cytokine assays, and interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-4 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) for the assessment of cellular immune response. For each assay, the pre-vaccine values will be compared to the highest post-vaccine values. Immunogenicity changes and the maximum change will be quantified by mean, standard deviation, median, and range and tested by paired t-test at the 0.05 significance level., Assesse up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:I. To establish whether 2 vaccine dose levels of modified vaccinia virus ankara vaccine expressing p53 (MVAp53) vaccines are safe and well tolerated in patients with p53 over-expressing solid tumor malignancy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:I. To provide preliminary evidence of enhanced cellular and humoral immunity to p53.

OUTLINE:This is a phase I, dose-escalation trial of modified vaccinia virus ankara vaccine expressing p53 (MVAp53).Patients receive MVAp53 subcutaneously (SC) on days 0, 21, and 42 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually for 5 years.