Evaluation of 20% Betulinic Acid Ointment for Treatment of Dysplastic Nevi (Moderate to Severe Dysplasia)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of an experimental 20% betulinic acid ointment (BA ointment) as a treatment for dysplastic nevi with the potential to transform into melanoma.
Dysplastic Nevus Syndrome
DRUG: 20% betulinic acid ointment|DRUG: BA
Safety, The development of any systemic toxicity (Grade 1 or greater) or Grade 3 local toxicity in 3 of 7 patients at any given dose level will result in the termination of all applications at that level; furthermore, no higher frequency of cohorts will be entered in the Study. This dose level is defined as a dose-limiting toxicity, with the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) being one dose level below., Weekly|Efficacy, The response to the topical application of 20% betulinic acid ointment will be assessed histologically. Both the untreated control lesion and the betulinic acid treated lesion will be totally excised after four weeks (30 days) of treatment. Surgery to remove the lesions will take place between day 31 and day 37. The lesions will be processed for microscopic examination and will be examined by the Pathology Department of UIC/UIH. At the completion of the Study, all slides will be reviewed by a consultant dermato-pathologist.

Evidence of regression, fibrosis, depigmentation, nuclear atypia, and apoptosis of melanocytes will be recorded for both untreated control and betulinic acid treated lesions. If the treated lesions demonstrate a significant difference in the points mentioned above, then the data will be quantitatively tabulated and interpreted., 4-5 Weeks
Approximately 200 patients may be enrolled and screened in order to find twenty-eight (28) patients who qualify to be involved in this research at UIC.

Dysplastic melanocytic nevus (DMN) is a histopathologic term implying a disordered proliferation of melanocytes associated with discontinuous and variable cellular atypia. DMN is graded into mild, moderate, and severe based on standard histological criteria. DMN is considered to be a likely precursor for melanoma, and individuals with DMN often have multiple instances of it scattered over their trunk and extremities. For this study, only DMN where the dysplasia is either moderate or severe will be included.