A Phase 2 Study of Kevetrin in Subjects With Ovarian Cancer
Cellceutix has developed Kevetrin (thioureidobutyronitrile), belonging to an anti-proliferative p53 activator pharmacological class, for the treatment of cancer. Nonclinical studies have demonstrated that Kevetrin induces apoptosis by activation of wild type p53 and induces apoptosis in mutant p53 cells by degradation of oncogenic mutant p53.

In this Phase 2 study, two different short-term treatment regimens of Kevetrin will be evaluated for safety, tolerability, changes in biomarkers/objective tumor response, and to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of Kevetrin when administered to subjects with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Kevetrin|DRUG: Kevetrin
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Reporting of Adverse Events, and severity of adverse events, 6 Weeks|Number of Participants With Changes in Biomarkers, Changes in RNA and/or protein level of pre-specified biomarkers associated with the p53 signalling pathway and apoptosis will be compared between pre-treatment sample (tumor biopsy, ascites fluid, and peripheral blood) and post-treatment sample (tumor biopsy, ascites fluid, and peripheral blood), 3 Weeks
Number of Participants by RECIST Tumor Response Category, Number of subjects in each response category (complete response, partial response, stable disease or progressive disease) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1.

CR (Complete Response): Disappearance of all target lesions PR (Partial Response) : At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions PD (Progressive Disease) : At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions SD (Stable Disease) : Small changes that do not meet above criteria, 3 Weeks|Maximum Plasma Concentration of Kevetrin (Cmax) on Days 1 and 5, Measurement of Kevetrin systemic concentrations from collected blood samples. Due to low number of subjects individual values are presented., Prior to dosing, During 3h infusion: 60(±5) min, 120(±5) min, and 2 min prior to end of infusion, i.e., 178 min. Post infusion: 0.5 hour (±5 min), 1 hour (±5 min), 2 hour (±5 min), 4 hour (±10 mins), 6 hour (±30 mins) [optional], and 24(±4) hour|Time to Reach the Maximum Plasma Concentration of Kevetrin (Tmax) on Days 1 and 5, Measurement of Kevetrin systemic concentrations from collected blood samples. Due to low number of subjects individual values are presented., Prior to dosing, During 3h infusion: 60(±5) min, 120(±5) min, and 2 min prior to end of infusion, i.e., 178 min. Post infusion: 0.5 hour (±5 min), 1 hour (±5 min), 2 hour (±5 min), 4 hour (±10 mins), 6 hour (±30 mins) [optional], and 24(±4) hour|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to the Time of Last Quantifiable Concentration (AUCt) on Days 1 and 5, Measurement of Kevetrin systemic concentrations from collected blood samples. Due to low number of subjects individual values are presented., Prior to dosing, During 3h infusion: 60(±5) min, 120(±5) min, and 2 min prior to end of infusion, i.e., 178 min. Post infusion: 0.5 hour (±5 min), 1 hour (±5 min), 2 hour (±5 min), 4 hour (±10 mins), 6 hour (±30 mins) [optional], and 24(±4) hour
This is an open label, dose-escalation trial to study the safety, biomarker changes (including modulation of p53), objective tumor response changes, and pharmacokinetics following administration of two different treatment regimens of Kevetrin over a 3-week period to subjects with platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer. Following the 3 weeks of Kevetrin dosing, subjects are to be followed up for 3 weeks after completion of Kevetrin treatment. Standard of care treatment, as medically appropriate and per local guidelines, outside of this study protocol can commence after the collection of the post-Kevetrin treatment biomarker samples (collected on Day 21±1 day). The patient population recruited into this study includes those ovarian cancer patients that have platinum resistant/refractory disease, defined as disease progression/relapse within 6 months following the last administered dose of platinum therapy (resistant), or lack of response or disease progression while receiving the most recent platinum based therapy (refractory), respectively. Patients may or may not have had additional treatment (e.g., Doxil) prior to entry in this study.

A total of approximately 10 study participants are planned to be enrolled in two cohorts of approximately 5 subjects per cohort, with enrollment in a sequential, dose-escalating fashion. Investigators and subjects will be aware of the treatment cohort into which they are recruiting. Cohort details and the planned doses are:

Cohort 1 (n=5) Kevetrin Cycle - Kevetrin 250 mg/m2 IV per dose every other day (q.o.d.)/ 3 doses per week (750 mg/m2 per week), for 3 weeks (single cycle; total 9 doses); Follow-up for 3 weeks after Kevetrin treatment ends Cohort 2 (n=5) Kevetrin Cycle - Kevetrin 350 mg/m2 IV per dose every other day (q.o.d.)/ 3 doses per week (1050 mg/m2 per week), for 3 weeks (single cycle; total 9 doses); Follow-up for 3 weeks after Kevetrin treatment ends Cohorts 1 and 2 will be conducted in a sequential fashion, with safety data from cohort 1 evaluated by an independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC). The DMC will make appropriate recommendations based on the available safety data as regards the intent of progressing to the higher dose cohort 2.