177Lu-DOTATATE Modified Delivery Based on Individualized Dosimetry
The goal of this study is to learn if individualized dosimetry-based prescribing of Lutetium-177 DOTATATE (Lutathera, Novartis Pharmaceuticals) improves treatment outcomes for adults with unresectable neuroendocrine tumors. To investigate this, study participants will:

* Undergo Somatostatin Receptor (SSTR) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, such as a DOTATOC PET/CT scan
* Be randomized to receive standard treatment (as per FDA guidelines) or investigational treatment (customized dosing of Lutathera based upon dosimetry)
* Undergo blood tests for 4 to 8 weeks after each Lutathera treatment
* Complete patient reported outcome questionnaires
* Visit the clinic for follow-up about every 8 weeks.
Neuroendocrine Tumors|Neuroendocrine Tumor Grade 1|Neuroendocrine Tumor Grade 2
DRUG: Lutetium Lu 177 dotatate therapy
Objective Response Rate (ORR) at 6 months after treatment, Determine objective response rate in patients with grade 1 or 2 gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET) treated with dosimetrically-determined LUTATHERA administration compared to active control., 6 months after completion of treatment
Treatment emergent toxicity assessment, Determine treatment-emergent toxicity, as graded by the NCI's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 in patients with grade 1 or 2 gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (GEPNET) treated with dosimetrically derived Lutathera compared to standard treatment. Endpoints are Incidence and severity of toxicities, From treatment day 1 every 6 months for 5 years post-treatment|Time to disease progression, Determine time to progression in patients with grade 1 or 2 gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (GEPNET) treated with dosimetrically derived Lutathera compared to standard treatment, Up to 5 years post-treatment|Correlation of hematologic toxicities, Assess correlation between hematologic toxicity and bone marrow dose in patients with grade 1 or 2 gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (GEPNET) treated with dosimetrically derived LUTATHERA compared to active control, At 6 months post-treatment
This is a randomized controlled clinical trial evaluating the impact of forward planning dosimetry for Lutetium-177 DOTATATE (Lutathera, Novartis Pharmaceuticals), a radiopharmaceutical approved to treat neuroendocrine tumors by the U.S. FDA.

If a patient consents to participate, and is deemed eligible to move forward, there is a 2 out of 3 chance to receive the investigational treatment (the Lutathera treatment customized to tumor uptake and kidney uptake). The standard treatment is 200 millicuries (mCi) of Lutathera per cycle, with potential adjustments for safety per the FDA-approved package insert.

Regardless of the assigned group (investigational treatment or standard treatment), the first treatment is 200 mCi. This is given with amino acids, which is required for this treatment.

Participants in the standard treatment continue to receive 200 mCi per treatment, with or without adjustment based on package insert instructions, for up to 4 treatments total.

Participants in the investigational treatment will receive a customized dose of Lutathera, up to 400 mCi per treatment for treatments 2 - 4, in the hopes that escalation will be safe and effective in many patients based on individualized dosimetry.

Participants randomized to the investigational treatment will receive specialized imaging (SPECT/CT) following administration of Lutathera. This will identify where the Lutathera went and how long it remains there (in the tumors, kidneys, or bone marrow). After the first dose of Lutathera, this imaging is done on the first day of treatment and then once a day for the next 3 to 4 days. Each scan lasts about an hour. Following treatments 2 and 3, this imaging is only done on the first day and then once at about 3 to 4 days after the treatment. There are also blood samples collected to measure the radioactivity in the blood.

All participants must be actively followed to assess for side effects of therapy as well as treatment outcomes. This means participants must return to the treatment site at 2, 3, 6, and 12 months after the last cycle of therapy. All participants must have a CT scan completed at 6 months after treatment as well.

Radiation side effects can take years to develop. For this reason, it is very important that participants remain in touch with the study investigator and team. Participants have life-long follow-up for this study.