Tandutinib in Treating Patients Who Have Undergone Surgery for Metastatic Kidney Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well tandutinib works in treating patients who have undergone surgery for metastatic kidney cancer. Tandutinib may stop the growth of kidney cancer by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving tandutinib after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: tandutinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall Efficacy, Taking Into Account Both Objective Response and Meaningful Reductions in Tumor Burden That do Not Meet the RECIST Criteria for PR or CR (e.g., 5-30% Reduction in RECIST Defined Tumor Burden), The number of patients that reach complete response (CR)defined as the disappearance of all target lesions or partial response (PR)defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
Overall Survival, Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Followed until progression or death for approximately 3 years|Progression-free Survival, Estimated time to progression using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall efficacy of MLN518 in patients with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of MLN518 on progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma.

II. To evaluate the toxicity of MLN518 in patients with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma.

III. To evaluate the effects of MLN518 on serum VEGF-A, VEGF-R2, PIGF, and PDGF levels of patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma receiving MLN518.

IV. To determine the VHL gene status, methylation, and pVHL in archived material from the primary nephrectomy specimen of patients receiving MLN518.

V. To evaluate tumor blood flow and vessel permeability based on functional imaging with dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (dceMRI) in metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients treated with MLN518.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized study.

Patients receive oral tandutinib twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.