Clinical Trial of HuMax-CD4, a New Drug to Treat Advanced Stage T-Cell Lymphoma in the Skin.
The purpose of this trial is to determine the effect of HuMax-CD4, as a treatment for advanced stage (late stage) cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Almost all participants who are affected by late stage CTCL have many cancerous cells which bear a receptor called CD4. HuMax-CD4 is an investigational drug directed against this receptor. There is no placebo in this trial; all participants will be treated with HuMax-CD4. The response rates, duration of responses, relief of symptoms, and safety profile of HuMax-CD4 will be evaluated during this trial.
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: HuMax-CD4|DRUG: HuMax-CD4
Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Complete and Partial Responses Assessed by Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CA) Scale, Up to 20 weeks
Number of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs) and Graded as per Severity, From Baseline (Day 0) up to end of study (Week 20)|Percentage of Participants With Physician's Global Assessment of Clinical Condition (PGA) Response, Up to 20 weeks|Percentage of Participants with Change from Baseline in Participant's Assessment of Pruritus Scale, The participants were assessed pruritus on a 5-point scale from 0-4: 0. No complaint of itching on lesion; 1. Mild: Occasional transient itching on lesion; 2. Moderate: Frequent itching, every 1-3 hours; reflex scratching; 3. Severe: Compelling itching; interrupts daily activities; must be scratched; 4. Very severe: Unrelieved itching: prevents routine activities; awakens patient from sleep., Baseline, up to Week 20|Time to Response, From first dose to achieving a response (up to approximately 12 weeks)|Response Duration, From achieving first response to last response/until relapse (up to approximately 22 weeks)|Time to Disease Progression, From first dose until disease progressed (Up to 16 weeks)|Percentage of Participants with Change From Baseline in Total Body Surface Area (BSA), Baseline up to Week 21|Change from Baseline in Physician's Erythroderma Severity Assessment, Baseline, Week 20|Number of Participants With Positive Human Anti Human Antibodies (HAHA) Titres, Up to Week 20
The purpose of this trial is to determine the effect of HuMax-CD4, as a treatment for advanced stage (late stage) cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Almost all participants who are affected by late stage CTCL have many cancerous cells which bear a receptor called CD4. HuMax-CD4 is an investigational drug directed against this receptor. There is no placebo in this trial; all participants will be treated with HuMax-CD4. The response rates, duration of responses, relief of symptoms, and safety profile of HuMax-CD4 will be evaluated during this trial.