Afatinib in NSCLC With HER2 Mutation
The purpose of this study is to investigate the control of disease in pretreated patients with advanced non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harbouring HER2 exon 20 mutations as well as the safety and tolerability (how severe the side effects are) of the treatment with afatinib.
NSCLC
DRUG: Afatinib
Disease Control (Defined as Complete or Partial Response, or Disease Stabilisation Lasting at Least 12 Weeks), Disease control (DC) is defined as complete or partial response, or disease stabilisation lasting at least 12 weeks.

Disease control will be determined using RECIST 1.1 criteria:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

Progression (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum recorded on the trial. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions denotes disease progression.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters recorded on the trial., at interim (after the first 9 pts have been followed for 12 weeks) & final analysis (approx. 40 months after inclusion of first pt)
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from date of enrollment until documented progression or death, if progression is not documented. Censoring will occur at the last tumor assessment only if patients is lost to follow-up, Time assessed from the date of enrolment until documented progression or death (max 36 months)|Objective Response, Objective response is defined as best overall response (CR or PR) across all assessment time-points during the period from enrollment to termination of trial treatment. Objective response to afatinib treatment will be determined using RECIST 1.1 criteria:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

Progression (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum recorded on the trial. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions denotes disease progression.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters recorded on the trial., Assessed across all time-points during the period from enrolment to termination of trial treatment (max. 36 months)|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of enrollment until death from any cause. Censoring will occur at the last follow-up., Time assessed from the date of enrolment until death (max 36 months)|Toxicities of Treatment, Adverse events classified according to NCI CTCAE version 4., Assessed from the date of informed consent until 90 days after the final dose of afatinib (max 18 months).
Previous clinical studies of NSCLC have shown that patients with tumors harboring specific gene mutations (changes) in the epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) showed better results after treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), like afatinib (tradename Giotrif®) , compared with classical treatment with chemotherapy. The treatment with TKI has become a new standard-of-care for patient with advanced lung cancer and EGFR or ALK changes. Several novel mutations, which are candidates as targets for specific medication have been discovered. Human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2, erbB-2/neu) is a protein of the so called ErbB family (including HER2 \[ErbB2\], ErbB3 and ErbB4). These proteins are involved in the growth and spread of cancer cells. Mutations in HER2 are found in about 2% of the NSCLC.

Afatinib works by blocking the activity of the ErbB family proteins and can inhibit growth and spread of cancer cells. Afatinib is approved by the European and the Swiss Medicines Agencies for the treatment of adult patients with a specific type of cancer of the lung (non-small cell lung cancer) that is identified by a change (mutation) in the gene for EGFR as first treatment or if prior chemotherapy treatment has been insufficient.

A total of 22 patients from centers around Europe are expected to be enrolled in this study over a period of 24 months.

All patients will be treated in the same way. The study will take approximately 40 months to be completed.

This clinical trial is conducted according to the applicable national laws and international guidelines.