Gene-Modified Immune Cells (FH-MCVA2TCR) in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Merkel Cell Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of gene-modified immune cells (FH-MCVA2TCR) and to see how well they work in treating patients with Merkel cell cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) or that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Placing a gene that has been created in the laboratory into immune cells may improve the body's ability to fight Merkel cell cancer.
Other Skin
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous MCPyV-specific HLA-A02-restricted TCR-transduced CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells FH-MCVA2TCR|DRUG: Avelumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Interferon Gamma-1b
Incidence of Adverse Events Grade 3 or Higher Determined to be Possibly, Probably or Definitely Secondary to Study Treatments., Assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 5.0. Evidence of excessive toxicity will be an observed proportion of toxicities for which the associated lower 80% confidence limit exceeds 40%., Up to 1 year post infusion|Best Overall Response, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 of complete or partial response. Irradiated and non-irradiated lesions will be separately tracked but response determined in totality., Up to 1 year post infusion
Progression-free Survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier, with time zero the time of first T cell infusion., Up to 1 year post infusion|Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier, with time zero the time of first T cell infusion., Up to 1 year post infusion
OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of FH-MCVA2TCR autologous T-cells.

Patients receive interferon gamma-1b subcutaneously (SC) on study. Patients receive FH-MCVA2TCR T-cells intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes. Beginning 14 days after receiving FH-MCVA2TCR T-cells, patients also receive standard of care avelumab IV over 1 hour every 2 weeks for 1 year or pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with partial response or stable disease may then receive an additional cycle of FH-MCVA2TCR T-cells.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 15 years.