Assessment of Safety and Preliminary Efficacy With BAT6021 in Solid Tumor Patients
This first-in-human open-label, multi center, dose-escalation and expansion study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and PK of BAT6021 alone or in combination with BAT1308 (an anti-PD-1 antibody) in participants with locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic incurable tumors for whom standard therapy does not exist, has proven to be ineffective or intolerable, or is considered inappropriate, or for whom a clinical trial of an investigational agent is a recognized standard of care.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: BAT6021|DRUG: BAT1308
Dose-limiting toxicity(DLT), DLT is defined as one of the following as investigator related to study drug:

Grade 5 toxicity; Hematologic Toxicity ; ≥ Grade 4 anemia; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia that lasts for ≥ 7 days or Grade 3 thrombocytopenia, if associated with clinically significant bleeding (≥ Grade 2 hemorrhage) or requires transfusion of platelets; Grade 4 neutropenia that lasts for ≥ 7 days, or Grade 3 neutropenia that lasts for ≥ 7 days or with documented infection; Grade 3 or Grade 4 febrile neutropenia of any duration., A minimum of 21 days after first dose of BAT6021|Serious adverse event（SAE）, Any SAE that is judged by the PI or designee to be related to the study medication must be reported regardless of the amount of time since the last dose received. Follow-up information collected for any initial report of an SAE must also be reported to the Sponsor (or its designee) within 24 hours of receipt by the PI or designee., From the time of informed consent to 90 days after the last dose or until the initiation of a new cancer treatment.
Pharmacokinetics (PK), Cmax, every cycle until cycle 6 (one cycle equals 3 weeks)|Immunogenicity, Presence of ADAs / neutralizing antibodies (NAbs)., every cycle until cycle 6 (one cycle equals 3 weeks)
Anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies targeting the immuno-inhibitory PD-1 pathway (thus activating T cells) have achieved clinical success in many types of cancers. However, studies have shown that anti-TIGIT antibodies not only trigger T cells and Natural Killer(NK) cells, but they can also activate T cells to a greater extent than anti-PD-1 antibodies. Therefore, further clinical investigation of anti-TIGIT antibodies such as BAT6021 is warranted.

PD-1 and TIGIT are commonly co-expressed in T cells of the same tumor; thus, combining anti-TIGIT antibodies with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors may be a more effective cancer treatment. Indeed, anti-TIGIT antibodies have demonstrated synergy with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies in preclinical models. In addition, sponsor have shown that single administration of BAT1308 or BAT6021 could not effectively inhibit CT26 tumor growth in PD-1/TIGIT- humanized syngeneic mice; however, the combination treatment resulted in potent anti-tumor activity. Therefore, combined treatment with BAT6021 and an anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibody like BAT1308 could improve therapeutic outcomes.