Cabozantinib-S-Malate and Vemurafenib in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors or Melanoma That is Metastatic or That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of cabozantinib-s-malate when given together with vemurafenib in treating patients with solid tumors or melanoma that is metastatic or that cannot be removed by surgery. Cabozantinib-s-malate and vemurafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IIIA Melanoma|Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: cabozantinib-s-malate|DRUG: vemurafenib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerable dose of cabozantinib-s-malate in combination with vemurafenib based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) graded according to the National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 4.0., DLT is defined as the occurrence of grade 4 hematologic toxicity, grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity including diarrhea, or nausea and vomiting., 28 days
ORR (complete response [CR]+partial response [PR]) assessed using RECIST criteria, Calculated and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of therapy|DCR per RECIST version 1.1, Rate will be calculated and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of therapy|PFS per RECIST version 1.1, Summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median PFS will be presented with 90% confidence intervals derived using log (-log \[survival\]) methodology., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 weeks after last dose of therapy
Change in met proto-oncogene (MET) expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC), Expression will be classified as positive or negative at each time based upon established methodology. The proportions of patients with concordant/discordant biomarker assessments will be presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals., Baseline and after 4 weeks of therapy|Change in serum levels of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) by IHC, Assay levels of HGF in the serum will be summarized graphically. The status of the assay (+/-) will be shown at each assessment time for each patient while on study therapy. Graphics will note changes in disease status and times of disease progression., Baseline to up to 8 weeks|Clinical benefit (CR, PR, or stable disease), assessed according to RECIST, To investigate the relationship between pre-treatment expressions of MET, phospho-MET, or HGF and measures of response or clinical benefit, pre-treatment ratios of total MET to phospho-MET will be calculated and summarized by response or clinical benefit status using descriptive statistics., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine a tolerable dose of XL184 (cabozantinib-s-malate) in combination with vemurafenib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1.

II. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS). III. To determine the response rate according to the molecular phenotype.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of cabozantinib-s-malate.

Patients receive cabozantinib-s-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) and vemurafenib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.