Radiotherapy vs Neck Dissection for Clinical T1/2N0 Supraglottic Cancer
Supraglottic cancer is a main type of laryngeal carcinoma, which is one of the most common head and neck tumors. Cervical nodal metastasis is an important prognostic factor in supraglottic cancer. Current management, following the US National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for T1-2, N0 supraglottic cancer (NCCN 2017), is either definitive radiotherapy or primary surgery with or without neck dissection. The optimal neck treatments strategy remains unclear in clinical settings owing to the limitation of a small number of retrospective studies and a lack of prospective trials. The investigators conducted a prospective, randomised trial to compare radiotherapy with neck dissection.
Supraglottic Cancer
RADIATION: Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Selective neck dissection
Neck control rates, The percentage of patients without cervical lymph node metastasis, 2 years
Disease-free survival, The proportion of patients did not find clear evidence of recurrence or metastasis, 1 year|Disease-free survival, The proportion of patients did not find clear evidence of recurrence or metastasis, 2 years|Disease-free survival, The proportion of patients did not find clear evidence of recurrence or metastasis, 3 years|Disease-free survival, The proportion of patients did not find clear evidence of recurrence or metastasis, 5 years|Overall survival, The proportion of patients who survived, 3 years|Overall survival, The proportion of patients who survived, 5 years|Quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30), Evaluated by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30, 1 year|Quality of life (EORTC QLQ-HN35), Evaluated by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-HN35, 1 year|Treatment cost, The total cost of the treatment of the primary and cervical lymph nodes until the discharge, 4 weeks
Supraglottic cancer is a main type of laryngeal carcinoma, which is one of the most common head and neck tumors. Cervical nodal metastasis is an important prognostic factor in supraglottic cancer. Current management, following the US National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for T1-2, N0 supraglottic cancer (NCCN 2017), is either definitive radiotherapy or primary surgery with or without neck dissection. The optimal neck treatments strategy remains unclear in clinical settings owing to the limitation of a small number of retrospective studies and a lack of prospective trials. The investigators conducted a prospective, randomised trial to compare radiotherapy with neck dissection.