Enzalutamide With Lu PSMA-617 Versus Enzalutamide Alone in Men With Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase 2 randomised clinical trial will investigate the activity and safety of adding Lu-PSMA to enzalutamide in patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) not previously treated with chemotherapy.
Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Lu-PSMA|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Progression-Free Survival, PSA progression is defined as a rise in PSA by more than or equal to 25% AND more than or equal to 2 ng/mL above the nadir (lowest PSA point). This needs to be confirmed by a repeat PSA performed at least 3 weeks later., Date of randomisation to the date of first evidence of PSA progression - assessed up to study completion, approximately 4 years from recruitment.
Radiographic Progression-Free Survival, Radiographic progression-free survival is defined as the interval from the date of randomisation to the date of first evidence of radiographic progression on imaging, or the date of last known follow-up without progression., Date of randomisation to the date of first evidence of radiographic progression on imaging. Assessed every 12 weeks through study completion, approximately 4 years from start of recruitment.|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) response rate, PSA response rate is defined as the proportion of participants in each group with a PSA reduction of 50% or more from baseline., Date of randomisation through study completion, approximately 4 years from start of recruitment. Early rises in PSA prior to 12 weeks will be disregarded in determining PSA response|Pain response and Progression-Free Survival, Pain is measured using the McGill-Melzack Present Pain Intensity scale (PPI). Pain Response is defined as a reduction of 2 or more points for participants with a baseline PPI score of 2 or more. Pain progression is defined as and an increase of 1 or more points in the nadir PPI score.

Pain Response is defined as a reduction of 2 or more points for participants with a baseline PPI score of 2 or more.

Pain progression is defined as and an increase of 1 or more points in the nadir PPI score., Date of randomisation through study completion, approximately 4 years from start of recruitment|Clinical Progression-Free Survival, Clinical progression is defined by progression on imaging, development of symptoms attributable to cancer progression, the need for radiotherapy to new metastases or initiation of other anticancer treatment for prostate cancer., Date of randomisation to the date of first clinical evidence of disease progression or death from any cause. Assessed up to study completion approximately 4 years from recruitment.|Aspects of Health-related Quality of life (HRQL), The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) core quality of life questionnaire includes five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting), and a global health and quality-of-life scale to assess HRQL in cancer patients. The Patient DATA form is a simple, multi-item quality of life instrument based on 11-point numeric rating scales for a range of relevant symptoms and functions. It combines cancer specific items from the UBQ-C, GLQ-8 and LASA cancer-specific quality of life instruments. The Fear of Cancer Progression form is a short questionnaire assessing possible future concerns related to the participant's illness., Assessed every 4-6 weeks, through study completion, approximately 4 years from recruitment.|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events, The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 will be used to classify and grade the intensity of adverse events during study treatment., Through study completion, approximately 4 years from recruitment.
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the interval from date of randomisation to the date of death from any cause, or the date of last known follow-up alive., Through study completion, approximately 4 years from recruitment.|Resource Use and Incremental Cost-effectiveness, Information on health-care resource use will be combined with information on overall survival and quality of life to estimate the value associated with the addition of Lu-PSMA to enzalutamide in terms of the cost per Quality adjusted life year (QALY)., Through study completion, approximately 4 years from recruitment.|Association between Clinical Outcomes and Imaging Analyses at Baseline and During Treatment, A variety of methods to develop, validate and compare predictive and prognostic biomarkers for both enzalutamide treatment and enzalutamide and Lu-PSMA therapy. These include but are not limited to analyses of: 1. associations of screening whole body quantitative parameters on 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT and 18F FDG PET/CT; 2. association between the change on whole body quantitative PET parameters; 3. using the 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT at Day 92, assessment of quantitative whole body PET findings will help determine the proportion of men with persistent PSMA avid disease volume in those undergoing either enzalutamide or enzalutamide and Lu-PSMA treatments; 4. a visual scoring system for both 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT and 18F FDG PET/ CT to evaluate and validate its use in treatment response; 5. QTBI (Quantitative total body imaging) heterogeneity assessment., Through study completion, approximately 4 years from recruitment.|Association between Clinical Outcomes and Possible Prognostic/Predictive Biomarkers (tissue and circulating) including CTCs and ctDNA, Translational research will include identifying tissue and circulating biomarkers that are prognostic and/or predictive of response to treatment, safety and resistance to study treatment (associations of biomarkers with clinical outcomes). These include, but are not limited to analyses of: 1. Liquid biopsies: Liquid biopsies will be collected at molecular imaging time points including at baseline, Day 92 and at first progression; 2. CTC: CTCs may be enumerated and analysed at the above time points for a variety of biomarkers., Through to study completion, approximately 4 years from recruitment.
This is an open label, randomised, stratified, 2-arm, multicentre phase 2 clinical trial recruiting 160 participants over 12 months and followed until 150 events occurred (approximately another 18 months). Participants will be randomised to enzalutamide or enzalutamide and Lu-PSMA in a 1:1 ratio. A minimisation approach will be used to minimise chance imbalances across the following stratification factors: study site, volume of disease (\>20 versus ≤20 sites of disease measured on 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT), prior treatment with early docetaxel for castration- sensitive disease (yes vs no), and prior treatment with early abiraterone for castration-sensitive disease (yes vs no).