Study of Safety and Efficacy of Avadomide (CC-122) Combined With RCHOP for Newly-diagnosed DLBCL With Poor Risk Factors
This is Phase 1/2 study of avadomide (CC-122) in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy, for first-line treatment of patients with Diffuse B-Cell Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) that has poor risk factors. Approximately 40% of patients diagnosed with DLBCL are not cured with R-CHOP alone and would need additional treatment for DLBCL in the future. The addition of the experimental drug avadomide (CC-122) with R-CHOP could help in controlling DLBCL in this patient population.
Diffuse B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Avadomide (CC-122)|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 750mg/m2 by IV infusion|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisone
Maximum Tolerated Dose/Maximum Administered Dose (MTD/MAD) (Phase 1), Frequency of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) associated with the addition of avadomide (CC-122) to R-CHOP-21 therapy, Through 6 cycles of treatment (approximately 18 weeks or 4 months)|Complete Response Rate (CRR); Percentage of participants experiencing positron emission tomography (PET)-negative complete response (CR) (Phase 2), CR is defined as target nodes/nodal masses regress to ≤ 1.5 cm in LDi; no extralymphatic sites of disease; no measurable lesions, no organ enlargement and normal morphology on bone marrow (BM) exam; immunohistochemically (IHC) negative, 6 to 8 weeks after completion of treatment
Overall Response Rate (ORR); Percentage of participants who achieve a PR or CR according to the Lugano criteria., ORR is defined as the rate of the responses (including CR; see definition above for CR and PR; PR is defined as ≥ 50% decrease in sum of perpendicular diameters (SPD) of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites. When a lesion is too small to measure on CT, assign 5 mm × 5 mm as the default value; When no longer visible, 0 × 0 mm; for a node \> 5 mm × 5 mm, but smaller than normal, use actual measurement for calculation; Absent/normal, regressed, but no increase in non measurable lesions; spleen must have regressed \> 50% in length beyond normal and no new lesions., 6 to 8 weeks after completion of treatment|ORR by Predictive Gene Signature, ORR by Predictive Gene Signature is defined as the correlation between baseline gene expression signatures and clinical response to study treatment, 6 to 8 weeks after completion of treatment|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from enrollment to disease progression or death from any cause, From enrollment up to 24 months after last subject is enrolled|Event-free Survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the percentage of participants without event (relapse or progression, unplanned re-treatment of lymphoma after initial immunochemotherapy, or death from any cause), At 12 and 24 months after enrollment|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from enrollment until death from any cause, Up to 24 months after enrollment|Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any noxious, unintended, or untoward medical occurrence that may appear or worsen in a subject during the course of a study. It may be a new intercurrent illness, a worsening concomitant illness, an injury, or any concomitant impairment of the subject's health, including laboratory test values, regardless of etiology. Any worsening (ie, any clinically significant adverse change in the frequency or intensity of a pre- existing condition) should be considered an AE., From enrollment until at least 28 days after completion of study treatment
This research study is for patients who have been newly diagnosed with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma DLBCL and are receiving treatment for the first time.

This study will be conducted in two phases. Phase 1 will test the safety of increasing dose levels of avadomide (CC-122) when given in combination with R-CHOP-21 therapy to identify an appropriate dose and schedule for further evaluation in Phase 2. Phase 2 will evaluate the rate of complete response when adding avadomide (CC-122) to the R-CHOP-21 regimen in first-line treatment of patients with poor risk DLBCL.

This study is separated into three periods: the Screening period, the Treatment period and the Follow-up period. Before the patient can receive the drug the doctor will perform test to find out whether he/she can participate in the study. This is done during the Screening period. If the patient and the treating physician determine that the patient is eligible to participate in the study, the patient will be registered in the study and receive avadomide (CC-122) combined with R-CHOP.

In the Treatment period the patient will receive treatment for up to 6 treatment cycles. Each treatment cycle is 21 days long. The full length of the treatment period will be approximately 4 months.

The follow-up period begins when the patient has completed treatment or is discontinued for any reason. During the follow-up period the patient will have fewer exams, test and visits. The first follow-up visit will be 28 days after treatment is completed or discontinued. After that, the follow-up visits will be every 3 months during the first year, then every 6 months until the study is closed.

Upon completion of the Phase 1 portion of the study, a decision not to proceed with the Phase 2 portion was taken by the Sponsor. The decision to terminate the study after Phase 1 was not based on any safety concerns that posed an unacceptable risk for this patient population and no safety issues have been identified