Prospective Study to Determine Impact of Early Palliative Care Consult on Quality of Life (QOL), Cancer Related Symptoms In Advanced Lung Cancer Patients: Thoracic Pilot Project
The goal of this study is to learn about the quality of life (QOL) in participants with advanced lung cancer.
Lung Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: QOL Questionnaire|BEHAVIORAL: Caregiver Satisfaction Questionnaire
Participants' QOL Assessments, Impact of early palliative consultation (defined as palliative consultation within 8 weeks of initial advanced cancer diagnosis) on participant outcomes including improvement QOL \[FACT-L trial outcome index \[TOI\] score)\]. QOL assessed with FACT-L instrument, widely used to assess QOL of advanced NSCLC. FACT-L consists of 4 general \& 1 lung cancer symptom-specific subscale. General subscales include physical well-being (PWB; seven items), social/family well-being (seven items), emotional well-being (five items), and functional well-being (FWB; seven items). The seven-item lung cancer subscale (LCS) assesses symptoms commonly reported by lung cancer patients (e.g., shortness of breath, loss of weight, tightness in chest). The 21-item TOI (Trial Outcome Index) is derived by adding PWB, FWB, and LCS scores. All FACT-L items are rated on five-point scales ranging from 0 for "not at all" to 4 for "very much." Higher scores are representative of better QOL or fewer symptoms., Baseline till participant death or end of follow-up period, assessed every 4 weeks for approximately 12 weeks
Caregiver Outcomes: FAMCARE Scale, Caregiver satisfaction with quality of care assessed with FAMCARE validated 12-item survey, which measures the degree of satisfaction with health care in terms of information provided, availability of care, physical individual with advanced cancer care, and psychological care., Baseline till participant death or end of follow-up period, assessed every 4 weeks for approximately 12 weeks
Advanced lung cancer (ALC) will be assessed for participant outcomes in a sample which is prior initiation of palliative consultation and in a sample after the initiation of early palliative consultation.

Study goals are:

I. To determine the differences in participant outcomes including quality of life (QOL); symptom distress \[Edmonton symptom assessment scale (ESAS)\] and caregiver outcomes \[Zarit Burden Interview {ZBI}, Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale(HADS) and FAMCARE\] at week 12 in advanced lung cancer (ALC) patients receiving early palliative care consultation versus those who don't.

II. Identify the cellular, molecular, and immune basis for the development of symptoms in patients with ALC.