Pharmacogenomics Validation for Imatinib in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
This is a multicenter, retrospective, observational study to validate a pharmacogenetics model for imatinib metabolism and resistance in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia among patients in different independent cohort.
Leukemia, Myelogenous, Chronic, BCR-ABL Positive
Median time to CCyR (complete cytogenetic response), Difference of median time to CCyR between cohorts according to the risk stratification by gene analysis
Variance of Genotypes from CML patients with Korean ethnicity|Median time to MCyR (Major cytogenetic responses), Difference of median time to MCyR between cohorts according to the risk stratification by gene analysis
1. The activity of Imatinib(IM) is mediated by blocking the activity of BCR/ABL tyrosine kinase in CML cells. However, some of the patients failed to achieve optimal response, and a substantial proportion of patients develop resistance to IM.
2. IM is a substrate for the adenosine triphosphate binding cassette (ABC) transporters, ABCB1 and ABCG2, while the active uptake of IM into cells is mediated by the human organic cationic transporter-1 (hOCT1). Also, IM is metabolized through first pass drug metabolism by the cytochrome P450 - CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. In addition, it is delivered in a bound form with a plasma protein referred to α1-acid glycoprotein (AGP).
3. Accordingly, the intracellular or systemic level of imatinib should be influenced by these factors such as ABCB1, ABCG2, hOCT1, CYP3A4, CYP3A5 or AGP genes. Inter-individual variability of 5 candidate genes associated with drug transport/metabolism (i.e. ABCB1, ABCG2, hOCT1, CYP3A4/3A5 and AGP) could affect the expression of corresponding proteins, thus influencing the treatment outcomes of imatinib therapy.
4. In the investigators' previous study, the investigators reported the cumulative incidences of MCyR and CCyR was significantly affected by the predictive model using 2 genotypes and disease stage. These predictive models for CCyR/MMoR or LOR/treatment failure seemed to work well. However, external validation of these predictive models is warranted especially using ethnically different independent cohort.