2-Methoxyestradiol in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of 2-methoxyestradiol in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors. 2-methoxyestradiol may stop or slow the growth of solid tumors by stopping blood flow to the tumor
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: 2-methoxyestradiol|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) as assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 2.0, Presented primarily in a descriptive fashion., 28 days|Number of toxicity incidents as assessed by CTC version 2.0, Frequency distributions and other descriptive measures will form the basis of the analysis of these variables., Up to 3 months after completion of treatment
Biologic activity rate (BAR), A rate will be calculated by dividing the number of patients with BA by the number of patients treated at the phase II recommended dose level., At day 1 and at day 28|Angiogenesis inhibition via an ex vivo angiogenesis assay, The relationship between each marker and dose level will be explored descriptively., At day 1 and at day 28|Number of responses, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease., Up to 3 months after completion of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the optimal biologic dose and/or maximum tolerated dose of 2-methoxyestradiol in patients with advanced solid tumors.

II. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

III. Determine the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of this drug in these patients.

IV. Determine the biologic changes within the tumor of these patients when treated with this drug.

V. Correlate the pharmacokinetics and toxicity of this drug in these patients. VI. Evaluate the biologic evidence of angiogenesis inhibition in patients receiving this drug.

VII. Correlate genetic polymorphisms in cytochrome P450 and sulfotransferases isoforms with the pharmacokinetics of this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive oral 2-methoxyestradiol (2-ME) once daily. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 2-ME until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Additional patients are treated at the MTD.

Patients are followed for 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42-60 patients will be accrued for this study within 19 months.