Trial of Ponatinib in Patients With Bevacizumab-Refractory Glioblastoma
This research study is studying a chemotherapy as a possible treatment for recurrent glioblastoma that has not responded to bevacizumab. The name of the study drug involved in this study is Ponatinib.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Ponatinib
3-Month Progression-Free Survival (PFS3), PFS3 is the proportion of patients remaining alive and progression-free at 3-months from study entry. Progressive disease was established based on Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria. RANO criteria has 5 potential categories: Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progressive disease (PD) and Unknown. CR: disappearance of all enhancing lesions, stable or improved non-enhancing lesions, and stable or improved clinically. PR: \>= 50% decrease in sum of perpendicular diameters of all measurable enhancing lesions, no progression of non-measurable disease, stable or improved non-enhancing lesions, and stable or improved clinically. PD: \>25% increase in sum of perpendicular diameters of all measurable enhancing lesions, significant increase of non-enhancing lesions, any new lesions, clear clinical deterioration, failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition. SD: does not qualify for CR,PR or PD., 3 months
Best Radiographic Response, Radiographic response was established based on Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria with 5 potential categories: Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progressive disease (PD) and Unknown status., Disease was assessed radiographically for response every 8 weeks, assessed up to 24 weeks.|Overall Survival (OS), OS based on Kaplan-Meier is defined as the time from study entry to death or date last known alive., 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on Kaplan-Meier is defined as the time from study entry to the earliest documentation of disease progression or death. Progressive disease was established based on Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria., 3 months
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Ponatinib for your specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

Ponatinib is a drug that may stop cancer cells from growing by affecting different kinds of proteins in cancer cells. Glioblastoma cells can be driven by mutated forms of a protein called c-kit (KIT) which are present in glioblastoma cells. Laboratory studies suggest that ponatinib has activity against mutated forms of (KIT) which is important in glioblastoma and therefore suggests that ponatinib may help to control the growth of glioblastoma. In this research study the study team is looking to see if ponatinib is safe and is able to control the growth of glioblastoma in people who have not responded to treatment with bevacizumab.