Topical Imiquimod and Abraxane in Treating Patients With Advanced Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying the side effects of giving topical imiquimod together with Abraxane (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) to see how well it works in treating patients with advanced breast cancer. Biological therapies, such as imiquimod, may stimulate the immune system to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as Abraxane, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving imiquimod together with Abraxane may kill more tumor cells.
Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Skin Metastases|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: imiquimod|DRUG: Abraxane|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|GENETIC: RNA analysis|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique
Anti-tumor Effects of Imiquimod as Assessed by Modified World Health Organization (WHO) Criteria, Tumor responses will be determined using the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular dimensions. Target lesions will be evaluated by the following response criteria: complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD).

Evaluation of target lesions per modified WHO response criteria:

* Complete response (CR): complete clearance (100%) of target lesion(s)
* Partial response (PR): ≥ 50% decrease in target lesion size
* Stable disease (SD): \< 50% decrease in target lesion size
* Progressive (PD): ≥ 25% increase in target lesion size Overall Response Rate (ORR) determined at end of study treatment which was 1 week after cycle #3, unless patient was withdrawn from study. If patient was withdrawn from study, then ORR was determined after their last cycle of treatment received., Baseline and then every 4 weeks until week 24|Safety and Systemic Toxicity as Assessed by a Review of Medical History, Physical Exam, Systems, Performance Status, and Clinical Labs (CBC and CMP), Evaluated according to the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0 and monitoring of adverse events will be done per Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and National Cancer Institute (NCI) guidelines for the time frame below.

Number of Participants with at Least 1 Adverse Event as Assessed by a Review of Medical History, Physical Exam, Systems, Performance Status, and Clinical Labs (CBC and CMP) under the following CTCAE categories:

Constitutional (Fatigue) Neurological (Neuropathy (sensory or motor)) Cardiac (Arrhythemia) Pulmonary (Cough, Pharyngitis) GI (Constipation, Diarrhea, Mucositis, Vomiting) Dermatology (Ulceration, Hairloss/alopecia) Pain (Headache, other pain) Syndrome (Flu-like) Visual Changes Hearing/Auditory Edema Other (General)

In addition they were asked the severity of the event so that a clinician could grade the event., Baseline and weeks 5, 9 13, 16, 20, and 24|Pathologic Response by Immunohistochemical (IHC)as Assessed by Skin Punch Biopsy of the Target Lesion, This is done by IHC staining reviewed by a pathologist. This is done by comparing the baseline to the post-treatment biopsy tissue. Yes equals absence of residual disease., Pre-and post-treatment
Endogenous Immunity to Common Breast Tumor Antigens (HER2, IGFBP-2, Topoisomerase II-alpha, and p53) in Peripheral Blood as Assessed by IFN-gamma and ELISPOT Assay, Peripheral blood will be obtained at baseline, after cycle 3 (end of study treatment) and at week 24 (end of study) to assess the immune response. A positive antigen-specific T cell immune response will be defined as a T cell precursor frequency more robust than 1:20,000 PBMC if the patients did not have a detectable response prior to treatment. In patients with a pre-existent immune response, the development of an immune response twice baseline will constitute augmentation., Baseline and at weeks 13 and 24|Incidence of Reduction of Serum TGF-beta Levels as Assessed by ELISA and Correlation With Th1 Adaptive Immunity and Clinical Response, Incidence of reduction of serum TGF-beta levels as assessed by ELISA and correlation with Th1 adaptive immunity and clinical response is defined as a reduction of at least 25% from baseline value to the value measured at week 13., Baseline and at weeks 13
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of chemoimmunotherapy with topical imiquimod and Abraxane in breast cancer patients with recurrent chest wall disease or cutaneous metastasis.

II. To evaluate the anti-tumor effects of chemoimmunotherapy with topical imiquimod and Abraxane in breast cancer patients with recurrent chest wall disease or cutaneous metastasis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine whether treatment with chemoimmunotherapy consisting of topical imiquimod and Abraxane augments endogenous tumor specific immunity.

II. To assess the effect of chemoimmunotherapy on circulating transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta levels.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Abraxane intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and apply topical imiquimod to cutaneous lesions once daily (QD) on days 1-4, 8-11, 15-18, and 22-25. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks.