Influence of Motor Proteins on Muscle Atrophy in Cancer Patients
The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of exercise in form of whole-body electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) on early tumor-induced muscular dysfunction. It is anticipated to gain detailed knowledge about composition and metabolism of skeletal muscle cells, and single muscle fiber functionality. To determine key factors leading to impaired force generation and thus decreased muscle strength in cancer patients who are suspected to develop or already show early signs of tumor cachexia is crucial for the establishment of effective cancer treatment. Comparative analysis of skeletal muscle biopsies taken from the abdomen of patients during indicated surgeries will be conducted. The patients will be allocated to the following study groups: a) Study group 1: Patients without cancer, b) Study group 2: Patients with solid tumors who did not perform physical training and c) Study group 3: Patients with solid tumors who executed physical training in form of WB-EMS. The investigation can help to understand skeletal muscle physiology under exercise and to get a better insight into the effects of physical training on early-stage muscle atrophy, both on cellular and molecular level. Initially, it is planned to identify the inflammation and nutrition status of the patients, and to determine skeletal muscle strength. It is anticipated to explore muscle protein composition, particularly myosin to actin ratio and their interaction. Biochemical analysis and the examination of the cellular ultra-structure should enhance the knowledge about the key mechanisms controlling the contractile apparatus of single muscle fibers in order to determine the quality of muscle force. Taken together, these investigations will help to better understand muscle atrophy in advanced cancer patients, and might support the development of targeted anti-cachectic therapies, that can be applied already in early phases of the tumor disease to significantly improve the patients' prognosis and their quality of life.
Cancer|Muscle Atrophy
PROCEDURE: whole-body electromyostimulation WB-EMS
Differences in Myosin:Actin ratio, Myosin:Actin ratio in the muscle biopsies assessed by protein analysis via Western Blotting., 8 weeks|Differences in Myosin isoforms, The Myosin isoforms in the muscle biopsies will be determined by protein expression analysis via Western Blotting., 8 weeks|Differences in cellular ultra structures, Cellular ultra structures in the muscle biopsies will be examined using multi-photon microscopy., 8 weeks|Differences in Force development and Calcium 2+ sensitivity of single muscle fibers, Force development and Calcium 2+ sensitivity of single muscle fibers from the muscle biopsies will be assessed by in situ biomechanical recording., 8 weeks|Differences in activation of involved signaling pathways, Signaling pathways that regulate muscle atrophy will be analyzed by examining protein expression and modification (Western Blotting), and gene expression (quantitative PCR) in the muscle biopsies., 8 weeks
Differences in inflammatory status, Pro-inflammatory cytokines, 0 week|Differences in Nutritional risk, Nutritional Risk Screening-2002, 0 week
The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of exercise in form of whole-body electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) on early tumor-induced muscular dysfunction. It is anticipated to gain detailed knowledge about composition and metabolism of skeletal muscle cells, and single muscle fiber functionality. To determine key factors leading to impaired force generation and thus decreased muscle strength in cancer patients who are suspected to develop or already show early signs of tumor cachexia is crucial for the establishment of effective cancer treatment. Comparative analysis of skeletal muscle biopsies taken from the abdomen of patients during indicated surgeries will be conducted. The patients will be allocated to the following study groups: a) Study group 1: Patients without cancer, b) Study group 2: Patients with solid tumors who did not perform physical training and c) Study group 3: Patients with solid tumors who executed physical training in form of WB-EMS. The investigation can help to understand skeletal muscle physiology under exercise and to get a better insight into the effects of physical training on early-stage muscle atrophy, both on cellular and molecular level. Initially, it is planned to identify the inflammation and nutrition status of the patients, and to determine skeletal muscle strength. It is anticipated to explore muscle protein composition, particularly myosin to actin ratio and their interaction. Biochemical analysis and the examination of the cellular ultra-structure should enhance the knowledge about the key mechanisms controlling the contractile apparatus of single muscle fibers in order to determine the quality of muscle force. Taken together, these investigations will help to better understand muscle atrophy in advanced cancer patients, and might support the development of targeted anti-cachectic therapies, that can be applied already in early phases of the tumor disease to significantly improve the patients' prognosis and their quality of life.