18F-FMAU PET/CT in Diagnosing and Characterizing Prostate Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies how well fluorine F 18 d-FMAU (18F-FMAU) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works in diagnosing and characterizing prostate cancer. A PET/CT scan is an imaging test that uses a small amount of radioactive tracer that is given through the vein to take detailed pictures of areas inside the body where the tracer is taken up. Radiotracers such as 18F-FMAU may help to find the cancer and see how far the disease has spread.
Prostate Neoplasm
DEVICE: CAT|DRUG: 18F-FMAU|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Multiparametric Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DEVICE: Positron Emission Tomography|DEVICE: Ultrasound
Proportion of men for whom biopsy cores taken based only on the 18F-FMAU PET/CT results would have yielded the same overall diagnosis as the standard TRUS-guided core or the mpMRI-directed prostate biopsies, Standard descriptive methods will be used to summarize the data collected: means, standard deviations, ranges, and confidence intervals (or medians, quartiles), contingency tables, histograms, correlation coefficients (Pearson or Spearman) and scatter plots. The scatter plots and correlations between each of the histopathology parameters and the imaging parameters will be examined to better understand the relationships., Up to 1 year|Proportion of men for whom the 18F-FMAU PET/CT identified all lesions that were found to have cancer based on the standard TRUS-guided and the mpMRI directed core prostate biopsies, Standard descriptive methods will be used to summarize the data collected: means, standard deviations, ranges, and confidence intervals (or medians, quartiles), contingency tables, histograms, correlation coefficients (Pearson or Spearman) and scatter plots. The scatter plots and correlations between each of the histopathology parameters and the imaging parameters will be examined to better understand the relationships., Up to 1 year|Proportion of men who completed both imaging procedures and for whom biopsy cores taken based only on the fluorine 18F-FMAU PET/CT results would have yielded the same overall diagnosis as the standard TRUS-guided core prostate biopsies, Standard descriptive methods will be used to summarize the data collected: means, standard deviations, ranges, and confidence intervals (or medians, quartiles), contingency tables, histograms, correlation coefficients (Pearson or Spearman) and scatter plots. The scatter plots and correlations between each of the histopathology parameters and the imaging parameters will be examined to better understand the relationships., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform a prospective clinical imaging evaluation of 18F-FMAU PET/CT in addition to multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) and standard transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided 12-core biopsy for detection and localization of primary tumor in 40 men with suspected prostate cancer based on elevated/rising prostate specific antigen level, abnormal digital rectal exam, or those with prior negative standard biopsy who are now returning for a standard of care follow-up.

II. To examine the associations between the PET derived imaging parameters, serum PSA, mpMRI parameters (apparent diffusion coefficient \[ADC\], Ktrans) and the biopsy histopathology parameters.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive radiotracer F 18 d-FMAU intravenously (IV) over 1 minute and then undergo 18F-FMAU PET/CT on day 1. Patients then undergo standard of care multiparametic MRI and standard of care transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 24-96 hours.