STereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) for Oligoprogressive Breast Cancer
Recent advances in systemic therapy have facilitated improved progression-free survival (PFS) and treatment tolerability in metastatic breast cancer patients (MBC). Oligoprogression (OP) refers to progression limited to five or fewer sites in otherwise controlled systemic disease on a drug therapy. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) has the potential to locally ablate resistant OP lesions that develop on a systemic treatment, and may consequently delay the need for change in drug therapy, delay time to chemotherapy and prolong PFS. This is a phase II trial of SBRT plus continuation of current systemic therapy line for OP MBC patients, to determine rate of delay of change in systemic therapy of at six months. PFS, time to chemotherapy and quality of life will also be assessed.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Oligoprogression
RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiotherapy
Percentage of patients with change in systemic therapy, Change in systemic therapy will occur with progression with the following criteria:

1. Progression not amenable to further SBRT, including multifocal (\>3) sites;
2. Progression in lesion not amenable to further SBRT;
3. Rapid progression such that treating medical oncologist believes change in therapy is warranted;
4. Progression in location including, including visceral metastasis, such that treating medical oncologist believes change in therapy is warranted, Six months
Progression-free survival, Progression outside radiotherapy field per RECIST 1.1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months|Local progression, Progression within a treated lesion per RECIST 1.1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months|Time to chemotherapy, Initiation of cytotoxic therapy, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months|Overall Survival, Proportion of patients alive, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months|CTCAE Toxicity, common terminology criteria for adverse events 5.0, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months
Recent advances in systemic therapy have facilitated improved progression-free survival (PFS) and treatment tolerability in metastatic breast cancer patients (MBC). Oligoprogression (OP) refers to progression limited to five or fewer sites in otherwise controlled systemic disease on a drug therapy. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) has the potential to locally ablate resistant OP lesions that develop on a systemic treatment, and may consequently delay the need for change in drug therapy, delay time to chemotherapy and prolong PFS. This is a phase II trial of SBRT plus continuation of current systemic therapy line for OP MBC patients, to determine rate of delay of change in systemic therapy of at six months. PFS, time to chemotherapy and quality of life will also be assessed.