Nab-paclitaxel Combined With Gemcitabine as Adjuvant Therapy for Pancreatic Cancer After Curative Resection
Pancreatic cancer has an extremely poor prognosis with a 5-year survival rate of less than 5%. About 25% of patients have the opportunity for radically surgical resection when diagnosis. However, the recurrence rate is up to 85% within 2 years. Data from clinical trials indicated that gemcitabine-based adjuvant chemotherapy reduced recurrence and enhanced overall survival for patients who have undergone surgery to remove their tumor. Nab-paclitaxel could enhance the intratumoral concentration of gemcitabine; recent studies showed that nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine significantly improved progression-free survival and overall survival of metastatic pancreatic cancer patients. The present study is intended to investigate the activity and safety of the combination of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel as adjuvant chemotherapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer after curative resection.
Stage IA Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IB Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIB Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: gemcitabine
Recurrence-free survival at one year after curative resection, To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine chemotherapy in terms of recurrence-free survival in patients with pancreatic cancer at one year after curative resection. Computed tomography (CT) scan, From date of enrollment (after curative resection) until the date of first documented recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed 2 months during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months
Overall survival after curative resection, To evaluate the overall survival of patients (after curative resection) treated with this regimen. Outpatient visit, phone interview, From date of enrollment (after curative resection) until the date of death from any cause, assessed one month during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months|Quality of life score after curative resection, To evaluate the quality of life score of patients (after curative resection) treated with this regimen. Outpatient visit, phone interview, One month during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months|Number of grade 3 and 4 toxicities according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, To evaluate the occurrence of grade 3 and 4 toxicities according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE; version 4.0) in patients treated with this regimen. The toxicity profile includes but not limits neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, peripheral neuropathy, hypoglycemia, metabolic acidosis (acute or chronic, including ketoacidosis), which will be summarized as the percentage of patients by type and grade according to treatment group. Outpatient visit, laboratory findings, One week during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months|CA199 level after curative resection, To evaluate the CA199 level of patients (after curative resection) treated with this regimen. Outpatient visit, laboratory findings, One month during therapy and 3 months thereafter up to 24 months
Pancreatic cancer has an extremely poor prognosis with a 5-year survival rate of less than 5%. About 25% of patients have the opportunity for radically surgical resection when diagnosis. However, the recurrence rate is up to 85% within 2 years. Data from clinical trials indicated that gemcitabine-based adjuvant chemotherapy reduced recurrence and enhanced overall survival for patients who have undergone surgery to remove their tumor. Nab-paclitaxel could enhance the intratumoral concentration of gemcitabine; recent studies showed that nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine significantly improved progression-free survival and overall survival of metastatic pancreatic cancer patients. The present study is intended to investigate the activity and safety of the combination of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel as adjuvant chemotherapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer after curative resection.