Comparing Smoking Cessation Interventions Among Underserved Patients Referred for Lung Cancer Screening
To compare the effectiveness of four interventions to promote sustained, biochemically confirmed smoking abstinence for 6 months among underserved smokers referred for lung cancer screening at four large U.S. health systems.
Smoking Cessation
BEHAVIORAL: Removal of Financial Barriers|BEHAVIORAL: Financial Incentives|BEHAVIORAL: Mobile Health Application
Biochemically confirmed smoking abstinence sustained for 6 months, The primary outcome measure is sustained abstinence for 6 months, and will require self-report of smoking cessation followed by biochemical confirmation at 2 weeks, 3, and 6 months., 6 months
Quit status (self-report), Point-prevalent rates of self-reported nicotine use and tobacco product use, 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months|Quit status (biochemically confirmed), Point-prevalent rates of biochemically confirmed smoking cessation, 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months,12 months|Health-related quality of life, The EuroQuol Group's quality of life (EQ-5D) scale is a 25-item validated scale used to assess patients' perceived health-related quality of life across the domains of mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months|Perceived barriers to cessation, The Challenges to Stopping Smoking Scale (CSS-21) is a validated 21-item measure to assess patients' perceived barriers to smoking cessation. The CSS-21 has two sub-scales: intrinsic factors (physical, psychological or cognitive aspects of quitting) and extrinsic factors (social or environmental aspects of quitting)., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months|Self-efficacy related to cessation efforts, We will use the 10-item situational measure of self-efficacy related to smoking behavior. This scale measures how sure participants are that they can avoid smoking in different situations., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months|Motivation to quit, The Stages of Change (SOC) is a validated 1-item measure to assess patient's self-reported motivation to quit., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months|Temporal ("delay") discounting, Temporal discounting is a measure of impulsivity that reflects people's tendencies to discount the value of a reward as a function of how far in the future it would be received. We will use the 5-Trial Adjusting Delay Task to assess temporal discounting., Baseline, 6 months, 12 months
We will conduct a 4-arm randomized trial comparing 4 interventions to promote sustained, biochemically confirmed smoking abstinence for 6 months among smokers in underserved demographic groups. The 3,200 participants to be enrolled will be current smokers who are Black, Hispanic, and/or have low socioeconomic status (defined as household income \<200% of the federal poverty line or a high school education or less) or rural residence who are referred for low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) screening at 4 large health systems. All adult patients with LDCT orders will be further screened for eligibility. Eligible patients will enroll with opt-out consent and complete the study using the NIH-funded Way to Health online research portal. The primary outcome will be biochemically confirmed, sustained abstinence from smoking tobacco for 6 months following participants' selected quit dates. Relapse rates will be tracked at 12 months.