Pilot Study of Brentuximab Vedotin in Relapsed/Refractory Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma Expressing CD30
The main purpose of this study is to test if brentuximab vedotin has an effect on cancer in patients with a certain type of large B-cell lymphoma. The side effects (unwanted effects) of SGN-35 in patients with this certain type of large B-cell lymphoma will also be studied. It is not known if brentuximab vedotin is better or worse than other treatment patients might be given.
Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Brentuximab vedotin
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR: The proportion of patients with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Follow-up assessments after cycle 16 to be done every 12 weeks for up to 24 months. Restaging imaging computed tomography (CT) scans to be repeated 12 and 24 months from the beginning of the follow-up period. Objective disease response (CR and PR) defined according to the modified 2007 International Working Group (IWG) response criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). CR = Disappearance of all evidence of disease; PR = Regression of measurable disease and no new sites., Up to 24 months post treatment
Time to Response (TTR), Investigators intended to report median time and its 95% confidence interval estimate using the Kaplan-Meier method, for 20 participants. TTR: The time from the start of treatment to the first time when the measurement criteria for CR or PR are met. Participants who did not have a confirmed response to be censored at the date of the last tumor assessment., Up to 24 months post treatment|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR: The number of days between the first tumor response assessment of objective response (complete response and partial response) to the time of the first tumor response assessment of progressive disease (PD) or death if due to disease progression (date of first PD assessment or death due to disease progression-date of first objective response assessment +1)., Up to 24 months post treatment|Time to Disease Progression (TTP), Investigators intended to report median time and its 95% confidence interval estimate using the Kaplan-Meier method, for 20 participants. Progressive disease (PD) defined according to the modified 2007 International Working Group (IWG) response criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL)., Up to 24 months post treatment|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Investigators intended to report median time and its 95% confidence interval estimate using the Kaplan-Meier method, for 20 participants. Stable disease (SD) defined according to the modified 2007 International Working Group (IWG) response criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL)., 24 months post treatment|Overall Survival (OS), Investigators intended to report median time and its 95% confidence interval estimate using the Kaplan-Meier method, for 20 participants. Radiological assessments to be discontinued at the time of tumor progression or initiation of new anticancer therapy, after which survival to be evaluated every 3 months until 2 years from the start of study treatment or until study closure., 24 months post treatment or until study closure|Number of Participants With Study Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Serious adverse events (SAEs) to be summarized by worst NCI NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade., Up to 24 months post treatment
The main purpose of this study is to test if brentuximab vedotin has an effect on cancer in patients with a certain type of large B-cell lymphoma. The side effects (unwanted effects) of SGN-35 in patients with this certain type of large B-cell lymphoma will also be studied. It is not known if brentuximab vedotin is better or worse than other treatment patients might be given.