Treatment of Primary Breast Cancer Using PDT
Phase I/IIA, open label, non-randomised, single site trial in patients with primary breast cancer.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Verteporfin
Establish the minimum effective light dose, To establish the minimum light dose, in the range 20Joules/ (cm of light diffuser length) but not exceeding 90J/cm, required to induce an area of necrosis with a diameter of at least 12mm in line perpendicular to the fibre on microscopic examination or to achieve a plateau with no increasing necrosis as the light dose increases., One month
Compare final histology with post PDT MRI., To assess the response of the Photodynamic Therapy on primary breast cancer via radiology using pre and post PDT MRI and comparing this with final histology. Measurements will be made of the diameter of necrosis on MRI scan which will be correlated with the histological measurement., One month|Assess affect of PDT on normal breast tissue., To look at the effect of Photodynamic Therapy on the abnormal breast tissue and study if necrosis extends to normal breast tissue., One month
This is a phase I / IIa study recruiting patients diagnosed with primary breast cancer. Patients who have chosen mastectomy or wide local excision as their surgical option will be included. Patients will have a pre therapy MRI followed by photodynamic therapy. PDT involves intravenously injecting the photosensitizer Verteporfin (Visudyne) drug. This drug makes the tumour sensitive to light. A non-thermal light will then be shone in the tumour which brings about tissue necrosis (destruction). Although the drug dose will remain the same, the light dose will be escalated depending on patient response in accordance to a predefined algorithm (see section) to achieve a zone of necrosis of 12mm or a plateau of necrosis with incremental increase in light dose. An MRI will be performed immediately prior to the scheduled surgery. Pre and post PDT MRI changes will be correlated with the histological findings on the excised breast specimen. Should the minimum light dose for 12mm necrosis be established recruitment will continue until 12 patients have received this dose. These 12 patients will provide sample data on the size of tumour and area of necrosis detected by MRI and histology to enable sample size (power) calculations for future studies of PDT in primary breast cancer. This is a dose escalation study involving a minimum of twelve and a maximum of forty patients.