Moving Forward Together 4
This is a 3-month physical activity intervention aimed to increase moderate-intensity activity among previously inactive breast cancer survivors. Participants will be eligible if they are not currently active, and have recently been diagnosed with breast cancer. Upon eligibility, participants will be randomized into one of two groups. The intervention group will receive weekly guidance from a peer coach to increase their activity throughout the three month intervention. The control group will be encouraged to self-monitor their physical activity throughout the three month intervention. Both groups will receive a Fitbit. Peer coaches will be trained to deliver the physical activity program using a web-based platform; all calls will be virtual. Participants will be assessed before and after the intervention.
Breast Cancer|Physical Inactivity
BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity adoption|BEHAVIORAL: Self monitoring
Accelerometer measured moderate-to-vigorous activity, Minutes of moderate-to-vigorous intensity activity at 3-month follow-up, 3-month intervention
Self-Reported Quality of Life, Assessed via FACT-B, validated questionnaire, Pre-intervention and post 3-month intervention|Self-Reported Physical Functioning, Assessed via SF-36, validated questionnaire, Pre-intervention and post 3-month intervention|Self-Reported Mood, Assessed via Profile of Mood States, validated questionnaire, Pre-intervention and post 3-month intervention|Self-Reported Fatigue, Assessed via FACIT-F, validated questionnaire, Pre-intervention and post 3-month intervention
This is a 3-month physical activity intervention aimed to increase moderate-intensity activity among previously inactive breast cancer survivors. Participants will be eligible if they are not currently active, and have recently been diagnosed with breast cancer. Upon eligibility, participants will be randomized into one of two groups. The intervention group will receive weekly guidance from a peer coach to increase their activity throughout the three month intervention. The control group will be encouraged to self-monitor their physical activity throughout the three month intervention. Both groups will receive a Fitbit. Peer coaches will be trained to deliver the physical activity program using a web-based platform; all calls will be virtual. Participants will be assessed before and after the intervention.