Efficacy of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Terms of DFS in Patients With Localized Digestive Neuroendocrine Carcinomas
NEONEC is a single-phase, phase II study evaluating the efficacy of the 12-month neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with locally differentiated digestive NEC. The recommended chemotherapy is based on the current reference combination of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide (VP16). For anorectal locations, radiochemotherapy is proposed to avoid the morbidity of conventional surgery.

The objective of the study is to improve relapse-free survival (RFS) in NEC patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery or chemoradiotherapy.

In parallel, we will perform a prospective cohort study with patients whose diagnosis is made during surgery, who have not received neoadjuvant treatment, and who are offered an adjuvant treatment of the same type (combination of platinum and platinum salts and etoposide).
Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Digestive Cancer
DRUG: Neoadjuvant treatment|DRUG: Adjuvant treatment
Relapse-free survival (RFS) - phase II, Interval between the date of the start of treatment (chemotherapy) and the date of first relapse or death (all causes). Relapse is defined according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., At 12 months|Relapse-free survival (RFS) - prospective cohort, Interval between the date of the start of treatment (chemotherapy) and the date of first relapse or death (all causes). Relapse is defined according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., At 12 months
Number of patient in response in pre-operative or prior radiochemotherapy (if applicable) - Phase II, according to RECIST 1.1, At 3 months after the beginning of treatment (up to 36 months)|Number of patients who do not benefit from surgery or radiochemotherapy (if applicable) - Phase II, Number of patients who do not benefit from surgery or radiochemotherapy (if applicable) - Phase II, Up to 39 months|Number of patients operated after neoadjuvant chemotherapy or receiving radiochemotherapy (if applicable) - Phase II, Number of patients operated after neoadjuvant chemotherapy or receiving, Up to 39 months|Overall survival (OS) - Phase II, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from study enrollment to death (from any cause) or to the last date the patients was known to be alive., up to 48 months|Overall survival (OS) - Prospective cohort, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from study enrollment to death (from any cause) or to the last date the patients was known to be alive., Up to 48 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events grade 3-4 as assessed by National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [NCI-CTCAE] v5.0 - Phase II, Patients will be assessed for AEs throughout the study at every visit during treatment. Investigators using the NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 will grade the severity of AEs.

Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Toxicity Study (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 43 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events grade 3-4 as assessed by National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [NCI-CTCAE] v5.0 - Prospective cohort, Patients will be assessed for AEs throughout the study at every visit during treatment. Investigators using the NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 will grade the severity of AEs.

Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Toxicity Study (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 43 months
A total of 48 patients is to be included in phase II and 30 patients in prospective cohort during the inclusion period of phase II.

Phase II study treatment:

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Administration of 4 cycles of chemotherapy (3 months) with platinum based chemotherapy (carboplatin or cisplatin, at the choice of the investigator) + etoposide.

Surgery or chemoradiotherapy depending on the tumor localization (the irradiation modalities and associated chemotherapy treatment will be left to the discretion of the referring radiotherapists according to current recommendations for each localization).

Prospective cohort:

* Surgery (prior to study entry)
* Adjuvant chemotherapy : Administration of 4 cycles of chemotherapy (3 months) with platinum based chemotherapy (carboplatin or cisplatin, at the choice of the investigator) + etoposide.