China Lung Cancer Screening (CLUS) Study Version 3.0
CLUS version 1.0, had proven that LDCT led to a 74.1% increase in detecting early-stage lung cancer compare to usual care (NCT02898441). CLUS version 2.0 evaluated the efficacy of new techniques (AI, AFI and MTB) in fostering the implementation of lung cancer screening (NCT03975504). The present multi-center study is performed to evaluate the effectiveness of different lung cancer screening strategy and validate our previous findings. 100,000 high-risk subjects (age 45-75) were recruited to take LDCT screening (Baseline + 2 biennial repeated LDCT screening). Follow-up for lung cancer incidence, lung cancer mortality and overall mortality was performed. Blood samples were stored in a Biobank. Management of positive screening test was carried out by a pre-specified protocol.
Lung Cancer
OTHER: Whole-process management software|DEVICE: LDCT detection
The mortality rate of lung cancer, Assess lung cancer mortality within next 5 years after first round of screening, 5 years|The attendance rate of high-risk individuals, Evaluate the ability of whole-process management strategy in enhancing the attendance rate of high-risk individuals, 5 years|The adherence rate of high-risk individuals, Evaluate the ability of whole-process management strategy in enhancing the adherence rate of high-risk individuals, 5 years
The mortality of all-cause, Assess all-cause mortality within next 5 years after first round of screening, 5 years|The detection rate of lung nodules, Assess lung nodules detection rate, and the types and sizes of nodules detected in LDCT screening, 5 years|The incidence rate lung cancer, Assess the number of lung cancer incidences after each round of screening, 5 years
CLUS version 1.0, had proven that LDCT led to a 74.1% increase in detecting early-stage lung cancer compare to usual care (NCT02898441). CLUS version 2.0 evaluated the efficacy of new techniques (AI, AFI and MTB) in fostering the implementation of lung cancer screening (NCT03975504). The present multi-center study is performed to evaluate the effectiveness of different lung cancer screening strategy and validate our previous findings. 100,000 high-risk subjects (age 45-75) were recruited to take LDCT screening (Baseline + 2 biennial repeated LDCT screening). Follow-up for lung cancer incidence, lung cancer mortality and overall mortality was performed. Blood samples were stored in a Biobank. Management of positive screening test was carried out by a pre-specified protocol.