Continuation of Oral ONC201 in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the long-term side effects of the continuation of oral ONC201 in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body who have previously benefited from receiving this drug. Oral ONC201 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor
DRUG: Oral ONC201|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Incidence of adverse experiences from oral ONC201 using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, An adverse experience is defined as any unintended or abnormal clinical observation that is not of benefit to the patient. Either the condition was not present prior to exposure to the study therapy, or it has worsened in intensity or frequency following exposure to the study therapy. Descriptive statistics will be provided., Up to 4 weeks after end of study treatment
Frequency of toxicities associated with ONC201, Up to 4 weeks after end of study treatment|Response rate of oral ONC201 in patients with advanced solid tumors, At 3 months|Pharmacokinetic parameters, The oral ONC201 concentration, and the corresponding time, area under the curve, elimination half-life, total body clearance and volume of distribution will be determined for each patient concentration-time data using a non-compartmental model. Descriptive statistics will be provided., Up to 4 weeks of therapy|Clinical benefit rate (stable disease and partial disease), At 3 months|Time to progressive disease, Descriptive statistics on continuous data will include means, medians, standard deviations, and ranges will be provided to estimate clinical benefit rate., Up to 4 weeks after end of study treatment
Changes in serum biomarkers of therapeutic response, Descriptive statistics will be provided., Baseline to up to 4 weeks after end of study treatment|Changes in molecular targets of oral ONC201, Descriptive statistics will be provided., Baseline to up to 4 weeks after end of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of ONC201 (oral ONC201) administered orally in patients with advanced cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize pharmacokinetics of ONC201. II. To assess serum biomarkers of therapeutic response to ONC201. III. To assess preliminary antitumor activity of ONC201 as a single agent in advanced solid tumors.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral ONC201 orally (PO) on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.