Carboplatin-based Chemotherapy With or Without Panitumumab in Platinum-sensitive Recurrent Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this trial is to estimate the therapeutic efficacy of the experimental targeted regimen including the EGFR antibody panitumumab (in combination with carboplatin and either pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or gemcitabine) in relation to the respective standard combination in patients with a KRAS wildtype with platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer. It is expected that the progression free survival rate at 12 months is improved by the targeted regimen.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Panitumumab|DRUG: pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD)|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Panitumumab
Progression-free survival (PFS) rate after 12 months., PFS is defined as the time from randomisation to the time of disease progression or relapse (according to RECIST, not CA-125 only!) or death, or to the date of last tumor assessment without any such event (censored observation)., 12 month
Duration of Tumor-Response, according to RECIST, including measurable disease patients only, and including patients with CA-125 defined disease as well, Duration of Therapy (Therapy is planned for 6 cycles of 3 resp. 4 weeks each, shorter or longer durations are possible)|Progression-free survival, End of Follow-up (up to 1 year)|Overall survival, End of Follow-up (up to 1 year)|Maximum toxicity resp. AE grade per patient per toxicity resp. AE during therapy, Toxicities resp. (S)AE during therapy will be documented, reported and analyzed according to NCI CTC 3.0 with special focus on skin toxicity.

Results are given as maximum grade per patient per toxicity resp. AE during therapy., Duration of Therapy (Therapy is planned for 6 cycles of 3 resp. 4 weeks each, shorter or longer durations are possible)|Tumor Response Rate, according to RECIST, including measurable disease patients only, and including patients with CA-125 defined disease as well, Duration of Therapy (Therapy is planned for 6 cycles of 3 resp. 4 weeks each, shorter or longer durations are possible)
The purpose of this trial is to estimate the therapeutic efficacy of the experimental targeted regimen including the EGFR antibody panitumumab (in combination with carboplatin and either pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or gemcitabine) in relation to the respective standard combination in patients with a KRAS wildtype with platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer. It is expected that the progression free survival rate at 12 months is improved by the targeted regimen.