MRI and CT Simulation in the Evaluation of Tumor Response and Target Volume Definition for Esophageal or Esophagogastric Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemoradiotherapy
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with functional features of diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) are advancing imaging technologies that have potential to overcome limitations of conventional staging methods, radiation treatment planning and the assessment of tumor response in esophageal or esophagogastric cancer. This study aimed to explore the value of MRI for the prediction of tumor response to chemoradiotherapy and accurate target volume delineation as compared to CT simulation for patients with unresectable or potentially resectable esophageal or esophagogastric cancer undergoing chemoradiotherapy. The average CT texture features are also extracted before and during treatment to establish a model to predict the prognosis or side effects (e.g. radiation pneumonitis or esophagitis) of patients.
Esophagus Cancer|Esophagogastric Junction Cancer
DEVICE: MRI and CT|RADIATION: Ratiotherapy|DRUG: Paclitaxel, platinum-based drug
Tumor response based on MRI and CT simulation, up to 8 weeks|Radiotherapy target volume assessment with pre- and post-chemoradiotherapy based on MRI and CT simulation, up to 8 weeks|Evaluation of tumor heterogeneity with IBEX software, Using the average CT images for texture extraction. Histogram, gradient, cooccurrence, gray-tone difference, and filtration-based techniques are used for texture feature extraction. Models incorporating texture features are established to compare to models incorporating clinical prognostic factors alone., up to 8 weeks
Overall survival, 1 year|Progress free survival, 1 year|Reduction in acute and late side effects based on modified RT treatment volumes with pre- and post-chemoradiotherapy based on MRI and CT simulation, 1 year
1. Both DW-MRI and CT simulation will be performed before chemoradiotherapy and after 18-22 fractions. Also MRI will be performed after treatment. The investigators will contour based on the MRI image and compare this with the standard CT plan before and during treatment.
2. The predictive potential of initial tumor ADC, and change in ADC during and after treatment for tumor response will be assessed.
3. The average CT texture features not only in the present study but also of those who treated previously in our department (since 2014) will be extracted before and during chemoradiotherapy to establish a model to predict the prognosis of patients.