The Effect of Interventional Pulmonary Rehabilitation Exercise With Advanced Lung Cancer.
This study concluded that lung rehabilitation exercise programs can improve the psychological distress, self-efficacy, quality of life, six-minute walk distance, muscle strength, and reduce the number of hospitalizations for patients with advanced lung cancer.
Lung Cancer|Pulmonary Rehabilitation|Exercise|Lung Adenocarcinoma|Lung Tumor|Lung Neoplasms|Advanced Lung Cancer|Self Efficacy|Quality of Life|Psychological Distress
BEHAVIORAL: pulmonary rehabilitation exercise
psychological distress, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale , HADS .There are 14 items in this scale, including 7 items for anxiety and 7 items for depression. Each item has 4 options and is scored from 0 to 3. The higher the score, the higher the degree of anxiety or depression. Because the question does not contain physical symptoms, but emotional states, it is more likely to avoid false positives caused by cancer symptoms, so it is widely used in emotional evaluation and screening of cancer patients. A score higher than 9 in the anxiety section, or a score higher than 8 in the depression section, or a total score higher than 15 requires clinical attention., The data were collected at 4 time points; before the intervention (baseline measurement, T1), 4 weeks after the intervention (T2), 6 weeks after the intervention (T3), and 8 weeks after the intervention program (T4).|self-efficacy, General Self-Efficacy Scale,GSES.The GSES is a 10-item psychometric scale with scores for each item ranging from 1 (not completely correct) to 4 (including completely correct). Scores range from 10 to 40, with the highest score indicating higher self-efficacy., The data were collected at 4 time points; before the intervention (baseline measurement, T1), 4 weeks after the intervention (T2), 6 weeks after the intervention (T3), and 8 weeks after the intervention program (T4).|quality of life Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung,FACT-L.FACT-L, Version 4, is a combination of the 27-item FACT-General (FACT-G) and the 9-item Lung Cancer Subscale (LCS) Items include: physical health status, social/family health status, emotional stability status, Functional health status, additional concerns, lung cancer-related issues, the score ranges from 0 to 4, and the higher the final value, the higher the score on the scale, and the better the quality of life., The data were collected at 4 time points; before the intervention (baseline measurement, T1), 4 weeks after the intervention (T2), 6 weeks after the intervention (T3), and 8 weeks after the intervention program (T4).
6MWT, Six-minute Walking Test, baseline (T1) and 8 weeks after the intervention program (T4).|maximum strength training test, maximum strength training test, baseline (T1) and 8 weeks after the intervention program (T4).
Lung cancer is the top ten cause of cancer death in Taiwan. Since symptoms in the early stage are insidious, most patients are diagnosed in the advanced stage.

Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are often necessary because most of the advanced stage lung cancer has metastasized and multi-organ involved. The prolonged treatment course and side effects of the chemotherapy and radiotherapy, as long as the low survival rate, all impaired the quality of life. Recent studies have shown that exercise can improve the quality of life of cancer patients; therefore, the purpose of this study is to explore the effects of interventional lung rehabilitation exercises on psychological distress, self-efficacy and quality of life in patients with advanced lung cancer. The research is an interventional study. For the experimental group, lung rehabilitation exercise programs, including endurance training, muscle strength training and breathing training, were given; for the control group, a leaflet for lung rehabilitation exercise were provided. Random allocation software was used to randomly allocate cases to the experimental group and the control group. The patients were enrolled from the ward of the Department of Thoracic Medicine in a teaching hospital in north Taiwan. The estimated number of enrollment was 104. The structured questionnaire was used for data collection and analysis. The questionnaire contained 4 dimensions, including basic demographic characteristics, anxiety and depression scale, self-efficacy scale and quality of life scale. The data were collected at 4 time points; before the intervention (baseline measurement, T1), 4 weeks after the intervention (T2), 6 weeks after the intervention (T3), and 8 weeks after the intervention program (T4). At the same time, the six-minute walking distance and maximum strength training test of each case were measured at the baseline (T1) and 8 weeks after the intervention program (T4). We used the independent sample test,chi square test , Pearson correlation coefficient analysis and single-factor analysis of variance, and the generalized estimation equation for analysis of the psychological distress, self-efficacy, and quality of life between the two groups. This study concluded that lung rehabilitation exercise programs can improve the psychological distress, self-efficacy, quality of life, six-minute walk distance, muscle strength, and reduce the number of hospitalizations for patients with advanced lung cancer.