Screening Algorithms for Cervical and Anal High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions in People With HIV in Mexico and Puerto Rico
This clinical trial aims to find what different tests work best to find high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) in the cervix or anus in patients living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Patients with HIV are at high risk of becoming infected with human papillomavirus (HPV) in the cervix or anus where it can turn into cancer over several years. HPV causes changes to the cervix and anus, known as HSIL. This means that there is an area of abnormal tissue on the top layers of the cervix or anus. It is considered cervical or anal cancer if the abnormality spreads down into the layers of tissue below the top. If found early, many cases of HSIL can be treated before turning into cancer. Screening for cervical or anal cancer detection or HSIL associated with HPV may result in earlier treatment, if necessary, for patients living with HIV.
AIDS-Related Anal Carcinoma|AIDS-Related Cervical Carcinoma|High Grade Anal Intraepithelial Neoplasia|High Grade Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia|HIV Infection
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection - Anal|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection - Cervical|PROCEDURE: Colposcopy|PROCEDURE: High Resolution Anoscopy|PROCEDURE: Imaging Technique
Most efficient algorithm for detection of anogenital human papillomavirus (HPV)-related cancers and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), Will assess a screening algorithm with an optimal combination of: point of care high-risk (hr) HPV testing, extended hrHPV genotyping, cytology, progression markers protein E6 and S5 methylation score, to identify cervical and/or anal HSIL or cancer. Different contingency tables will be prepared to describe the statistical relationship between hrHPV infection and HSIL positive status. Using the Bayes Rule, the predicted values will the computed using the prevalence of HSIL positive (overall and per country), where prevalence is the probability of currently being HSIL positive regardless of the duration of time one has the disease. The positive Diagnostic Likelihood Ratios (DLR) and the Negative Diagnostic Likelihood Ratio will be computed to determine the best strategy combining sensitivity and specificity. The 95% confidence intervals of DLR+ will be computed using the log approach., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the most efficient algorithm combining point-of-care (POC) HPV-based screening with several triage alternatives: cytology, E6 and/or E7 oncoprotein detection and S5 methylation, to improve the current screening program for detection of anogenital HPV-related cancers and pre-cancers, in men and women living with HIV in Mexico and Puerto Rico.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate artificial intelligence-based algorithms based on cell-phone images of the cervix for their sensitivity, specificity, and negative and positive predictive values for cervical cancers and precancers in women living with HIV in Mexico and Puerto Rico.

II. Evaluate the HPV agreement/concordance between cervicovaginal samples collected by participants and cervical samples collected by clinicians.

OUTLINE: Patients receive standard medical procedures based on anatomy at time of enrollment.

GROUP I (WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV (WLWH)): Patients undergo collection of cervical images, 3 cervical anal swabs and 3 anal swabs for real-time testing of high-risk (hr) HPV over 90 minutes. Patients with a positive hrHPV test on their cervical swab undergo colposcopy and biopsies of visible lesions. Patients with a negative hrHPV test on their cervical swab may undergo a colposcopy. Patients with a positive hrHPV test on their anal swab undergo high-resolution anoscopy at a later visit within 1 month. Patients with a negative hrHPV on their anal swabs may undergo a high-resolution anoscopy and biopsies of visible lesions, and those with a positive anal cytology for low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (LSIL) or worse undergo a high-resolution anoscopy and biopsies within 1 month. Patients may be given a diagnosis and treatment at the second visit. Patients diagnosed with HSIL may undergo standard of care (SOC) treatment or enroll in additional studies when they are open to accrual.

GROUP II (MEN LIVING WITH HIV (MLWH)): Patients undergo collection of 3 anal swabs for real-time testing of high-risk HPV over 90 minutes. Patients with a positive hrHPV test undergo high-resolution anoscopy with biopsies of visible lesions. Patients with hrHPV negative test may undergo high-resolution anoscopy. Patients may be given a diagnosis and treatment at the second visit. Patients diagnosed with HSIL may undergo SOC treatment or enroll in additional studies when they are open to accrual.