Extended Follow Up of Young Women in Costa Rica Who Received Vaccine for Human Papillomavirus Types 16 and 18 and Unvaccinated Controls
This research trial studies extended follow up of young women in Costa Rica who received vaccine for human papillomavirus types 16 and 18 and unvaccinated controls. Collecting information from young women in Costa Rica who have received vaccine for human papillomavirus types 16 and 18 and a new group of unvaccinated controls enrolled for the follow-up period, may help doctors learn more about the risks and benefits of prophylactic human papillomavirus vaccine.
Anal Carcinoma|Cervical Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus Infection|Human Papillomavirus-Related Cervical Carcinoma|Oral Cavity Carcinoma
OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Long-term Follow-up|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Cumulative rate of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 3 (CIN3), Both absolute rate differences and percent reduction in rates will be evaluated., At 10 years|Level of immune response markers as prediction of long-term success of HPV vaccine, For efficiency, a nested case-control approach is envisioned to evaluate this question. We propose to compare women who become infected against a subset of those who do not (non-failures) with respect to immune response markers of interest., Up to 10 years|Increase in the rate of cervical lesions associated with other carcinogenic HPV types that the vaccine does not protect against from prevention of HPV-16/18 associated cervical lesions through vaccination, The 10-year cumulative rate of incident CIN2+ associated with HPV types other than HPV-16/18 and closely related HPV types in the alpha-7/9 species for which evidence of vaccine cross-protection is demonstrated will be compared between vaccinated and unvaccinated women., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the 10-year global impact of human papillomavirus (HPV)-16/18 vaccination of young adult women.

II. To evaluate determinants of the immune response to HPV and the vaccine, and markers of long-term protection.

III. To evaluate the natural history of HPV and cervical disease in vaccinated and unvaccinated populations.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo long term follow-up comprising risk factor questionnaire, pelvic examination for all sexually experienced women, and specimen collection at years 6, 8, and 10.