Feasibility of Home-based Preoperative Exercise in Older People
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the feasibility of recruitment procedure, intervention including compliance and the collaboration between in- and out patient clinics of preoperative home-based exercise in older people before colorectal surgery.
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: Exercise
Recruitment Rate, The recruitment rate is calculated by the number of participants allocated to either the exercise group or control group from the total number of eligible participants (n=66)., Baseline|Exercise Compliance, Compliance with the exercise intervention was defined as the number of sessions attended out of planned sessions and was registered in the exercise logs by the physiotherapists in primary care. Only participants randomized to the exercise group were evaluated for this assessment., At the end of the intervention, after 2-4 weeks|Acceptability, Patients and instructors satisfaction with the intervention measured with a survey. Instructors were not enrolled. Only participants randomized to the exercise group were evaluated for this assessment., At the end of the intervention, after 2-4 weeks|Adverse Events, Musculoskeletal-related events, cardiovascular episodes, falls and health care use that occurred during the exercise intervention before (pre)-surgery. Adverse events are only reported for the intervention group since the control group were a treatment as usual (TAU) group., During the intervention, after 1-4 weeks
Six-minute Walk, Meters completed, effort estimated, Baseline, before surgery (after 2-4 weeks), before discharge app 4-10 days after surgery|Inspiratory Muscle Strength, Inspiratory muscle strength measured with MicroRPM., Baseline, before surgery (after 2-4 weeks), before discharge app 4-10 days after surgery|Chair-stand 30-sec, Number of stands during 30 sec., Baseline, before surgery (after 2-4 weeks), before discharge app 4-10 days after surgery|Walking Speed, Normal walking speed was measured over 10 meters., Baseline, before surgery (after 2-4 weeks), before discharge app 4-10 days after surgery|Postoperative Complications, Clavien-Dindo, number of participants with at least one postoperative complication., Within the first 30 days of surgery|Length of Stay, Number of days admitted to the hospital, At discharge, 2-4 weeks after baseline
The feasibility study will be conducted in order to evaluate the study design of a future RCT. Feasibility data will eg. consist of study flow description, number of eligible participants, included participants, patients and instructors satisfaction with the intervention, training compliance, reasons for drop-outs, and adverse events.

Patients waiting for colorectal surgery will be recruited and included after informed consent. Physical and respiratory function will be assessed at the hospital before the intervention, the day before surgery and the day before discharge. Data on postoperative complications, length of stay and mortality will be collected during the hospital stay. At baseline and six months after surgery, the participants will receive three questionnaires about level of independence in daily living, physical activity and health related quality of life. The intervention will be performed in the older person's home and consists of a combination of high-intensity respiratory training and individually adjusted functional exercise. Both groups will receive physical activity advice and malnutrition will be screened to optimize their nutritional status.