Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA) in Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is a blood-based test that measures dying or dead cancer cells that are already circulating in the blood. In this study, the investigators will enroll patients who are planning to receive surgery to remove their head and neck cancer. The investigators are interested to learn how ctDNA levels change with surgery and over the course of time. The investigators also want to determine if there are certain features of the tumor or the patient themselves that might cause ctDNA to be higher than other patients. Also, the investigators want to explore if the detection of ctDNA following surgery is related to cancer recurrence.
Head and Neck Neoplasm|Carcinoma, Squamous Cell
OTHER: Blood and tumor samples
Rate of tumor-specific mutation in pre-operative circulating tumor DNA of patients with locally-advanced HNSCC who are receiving surgery for treatment of their primary tumor, Time of consent
Rate of tumor-specific mutation in post-operative circulating tumor DNA in patients with locally-advanced HNSCC who received surgery for treatment of their primary tumor, Post-surgery/pre-treatment, post-surgery/post-treatment (approximately 6 weeks following initiation of treatment and every 3 months up to 2 years), and at disease recurrence if applicable (up to 5 years)|Change in ctDNA levels (i.e., copies per mL plasma) over time, Time of consent, post-operatively (approximately 1-4 weeks after surgery), post-adjuvant treatment (approximately 6 weeks following initiation of treatment) and follow-up (every 3 months up to 2 years)/recurrence if applicable (up to 5 years)|Description of tumor-specific mutations in surgical specimens by NGS, Surgery and post-treatment biopsy/recurrence if applicable(up to 5 years)|Correlation between post-operative plasma ctDNA levels and surgical margins, Post-operatively (approximately 1-4 weeks after surgery)|Correlation between post-operative plasma ctDNA levels and extra-capsular extension, Post-operatively (approximately 1-4 weeks after surgery)
The investigators will take a piece of the tumor from the surgery and determine if they can identify mutations, or changes in the genetic makeup of the cells due to cancer, that are specific to the tumor. Based on this information, the investigators will design a test using PCR, which is a technology that allows for the amplification of the DNA, that is specific to the mutation identified in the tumor. Once verified, the presence (or absence) of ctDNA in the blood can be measured. The investigators will measure this blood test prior to surgery and at multiple time points following surgery. Specimens will be collected at the time of planned clinical assessments.