Web-based Screening and Tailored Support
The ever expanding breast cancer survivor population urges the health care system to develop (cost-)effective screening and management of convalescent care needs that can be easily implemented in conventional follow-up care. Internet-delivered systems may be well-equipped to meet these demands. The aim of the current study is to assess the effectiveness of a web-based support system. Key features of this system are patient self-screening of physical and psychosocial problems, tailored patient education on reported problems and self-referral to professional care. In this era of high internet usage, we expect that internet is a highly suitable medium to provide tailored support for breast cancer patients and will empower the patient to take control over their convalescence.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Web-based screening and tailored support
Change from 6 to 12 weeks follow-up in optimism and control over the future, Patients' optimism and control over the future will be measured by the subscale 'increased optimism and control over the future' of the 'Constructs Empowering Outcomes Questionnaire'. The subscale 'optimism and control over the future' represents a single concept/outcome measure. The concept cannot be assessed at baseline due to the retrospective nature of the questionnaire., 6 and 12 weeks
Change from 6 to 12 weeks follow-up in knowledge level, Patient knowledge level will be measured by the subscale 'being better informed' of the 'Constructs Empowering Outcomes Questionnaire'. The concept cannot be assessed at baseline due to the retrospective nature of the questionnaire., 6 and 12 weeks|Change from 6 weeks to 12 weeks follow-up in acceptance of problems, Patients' acceptance of their problems will be measured by the subscale 'improved acceptance of the illness' of the 'Constructs Empowering Outcomes Questionnaire'. The concept cannot be assessed at baseline due to the retrospective nature of the questionnaire., 6 and 12 weeks|Change from baseline to 12 weeks follow-up in quality of life, Cancer-specific quality of life will be measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3.0) questionnaire., Baseline and 12 weeks follow-up|Change from baseline to 12 weeks follow-up in psychological distress, Psychological distress will be measured by the Dutch Distress Thermometer and Problem List., Baseline and 12 weeks follow-up
The ever expanding breast cancer survivor population urges the health care system to develop (cost-)effective screening and management of convalescent care needs that can be easily implemented in conventional follow-up care. Internet-delivered systems may be well-equipped to meet these demands. The aim of the current study is to assess the effectiveness of a web-based support system. Key features of this system are patient self-screening of physical and psychosocial problems, tailored patient education on reported problems and self-referral to professional care. In this era of high internet usage, we expect that internet is a highly suitable medium to provide tailored support for breast cancer patients and will empower the patient to take control over their convalescence.