Validation of BD Onclarity™ HPV Assay With PreservCyt® -ASCUS Samples
The purpose of the study is to compare the results of the Becton Dickinson (BD) Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Assay on the Viper LT instrument from Liquid-based cytology media diluted in HPV diluent to adjudicated histology results from biopsy.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Colposcopy/biopsy
Sensitivity, Sensitivity of the BD HPV Assay for the detection of cervical disease as defined by Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN). Sensitivity is calculated: Number of subjects with a positive BD HPV test with adjudicated histology results of CIN2 or greater divided by the total number of subjects with adjudicated histology results of CIN2 or greater. Similar for CIN3 or greater., 18 months|Specificity, Specificity of the BD HPV Assay for detecting cervical disease as defined by Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN). Specificity is calculated: Number of subjects with a negative BD HPV test with adjudicated histology results of less than CIN2 divided by the total number of subjects with adjudicated histology results of less than CIN2. Similar for CIN3 or greater., 18 months|PositivePredictive Value, Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of the BD HPV Assay for detecting cervical disease as defined by Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN). Positive Predictive Value is calculated: Number of subjects with a positive result for the BD HPV test and adjudicated histology results of CIN2 or greater divided by the total number of subjects with positive result for the BD HPV test. Similar for CIN3 or greater., 18 months|Negative Predictive Value, Negative Predictive Value (NPV) of the BD HPV Assay for detecting cervical disease as defined by Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN). Negative Predictive Value is calculated: Number of subjects with a negative result for the BD HPV test and histology results less than CIN2 divided by the total number of subjects with negative results for the BD HPV test. Similar for CIN3 or greater., 18 Months|Likelyhood ratio, Likelihood ratio for the detection of cervical disease as defined by cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). The likelihood ratio for each BD HPV test outcome summarizes how many times more (or less) likely subjects with the disease (e.g. CIN2 or greater and CIN3 or greater) are to have that particular HPV test outcome than subjects without the disease., 18 months|Absolute Risk, Absolute risk for the detection of cervical disease as defined by cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). The Absolute Risk (AR) of the disease(e.g., CIN2 or greater and CIN3 or greater) for each BD HPV test outcome is the probability of the disease for that particular BD HPV test outcome., 18 Months|Relative Risk, Relative Risk of the detection of cervical disease as defined by cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). Relative Risk is the ratio between two different absolute risks. The relative risk of having a disease (e.g., CIN2 or greater and CIN3 or greater), will be evaluated to compare two different BD HPV Assay test outcomes., 18 Months|Positive Percent Agreement, Positive percent agreement of the BD HPV Assay as compared to a composite HPV comparator incorporating results for the Digene Hybrid Capture 2 (HC2) HPV test and PCR/Sequencing on both strands of the PCR amplicon (bidirectional sequencing). Positive percent agreement is calculated: Number of subjects with a positive BD HPV test with composite comparator positive divided by the total number of subjects with composite comparator positive., 18 Months|Negative PercentAgreement, Negative percent agreement of the BD HPV Assay as compared to a composite HPV comparator incorporating results for the Digene HC2 HPV test and Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)/Sequencing on both strands of the PCR amplicon (bidirectional sequencing). Negative percent agreement is calculated: Number of subjects with a negative BD HPV test with composite comparator negative divided by the total number of subjects with composite comparator negative., 18 months|Non reportable rate, .Non-reportable rate of BD HPV test. Non-reportable rate is calculated as the number of non-reportable BD HPV test results divided by the total number of BD HPV test results, 18 months
The purpose of the study is to compare the results of the Becton Dickinson (BD) Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Assay on the Viper LT instrument from Liquid-based cytology media diluted in HPV diluent to adjudicated histology results from biopsy.