Bevacizumab With or Without Interferon Alfa in Treating Patients With Metastatic Malignant Melanoma
This randomized phase II trial is studying giving bevacizumab together with interferon alpha to see how well it works compared to giving bevacizumab alone in treating patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them. Interferon alpha may interfere with the growth of the cancer cells and slow the growth of the tumor. Combining bevacizumab with interferon alpha may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Skin Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Interferon Alfa|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab
Objective Response Rate, Measured from the time measurement criteria are met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented. Evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Defined as the time from treatment start date until documentation of progressive disease. Evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the RECIST Committee. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Up to 2 years
Comparison of Plasma Levels of VEGF Following Administration of Bevacizumab Alone or in Combination With IFN-alfa, Analyzed by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA).VEGF only analyzed at baseline., At baseline|New Vessel Formation in Patient Tumor Samples, Evaluated using immunohistochemistry., Up to 2 years
Toxicity, Evaluated using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria version 2.0., Continuously from the start of treatment to the end of study
OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the objective response rate and progression-free survival in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma treated with bevacizumab with or without low- or high-dose interferon alpha.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive low-dose interferon alpha (IFN-alpha) subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-14.

ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab as in arm I.

ARM III: Patients receive bevacizumab as in arm I. Patients also receive high-dose IFN-alpha SC on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, and 12. In all arms, treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo restaging at the completion of course 12. Patients with stable disease or a clinical response may continue treatment according to their assigned treatment arm for up to 1 year. Patients with stable disease after 1 year of treatment with bevacizumab and IFN-alpha (arms I and III) may continue to receive bevacizumab alone every 21 days (as in arm II) in the absence of disease progression.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years.