Personalized Cellular Vaccine for Recurrent Glioblastoma (PERCELLVAC2)
The treatment option for recurrent glioblastoma is limited. Immune cell based therapy for glioblastoma has shown some efficacy. This study is designed to perform a personalized clinical trial by first analyzing the expression of tumor associated antigens in patients with recurrent glioblastoma and then immunizing the patients with personalized antigen pulsed DCs. Immune responses to the immunized antigens will be monitored. Safety and efficacy will be observed in this study.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Personalized cellular vaccine
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events and severe adverse events (safety and tolerability), Incidence of adverse events and severe adverse events to measure safety and tolerability of mRNA-TAA pulsed autologous DC, allogeneic PBMCs and autologous tumor cellular vaccines., 3 years since the beginning of the first vaccine
Antitumor antigen specific T cell response, The frequency of the peripheral CD8+ and CD4+ T cell response to the vaccine will be measured., 4 weeks after the last vaccine|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival will be monitored for 1 year., 12 months since the beginning of the first vaccine|Overall survival, Overall survival will be monitored for 3 years., 3 years since the beginning of the first vaccine
This is an open label, single-arm, single-institution, Phase I study designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of personalized cellular vaccines for patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). Recurrent GBM patients will undergo tumor resection. The tumors will be analyzed for the expression of a panel of glioma-associated antigens and immune-related genes. Patients will undergo leukapheresis to collect mononuclear cells for DC generation. Based on the expression profiles of tumor-associated antigens, in vitro transcribed mRNA will be generated to pulse autologous DCs. Patients will be conditioned with immune adjuvants before and during immunization. Patients will receive biweekly vaccines. The antitumor specific T cell responses will be measured. Safety and efficacy will be monitored. The objective is to assess the safety of the personalized cellular vaccines and T cell responses. The efficacy of the vaccines will be evaluated using iRANO criteria, progression-free survival and overall survival.