Infective Complications in TP Biopsy Without Antibiotic Prophylaxis
This study is a prospective cohort study to delineate the infective outcomes and incidence after transperineal prostate biopsy with no antibiotic prophylaxis, compared to the existing data on outcomes on patients receiving transperineal prostate biopsy with antibiotic prophylaxis.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Transperineal Biopsy without antibiotics prophylaxis|PROCEDURE: Transperineal Biopsy with antibiotics prophylaxis
The difference in UTI hospitalization rate between the two groups after biopsy, UTI hospitalization rate is defined symptomology requiring admission to an in-patient facility, Within 14 days of biopsy|The difference in urosepsis rates between the two groups after biopsy, Urosepsis is defined as sepsis of likely urological source either based on symptomology or bacteriology., Within 14 days of biopsy
Post-biopsy UTI rates between the two groups, The result of clean catch mid-stream urine for culture, At post-biopsy Day 14|Assessment of bacteriology and antibiotic resistant profile between the two groups, The bacteriology and antibiotic resistant profile are assessed by clean-catch urine culture., At post-biopsy Day 14
All consecutive patients receiving transperineal prostate biopsy in the PWH will be recruited to the exposure cohort after informed consent. Antibiotic prophylaxis will not be given for patients in the exposure group. All patients will undergo transperineal prostate biopsy in the usual manner and technique, under the Ginsburg protocol. Systematic and MRI-TRUS fusion for systematic plus targeted biopsy will be performed based on the usual clinical indications, depending on the clinical need. Follow-up data will be collected, with particular interest on the assessment of infective complications.

Prospectively collected data will also be retrieved from the electronic patient record (ePR) under the Hospital Authority, to assess relevant information on infective complications for patients who received transperineal prostate biopsy in PWH and NDH from 2019 to 2023. These patients received antibiotic prophylaxis prior to their biopsies, and eligible patients will be included as the control cohort for comparison. Propensity score matching will be utilized in order to create a control group that is similar to the exposure group with balanced baseline. Statistical analysis will be performed on the retrieve data.