Comparison of Surgical Approach to Endoscopic Pituitary Adenoma Resection
The purpose of this study is to determine if there is a significant difference in sinonasal disease specific quality of life and utility scores between patients undergoing the posterior septectomy or Stamm approach during endoscopic pituitary adenoma resection.
Pituitary Adenoma|Posterior Septectomy|Stamm Approach|Quality of Life
PROCEDURE: Stamm Approach|PROCEDURE: Posterior Septectomy
Change in Quality of Life, To determine the change in quality of life scores between the two groups at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months using the anterior skull base nasal inventory questionnaire, the SinoNasal outcome test-22 questionnaire and the EQ-5D questionnaire., Pre-operative and Post-operative (2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months)
Change in Symptom Score, To determine the change in symptom score between the two groups at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months using the VAS Nasal Symptom score., Pre-operative and Post-operative (2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months)|Change in Utility Score, To determine the change in utility score between the two groups at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months., Pre-operative and Post-operative (2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months)|Change in Endoscopic Sinus Score, To determine the change in endoscopic sinus score between the two groups at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months using the endoscopic grading - Using both the Lund-Kennedy and POSE endoscopic scoring system., Pre-operative and Post-operative (2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months)|Change in Olfaction, To determine the change in olfaction between the two groups at 6 months using the Smell Identification Test (SIT)., Pre-operative and Post-operative (6 months)
Pituitary adenoma's represent 10 to 25% of all central nervous system (CNS) neoplasms and have an estimated population prevalence of 94 per 100,000. Asymptomatic adenomas go largely undetected since there is no screening protocol implemented with the purpose for early identification. Asymptomatic adenomas can be detected incidentally on CNS imaging for other indications in approximately 10% of studies and rarely require surgical intervention. In 2011, the Endocrine Society published practice guidelines on the management of pituitary incidentalomas and provided the surgical indications. Incidental microadenoma's (\< 10 mm) rarely need surgical intervention, however, incidental macroadenoma's (\> 10 mm) often required surgical resection due to the proximity of the optic nerves and chiasm.

Most symptomatic pituitary adenomas require transnasal transsphenoid surgical resection. Due to the potential for hormone secretion and location to vital structures such as the optic chiasm/nerves, carotid artery, and cavernous sinus, management of symptomatic pituitary adenomas often require a multi-disciplinary team involving neurosurgery, otolaryngology, neuroophthalmology, and endocrinology. Traditionally the microscope was used for visualization during pituitary tumor surgery, however with recent technologic advances, the endoscopic approach has largely replaced the microscopic approach. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis compared the microscopic and endoscopic approaches and have demonstrated that the endoscopic approach results in a significant reduction in the rate of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) leak, improved tumor resection, improved patient comfort, and reduced hospital length of stay. Furthermore, the endoscopic approach appears to provide an overall cost savings compared to the microscopic approach.

Several recent studies have demonstrated that the endoscopic approach for pituitary adenoma resection results in improved disease-specific quality of life (QoL) and general QoL. All studies have utilized the posterior septectomy approach which involves removing the posterior nasal septum to create a common posterior nasal cavity. The open posterior nasal cavity provides excellent surgical access to the sphenoid sinus and pituitary gland. Disadvantages of the posterior septectomy approach include the permanent posterior septal perforation which may predispose to postoperative crusting and epistaxis. A recent article by Stamm et al. described a novel endoscopic approach whereby the posterior septal mucosa is preserved while still providing excellent access to the sphenoid. The primary advantage of this approach is preventing a posterior septal defect, however disadvantages include being a more challenging technique and the potential for reduced surgical visualization. Furthermore, there is still a risk of a septal perforation due to intraoperative trauma and significant postoperative crusting which often develops along the surface of the healing septal mucosa. Both endoscopic approaches have inherent advantages and disadvantages and there has been no study comparing these approaches. Surgeons performing endoscopic pituitary tumor resections utilize both approaches and neither is considered the standard of care.

The purpose of this randomized, single-blinded study is to determine the clinical outcomes between the posterior septectomy and Stamm approach for endoscopic pituitary adenoma resection. We hypothesize that there will be no difference in disease-specific QoL and general QoL between the two surgical approaches.