Omega-3 Fatty Acid in Treating Patients With Stage I-III Breast Cancer
This phase II clinical trial studies how well omega-3 fatty acid works in treating patients with stage I-III breast cancer. Studying samples of tissue and blood in the laboratory from breast cancer patients receiving omega-3 fatty acid may help doctors learn more about the effects of omega-3 fatty acid on tumor cells.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Lobular Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Male Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
DRUG: omega-3 fatty acid|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
PUFA Levels in Normal and Metastatic Breast Tissue, Analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to assess the effect of omega-3 dietary supplementation on PUFA levels separately in normal and malignant breast tissue. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to assess the omega-3 effect in plasma and red blood cells (RBC), where the baseline levels of the PUFAs will be included as covariates. PUFA Levels analyzed were 18:2 n-6, 18:3 n-3, 20:2 n-6, 20:4 n-6, 20:3 n-3, 20:5 n-3, 22:6 n-3, At time of surgery|PUFA Levels in Plasma Pre and Post Surgery, Analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to assess the effect of omega-3 dietary supplementation on PUFA levels separately in normal and malignant breast tissue. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to assess the omega-3 effect in plasma and red blood cells (RBC), where the baseline levels of the PUFAs will be included as covariates. PUFA Levels analyzed were 18:2 n-6, 18:3 n-3, 20:2 n-6, 20:4 n-6, 20:3 n-3, 20:5 n-3, 22:6 n-3, Pre and post surgery|PUFA Levels in Red Blood Cells Pre and Post Surgery, Analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to assess the effect of omega-3 dietary supplementation on PUFA levels separately in normal and malignant breast tissue. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to assess the omega-3 effect in plasma and red blood cells (RBC), where the baseline levels of the PUFAs will be included as covariates. PUFA Levels analyzed were 18:2 n-6, 18:3 n-3, 20:2 n-6, 20:4 n-6, 20:3 n-3, 20:5 n-3, 22:6 n-3, Pre and post surgery
Metabolites of Omega-3 and Omega-6 PUFA in Malignant and Normal Breast Tissue, ANOVA will be used to assess the effect in normal and malignant breast tissue. Metabolites tested: PGE2, PGD2, 20-HETE, 5-HEPE, 13-HODE, 9-HODE, 15-HETE, 12-HETE, 5-HETE., At time of surgery|Number of Days to Establish Difference in Proliferation in Malignant Breast Tissue, ANOVA will be used to assess the effect of the supplementation in malignant breast tissue with less proliferation in malignant breast tissue in comparison to women who took the placebo., At time of surgery|Number of Days to Establish Increased Apoptosis in Malignant Breast Tissue, ANOVA will be used to assess the effect of the supplementation in malignant breast tissue with greater apoptosis in malignant breast tissue in comparison to women who took the placebo., At time of surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if omega-3 dietary supplementation (omega-3 fatty acid) results in higher polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) levels in surgical specimens of normal and malignant breast tissue in women who took omega 3 tablets in comparison to those who took placebo.

II. To determine if omega-3 dietary supplementation results in higher PUFA levels in plasma and red blood cells in women who took omega 3 tablets in comparison to those who took placebo.

III. To determine if omega-3 dietary supplementation affects the metabolites of omega-3 and omega-6 PUFA in surgical specimens of malignant and normal breast tissue in comparison to controls.

IV. To determine if women who take omega-3 dietary supplementation have less proliferation and greater apoptosis in malignant breast tissue in comparison to women who take placebo.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive omega-3 fatty acid orally (PO) daily for 7-14 days.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO daily for 7-14 days.