Bortezomib and Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma or Recurrent and/or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well bortezomib and vorinostat work in treating patients with recurrent mantle cell lymphoma or recurrent and/or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Bortezomib and vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Bortezomib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Vorinostat
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR: Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) assessed according to the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma., Up to 9 years
Best Response, Number of participants per category: Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progressive Disease (PD). PR: Regression of measurable disease and no new sites. SD: Failure to attain Complete Response (CR), /PR or PD. Relapsed or Progressive Disease: Any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir., Up to 9 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Median progression-free survival in months per cohort., Up to 9 years|Duration of Partial Response, Median duration of response per cohort., Up to 9 years|Duration of Stable Disease, Median duration of stable disease per cohort., Up to 9 years
This was a multicenter, non-randomized phase 2 trial using a Simon two-stage design with 3 cohorts.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the response rates of mantle cell and diffuse large B-cell lymphomas to bortezomib and vorinostat combination therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of the study regimen. II. Observe progression-free survival and response durations. III. Observe the relationship between pretreatment lymphoma cell nuclear v-rel reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog A (relA) and response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 and 8-12. Patients also receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.