The Effect of Dimenhydrinate on Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting After Abdominal Hysterectomy: Randomized-controlled Trial
The aim of this clinical trial is to learn if Dimenhydrinate works to prevent postoperative nausea-vomiting in adult women who undergoing abdominal hysterectomy. The primary question is: Does Dimenhydrinate lower the proportion of postoperative nauseavomiting during the day 1 after surgery. Researcher will compare Dimenhydrinate to a placebo (a-look-alike substance that contains no drug) which will give intravenously when the patient come back to the ward, to see if Dimenhydrinate work to prevent nauseavomiting during the postoperative day1. All participants will receive standard treatment during pre-operative, intra-operative and the immediate post-operative periods. Participants will receive Dimenhydrinate or placebo only one dose after discharge from the recovery room. During the day 1 postoperative, participants will report their symptoms and keep a diary of the number of tmes they use additional anti-emetic drugs.
Gynecologic Neoplasm|Healthy Women
DRUG: Dimenhydrinate
occurrence and times of nausea vomiting, at ward, 6, 12, 24 hr postoperation
The aim of this clinical trial is to learn if Dimenhydrinate works to prevent postoperative nausea-vomiting in adult women who undergoing abdominal hysterectomy. The primary question is: Does Dimenhydrinate lower the proportion of postoperative nauseavomiting during the day 1 after surgery. Researcher will compare Dimenhydrinate to a placebo (a-look-alike substance that contains no drug) which will give intravenously when the patient come back to the ward, to see if Dimenhydrinate work to prevent nauseavomiting during the postoperative day1. All participants will receive standard treatment during pre-operative, intra-operative and the immediate post-operative periods. Participants will receive Dimenhydrinate or placebo only one dose after discharge from the recovery room. During the day 1 postoperative, participants will report their symptoms and keep a diary of the number of tmes they use additional anti-emetic drugs.