Third-Party Natural Killer Cells and Mogamulizumab for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Cutaneous T-cell Lymphomas or Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma
This phase I trial is to find out the best dose, possible benefits and/or side effects of third-party natural killer cells in combination with mogamulizumab in treating patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma or adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Immunotherapy with third-party natural killer cells, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Mogamulizumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving third-party natural killer cells in combination with mogamulizumab may kill more cancer cells.
Recurrent Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Mogamulizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Natural Killer Cell Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities will be captured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. The incidence of severe adverse events or toxicities will be described. Will assess the proportion of patients who experience grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity., Up to day 84
Overall response rate (ORR), Will be summarized in a descriptive manner. The ORR will be calculated as the proportion of patients who achieve complete response /partial response, and provided with 95% confidence interval., Up to 4 months|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From start of study treatment (from the first dose mogamulizumab [moga]) to first documentation of tumor progression (including radiographic and clinical progression) or to death due to any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time will be censored at the last date the patient is known to be alive, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years|Natural Killer (NK)-cell numerical expansion in vivo, Peripheral blood will be obtained before therapy, during the NK cell treatment period (day +42), after NK cell treatment (day +84), and at the time of progression. Donor NK-cell expansion will be defined as an absolute circulating donor-derived NK cell count that increases above the post-infusion level. Standard chimerism methods will be employed to determine origin and number of circulating NK cells., Baseline to day 84|Analysis of cytokine levels, Peripheral blood will be obtained before therapy, during the NK cell treatment period (day +42), after NK cell treatment (day +84), and at the time of relapse. Cytokine levels will be reported as absolute values and will be correlated with response to treatment and skindex-16 scores., Baseline to day 84|Quality of life analysis, Skindex-16 questionnaires will be obtained before therapy, during the NK cell treatment period (day +42), and after NK cell treatment (day +84, and every 2 months while on moga treatment). Skindex will be reported as total and specific domain scores, and described using graphical manners to show the pattern of change over treatment course., Baseline to day 84
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine safety, tolerability, and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of IL-21 expanded, off the shelf, third-party natural killer (NK) cells and mogamulizumab in patients with relapsed/refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in same patient population treated with IL-21 expanded, off the shelf, third-party NK cells and mogamulizumab.

II. To determine impact of treatment on quality of life (QOL) by skindex-16 score.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To study CCR4 expression in lymphoma cells. II. To study serum cytokine levels. III. To study trafficking of third-party NK cells to skin and tissues. IV. To study the persistence of IL-21 expanded, off the shelf, third-party NK cells by chimerism studies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of natural killer cells.

Patients receive mogamulizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day -7 and fludarabine IV and cyclophosphamide IV on days -5 to -3. Patients receive NK cell infusion every 2 weeks for six infusions total starting on day 0. Patients then receive mogamulizumab IV over 60 minutes on days 0, 7, 14, and 28, then every 2 weeks thereafter in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28-35 days and then every 3 months for 2 years.