Multicentre Study Comparing Indwelling Pleural Catheter With Talc Pleurodesis for Malignant Pleural Effusion Management
Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) accounts for 50% of all pleural effusions and affects about 300,000 patients annually (UK and USA). Lung and breast cancers account for majority of malignant pleural effusions; 1 in 3 breast cancer, 1 in 4 lung cancer as well as \> 90% of patients with mesothelioma develop pleural effusions. Breathlessness from MPE is disabling and impairs quality of life. Median survival ranges between 4-6 months. Although thoracentesis provides effective symptom relief, most effusions recur and pleurodesis is the standard of care. Pleurodesis can be performed via chest tube or applied during pleuroscopy, and talc is the most effective agent. For successful pleurodesis to occur the underlying lung must expand after fluid drainage and trapped lung due to metastatic disease occurs up to 30%. Symptomatic patients require hospitalization for these procedures which are likely to fail if trapped lungs are encountered, and pose significant burden to health services. Tunneled indwelling pleural catheter (IPC) is emerging as a viable alternative which provides access to the pleural space for fluid drainage when breathlessness arise. IPC can be performed at ambulatory setting without hospital admission. Case series have demonstrated long-term safety of IPC even in patients undergoing chemotherapy with acceptable complication rates. By keeping the pleural cavity free of fluid, IPC has led to spontaneous pleurodesis in 50% of patients, which allows its removal. Presently IPC is indicated for trapped lung or when talc pleurodesis has failed. A randomised comparative trial with talc pleurodesis is necessary to determine role of IPC as first-line therapy of MPE, if IPC leads to reduction in hospitalizations, adverse events and healthcare costs, and if it improves quality of life. The multicenter trial randomizes symptomatic patients 1:1 to IPC or talc pleurodesis, and endpoints include hospitalization days till death or end of study, adverse events, quality of life, and healthcare costs.
Pleural Effusion, Malignant
DEVICE: Indwelling Pleural Catheter|PROCEDURE: Talc Pleurodesis
Number of hospital days for all causes following intervention, Up to 1 year
Number of hospital days computed for pleural effusion related cause, Up to 1 year|Number of adverse events, Up to 1 year|Breathlessness score, Up to 1 year|Self-reported quality of life scores, Up to 1 year|Health costs computation, Up to 1 year
Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) accounts for 50% of all pleural effusions and affects about 300,000 patients annually (UK and USA). Lung and breast cancers account for majority of malignant pleural effusions; 1 in 3 breast cancer, 1 in 4 lung cancer as well as \> 90% of patients with mesothelioma develop pleural effusions. Breathlessness from MPE is disabling and impairs quality of life. Median survival ranges between 4-6 months. Although thoracentesis provides effective symptom relief, most effusions recur and pleurodesis is the standard of care. Pleurodesis can be performed via chest tube or applied during pleuroscopy, and talc is the most effective agent. For successful pleurodesis to occur the underlying lung must expand after fluid drainage and trapped lung due to metastatic disease occurs up to 30%. Symptomatic patients require hospitalization for these procedures which are likely to fail if trapped lungs are encountered, and pose significant burden to health services. Tunneled indwelling pleural catheter (IPC) is emerging as a viable alternative which provides access to the pleural space for fluid drainage when breathlessness arise. IPC can be performed at ambulatory setting without hospital admission. Case series have demonstrated long-term safety of IPC even in patients undergoing chemotherapy with acceptable complication rates. By keeping the pleural cavity free of fluid, IPC has led to spontaneous pleurodesis in 50% of patients, which allows its removal. Presently IPC is indicated for trapped lung or when talc pleurodesis has failed. A randomised comparative trial with talc pleurodesis is necessary to determine role of IPC as first-line therapy of MPE, if IPC leads to reduction in hospitalizations, adverse events and healthcare costs, and if it improves quality of life. The multicenter trial randomizes symptomatic patients 1:1 to IPC or talc pleurodesis, and endpoints include hospitalization days till death or end of study, adverse events, quality of life, and healthcare costs.