Awareness Based Stress Reduction Program Applied to Breast Cancer Patients Receiving Chemotherapy
Implementation of awareness-based stress reduction program in breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy and examining its effects on psychological resilience, symptom management and quality of life.
Breast Cancer Patients Receiving Chemotherapy
OTHER: Mindfulness: Awareness-Based Stress Reduction Program
ESTO SYMPTOM DIAGNOSIS SCALE, The scale includes problems such as pain, fatigue, nausea, sadness, anxiety, insomnia, loss of appetite, feeling of well-being and shortness of breath. The severity of each symptom is evaluated with numerical scores from 0 to 10. The most important rule in evaluating the symptom is that the patient marks the number indicating the severity of the symptom according to his/her own statement. The patient is asked to match the symptoms he/she experiences with a number between 0-10 that he/she thinks best fits him/her. A score of 0 on the scale indicates that there is no symptom, while a score of 10 indicates that the symptom is experienced very severely., At the end of Sessions 16 ( each Session 1 days a week)|EORTC QLQ-C 30 Quality of Life Scale, It consists of 30 questions with three subscales: general well-being (questions 29, 30), functional difficulties (questions 1-7, 20-27) and symptom control (questions 8-19 and 28). The first 28 items in the scale are four-point Likert. Not at all: 1, A little: 2, Quite a bit: 3, A lot: 4 points. These items are questions regarding symptoms and functional domain. Low scores on these items indicate high quality of life, while high scores indicate low quality of life., At the end of Sessions 16 ( each Session 1 days a week)|Brief Psychological Resilience Scale, It is a 5-point Likert type, 6-item, self-report measurement tool. It has an answer key of "Not at all appropriate" (1), "Not Applicable" (2), "Somewhat Appropriate" (3), "Appropriate" (4), "Completely Appropriate". Items 2, 4, and 6 in the scale are reverse coded. High scores obtained after translating the reverse coded items indicate a high level of psychological resilience., At the end of Sessions 16 ( each Session 1 days a week)
The conscious awareness-based stress reduction program is a program that lasts eight weeks, each session lasting 2-2.5 hours and including a 6-hour silence day. In order to apply the mindfulness stress reduction program to the experimental group, the 'Conscious Awareness Stress Reduction Program day and time were determined for 30 breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy who met the inclusion criteria and were sampled. It was applied to the patients in the experimental group, once a week for 150 minutes, lasting 8 weeks, and consisting of 8 times in total. Then, an intermediate test was applied to the patients. After the interim test, patients were asked to repeat the It applications individually for 8 weeks (between weeks 8-16). In addition, after It was applied to the patients in the experimental group by the researcher, the 'Conscious Awareness Stress Reduction Program booklet prepared by the researcher was given to the patients in order to provide a guide for the patients in the experimental group. During the implementation of the research, no intervention was applied to the control group.