Diffusion MRI; Predictive Value for Cervical Uterine Cancer Recurrence
Uterine cervical cancer is the second most common female malignancy. Therapy monitoring is essential to detect early recurrence. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging is an emerging MRI imaging technique which has a potential value for the detection of primary and recurrent disease and for the assessment of response to therapy. The purpose of this project is to evaluate the predictive value of DWI during and after therapy in the prediction of recurrence of cervical uterine cancer. It will be considered whether DWI is able to provide early information about the response to therapy. This could enable the identification of less- or non-responsive tumors and in this way therapy can be adapted as soon as possible. Hence the investigators could offer the patient a more efficient treatment scheme and a reduction in toxicity related to the treatment could be established.
Uterine Cervical Cancer|Diffusion-weighted MRI|Recurrence
PROCEDURE: Diffusion weighted MRI (DW- MRI)
Evaluation of the predictive value of DWI during and after therapy in the prediction of recurrence of cervical uterine cancer., The purpose of this project is to evaluate the predictive value of DWI during and after therapy in the prediction of recurrence of cervical uterine cancer. It will be considered whether DWI is able to provide early information about the response to therapy.Several studies and a significant experience of our research groups have shown an advantage of DWI for early detection of cancer and evaluation of therapeutic effects \[7-10\]. This has not yet been demonstrated in patients with cervical uterine cancer. This study aims to expand the scope of the use of DWI., 2010-2014 continuously
Reduction in toxicity related to the treatment, Nowadays, a large amount of possible treatment schemes for cervical uterine cancer are available but there is an increased need for early and non-invasive treatment follow-up. This could enable the identification of less- or non-responsive tumors and in this way therapy can be adapted as soon as possible. Hence we could offer the patient a more efficient treatment scheme and a reduction in toxicity related to the treatment could be established., 2010-2014
Uterine cervical cancer is the second most common female malignancy. Therapy monitoring is essential to detect early recurrence. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging is an emerging MRI imaging technique which has a potential value for the detection of primary and recurrent disease and for the assessment of response to therapy. The purpose of this project is to evaluate the predictive value of DWI during and after therapy in the prediction of recurrence of cervical uterine cancer. It will be considered whether DWI is able to provide early information about the response to therapy. This could enable the identification of less- or non-responsive tumors and in this way therapy can be adapted as soon as possible. Hence the investigators could offer the patient a more efficient treatment scheme and a reduction in toxicity related to the treatment could be established.