Perioperative Immunonutrition, Phagocytic and Bactericidal Activity of Blood Platelets in Gastric Cancer Patients
Perioperative immunonutrition in gastric cancer patients can reduce perioperative morbidity and may improve quality of their life. Patients with gastric cancer will be divided into four groups depending on the type of artificial nutrition. Group I (enteral feeding) and II (enteral feeding and parenteral nutrition with glutamine) will be administered nutritional therapy during the postoperative period, group III (oral arginine) and IV (parenteral immunonutrition) patients will be treated nutritionally both prior to and after the surgery. The lymphocytes and their subpopulations, interleukin IL-1B,-6,-23, and the phagocytic, and bactericidal activity of blood platelets will be determined before and after nutritional therapy.
Gastric Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Early postoperative enteral nutrition, based on standard elementary diet (Peptisorb)|DRUG: glutamine|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: oral diet enriched with arginine (Cubitan)|DRUG: Perioperative parenteral immunonutrition (Dipeptiven, Omegaven)
Phagocytic activity of blood platelets in gastric cancer patients., Platelet count and phagocytic activity of thrombocytes will be examined twice in each patient. Blood samples for laboratory tests will be drawn prior to surgery and nutritional therapy and 12 days after the surgery. Thrombocyte count will be determined using ADVIA 120 haematological analyser. Phagocytic activity of blood platelets will be determined against Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 6538P bacterial strain. It expresses as the fraction of phagocytizing platelets and the phagocytic index. The fraction of phagocytizing platelets corresponds to the percentage of phagocyting thrombocytes per 1000 consecutive cells of this type. The phagocytic index represents the ratio of phagocytized bacteria per 100 phagocytic platelets., Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 3 weeks
Surgical treatment of gastric cancer is associated with a high risk of perioperative complications. Morbidity of cancer patients increases in concert with the clinical stage of the malignancy. It is postulated that a reduction in perioperative morbidity and improved quality of life of patients with advanced gastric cancer can be achieved by proper preparation to surgery, among others. One of such methods is the implementation of immunostimulating nutritional therapy during the perioperative period.The stage of cancer will be graded according to TNM classification. The patients will be randomly assigned to four clinical groups based on the type of nutritional therapy implemented.