LEE011 (Ribociclib) in Combination With Docetaxel Plus Prednisone in mCRPC
This is a Phase Ib/II open label clinical trial in patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer. The objective of the phase Ib portion of the study is to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of docetaxel (75 mg/m2 IV q21 days) and prednisone (5mg orally BID) in combination with ribociclib in escalating oral daily doses in patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) with prior resistance to abiraterone and/or enzalutamide who have not undergone prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. Up to three cohorts will be enrolled to determine the MTD and DLT profile of this combination during Phase 1b. Dose escalation will follow the standard 3+3 design. The dosing schedule is being chosen to allow patients to be exposed to the most efficacious dosing schedule of docetaxel (75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks). If there is excess toxicity observed with the treatment combination at the first dose level (dose level I), an alternative dosing schema may be pursued with weekly docetaxel treatment (35 mg/m2 weekly), which has demonstrated activity in mCRPC and decreased risk of cytopenias compared with every 3 week dosing schedule.

The Phase II portion (N = 29) of the study is a single arm, two stage, open-label study of ribociclib (dosed at the RP2D) in combination with docetaxel and prednisone to determine the efficacy and further define the safety of the treatment combination. Patients will be treated with the combination of ribociclib plus docetaxel + prednisone for up to 9 cycles. If there is no evidence of radiographic or clinical disease progression after 9 cycles of protocol therapy, patients may continue on single agent maintenance ribociclib until the time of disease progression. Patients will have the option of starting maintenance ribociclib after 6 cycles of docetaxel if stable disease or better on re-staging scans. The dose of ribociclib used during maintenance will be the same dose as that immediately preceding cessation of docetaxel treatment.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel-PNP|DRUG: Ribociclib|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Filgrastim
Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Phase 1b), Maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of ribociclib in combination with docetaxel and prednisone is based upon evaluation of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and adverse events for all participants who received treatment in Phase Ib. If 1 of 3 participants in a cohort experiences a DLT, then the cohort will be expanded to treat an additional 3 participants. If only 1 of 6 participants experiences a DLT, the next cohort of participants will be treated at the next higher dose level. If 2 or more participants in a cohort experience a DLT, then MTD has been exceeded and the previous dose level will be considered the MTD. If more than 1 of 6 patients experience a DLT at dose level IA then the study will be terminated, as the MTD cannot be determined and de-escalation from dose level IA is not planned. Per Investigator discretion the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) schedule of ribociclib and docetaxel may be established in the absence of reaching MTD., Up to 2 years|RP2D of Docetaxel (Phase 1b), The RP2D of docetaxel will be reported when used in combination with ribociclib and prednisone based upon evaluation of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and adverse events for all participants in the Phase Ib group. Per Investigator discretion, the RP2D schedule of docetaxel and ribociclib may be established in the absence of reaching MTD, based on the cumulative safety data of the treatment regimen., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Radiographic Progression-free Survival at 6 Months (Phase 1b/2 RP2D), Radiographic progression-free survival will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. The percent of participants has been estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Duration will be measured from day 1 of study treatment to first date of radiographic progression or death, whichever occurs first, for all Phase 1b or Phase 2 participants receiving the RP2D. Participants who discontinue study therapy for toxicity, withdrawal from study, or prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-only progression, will be censored at the date of last radiographic tumor assessment for this analysis. Patients who discontinue therapy for evidence of clinical progression/clinical deterioration will be included in this analysis., Up to 6 months
Median Radiographic Progression-free Survival (Phase1b/2 RP2D), Radiographic progression-free survival will be assessed using RECIST version 1.1. Median duration will be Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Duration will be measured from day 1 of study treatment to first date of radiographic progression or death, whichever occurs sooner for participants in Phase 1b and Phase 2 who receive the RP2D. Participants who discontinue study therapy for toxicity, withdrawal from study, or prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-only progression, will be censored at the date of last radiographic tumor assessment for this analysis. Participants who discontinue therapy for evidence of clinical progression/clinical deterioration will be included in this analysis., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR) (Phase1b/2 RP2D), ORR will be assessed using RECIST version 1.1 criteria, and defined as participants who were determined to have demonstrated a complete response (CR) and/or partial response (PR). Participants must have measurable disease at baseline with at least one restaging scan on treatment to be included in the analysis., Up to 2 years|Median Duration of Response (Phase1b/2 RP2D), For participants with both measurable disease at baseline and at least one restaging scan on treatment, duration of response will be defined as the time criteria are met for CR or PR until recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented., Up to 2 years|Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Response Rate (Phase 1b/2 RP2D), PSA progression occurs when the PSA value has increased 25% or greater above nadir and an absolute increase of 2 ng/mL or more from the nadir is documented. Where no decline is observed, PSA progression similarly occurs when a 25% increase from baseline value along with an increase in absolute value of 2 ng/mL or more per the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) Criteria., Up to 2 years|Median PSA Progression-Free Survival (Phase 1b/2 RP2D), The PSA response duration commences on the date of the first 50% decline in PSA. The response duration ends when the PSA value increases by 25% above the nadir, provided that the increase in the absolute-value PSA level is at least 5 ng/mL or back to baseline, whichever is lower. The probability distribution of the median time to PSA progression will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events, The number of participants with reported adverse events related to the treatment regimen will be descriptively reported using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. Analyses will be performed for all patients having received at least one dose of study drug., Up to 2 years|Mean Area Under Curve (AUC) 0-24 Hour (Phase 1b), The estimated AUC for serum concentration of ribociclib for a 24 hour interval after dose will be reported using descriptive statistics for all participants in Phase 1b who received at least one dose of study treatment and completed a serum blood draw., Pre-dose on day 1, and 1, 2, 4, and 24 hours post-dose|Mean Maximum Serum Concentration of Ribociclib (Cmax) (Phase 1b), The maximum concentration (Cmax) is shown to reflect not only the rate but also the extent of absorption. The mean Cmax for serum concentration of ribociclib will be reported using descriptive statistics for all participants in Phase 1b who received at least one dose of study treatment and completed a serum blood draw., Pre-dose on day 1, and 1, 2, 4, and 24 hours post-dose|Estimated Steady-state Serum Concentration (Csteady-state) (Phase 1b), Steady-state serum concentration occurs when the amount of a drug being absorbed is the same amount that is being cleared from the body when the drug is given continuously. Steady-state concentration is the time during which the concentration of the drug in the body stays consistent. The estimated steady state for serum concentration of ribociclib will be reported using descriptive statistics for all participants in Phase 1b who received a steady dosing schedule of study treatment and completed a serum blood draw., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile, maximally tolerated dose (MTD), and recommended phase 2 dose of ribociclib in combination with docetaxel plus prednisone in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). (Phase IB) II. To determine the 6-month radiographic progression-free survival rate with the combination of ribociclib, docetaxel, and prednisone in patients with mCRPC. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the median radiographic progression-free survival with the combination of ribociclib, docetaxel, and prednisone in patients with mCRPC.

II. To determine the objective response rate and median duration of response among patients with measurable disease at baseline.

III. To determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response proportion and time to PSA progression.

IV. To characterize the safety profile of ribociclib in combination with docetaxel.

V. To determine if there is evidence of drug-drug interaction between docetaxel + prednisone with ribociclib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether baseline or percent change from baseline in gallium citrate uptake on positron emission tomography (PET) scan is associated with clinical outcomes. (For University of California San Francisco (USCF) Patients Only) II. To determine whether genomic assessment of MYC pathway activation (MYC amplification or overexpression, Rb1 deletion, cyclin D/E and CDK 4/6 overexpression) assessed within metastatic tumor tissue, circulating tumor cells (CTCs), and/or cell-free circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) is predictive of clinical outcomes with the combination of ribociclib plus docetaxel.

III. To determine whether MYC activation score as determined by validated expression signature can distinguish those with and without clinical benefit with ribociclib in combination with docetaxel.

IV. To use an unbiased approach with integration of clinical, genomic, and proteomic data (differential pathway signature correlation; DiPSC) to define a signature associated with response to taxane + CDK4/6 inhibition in mCRPC.

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of ribociclib followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 or on days 1 and 8, prednisone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, and ribociclib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-4, and 8-15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving stable disease or better on re-staging scans after 6 cycles and patients without radiographic or clinical disease progression after 9 cycles of treatment may continue on single agent maintenance ribociclib PO QD on days 1-14 of every 21 day cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every three months.