Motexafin Gadolinium and Radiation Therapy in Treating Young Patients With Pontine Glioma
This phase II trial is studying how well giving motexafin gadolinium together with radiation therapy works in treating young patients with pontine glioma. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs, such as motexafin gadolinium, may make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Giving motexafin gadolinium together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Untreated Childhood Brain Stem Glioma
DRUG: motexafin gadolinium|RADIATION: 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy
One Year Event-free Survival (EFS), Percentage probability of being event-free at 1 year following enrollment., One year after enrollment.
Overall Survival (OS), Percentage probability of being alive 1 year following enrollment., One year after enrollment.|The Number of Patients Who Experience at Least One Grade 3 or Higher CTC Version 4 Toxicity., Occurrence of serious toxicity defined as any grade 4 hematologic toxicity that persists for more than 7 days or requires platelet transfusions for a time period exceeding 7 days; any grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity with the exception of grade 3 nausea or vomiting which can be controlled within 7 days; grade 3 skin reaction; grade 3 transaminitis., One cycle of chemotherapy and radiation therapy; expected to be 42 days of treatment.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the effect of combining motexafin gadolinium with daily fractionated radiotherapy on 1-year event-free survival of pediatric patients with intrinsic pontine glioma (brain stem glioma).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the effect of combining motexafin gadolinium with daily fractionated radiotherapy on 1-year overall survival of these patients.

II. Determine the toxicities of motexafin gadolinium in combination with radiotherapy in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive motexafin gadolinium IV over 5-10 minutes once daily (prior to radiotherapy) 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Patients undergo focal cranial radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years and then periodically thereafter.