A Study Of AG-013736 (Axitinib) Or Bevacizumab (Avastin) In Combination With Paclitaxel And Carboplatin In Patients With Advanced Lung Cancer.
To determine if the addition of AG-013736 to chemotherapy is beneficial in patients with advanced lung cancer who have not been previously treated.
Non-Small-Cell Lung Carcinoma|Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: AG-013736 (axitinib)|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time in months from start of study treatment to first randomization date of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. PFS was calculated as (first event date minus the first randomization date plus 1) divided by 30.4. Tumor progression was determined from oncologic assessment data (where data meet the criteria for progressive disease \[PD\]), or from adverse event (AE) data (where the outcome was "Death")., Baseline, every 6 weeks until disease progression or initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy up to 2.75 years
Overall Survival (OS), Time in months from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (the death date minus the first randomization date plus 1) divided by 30.4. Death was determined from adverse event data (where outcome was death) or from follow-up contact data (where the participant current status was death)., Baseline, every 6 weeks until death or bimonthly after final study visit (up to 2.75 years)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR), OR based assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Confirmed response were those that persisted on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR: disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target) and no appearance of new lesions. PR: at least 30 percent decrease in sum of the longest dimensions of target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions, without progression of non target lesions and no appearance of new lesions., Baseline, every 6 weeks until disease progression or initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy up to 2.75 years|Duration of Response (DR), Time in months from the first documentation of objective tumor response that is subsequently confirmed to objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. Duration of tumor response was calculated as (the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1) divided by 30.4. DR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., Baseline, every 6 weeks until disease progression or initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy up to 2.75 years|Population Pharmacokinetic (PK) Analysis for Axitinib (AG-013736), Data for this Outcome Measure are not reported here because the analysis population includes participants who were not enrolled in this study. ClinicalTrials.gov is designed for reporting results from only those participants who were enrolled in the study and described in the Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics modules., Pre-dose, 1 to 2 hours post-dose on Cycle 2 of Day 1 and Cycle 3 of Day 1|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30: included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status, symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhoea, and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4- point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., Day (D) 1 of every cycle (C) then every 3 weeks until final study visit (up to 2.75 years)|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer-13 (QLQ- LC13) Score, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnoea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, chest pain, arm pain, other pain, and medicine for pain). Recall period: past week; response range: not at all to very much. Scale score range: 0 to 100. Higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms., Day 1 of every cycle then every 3 weeks until final study visit (up to 2.75 years)|Percentage of Participants by Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Expression Profile in Whole Blood, RNA expression profiles of genes which were associated with tumor growth, angiogenesis and metastases were collected and correlated with efficacy., Baseline, C1 D1, C1 D15, C2 D1, C3 D1, C4 D1 and C5 D1|Circulating Endothelial Cells (CEC) in Blood: Total CEC, Circulating endothelial cells (CECs) are noninvasive marker of vascular damage, remodeling, and dysfunction. Total CEC, plasma-vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (pVEGFR2), VEGFR2, p-Beta-type platelet-derived growth factor receptor (pPDGFRB+) and PDGFRB+ were explored using CECs. Blood was collected to analyze effects of therapy on the number, viability/apoptotic state, and/or target activity/expression in CECs., Baseline (C1 D1), C1 D15, C2 D1, C3 D1, C4 D1, C5 D1, C7 D1, C9 D1 and C11 D1|Circulating Endothelial Cells (CEC) in Blood, Circulating endothelial cells (CECs) are noninvasive marker of vascular damage, remodeling, and dysfunction. Total CEC, plasma-vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (pVEGFR2), VEGFR2, p-Beta-type platelet-derived growth factor receptor (pPDGFRB+) and PDGFRB+ were explored using CECs. Blood was collected to analyze effects of therapy on the number, viability/apoptotic state, and/or target activity/expression in CECs., Baseline (C1 D1), C1 D15, C2 D1, C3 D1, C4 D1, C5 D1, C7 D1, C9 D1 and C11 D1|Plasma Concentration of Soluble Proteins, Plasma concentrations of soluble proteins (soluble- stem-cell factor receptor (sKIT) vascular endothelial growth factor \[VEGF\], and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 \[VEGFR2\], VEGFR3) may be associated with tumor angiogenesis or tumor physiology and may correlate with efficacy or biological activity. It is presented as ratio to baseline, which is obtained by dividing the plasma soluble protein concentration at each time point by its concentration at baseline., Baseline, C1D1, C1D15, C2D1, C3D1, C4D1, C5D1, C7D1, C9D1 and C11D1
Plasma Concentration Change in the Uridine Diphosphate Glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 (UGT1A1) Genotype, UGT1A1 an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites., Baseline (Day 1 of Cycle 1)
To determine if the addition of AG-013736 to chemotherapy is beneficial in patients with advanced lung cancer who have not been previously treated.