Microbiome in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This study aims to determine whether dysbiosis actively contributes to HNSCC and if so, the underlying molecular mechanisms.
Head and Neck Cancer|Lip Cancer|Oral Cancer|Pharynx Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Metagenomic sequencing|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Metabolic analysis
Characterize human dysbiosis, Stool and saliva samples will be collected from participants, allowing us to reproduce human dysbiosis and analyze whether HNSCC affects one's microbiome composition. Metagenomic sequencing will be conducted through use of DNA extraction, library generation and Illumina sequencing. At least 30 million paired-end 2x150bp metagenomic reads will be generated per sample using the Illumina NovaSeq platform., Day 1|Characterize human metabolomics, Through our stool and saliva samples we will be able to characterize metagenomic and metabolic signatures in treatment naïve OSCC and non-OSCC patients. Metabolic analysis will be conducted using LC/MS-based metabolic analysis. A targeted approach will quantify a panel of 30 componds including Trp pathway products, while a non-targeted approach, when applied to both lipid and aqueous phase compounds, will profile relative changes in compounds that may influence host and metabolic and immune statuses., Day 1|Integrative multi-omic data analysis and biomarker discovery, We expect to find that specific sets of microbial and host factors interact with each other to promote OSCC., Day 365
Impact of human dysbiosis on OSCC development in mice, Freshly collected saliva and stool samples from 10 subjects of each treatment category will be used to reconstitute microbiota., Day 10-Day 100|Monitor tumor size, Tumor size (both weight and size) will be monitored using Bli-imaging. These measures will be assessed between treatment groups by ANOVA or analysis of variance testing., Day 10-Day 100
HNSCCis a lethal cancer with a 5-year survival rate below 50%. Although smoking, alcohol intake, and human papillomavirus (HPV) infection are linked to HNSCC, only a small proportion of individuals exposed to these factors develop cancer and not all cases progress. Thus, additional environmental or host factors must contribute to HNSCC. The Study Team and others have observed significant oral dysbiosis in human HNSCC cases, both before and after treatment. This study aims to determine whether dysbiosis actively contributes to HNSCC and if so, the underlying molecular mechanisms.