Protective VEGF Inhibition for Isotoxic Dose Escalation in Glioblastoma
Glioblastoma is the most aggressive brain tumor and often recurs locally despite intensive treatment. Standard chemoradiotherapy with 60 Gy may not be sufficient to control the tumor, and dose escalation seems to be warranted, but causes more toxicity. To address this, the multicentric PRIDE trial employs two cycles of bevacizumab to achieve dose escalation isotoxically. The goal is improved survival without significantly increasing side effects. The study uses a simultaneous integrated boost with a total dose of 75 Gy in 2.5 Gy per fraction.
Glioblastoma
RADIATION: Dose escalation of radiation dose beyond the therapeutic standard
OS, Overall Survival, Date of study inclusion (informed consent) to death or end of F/U
Safety and tolerability, Safety and tolerability of dose escalation with bevacizumab according to CTCAE v5.0, Date of study inclusion (informed consent) to death or end of F/U|PFS-6, 6 months rate of progression-free survival, 6 months after the date of study inclusion (informed consent)|PFS, Progression-free survival, Date of study inclusion (informed consent) to death or progression|QoL, Quality of life as determined by EORTC QLQ-C30/QLQ-BN 20, Date of study inclusion (informed consent) to death or end of F/U|Cognitive function, Cognitive function determined by standard test batteries, Date of study inclusion (informed consent) to death or end of F/U|Exploratory objective, Validation of prognostic 4-miRNA signature-based risk score, Date of study inclusion (informed consent) to death or end of F/U
Glioblastoma is the most aggressive brain tumor and often recurs locally despite intensive treatment. Standard chemoradiotherapy with 60 Gy may not be sufficient to control the tumor, and dose escalation seems to be warranted, but causes more toxicity. To address this, the multicentric PRIDE trial employs two cycles of bevacizumab to achieve dose escalation isotoxically. The goal is improved survival without significantly increasing side effects. The study uses a simultaneous integrated boost with a total dose of 75 Gy in 2.5 Gy per fraction.