Cemiplimab for the Treatment of Locally Advanced Head and Neck Basal Cell Carcinoma Before Surgery
This phase II trial tests how well cemiplimab works in treating basal cell carcinoma of the head and neck that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) before surgery (neoadjuvant). Cemiplimab is a human recombinant monoclonal IgG4 antibody that may allow the body's immune system to work against tumor cells. Giving cemiplimab before surgery may make the tumor smaller and make it easier to remove.
Locally Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined by responders at surgery by clinical assessment and radiographic measurement according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1. Summarized by frequency counts and percentages and accompanied by exact Clopper-Pearson 95% compatibility intervals (CIs)., Up to 6 months post surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)|Disease control rate (DCR), Defined responders plus stable disease by clinical assessment and radiographic measurement by RECISTv1.1. Summarized by frequency counts and percentages and accompanied by exact Clopper-Pearson 95% CIs., Up to 6 months post surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)
Surgical/Clinical Benefit Rate (SBR), Percentage of patients with an organ at risk demonstrating tumor response allowing functional organ preservation surgery., At surgery (Day 129 +/- 3 days)|Pathologic complete response (pCR), Pathologic complete response (pCR), Up to 6 months post surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)|Major pathologic response (mPR), Major pathologic response (mPR), Up to 6 months post surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)|Incidence of adverse events, Incidence of adverse events, Up to 6 months post surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)|Changes in quality of life and functional organ preservation (FHNSI), Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck Symptom Index (FHNSI), FACE-Questionnaire (Q), Visual Function Questionnaire (VFQ)-25 validated questionnaires. Summarized with descriptive statistics and plotted graphically (i.e., with box plots). Those data will be modeled using generalized linear modeling to account for the correlation of the longitudinal observations from the same patient., At baseline (Day 1) to 6 months post-surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)|Changes in quality of life and functional organ preservation (FACE-Q), Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Questionnaire (FACE-Q), validated questionnaires. Score range: 0-100, generally higher scores reflect a better outcome. Summarized with descriptive statistics and plotted graphically (i.e., with box plots). Those data will be modeled using generalized linear modeling to account for the correlation of the longitudinal observations from the same patient., At baseline (Day 1)|Changes in quality of life and functional organ preservation (VFQ-25), Assessed by the Visual Function Questionnaire (VFQ-25) validated questionnaires. Score range: 0-100, higher scores reflect a better outcome. Summarized with descriptive statistics and plotted graphically (i.e., with box plots). Those data will be modeled using generalized linear modeling to account for the correlation of the longitudinal observations from the same patient., At baseline (Day 1)|Changes in quality of life and functional organ preservation (FHNSI), Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck Symptom Index (FHNSI) validated questionnaires. Score range: 0-40, higher scores reflect a better outcome. Summarized with descriptive statistics and plotted graphically (i.e., with box plots). Those data will be modeled using generalized linear modeling to account for the correlation of the longitudinal observations from the same patient., 6 months post-surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)|Changes in quality of life and functional organ preservation (FACE-Q), Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Questionnaire (FACE-Q), validated questionnaires. Score range: 0-100, generally higher scores reflect a better outcome. Summarized with descriptive statistics and plotted graphically (i.e., with box plots). Those data will be modeled using generalized linear modeling to account for the correlation of the longitudinal observations from the same patient., 6 months post-surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)|Changes in quality of life and functional organ preservation (VFQ-25), Assessed by the Visual Function Questionnaire (VFQ-25) validated questionnaires. Score range: 0-100, higher scores reflect a better outcome. Summarized with descriptive statistics and plotted graphically (i.e., with box plots). Those data will be modeled using generalized linear modeling to account for the correlation of the longitudinal observations from the same patient., 6 months post-surgery (up to Day 309 +/- 3 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess treatment response of locally advanced basal cell carcinoma (BCC) of the head and neck (BCCHN) in the neoadjuvant, presurgical setting.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess functional organ preservation with neoadjuvant Cemiplimab therapy. II. To assess pathologic response. III. To assess safety of neoadjuvant therapy. IV. To assess changes in quality of life.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess treatment-related changes in the immune microenvironment related to functional changes in immune cell composition.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cemiplimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with progressive disease may transition to standard of care (SOC) hedgehog inhibitor (HHI) therapy. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans and collection of blood samples throughout the trial. Patients also undergo biopsies during screening and on study.

Upon completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months and 6 months.