Yoga, Survivorship Health Education, and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy in Reducing Insomnia in Cancer Survivors
This randomized phase III trial compares yoga, survivorship health education program, and cognitive behavioral therapy in reducing sleep disturbance (insomnia) in cancer survivors. Insomnia can be described as excessive daytime napping, difficulty falling asleep, difficulty staying asleep, or waking up earlier than desired. Insomnia can increase fatigue, impair physical function, impair immune function, cause circadian rhythms (known as the biological clock) to be disrupted and decrease quality of life. Yoga may improve circadian rhythms, physical and immune function, and improve insomnia and sleep quality in cancer survivors. It is not yet known whether yoga is more effective at treating insomnia than a health education program or cognitive behavioral therapy program.
Cancer Survivor|Insomnia|Malignant Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Cognitive Intervention|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DEVICE: Monitoring Device|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Mean Change in the ISI Comparing YOCAS vs. CBT-I, The Insomnia Severity Index is a validated measure of insomnia. A 5-point Likert scale of 7 questions is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia. Means and 95% confidence intervals for YOCAS and CBT-I will be calculated and plotted and examined in comparison with the a priori specified non-inferiority margin of 1.15., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in the ISI Comparing YOCAS vs. Health Education, The Insomnia Severity Index is a validated measure of insomnia. A 5-point Likert scale of 7 questions is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)
Mean Change in Global Sleep Quality Impairment as Measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory (PSQI) Total Score Comparing YOCAS vs. Health Education, The PSQI measures sleep quality with a total score ranging from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse sleep quality. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Global Sleep Quality Impairment as Measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory (PSQI) Total Score Comparing YOCAS vs. CBT-I., The PSQI measures sleep quality with a total score ranging from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse sleep quality. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and CBT-I., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Duration Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. Health Education, Actigraphy will measure the number of minutes of actual sleep. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Duration Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. CBT-I, Actigraphy will measure the number of minutes of actual sleep. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and CBT-I., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Wake After Sleep Onset Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. Health Education, Actigraphy will measure total minutes of wake time after sleep onset. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education. The transformation of the log base 10 of the original measurement was used for the analysis., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Wake After Sleep Onset Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. CBT-I, Actigraphy will measure total minutes of wake time after sleep onset. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and CBT-I. The transformation of log base 10 of the original measurement was used for the analysis., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Efficiency Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. Health Education, Actigraphy will measure the percent of time actually slept compared to intended time sleeping. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Efficiency Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. CBT-I, Actigraphy will measure the percent of time actually slept compared to intended time sleeping. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and CBT-I., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Latency Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. Health Education, Actigraphy will measure the minutes it takes for the participant to fall asleep. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education. The transformation of log base 10 of the (measurement + 1) was used in the analysis., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in Objective Symptoms of Insomnia- Sleep Latency Via Actigraphy Comparing YOCAS vs. CBT-I, Actigraphy will measure the minutes it takes for the participant to fall asleep. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and CBT-I. The transformation of the log base 10 of the (measure + 1) was used in the analysis., Baseline up to post intervention (approximately 4 to 8 weeks)|Mean Change in the ISI Comparing YOCAS and Health Education (3 Month), The Insomnia Severity Index is a validated measure of insomnia. A 5-point Likert scale of 7 questions is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education., Baseline to 3 months|Mean Change in the ISI Comparing YOCAS and CBT-I (3 Month), The Insomnia Severity Index is a validated measure of insomnia. A 5-point Likert scale of 7 questions is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and CBT-I., Baseline to 3 months|Mean Change in the ISI Comparing YOCAS and Health Education (6 Month), The Insomnia Severity Index is a validated measure of insomnia. A 5-point Likert scale of 7 questions is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and health education., Baseline to 6 months|Mean Change in the ISI Comparing YOCAS and CBT-I (6 Month), The Insomnia Severity Index is a validated measure of insomnia. A 5-point Likert scale of 7 questions is used to rate each item (e.g., 0 = no problem; 4 = very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0 to 28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia. A linear mixed effects ANCOVA will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between YOCAS and CBT-I., Baseline to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if Yoga for Cancer Survivors (YOCAS) is effective for improving patient-reported insomnia (Insomnia Severity Index) compared to Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I) and a health education control immediately post intervention.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine if YOCAS is effective for improving objective symptoms of insomnia (sleep latency, sleep efficiency, wake after sleep onset, sleep duration, and daytime napping via actigraphy) and global sleep quality impairment (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index) compared to CBT-I and a health education control.

II. To examine if YOCAS and CBT-I are effective for maintaining improvements in insomnia (Insomnia Severity Index) 3 and 6 months post intervention compared to a health education control.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo the YOCAS intervention comprising 18 specific physical postures and mindfulness exercises focused on breathing and meditation and meet with the yoga instructor over 75 minutes 2 times a week for 4 weeks.

ARM II: Patients undergo CBT-I intervention comprising sleep education, sleep hygiene, sleep restriction, stimulus control, cognitive therapy, and relapse prevention delivered by a health professional over 90 minutes once a week for 8 weeks.

ARM III: Patients attend survivorship health education sessions over 75 minutes 2 times a week for 4 weeks based on the American Society of Clinical Oncology cancer survivorship educational recommendations delivered by a community health educator. Patients also receive a booklet entitled, "Cancer Survivorship Next Steps for Patients and Their Families."

After completion of intervention, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.