Phase II Trial of Stereotactic Radiosurgery Boost Following Surgical Resection for Brain Metastases
For patients who have one or two metastases in the brain, the tumor(s) can often be removed with surgery to relieve symptoms from the tumor(s) and to improve survival. However, about half of all patients who have the tumor(s) removed with surgery will develop regrowth (recurrence) of the tumor. To prevent this regrowth of tumor, some patients receive radiation to the entire brain (whole brain radiation) after surgery. This involves daily treatment for about two to three weeks, and may cause long-term neurological problems, such as memory loss.

Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is sometimes used instead of surgery to treat brain metastasis. This involves the use of a special head frame and sophisticated computer programs that enable us to deliver a high dose of radiation to a small focused area of the brain in only one treatment.

Research has shown that the results of treatment with SRS are as good as surgical removal of the tumor. SRS and surgical resection are considered the standard options for the treatment of brain metastases. This Phase II clinical trial is studying the combination of these two techniques. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the use of SRS following surgical removal of brain metastases. The outcomes we will be looking at are tumor regrowth after treatment and side effects of treatment.
Brain Metastasis|Bladder Cancer|Breast Cancer|Cervical Cancer|Colon Cancer|HEENT Cancer|Lung Cancer|Melanoma|Pancreatic Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Rectal Cancer|Sarcoma|Testicular Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Local Control, following a combination of stereotactic radiosurgery and surgical resection for brain metastases; to determine the incidence of the brain injury following the combination therapy. Local control: Absence of radiographic evidence of tumor at the site of therapy constitutes local control of the treated disease.Recurrence in the treated region: The reappearance of tumor on any MRI or CT scan at the site of treatment constitutes recurrent disease at the treated region. Recurrence outside the treated region: The development of new intracranial metastatic foci or leptomeningeal disease constitutes recurrence outside the treated region. Leptomeningeal disease will be documented by a positive CSF cytology, abnormal myelogram or spinal MRI.

No evidence of disease: Absence of clinical or radiographic evidence of tumor both at the site of therapy and elsewhere in the brain constitutes no evidence of disease., 1 year
This is a phase II trial in patients with 1-2 brain metastases treated with surgical resection followed by stereotactic radiosurgery boost. Following surgical resection, patients would receive a stereotactic radiosurgery boost to the surgical bed, 2-8 weeks after surgery. A dose of 15 to 22 Gy would be delivered in a single fraction. Patient would be subsequently followed clinically and radiologically to watch for local control as well as toxicity. If a recurrence or new metastasis(es) is detected, further treatment may be given, consisting of chemotherapy, surgery, whole brain radiation therapy or stereotactic radiotherapy.