A Trial of Integrating SBRT With Targeted Therapy in Stage IV Oncogene-driven NSCLC
This research study is studying a type of radiation therapy called Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) as a possible treatment for stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that has a mutated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or or displaced anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase (ALK) or ROS proto-oncogene 1 (ROS1) gene (= oncogene-driven NSCLC) and for which the subject has been receiving treatment with a targeted biological agent such as erlotinib, crizotinib, or other drugs.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic|Targetable Oncogenes (EGFR, ALK, ROS1)
RADIATION: SBRT with protons or photons
1-year Frequency of Original Site Failures (OF) and New Distant Failures (DF) After Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT), Original site failures are defined as progression in sites of a patient's original disease (both primary and metastatic). Distant failures are defined as metastases outside areas that originally contained disease. The 1-year frequencies of OF and DF are defined as the percentages of patients that experienced an OF or a DF, respectively, over the course of one year., 1 year
Median Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the duration of time from the start of standard of care TKI (tyrosine kinase inhibitor) therapy until objective progressive disease or death. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Duration of time from documented start of TKI therapy to time of progressive disease, assessed up to 5 years.|Median Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from the start of documented tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy to the time of death., up to 8 years|2-year Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from the start of documented tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy to the time of death. The 2-year overall survival is defined as the percentage of participants who were alive 2 years after the start of documented tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy., 2 years|2-year Local Failure (LF) of Lesions Treated With Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT), Local failure is defined as progressive disease in target lesions treated with SBRT. The 2-year LF rate is the percentage of participants who experienced local failure within 2 years of completing SBRT., 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. The investigational intervention in this study is SBRT with proton or photon radiation (explained below). "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied. SBRT and proton radiation therapy are FDA approved radiation delivery systems. However, using it as a treatment for stage IV NSCLC is still investigational.

SBRT is a specialized, technologically advanced type of external beam radiation therapy that pinpoints high doses of radiation directly on the cancer. Because of high precision, these treatments spare healthy tissue and are associated with fewer side effects. SBRT is very different from conventional therapy where radiation is delivered in small doses given daily over the course of several weeks. For SBRT, the total dose of radiation is typically administered in 4-5 daily sessions. SBRT can be delivered with standard, so called photon radiation, or proton beam. Neither of these two types of radiation is generally superior over the other. There are technical differences between these two, and depending on tumor location, size, shape, and other factors, the investigators will decide which type of radiation to use for which treatment.

After the screening procedures confirm you are eligible to participate in the research study:

- Each participant will receive stereotactic treatment course (SBRT with protons or photons) to the area of their tumor.