Transplantation of Reconstructed Renal Allografts Following Ex-Vivo Partial Nephrectomy
This study is designed to investigate a novel approach to offer more ESRD participants the benefits associated with renal transplantation by increasing the supply of available allografts
Renal Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Donor Radical and Partial Nephrectomy|PROCEDURE: Kidney Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Radical Nephrectomy
Safety and Feasibility of Radical Nephrectomy for a Small Renal Mass, Safety and feasibility as determined by peri-operative adverse events of the following Grade 3-5 CTCAE v5.0 outcomes within 30 days of surgery:

i. Anemia ii. Acute kidney injury, Within 30 days of surgery|Safety and feasibility for Renal Transplant Participants Receiving a Reconstructed Donor Kidney, Safety and feasibility as determined by peri-operative adverse events of the following Grade 3-5 CTCAE v5.0 outcomes within 30 days of surgery:

i. Anemia ii. Renal hemorrhage iii. Kidney anastomotic leak iv. Urinary fistula, Within 30 days of surgery
Surgical Outcomes for a Radical Nephrectomy for a Small Renal Mass, a. Intermediate term surgical outcomes as determined by adverse events of the following Grade 3-5 CTCAE v5.0 outcomes within 180 days of surgery: i. Anemia ii. Acute kidney injury iii. Wound infection iv. Infection and infestations - Urinary tract infection, abscess, Within 180 days of surgery|Functional Outcomes for a Radical Nephrectomy for a Small Renal Mass, Renal function as determined by:

i. Post-operative baseline GFR \>45 ml/min/1.73m2 at time of follow up ii. GFR \>45 ml/min/1.73m2 at one year after radical nephrectomy, 1 year after surgery|Oncologic Outcomes for a Radical Nephrectomy for a Small Renal Mass, c. Oncologic outcomes as determined by local or distant recurrence of malignancy within one year of follow up, Up to 1 year after surgery|Surgical Outcomes for a Renal Transplant Recipient After Ex-vivo Partial Nephrectomy, Intermediate term surgical outcomes as determined by adverse events of the following Grade 3-5 CTCAE v5.0 outcomes within 180 days of surgery:

i. Anemia ii. Renal hemorrhage iii. Kidney anastomotic leak iv. Urinary fistula v. Wound infection vi. Infection and infestations - Other, Urinary tract infection, abscess, bacteremia, Within 180 days of surgery|Functional Outcomes for a Renal Transplant Recipient After Ex-vivo Partial Nephrectomy, Renal function as determined by:

i. Delayed-graft function ii. Nadir post-transplant GFR iii. GFR measured at one year follow up, 1 year after surgery|Oncologic Outcomes for a Renal Transplant Recipient After Ex-vivo Partial Nephrectomy, c. Oncologic outcomes as determined by local or distant recurrence of malignancy within one year of follow up, diagnosed by one year follow up CT imaging or other method used to determine presence of recurrent malignancy, Up to 1 year after surgery|Participant Attitudes/Decision Making Surrounding Altruistic Kidney Donation, Participant attitudes and decision making surrounding altruistic donation as a component of surgery for a renal mass will be determined by a survey provided to participants at a preoperative visit prior to surgery and at the 12 month follow-up visit., 1 year after surgery|Participant Attitudes/Decision Making Surrounding Transplant Recipients, Participant attitudes and decision-making surrounding receipt of a kidney that previously had a small renal mass will be determined by a survey provided to participants at a preoperative visit prior to surgery and at the 12-month follow-up visit., 1 year after surgery
This study is designed to investigate a novel approach to offer more ESRD participants the benefits associated with renal transplantation by increasing the supply of available allografts