Social Emotional Development in Young Children With Cancer
Many children with cancer are diagnosed in early childhood, and as such, will likely miss key social experiences such as participation in preschool or kindergarten, playing on playgrounds, and other normative experiences. In typically-developing children, it is known that these experiences - and the skills that are learned during them - are critical to later well-being. Very little is known about the psychological functioning of young children with cancer, as studies have predominantly focused on those who are older (at least 8 years of age). This study will explicitly assess social functioning in preschool-aged children with cancer and follow the development of their social functioning from the end of treatment into survivorship.

The goals of this pilot study are to begin to assess the impact of missed early childhood social experiences, as well as the interaction with developing neurocognitive problems.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: Explore the impact of cancer in the central nervous system on social functioning of young children (ages 4-6) after completion of therapy.
Solid Tumor, Childhood|Brain Tumor, Pediatric
BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires
Social functioning as assessed by parent-completed measures and child-completed measures, Descriptive statistics will be provided. Parents will complete the Social Competence Inventory, Quality of Play Questionnaire, and the NIH Toolbox. Patients completed measures include the subtests from the NIH Toolbox, Challenging Situations Task, and Developmental Neuropsychological Assessment (2nd edition). Analyses will be completed to assess performance on these measures at each time point and to assess change over time. Analyses will be completed by diagnostic group (brain tumor versus solid tumor)., All measures will be completed at both the study enrollment and 24±3 months later
Participants will be evaluated using the same or similar questionnaires at two time points. The first assessment will take place when they are 6-12 months post the end of treatment. Participants and their parents/legal guardian will complete an assessment of social and cognitive functioning by completing questionnaires about social, emotional, behavioral, and executive functioning. If the study participant agrees, they will identify another adult (that is, teacher or daycare employee) who may be contacted to complete questionnaires about the participant's social and behavioral functioning. A follow-up study visit will occur about two years later.