Accelerated Radiation Therapy (ART) to the Breast and Nodal Stations
This protocol is for patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer with an indication for post-operative radiotherapy after neo-adjuvant chemotherapy and surgery.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Radiation
Acute Toxicity Will be Measured by Evaluating the Number of Patients Who Experience Grade II-III Dermatitis Within 60 Days of Radiation Therapy., feasibility of accelerated radiotherapy in the post-operative setting of breast cancer patients treated by neo-adjuvant chemotherapy and surgery will be measured, by evaluating the number of patients who experience grade II-III dermatitis within 60 days of the end of treatment. Acute Toxicity will be graded using CTCAE v4.0., 60 days from start of radiation therapy.
Change in Quality of Life of Patients., The patient reported outcomes or quality of life questionnaires are assessed for the aesthetic and functional outcomes after breast radiation therapy. The score value ranges from 1.00 - 4.00, with a higher score reflecting a poorer outcome. Following is the criteria for evaluating breast radiation therapy outcomes in patients: good (1.00-1.75) ; intermediate (1.76-2.50), fair (2.51 -3.25) and poor (3.26 - 4.00)., Baseline, end of radiation, 1 month post radiation.|Late Radiation Toxicity in Treated Patients, incidence of late radiation toxicity (brachial plexopathy, fibrosis and telangiectasia) will be evaluated and genetic determinants of breast fibrosis will be identified., 2 years and 5 years|Number of Patients With Grades 2 or Higher Toxicity, Number of patients with grades 2 or higher toxicity, 2 years and 5 years|Quality of Life of Patients, The patient reported outcomes or quality of life questionnaires are assessed for the aesthetic and functional outcomes after breast radiation therapy. The score value ranges from 1.00 - 4.00, with a higher score reflecting a poorer outcome. Following is the criteria for evaluating breast radiation therapy outcomes in patients: good (1.00-1.75) ; intermediate (1.76-2.50), fair (2.51 -3.25) and poor (3.26 - 4.00)., 2 years
Overall Survival Will be Measured, up to 10 years|Molecular Signatures That Predict Fibrosis Will be Prospectively Measured From Blood Samples., The purpose of this portion of the study will be to collect blood from each subject accrued to the study and willing to donate a specimen of blood for research, to study the TGF-β1 polymorphisms that have been reported to be correlated with the development of fibrosis following radiotherapy for treatment of breast cancer., 10 years|Local Control Rates Will be Measured., up to 10 years|Distant Recurrences Will be Measured., up to 10 years
Protocol has two cohorts. Cohort 1 will receive radiation to breast and chest wall. Prone whole breast or chest wall 3D-CRT or IMRT at 2.7 Gy x 15 fractions (40.50 Gy) with a concomitant boost of 0.50 (7.5 Gy) to the original tumor bed in post-segmental mastectomy patients or mastectomy scar in post-mastectomy patients. Patients who have undergone reconstruction will not receive concomitant boost.

Cohort 2 patients will receive radiation to breast, chest wall and LevelII/SCV nodes.

In addition to receiving radiation to the original tumor bed, patients will also receive radiation to Level III axillary nodes and Supraclavicular nodes: 3D-CRT or IMRT at 2.7 Gy X 15 fraction (40.50 Gy).

Patients will complete treatment in three weeks (15 fractions). All patients will be followed at 3 months after the completion of treatment then yearly for the next 5 years.