First-in-human Study of CCW702 in Patients With Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
CCW702 is an investigational immunotherapy for prostate cancer. This is a two-part, first-in-human study to assess the safety and tolerability of CCW702 administered subcutaneously to patients with metastatic, castration resistant prostate cancer. Part I is divided in to two subparts, in both subparts patients will receive ascending dosages of CCW702 with the goal to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CCW702 and efficacious regimen. Part Ia will explore every other other day dosing (QOD); Part Ib will explore weekly dosing (Q7D). In part II of the study, patients will be given the recommended part/phase 2 dose (RP2D) Q7D. The study will also assess the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of CCW702.
Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: CCW702
Part 1a and 1b: Assess the safety and tolerability of CCW702, including incidence of dose limiting toxicities, Frequency, severity, duration of treatment-emergent and treatment-related adverse events per CTCAE v5.0, up to day 28|Part 1a and 1b: Select recommended phase/part 2 dose, Review of safety and tolerability data (adverse events, dosing) based on CTCAE v5 of all Part 1 subjects/cohorts, up to 2 years|Part 2: to assess clinical efficacy at the RP2D, Responses will be measured using prostate cancer working group 3 (PCWG3) criteria, up to 2 years
CCW702 is an investigational immunotherapy for prostate cancer. This is a two-part, first-in-human study to assess the safety and tolerability of CCW702 administered subcutaneously to patients with metastatic, castration resistant prostate cancer. Part I is divided in to two subparts, in both subparts patients will receive ascending dosages of CCW702 with the goal to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CCW702 and efficacious regimen. Part Ia will explore every other other day dosing (QOD); Part Ib will explore weekly dosing (Q7D). In part II of the study, patients will be given the recommended part/phase 2 dose (RP2D) Q7D. The study will also assess the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of CCW702.