Study of Lanreotide in Patients With Metastatic Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors Who Are Undergoing Liver-directed Radioembolization With Yttrium-90 Microspheres
Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) and cancers that originate from the gastrointestinal tract can be resistant to standard chemotherapy and often metastasize to the liver. Lanreotide (Somatuline速 Depot) Injection and Yttrium-90 microspheres (SIR-Spheres速) each have FDA approval to treat patients with metastatic NETs. The purpose of this study is to determine if treatment for patients with NETs can be optimized by combining these therapies.
Neuroendocrine Tumors|Gastrointestinal Neoplasms|Carcinoid Tumors
DRUG: Lanreotide|DEVICE: Y-90 microspheres
Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Treatment-emergent Adverse Events were assessed according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.03., From the day of the first dose to 30 days after the last dose of study medication, up to 52 months
Overall Response Rate, Percentage of patients with confirmed complete or partial response (CR or PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1),: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., At 12 weeks post-treatment with SIR-Spheres then every 8 weeks, up to 52 months|Disease Control Rate, Percentage of patients with CR, PR or stable disease (SD) according to RECIST v1.1. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1),: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; Partial Response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions; Stable Disease: Meeting neither criteria for PR or Progression (PD= greater than 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, or an unequivocal increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions). Disease Control Rate (DCR) = CR + PR + SD., At 12 weeks post-treatment with SIR-Spheres then every 8 weeks, up to 52 months.|Progression Free Survival, The time from Day 1 of study drug administration to disease progression as defined by RECIST v1.1, or death on study. Per RECIST V1.1 criteria, progression is defined as a greater than 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, or an unequivocal increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., At 12 weeks post-treatment with SIR-Spheres then every 8 weeks, up to 52 months|Overall Survival, The time from Day 1 of study drug administration until death from any cause., At 12 weeks post-treatment with SIR-Spheres then every 8 weeks, up to 52 months
This is an open-label, prospective, multi-center Phase II study for patients with metastatic well-to-moderately differentiated neuroendocrine tumors, including typical carcinoid and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, who are candidates for liver-directed radioembolization.

Lanreotide (Somatuline速 Depot) Injection, is FDA-approved for treating unresectable, well- or moderately-differentiated, locally advanced or metastatic gastroentero-pancreatic neuro-endocrine tumors (GEP-NETs) to improve progression-free survival. Radioembolization with yttrium-90 microspheres (SIR-Spheres速 therapy) is FDA-approved for treating liver metastases from colorectal cancer. While each of these individual treatments has had promising results, investigators hypothesize that treatment for patients with NETs can be optimized by co-administration of both therapies. Patients will receive treatment with lanreotide (120 mg subcutaneously every 28 days) in combination with SIR-Spheres therapy. The dose and treatment day of SIR-Spheres will be determined by the treating radiation oncologist. Patients who are currently receiving or have previously received lanreotide are eligible, and treatment with lanreotide can continue monthly until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Up to 25 patients are planned for enrollment to be conducted at approximately 5 investigational sites in the U.S.