Resistance & Activating Mutations Diagnosed Among NSCLC Community Dwelling EGFR Mutation Positive Patients
The study is being done to determine if non-invasive testing (urine and plasma testing) is as effective as tissue testing in identifying epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) T790M mutation status. EGFR is a type of protein found on the surface of cells in the body. When this protein is mutated and becomes too active, it can lead to cancer growth. T790M is a mutation that develops in response to treatment of the EGFR mutation.

Participating patients will have tumor tissue (via cobas test), as well as 2 plasma samples (via cobas and Guardant360 tests) and 1 urine sample (via Trovera test), tested for EGFR T790M mutation status. If the results of the cobas tissue and/or plasma test show that a patient is T790M positive, they will be treated according to standard of care, which may include treatment with osimertinib. Osimertinib is approved for use in the United States for the treatment of EGFR T790M mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Other
The percentage of patients whose T790M results on Trovera urine AND Guardant360 plasma testing match their T790M results on cobas tissue testing., The Overall Percent Agreement will be estimated as analytic concordance between Guardant360 plasma and Trovera urine testing versus cobas tissue testing in identifying T790M status (positive or negative). The Positive Percent Agreement will be estimated as the percentage of cobas tissue positive patients who are also Guardant360 plasma and/or Trovera urine positive. The Negative Percent Agreement will be estimated as the percentage of cobas tissue negative patients who are also Guardant360 plasma and Trovera urine negative., Visit 1 (Day-21 to Day 0)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The number of patients achieving a confirmed partial response or complete response per RECIST 1.1 from treatment with osimertinib., Every 12 weeks for 12 months|Duration of Response (DoR), The time from first documented tumor response defined by RECIST 1.1 from osimertinib treatment until the date of documented progression or death from any cause., Every 12 weeks for the first 12 months, then at week 72|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from date of first dose of osimertinib until the date of disease progression by RECIST 1.1 or death by any cause., Every 12 weeks for the first 12 months, then at Week 72
Number of procedure-related adverse events and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), To evaluate safety and tolerability of study procedures., Up to 8 weeks after Visit 1|Percentage of patients whose Trovera urine OR Guardant360 plasma T790M results are the same as their cobas tissue T790M results., The overall percent agreement will be estimate as analytic concordance between cobas tissue and Guardant360 plasma, and cobas tissue and Trovera urine testing in identifying T790M status. The positive percent agreement will be estimated as the percentage of cobas tissue positive patients who are also Guardant360 plasma positive and cobas tissue positive patients who are Trovera urine positive. The negative percent agreement will be estimated as the percentage of cobas tissue negative patients who are also Guardant360 plasma negative and cobas tissue negative patients who are Trovera urine negative., Visit 1 (Day -21 to Day 0)|The presence of additional biomarkers from the blood and/or urine of NSCLC patients who have progressed during or following treatment with an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, Biomarker results will be assessed and may be compared to T790M status and/or clinical response., Visit 1 (Day -21 to Day 0)|Percentage of patients whose Trovera urine OR Guardant360 plasma EGFR mutation results are the same as their cobas tissue EGFR mutation results., The overall percent agreement will be estimated as analytic concordance between Guardany360 plasma and Trovera urine testing versus cobas tissue testing in identifying the status of specified EGFR mutations. The positive percent agreement will be estimated as the percentage of cobas tissue positive patients who are also Guardant360 plasma and/or Trovera urine positive. The negative percent agreement will be estimated as the percentage of cobas tissue negative patients who are also Guardant360 plasma and Trovera urine negative., Visit 1 (Day -21 to Day 0)|Physical Exam, Changes in physical exams from baseline, Up to 8 weeks after Visit 1|Vital signs, Changes in vital signs from baseline, Up to 8 weeks after Visit 1|ECG, Changes in ECGs from baseline., Up to 8 weeks after Visit 1|Number of Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events, and Adverse Events of Special Interest, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of osimertinib., From the time of first dose of osimertinib through 30 days past the last dose of osimertinib or 30 days after Week 72, if osimertinib treatment remains ongoing at Week 72.|Physical Exam, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of osimertinib., From the time of first dose of osimertinib through the date of last dose of osimertinib or at Week 72, whichever comes first.|Vital signs, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of osimertinib, From the time of first dose of osimertinib through the date of last dose of osimertinib or at Week 72, whichever comes first.|ECG, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of osimertinib, From the time of first dose of osimertinib through the date of last dose of osimertinib or at Week 72, whichever comes first.
RADIANCE is an open-label, prospective biomarker study to assess analytic concordance between non-invasive testing (plasma and urine) and tissue testing for the EGFR T790M mutation. All patients will have tumor tissue (via cobas test) as well as 2 plasma samples (via cobas and Guardant360) and 1 urine sample (via Trovera) tested for the EGFR T790M mutation (Part 1). Patients who are confirmed T790M negative based on both cobas biomarker tests (tissue and plasma) will have completed the study. Patients who demonstrate T790M+ on cobas tissue and/or cobas plasma testing may choose to undergo treatment with osimertinib in consultation with their healthcare provider (no investigational product will be provided for this study) and will continue to Part 2. In case of insufficient samples for biomarker testing or invalid results from any of the 4 testing modalities, another sample may be acquired from the patient, if feasible, including the patient's decision to undergo a second biopsy. Failure of a patient to undergo a tissue, plasma, or urine sample collection for biomarker testing will result in their withdrawal from the study. If 1 or more samples are insufficient for testing or 1 or more of the test results are invalid, the patient may still qualify for the clinical outcomes part of the study (Part 2) as long as cobas tissue and/or cobas plasma test is T790M+ and the patient receives at least one dose of osimertinib.

During Part 2 Follow-Up Visits will occur according to standard of care, but at least every 12 weeks for the first 12 months of treatment. A Final Study Visit will occur at 18 months (Week 72 +/- 14 days) or upon early withdrawal.

Statistical methods Sample size: The sample size is such to provide enough statistical precision for the primary endpoint. A sample size of 400 patients with evaluable biomarker test results for analytic concordance has been selected in order to achieve a precision of no more than ±5% around the estimated concordance rate. If a 15% inflation factor is applied (\~70 patients) to this sample size to take into account those patients who may not be evaluable for concordance estimates, a total of approximately 470 patients will be enrolled.

The Full Analysis Sets will include the following:

Part 1: All patients in the study with cobas tissue, Guardant360 plasma, and Trovera urine test results.

Part 2: Patients who demonstrate T790M+ cobas tissue and/or cobas plasma testing and were treated with at least 1 dose of osimertinib (i.e., all patients in Part 2).

Safety analysis sets: The safety analysis sets will include the following:

Part 1: All patients in the study from the time of informed consent until completion of Part 1.

Part 2: Patients who demonstrate T790M+ cobas tissue and/or cobas plasms testing and were treated with at least 1 dose of osimertinib (i.e., all patients in Part 2).

The analyses of the data collected within this study will be descriptive only, with no formal statistical testing. Continuous variables will be summarized by the number of observations, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum. Categorical variables will be summarized by frequency counts and percentages for each category. A Statistical Analysis Plan will be prepared and finalized prior to the first interim analysis, which will occur upon completion of the diagnostic analytic validity part of the study (Part 1). The concordance rate between non-invasive testing and cobas tissue testing will be presented as the point estimate together with the exact 95% confidence interval (CI) estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method. The ORR will be presented as the point estimate together with the exact 95% CI according to the Clopper-Pearson method. The duration of response (DoR) and progression-free survival (PFS) will be presented for all patients in Part 2, summarized using the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) method with associated K-M curves. The median DoR and PFS will be presented, as well as the rates at clinically relevant time points, together with the associated 95% CIs.