Evaluation of a Patient-Reported Symptom Index for NMIBC
This project will develop and evaluate a patient-reported symptom index to assess the impact of treatment for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer on patient burden, toxicity, symptoms and side effects. The symptom index will provide a method for assessing treatments from the patient's perspective; help healthcare professionals make better informed treatment decisions, and provide a method to be able to effectively evaluate treatments for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.
Superficial Bladder Cancer
NMIBC-SI development and validation, non-muscle invasive bladder cancer symptom index (questionnaire being developed and evaluated in this study), Field test 1: once only (cross-sectional). Field test 2: baseline to post-treatment (longitudinal)
QLQC-30, EORTC cancer quality of life questionnaire, Field test 2: four time-points over 1 year|NMIBC24, EORTC superficial bladder cancer questionnaire, Field test 2: four time-points over 1 year|NMIBC-SI long term, non-muscle invasive bladder cancer symptom index (long-term follow-up, and differences between groups), Field test 2: four time-points over 1 year
The overarching aim of this research is to develop and evaluate a patient-reported Symptom Index (SI) for individuals with NMIBC (the NMIBC-SI) that is acceptable to patients, reliable, valid and responsive, and fit for purpose in clinical trials and clinical practice.

Specific clinical aims:

* Assess and compare key Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) across the full range of contemporary treatments for NMIBC, and over the disease trajectory including acute treatment and 1year survivorship;
* Compare PROs between patients with low, intermediate, and high risk NMIBC.

In field test 1, 200 participants will complete one questionnaire either in hard copy (pencil and paper) or online, at a time that is convenient for the participant. The questionnaire may take up to 20 minutes to complete.

In field test 2, 250 participants will complete quality of life questionnaires at four different time points; 1) before tumour resection, 2) 1 week after resection, 3) 8 weeks after resection, and 4) 1 year after resection. The questionnaires can be completed in the clinic or at home, either in hard copy (pencil and paper) or online, at a time that is convenient for the participant but still within the relevant time point. The questionnaires may take up to 30 minutes to complete.