Prevalence of Pregnancy in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Polycystic ovary syndrome is the most common endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age, with a prevalence of approximately 5-10%. Polycystic ovary syndrome is diagnosed according to Rotterdam criteria by at least two of the following three key features: oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea; clinical and/or biochemical signs of hyperandrogenism; the presence of polycystic ovaries on ultrasound and exclusion of other endocrine disorders including hyperprolactinemia, thyroid dysfunction and congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Polycystic ovary syndrome is also associated with insulin resistance, obesity and disorders of lipid metabolism, as well as infertility, although these findings have not been addressed in the Rotterdam criteria. Polycystic ovary syndrome is the major cause of anovulatory infertility. The recent studies suggest that anovulation resulting from ovarian follicle abnormalities in Polycystic ovary syndrome patients are 2-fold of normal ovaries. Firstly, early follicular growth is excessive, thus women with Polycystic ovary syndrome are characterized by an excessive number of small antral follicles (2- to 3-fold of normal ovaries). Secondly, the selection of one follicle from the increased pool of selectable follicles and its further maturation to a dominant follicle does not occur. This second abnormality in the folliculogenesis can cause menstrual dysfunction presented as oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea. Historically, Polycystic ovary syndrome treatment has not been curative in nature, instead treatments focus on resolution of clinical manifestations of the disease.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
RADIATION: transvaginal ultrasound|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Hormonal levels
Number of poly-cystic ovarian syndrome women who will be ovulated, 3 months
Polycystic ovary syndrome is the most common endocrine disorder in women of reproductive age, with a prevalence of approximately 5-10%. Polycystic ovary syndrome is diagnosed according to Rotterdam criteria by at least two of the following three key features: oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea; clinical and/or biochemical signs of hyperandrogenism; the presence of polycystic ovaries on ultrasound and exclusion of other endocrine disorders including hyperprolactinemia, thyroid dysfunction and congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Polycystic ovary syndrome is also associated with insulin resistance, obesity and disorders of lipid metabolism, as well as infertility, although these findings have not been addressed in the Rotterdam criteria. Polycystic ovary syndrome is the major cause of anovulatory infertility. The recent studies suggest that anovulation resulting from ovarian follicle abnormalities in Polycystic ovary syndrome patients are 2-fold of normal ovaries. Firstly, early follicular growth is excessive, thus women with Polycystic ovary syndrome are characterized by an excessive number of small antral follicles (2- to 3-fold of normal ovaries). Secondly, the selection of one follicle from the increased pool of selectable follicles and its further maturation to a dominant follicle does not occur. This second abnormality in the folliculogenesis can cause menstrual dysfunction presented as oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea. Historically, Polycystic ovary syndrome treatment has not been curative in nature, instead treatments focus on resolution of clinical manifestations of the disease.