The Importance of Albumin Infusion Rate for Plasma Volume Expansion Following Major Abdominal Surgery
To study if plasma volume expansion is influenced by the rate at which a colloidal solution is administered in patients with a systemic inflammatory response induced by major abdominal surgery.

Randomization will be performed postoperatively at the day of surgery with a 1:1 ratio with no stratification and the study drug will be given as a slow (3 hours) or rapid (30 minutes) intravenous infusion.
Pancreatic Neoplasms|Urogenital Neoplasm|Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome|Hypovolemia
DRUG: 5% Albumin infusion 30 min|DRUG: 5% Albumin infusion 3 hours
Change in plasma volume, From start of infusion until 3 hours after start of infusion
Change in plasma volume over time, Integral of plasma volume over time, From start of infusion until 3 hours after start of infusion|Incidence of postoperative complications, 30 days postoperatively
Transcapillary escape rate (TER) for albumin, 180-240 min after start of infusion|Change in heart rate, change in central venous oxygen saturation, change in haemoglobin concentration in blood, change in blood pressure, change in central venous pressure, change in plasma lactate and diuresis., From start of infusion until 3 hours after start of infusion
Major surgery is one of many triggers of a systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), which disrupts the normal regulation of transcapillary fluid exchange with tissue oedema and hypovolemia as a consequence. Hypovolemia will amplify the inflammatory reaction by reducing cardiac output and oxygen delivery, which creates a vicious circle. Fluid therapy is therefore a cornerstone in the perioperative treatment patients subjected to major surgery. However, even if fluid therapy is life saving it is also associated with side effects such as further oedema formation, coagulopathy and further endothelial dysfunction.

From a clinical perspective, it is therefore important that the fluid administered to antagonize hypovolemia as far as possible remains intravascularly. Colloids are macromolecules for which the vessel wall has a low permeability and proponents of colloid containing fluids argues that less volume is required for equal plasma volume compared to crystalloids. However, extravasation of colloids is not only a function of the vessel wall permeability but is also dependent on the volume of fluid to that is filtered across the vascular wall, which in turn depends on the trans-capillary hydrostatic pressure. This means that administration of colloids in a way that minimizes the increase in capillary pressure could be important for the plasma volume expanding effect.

In support of this hypothesis is the experimental result that the plasma volume expansion of a colloidal solution can be affected by the rate of administration (Bark et al., 2013). If this finding proves to be valid also in a clinical setting, it will be very important for how colloidal solutions are prescribed in the clinic and may change current clinical practice in which suspected hypovolemia often is treated with a bolus infusion of fluid. This study intend to investigate whether these findings can be reproduced after a so-called Whipple's operation or after major gynaecological cancer surgery.

Study patients will be studied after these procedures because because they are large and standardized operations that trigger an inflammatory condition with capillary leakage and therefore can be considered as a model for major surgical procedures as well as ICU patients with SIRS triggered by for example sepsis.