Evaluation of Mammographic Breast Density in Participants with Hormone Receptor-Negative Breast Cancer Enrolled on Study A011502
This phase III trial evaluates mammographic breast density in participants with hormone receptor-negative breast cancer enrolled on study A011502. High breast density has been shown to be a strong risk factor for developing breast cancer and decreasing breast density may decrease the risk for breast cancer. Participants treated with aspirin may show reduced breast density on a mammogram.
Breast Carcinoma|Estrogen Receptor Negative|Progesterone Receptor Negative
PROCEDURE: Screening Mammography|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Mammographic percent density (MPD) in the contralateral (unaffected) breast between the aspirin and placebo arms, The 1-year mammographic percent density (MPD) in the contralateral (unaffected) breast between the aspirin and placebo arms will be compared. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) adjusting for baseline MPD will be used to compare MPD at 1 year between the arms. After adjusting for the baseline MPD, it will be concluded that the 1-year MPD is statistically different between the two arms if the corresponding two-sided p-value is less than 0.05. If normality of the primary variable is questionable, then variable transformation or nonparametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test on simple change MPD values may be considered as alternative approaches. A subsequent exploratory analysis will include all patients with an MPD computed at baseline (regardless of that baseline value) and at 1-year post-baseline., At 1 year post-registration to A011502
Mammographic percent density (MPD) in the contralateral (unaffected) breast between the aspirin and placebo arms, The 2-year mammographic breast density in the contralateral (unaffected) breast between the two arms for those patients with a baseline mammographic percent density (MPD) \>= 25% and a 2-year post-baseline MPD will be compared. ANCOVA will be used to compare MPD between the arms. The corresponding test for the between-arm difference in MPD at 2-years will also be carried out at the 0.05 significance level., At 2 years post-registration to A011502
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. To compare the 1-year mammographic breast density in the contralateral (unaffected) breast between the aspirin and placebo arms in patients with hormone receptor negative or positive breast cancer enrolled in A011502.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES I. To compare the 2-year mammographic breast density in the contralateral (unaffected) breast between the aspirin and placebo arms in patients with hormone receptor negative or positive breast cancer enrolled in A011502.

OUTLINE:

Participants provide bilateral screening mammogram taken prior to all cancer treatment and within 8 weeks prior to registration to A011502 and an annual bilateral mammogram as near as possible to 1 year post-registration to A011502 and as near as possible to 2 years post-registration to A011502. Participants also undergo collection of blood sample and menstrual cycle data within 2 weeks after registration and at 1 and 2 years after registration to A011502.

After completion of study, participants are followed up annually until 10 years from registration to study A011502.