Prognostic Values of Inflammation-based Indices in Gastric Cancer
This study aims to evaluate the prognostic values of preoperative inflammation-based indices in patients undergoing potentially curative resection of gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Gastrectomy
5-year survival rates, The primary clinical outcome of interest is 5-year survival rates., 5 years
Gastric cancer is one of the most common and deadly cancers worldwide. Based on GLOBOCAN 2018 data, it is the fifth most common malignancy and the third leading cause of cancer deaths, with an estimated 783,000 deaths in 2018. Despite advances in diagnosis and management strategies, outcomes for patients diagnosed with gastric cancer still remain poor and the five-year survival is approximately %20. In addition, there is marked heterogeneity in the duration of survival among patients. Hence, there are increasing research efforts towards the identification of possible predictive clinical, pathological, or biologic factors to determine more accurate patient stratification, which will improve clinical decision-making and possibly contribute to more rational study design and analysis. Systemic inflammation is known to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis, development, and progression of cancer. Preoperative inflammation-based indices, such as the Glasgow prognostic score (GPS), modified Glasgow prognostic score (mGPS), neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet lymphocyte ratio (PLR), prognostic index (PI), prognostic nutritional index (PNI), CRP/albumin ratio, systemic inflammation score (SIS), modified systemic inflammation score (mSIS), have been found to have potential prognostic values in various cancer. Previous studies have suggested that several of these scoring systems may have a role in predicting survival in patients with upper gastrointestinal cancer. These scores are all derived from blood tests that are already routinely performed in clinical practice and thus have the potential to offer valuable additional information that may help to guide patient management. This study aims to evaluate the prognostic values of preoperative inflammation-based indices in patients undergoing potentially curative resection of gastric cancer.