Gemcitabine Hydrochloride and Cisplatin or High-Dose Methotrexate, Vinblastine, Doxorubicin Hydrochloride, and Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Urothelial Cancer
This study is about two chemotherapy study drug combinations (regimens) that are used for urothelial (bladder or upper urinary tract) cancer. Both study drug regimens, gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) plus cisplatin, and high-dose-intensity MVAC (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin plus cisplatin), are standard chemotherapy regimens. Both regimens are used to treat people with urothelial cancer that has spread to other organs. Both study drug regimens have been proven to be effective in lowering the risk of the cancer coming back, but it is not known which regimen is the best. This study hopes to learn whether there is a difference in the effectiveness and side effects of these two study drug regimens when they are given to people who have had their urothelial cancer completely removed.
Anterior Urethral Cancer|Localized Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Posterior Urethral Cancer|Recurrent Bladder Cancer|Recurrent Urethral Cancer|Regional Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Stage III Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder|Ureter Cancer|Urethral Cancer Associated With Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: methotrexate|DRUG: vinblastine|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: pegfilgrastim|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Rate of unacceptable toxicity graded according to Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) v4.0, 80% confidence intervals (CI) will be constructed; for unacceptable toxicity, the confidence interval will be one-sided., Assessed up to 3 years
Disease-free survival, From radical cystectomy to the time cancer recurrence is detected by clinical findings or during surveillance imaging, at 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

To estimate the difference in the rate of unacceptable toxicity for dose-dense methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (MVAC) and gemcitabine and cisplatin (GC) in the adjuvant treatment of urothelial cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

To compare rates of disease recurrence at 3 years between dose-dense MVAC and GC.

To determine whether molecular markers excision repair cross-complementing-1 (ERCC-1) ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase M-1 (RRM-1), breast cancer 1 (BRCA1) topoisomerase 2-alpha (Top2A) and protein 53 (p53) can predict those patients more likely to benefit from chemotherapy.

To investigate the potential utility of cytidine deaminase (CDA), ERCC-1, xeroderma pigmentosum group D (XPD), glutathione S-transferase P-1 (GSTP-1) and glutathione S-transferase M-1 (GSTM-1) as molecular markers which predict occurrence of significant toxicity during adjuvant chemotherapy for urothelial cancer.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) on day 1 and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive methotrexate IV on day 1, vinblastine IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, cisplatin IV on day 2 and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years.