A Trial For Participants With Ewing's Sarcoma Treated With Vigil in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide
The goal of this clinical trial was to compare participants with first relapse or refractory Ewing's sarcoma when treated with investigational product (Vigil) in addition to the standard treatment of irinotecan and temozolomide compared to the standard treatment of irinotecan and temozolomide alone. The main question it aimed to answer is "Will participants who receive Vigil in addition to irinotecan and temozolomide have a prolonged time to progression and improved quality of life compared to the participants who receive irinotecan and temozolomide alone?".
Ewing Sarcoma|Ewing Family of Tumors|Ewing's Tumor Metastatic|Ewing's Sarcoma Metastatic|Ewing's Tumor Recurrent|Rare Diseases|Sarcoma|Neoplasms, Connective and Soft Tissue|Neoplasms by Histologic Type|Neoplasms, Bone Tissue|Neoplasms, Connective Tissue|Sarcoma, Ewing|Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Vigil|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Temozolomide
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization to the event of disease recurrence/progression according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria (version 1.1) for target lesions and assessed CT/MRI by local investigator., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression (assessed up to 3 years).
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from randomization to death or to the date of last follow-up. The date of last follow-up confirming survival will be used as the censoring date for subjects who are alive and/or do not have a known date of death., From date of randomization until date of death from any cause, whichever came first (assessed up to 3 years).|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who have prolonged stable disease or a partial or complete response or complete response to therapy according to RECIST 1.1., 6 months after treatment with Vigil.|Vigil Manufacture Success Rate: Number of Participants Eligible for Treatment on the Main Study., Participants were considered eligible for treatment, if the tissue submitted to Gradalis met all criteria, including manufacturing product release criteria., From manufacturing start date until 4 weeks post manufacturing for each tissue procurement (assessed up to 17 months).
This was a multicenter, Phase III study in participants with metastatic Ewing's sarcoma Family of Tumors (ESFT) refractory/intolerant or recurrent to 1 prior line of chemotherapy. Participants who agreed to participation had tumor tissue harvested from a scheduled standard surgical procedure (e.g., tumor biopsy or palliative resection). The tumor tissue removed was shipped to Gradalis, Inc. to attempt to manufacture the investigational product, Vigil.

Subjects who met eligibility criteria including manufacture of a minimum of 4 doses of Vigil were randomized 1:1 to either Group A (Vigil + Irinotecan + Temozolomide (Tem/Iri)) or Group B (Irinotecan + Temozolomide). Screening for the main portion of the study occurred as early as one week but no later than 8 weeks following tumor procurement.

Subjects received repeat cycles of treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or other criterion was met for discontinuation from study. Subjects randomized to Group A (Vigil + Tem/Iri) received up to 12 doses depending upon the quantity of Vigil manufactured from the surgical specimen. 1 cycle = 21 days. If irinotecan + temozolomide was administered beyond 12 cycles, it was administered off study. Subjects randomized to Group B (Tem/Iri) may have crossed over to receive single agent Vigil every 21 days following End of Treatment assessment and documented disease progression confirmed by central radiology vendor, for up to 12 doses of Vigil depending upon the quantity of Vigil manufactured.

Participants were managed in an outpatient setting. Hematologic function, liver enzymes, renal function and electrolytes will be monitored. Blood for immune function analyses including IFNγ-ELISPOT analysis of cytotoxic T cell activation in response to autologous tumor antigens will be collected at tissue procurement, post-procurement screening and Day 1 (prior to chemotherapy administration) at Cycles 2, 4, and 6, end of treatment (EOT), 3 months after EOT, and every 6 months thereafter. Blood for ctDNA analysis was collected at tissue procurement, prior to chemotherapy administration at baseline and on Day 1 prior to chemotherapy administration at Cycles 2, 3, 4, and 6, and EOT. After progression, participants were contacted quarterly for documentation of post study therapies and survival status information.