Belantamab Mafodotin, Lenalidomide, and Daratumumab for the Treatment of Relapsed, Refractory, or Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose and effect of belantamab mafodotin given together with lenalidomide and daratumumab in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back (relapsed), does not respond to treatment (refractory) or for which the patient has not received treatment in the past (previously untreated). Belantamab mafodotin is a monoclonal antibody, called belantamab, linked to a chemotherapy drug, called mafodotin. Belantamab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as BCMA receptors, and delivers mafodotin to kill them. Lenalidomide is an immunomodulatory drug (altering the immune effects on the tumor cell). Daratumumab is a drug that is a monoclonal antibody that is directed towards a protein on the myeloma cell. Giving belantamab mafodotin together with lenalidomide and daratumumab may kill more cancer cells.
Plasma Cell Myeloma|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Belantamab Mafodotin|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Skeletal Survey X-Ray|PROCEDURE: Low Dose Computed Tomography of the Whole Body|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of belantamab in combination with daratumumab and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma (Phase I), The MTD will be determined by the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) seen in cycle 1 of the therapy in the phase I portion. The phase II portion will be based on the determined MTD. MTD is defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients)., Up to 28 days|Complete response rate with belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide, OR alternating cycles of daratumumab, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and belantamab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone, when used as initial therapy (Phase II), A confirmed response is defined as a patient who has achieved a stringent complete response (sCR) or CR (as defined by the International Myeloma Working Group criteria) and maintained it on two consecutive evaluations at least 2 weeks apart., After completion of induction therapy
Incidence of toxicity (Phase I), Defined as adverse events that are classified as either possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. Non-hematologic toxicities will be evaluated via the ordinal Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) standard toxicity grading. Hematologic toxicity measures of thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and leukopenia will be assessed using continuous variables as the outcome measures (primarily nadir) as well as categorization via CTC standard toxicity grading. Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, patient and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 3 years|Overall response rate, Will be estimated by the number of patients with each response category (e.g: sCR, CR, VGPR, partial response \[PR\], etc) divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 3 years|Greater than or equal to very good partial response (VGPR) rate, Will be estimated by the number of patients with each response category (e.g: sCR, CR, VGPR, PR, etc) divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or relapse or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Time to response, Descriptive statistics will be estimated., Time between the date of first dose and the first documented evidence of a partial response or better, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of belantamab mafodotin (belantamab) in combination with daratumumab and lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. (Phase I) II. To assess the confirmed complete response rate following induction therapy with belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide (bortezomib-dexamethasone-rituximab \[BDR\]), OR alternating cycles of daratumumab, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and belantamab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone, when used as initial therapy in patients with previously untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma patients. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicities associated with the combination of belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide when used as initial therapy in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma. (Phase I) II. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) and \>= very good partial response (VGPR) rate of belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide (BDR) (Phase II), OR alternating cycles of daratumumab, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and belantamab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone. (Phase II) III. To assess the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with previously untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma following treatment with belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide (BDR) (Phase II), OR alternating cycles of daratumumab, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and belantamab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone. (Phase II) IV. To assess the time to response (defined as the time between the date of first dose and the first documented evidence of a partial response or better) following treatment with belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide (BDR) (Phase II), OR alternating cycles of daratumumab, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and belantamab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone. (Phase II) V. To describe the toxicities associated with belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide (BDR) (Phase II), OR alternating cycles of daratumumab, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and belantamab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone. (Phase II)

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVE:

I. Examine the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity following induction therapy with the combination of belantamab, daratumumab, and lenalidomide (BDR) (Phase II), OR alternating cycles of daratumumab, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and belantamab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of belantamab mafodotin, followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I:

INDUCTION: Patients receive belantamab mafodotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and daratumumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1 and 2, days 1 and 15 of cycles 3-6, and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment with belantamab mafodotin repeats every 56 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with lenalidomide and daratumumab repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Beginning cycle 13, patients receive belantamab mafodotin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of odd number cycles, lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21, and daratumumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with belantamab mafodotin repeats every 56 days, and every 28 days for lenalidomide and daratumumab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with belantamab mafodotin repeats every 56 days (every other cycle) for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with lenalidomide and daratumumab repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A:

INDUCTION: Patients receive belantamab mafodotin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of odd number cycles, lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21, and daratumumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1 and 2, days 1 and 15 of cycles 3-6, and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Beginning cycle 13, patients receive belantamab mafodotin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of odd number cycles (starting cycle 13), lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21, and daratumumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B:

INDUCTION: Patients receive belantamab mafodotin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12, lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21, daratumumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1 and 3, and days 1 and 15 on cycles 5, 7, 9, and 11. Patients also receive dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15 and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Beginning cycle 13, patients receive belantamab mafodotin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of even numbered cycles, lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21, and daratumumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of odd numbered cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Additionally, all patients undergo blood sample collection, X-ray skeletal survey or whole body low dose computed tomography (CT), bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.