Care Bundle Containing Chlorhexidine Dressing on Port Catheter and Central Venous Catheters
In order to provide treatment in pediatric hematology-oncology patients, in some cases a central venous catheter is required in children. The most important situation to pay attention to when using a central venous catheter is "Central line-associated bloodstream infections".

These infections are infections that develop after admission to the hospital and are not in the incubation period at the time of admission, or although they usually develop in the hospital 48-72 hours after hospitalization, they can sometimes appear after discharge. Central line-associated bloodstream infections significantly increase morbidity and mortality. In this context, the effect of using a care bundle containing chlorhexidine dressing on port catheter and central venous catheter-related bloodstream infections in pediatric cancer patients was examined.
Pediatric Cancer
DEVICE: Chlorhexidine Dressing
Central line-associated bloodstream infections, defined as the recovery of a pathogen from a blood culture in a patient who had a central line at the time of infection or within 48 hours before the development of infection, during the intervention, up to 1 years
This study was designed as a prospective, cross-sectional, and randomized controlled study to examine the effect of a care package containing chlorhexidine dressing on port catheter and central venous catheter-related bloodstream infections in pediatric cancer patients.

Hypotheses of the Research H1: Care bundle approach including chlorhexidine dressing in pediatric cancer patients reduces port catheter and central venous catheter-related bloodstream infections.

H2: Care bundle approach including chlorhexidine dressing in pediatric cancer patients reduces port catheter and central venous catheter-related complications.

Randomization A stratified randomization scheme was used to distribute the sample into groups. Stratification randomization was made according to port catheter stay duration, age group, hematological/oncological cancer type and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation unit / pediatric hematology and oncology clinic.