An Intervention to Increase Genetic Testing in Families Who May Share a Gene Mutation Related to Cancer Risk and An Intervention to Help Patients and Their Primary Care Providers Stay Up-to-date About Uncertain Genetic Test Results
The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of new cancer genetic counseling models that aim to increase patient engagement with the genetics team. To do this, the study consists of two trials to evaluate two related interventions. The first trial is the EfFORT Trial, which evaluates a cascade genetic testing intervention. Cascade testing is the process of offering genetic testing to people who are at risk of having inherited a possibly harmful gene change that has been found in their family. The study will look at how often genetic testing occurs when healthcare providers have permission to reach out to family members to recommend genetic testing and to help those who are interested get tested. The study will look at whether this cascade testing intervention is practical and effective. The study would like to see how this approach of healthcare providers reaching out directly to family members compares with the usual approach of patients telling their family members about the recommendation to get genetic testing. The second trial is the STRIVE Trial, which evaluates an intervention designed to help patients who receive an uncertain result from genetic testing (also called a "variant of uncertain significance") stay connected with their genetics care team, and to help patients and their primary care providers stay up-to-date about the meaning of uncertain genetic test results. The study will look at whether an intervention that consists of a study online portal for patients with uncertain genetic test results and their primary care providers will help them to stay up-to-date on the meaning of uncertain genetic test results. The study would like to see how this intervention compares to the usual approach of encouraging patients to re-contact their genetics care team on their own about a year after getting genetic testing."
BRCA1 Mutation|POLD1 Gene Mutation|CDKN2A Mutation|BRCA2 Mutation|POLE Gene Mutation|APC Gene Mutation|ATM Gene Mutation|MLH1 Gene Mutation|BARD1 Gene Mutation|MSH2 Gene Mutation|BRIP1 Gene Mutation|MSH6 Gene Mutation|CHEK2 Gene Mutation|PMS2 Gene Mutation|PALB2 Gene Mutation|EPCAM Gene Mutation|RAD51C Gene Mutation|BMPR1A Gene Mutation|RAD51D Gene Mutation|SMAD4|PTEN Gene Mutation|GREM1
BEHAVIORAL: Intervention Arm At-risk Relative/ARR Contacts|BEHAVIORAL: MyGene Portal|BEHAVIORAL: Standard of Care
Comparison of genetic testing uptake in provider-facilitated cascade testing intervention to the proband-mediated cascade testing control, The Primary Objective for EfFORT Trial: Assess genetic testing uptake by first-, second-, and third-degree relatives in the provider-facilitated cascade testing intervention as compared to the proband-mediated cascade testing control., 12 months|Comparison of participant perceived quality of care, The Primary Objective for STRIVE Trial: Assess perceived quality of Variant of uncertain significance/VUS follow-up care and continued engagement with the Clinical Genetics Service/CGS care team in the digitally-facilitated VUS follow-up intervention as compared to the patient-led VUS follow-up control. A modified subset of items based upon an existing survey of patient-centered quality of follow-up care for cancer survivors (Cronbach's α=0.65-0.93) will be used to measure patient perceptions of the quality of their follow-up care provided by both the CGS care team (11 items) and their PCPs (6 items). Items are measured on a 4-point Likert-type scale, and mean scores are computed such that higher scores indicate greater perceived quality of care This measure will be collected from VUS patient participants in both study arms and a mean score calculated across items., 12 months
The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of new cancer genetic counseling models that aim to increase patient engagement with the genetics team. To do this, the study consists of two trials to evaluate two related interventions. The first trial is the EfFORT Trial, which evaluates a cascade genetic testing intervention. Cascade testing is the process of offering genetic testing to people who are at risk of having inherited a possibly harmful gene change that has been found in their family. The study will look at how often genetic testing occurs when healthcare providers have permission to reach out to family members to recommend genetic testing and to help those who are interested get tested. The study will look at whether this cascade testing intervention is practical and effective. The study would like to see how this approach of healthcare providers reaching out directly to family members compares with the usual approach of patients telling their family members about the recommendation to get genetic testing. The second trial is the STRIVE Trial, which evaluates an intervention designed to help patients who receive an uncertain result from genetic testing (also called a "variant of uncertain significance") stay connected with their genetics care team, and to help patients and their primary care providers stay up-to-date about the meaning of uncertain genetic test results. The study will look at whether an intervention that consists of a study online portal for patients with uncertain genetic test results and their primary care providers will help them to stay up-to-date on the meaning of uncertain genetic test results. The study would like to see how this intervention compares to the usual approach of encouraging patients to re-contact their genetics care team on their own about a year after getting genetic testing."