Phase 2 Study of Telomelysin (OBP-301) in Combination With Pembrolizumab in Esophagogastric Adenocarcinoma
This is a phase II study of OBP-301 with pembrolizumab in advanced gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that has progressed on at least 2 lines of prior therapy for advanced disease.
Esophagogastric Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Telomelysin
Overall Response Rate, as Assessed by Radiographic Imaging, The examination of patients with a partial or complete response is reported as the number of patients who achieved either a complete or partial response (CR + PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1). Per RECIST v1.1, for target lesions assessed by MRI or CT Chest Abdomen and Pelvis with Contrast, a Complete Response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions, and a Partial Response (PR) is a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Overall Response (OR) is defined as the sum of CR and PR., 1 year
Disease Control Rate, as Assessed by Radiographic Imaging, Examination of subjects with stable disease, a partial response, or complete response reported as the number of participants who maintained stable disease, partial response, or complete response as per iRECIST through 1 year (SD + PR + CR). The examination of patients with a partial or complete response is reported as the number of patients who achieved either a complete or partial response (CR + PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1). Per RECIST v1.1, for target lesions assessed by MRI or CT Chest Abdomen and Pelvis with Contrast, a Complete Response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions, and a Partial Response (PR) is a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Overall Response (OR) is defined as the sum of CR and PR., 1 year|Duration of Response, as Assessed by Radiographic Imaging, Defined as the duration that subjects who have responded to combination therapy remain without disease progression. The examination of patients with a partial or complete response is reported as the number of patients who achieved either a complete or partial response (CR + PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1). Per RECIST v1.1, for target lesions assessed by MRI or CT Chest Abdomen and Pelvis with Contrast, a Complete Response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions, and a Partial Response (PR) is a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Overall Response (OR) is defined as the sum of CR and PR., 2.5 years|Overall Survival Rate, as Assessed by Survival, Defined as the number of participants who survived until 1 year from enrollment, 1 year|Progression Free Survival Rate, as Assessed by Radiographic Imaging and Survival., The number of participants who did not progress as determined by iRECIST, or die by 1 year. The examination of patients with a partial or complete response is reported as the number of patients who achieved either a complete or partial response (CR + PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1). Per RECIST v1.1, for target lesions assessed by MRI or CT Chest Abdomen and Pelvis with Contrast, a Complete Response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions, and a Partial Response (PR) is a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Overall Response (OR) is defined as the sum of CR and PR., 1 year
Change From Baseline in Tumor-immune Microenvironment, as Measured by Bulk RNA Sequencing and Single-cell RNA Sequencing., In this aim we will summarize the results from all patient data to assess what are the consistent changes observed in cellular composition in response to immunotherapy and we will investigate how these changes impact response to treatment., Baseline, 2 years|Change From Baseline in T-cell Response, as Measured by TCR-sequencing of Tumor Biopsies, This project will be focused on analyzing the immune landscape of individual tumors from tumor biopsies taken at baseline and on therapy. We will analyze changes associated with relapse and differences between refractory and sensitive patients. Our proposed analysis will take as input somatic mutations, raw WES reads, and raw RNA-Seq reads, Baseline, 2 years|Change From Baseline in Immune Infiltrate by Multi-parameter Flow-cytometry, This powerful approach will be utilized to characterize tumor immune cell infiltrates at baseline, following the induction of combination therapy and at the time of resection. This will be one of the first longitudinal analyses of tumor immune cell infiltrates by multi-parameter flow cytometry following immunotherapy., Baseline, 2 years
This is a phase II study of OBP-301 with pembrolizumab in advanced gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that has progressed on at least 2 lines of prior therapy for advanced disease. Pembrolizumab has recently received FDA approval for PD-L1 positive gastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma based on the Keynote-059 study. The efficacy of pembrolizumab monotherapy is modest in PD-L1 positive patients (defined as a combined positive score, CPS, of \> 1), with only a \~15% overall response rate. This study will examine the addition of the oncolytic virus, OBP-301, administered prior to pembrolizumab in this patient population. Patients will be enrolled in a two-stage design, with 18 patients in the first stage. All patients will receive OBP-301 at 2x1012 viral particles (VP)/ tumor injection administered every two weeks x 4 injections as well as standard dose pembrolizumab 200 mg IV every 3 weeks. The tumor will be injected with OBP-301 four times (d1, d15, d29, d43). The preference is to inject the primary tumor endoscopically. Metastatic lesions may be injected on a case-by-case basis after discussion with the PI (Shah). All patients treated with OBP-301 will be eligible for the safety cohort.

Primary Endpoints:

* To examine the efficacy of OBP-301 with pembrolizumab in PD-L1 positive advanced gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma in the 3rd or 4th line setting, as assessed by the RECIST response rate.
* To examine the safety of multiple OBP-301 intratumoral injections in combination with pembrolizumab in advanced gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma.

Secondary Endpoint:

• To examine other measures of efficacy of the combination of OBP-301 with pembrolizumab in advanced gastric and esophageal adenocarcinoma including the disease control rate, duration of response, overall survival and progression free survival.