Studies on the Impact of Taste-aware Intelligent Analysis of Oral Nutritional Supplements
The goal of this observational study is to test the taste perception threshold and palatability interval of different populations and the difference in taste perception between tumor and stroke patients and healthy people by combining manual sensory evaluation and electronic bionic sensory and investigate the taste perception characteristics and demand of enteral nutrition preparations such as Fortimel in tumor and stroke patients, and the difference in taste perception of enteral nutrition preparations with healthy people by combining manual sensory evaluation and electronic bionic sensory. Participants were tested for different taste perception thresholds using a three-point difference test, with samples materials for basic taste stimuli used, i.e. reference substances tartaric/citric acid (acidic), quinine hydrochloride/caffeine (bitter), anhydrous sodium chloride (salty), sucrose (sweet), and quercetin/alum (astringent) were used to prepare different tastes and concentrations of liquids. The subjects will then evaluate the appearance (color, texture), taste, flavor, and texture of the six different flavored enteral nutrition preparations. The subjects will then perform manual sensory evaluation of the appearance (color, texture), odor, taste, texture, and other properties of the 6 different flavored enteral nutrition preparations.
Cancer- and Cancer Treatment-Related Conditions|Stroke
OTHER: Samples materials of basic taste stimuli and enteral nutrition preparations
Taste perception threshold, materials using basic taste stimuli, i.e. reference substances tartaric/citric acid (acid), quinine hydrochloride/caffeine (bitter), anhydrous sodium chloride (salty), sucrose (sweet), quercetin/alum (astringent) to prepare Different flavors and concentrations of solutions were prepared. By the "three-point test", pure water was used as a control to determine the concentration of the flavors caused by The "discrimination threshold" of the sensation was determined by the "three-point test" using pure water as a control., After initial screening and exclusion, subjects who met the inclusion criteria were ready to begin taste threshold testing.
1. Combining manual sensory evaluation and electronic bionic sensory, assessing the differences in taste perception between tumor and stroke patients and healthy individuals by measuring the basic taste perception threshold and palatability interval and analyzing facial expressions.
2. Combining manual sensory evaluation with electronic bionic senses and simultaneous facial expression analysis to assess the taste perception characteristics and needs of tumor and stroke patients for different flavors of enteral nutrition preparations.
3. Establishing an information base of electronic tongue taste data, facial expression emotion and flavor data of nutritional preparations based on the electronic tongue and facial expression data of relevant assays obtained simultaneously during the above experiments.