Efficacy of Hypofractionated XRT w/Bev. + Temozolomide for Recurrent Gliomas
This phase II trial studies how well giving hypofractionated radiation therapy together with temozolomide and bevacizumab works in treating patients with high-grade glioblastoma multiforme or anaplastic glioma. Specialized radiation therapy, such as hypofractionated radiation therapy, that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving hypofractionated radiation therapy together with temozolomide and bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Adult Anaplastic Ependymoma|Adult Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma
DRUG: Temozolomide|RADIATION: hypofractionated radiation therapy|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Overall Survival (OS) for Patients With Recurrent High Grade Malignant Gliomas Treated With Concurrent Radiation, Temozolomide, and Bevacizumab Followed by Adjuvant Temozolomide and Bevacizumab., Data will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves. OS is defined as the time from first re-irradiation treatment until death from any cause., From treatment initiation and every 8 weeks for up to 53.5 months
Patient Reported Quality of Life (QOL), Questionnaires were completed before treatment (baseline) at the end of treatment (EOT) and after Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 of treatment (Initial phase of treatment =5 weeks + approximately 2 weeks recovery then adjuvant therapy where 1 cycle = 8 weeks). The following questionnaires were completed by patients to evaluate quality of life (QOL) at these timepoints:

FACT-Fatigue - scores from 1 to 4 with 1=not at all and 4=very much, the higher the score the more fatigue reported by the patient.

FACT-Brain (FACT Br) which included - Physcial Well-being (PWB), Social/Family Well-being (SWB), Emotional Well-being (EWB), and Functional Well-being (FWB).

Patients gave scores from 0 to 4 with 0=not at all and 4=very much, the higher the score the better the QOL reported by the patient., Completed before treatment (baseline) after Cycle 1 (approximately week 15) and Cycle 2 (approximately week 23)of adjuvant treatment and at the end of treatment (up to 7 cycles of adjuvant treatment, where 1 cycle =8 weeks)|Safety Profile for Patients With Recurrent High Grade Malignant Gliomas Treated With Concurrent Radiation, Temozolomide, and Bevacizumab Followed by Adjuvant Temozolomide and Bevacizumab, Toxicity will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0 criteria on Day 1 of every treatment cycle and by patient report while on study treatment and up to 30 days after the last treatment. Grade 1 - 4 adverse events (AE) where the relationship between the AE and at least one of the study drugs were considered to be definite, probable or possible, were collected and graded as:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE, Completed weekly during initial phase of 5 weeks and 2 weeks recovery, then every cycle during adjuvant therapy where 1 cycle =8 weeks (for up to 7 cycles)|Percentage of Patients With Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months and 12 Months, Progression Free Survival is defined as the time from the first study treatment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death. Data will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves. Tumor measurements and assessments will be based on Updated Response Assessment Criteria of High Grade Gliomas- Neuro-Oncology Working Group (RANO criteria). Tumor assessments may include either a CT or MRI scan of the brain, however the same method should be used throughout the treatment period for each patient. In general, progressive disease is defined as any of the following: ≥ 25% increase in T1 gadolinium enhancing disease, increase in T2/Flair, new lesions present or decrease in clinical status, At 6 and 12 months after the start of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall survival (OS) for patients with recurrent high grade malignant gliomas treated with concurrent radiation, temozolomide, and bevacizumab followed by adjuvant temozolomide and bevacizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the impact of this regimen on neurologic symptoms via Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br) and FACT-Fatigue scales and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status.

II. Determine the safety profile of this regimen. III. Determine the progression free survival (PFS) at 6 and 12 months (all patients) as well as at 3 months (bevacizumab-exposed patients only).

OUTLINE:

CONCURRENT THERAPY: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy 5 days a week beginning on day 0. Patients also receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) and bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes once every 2 weeks beginning on days -3 to 0. Treatment continues for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ADJUVANT THERAPY: Beginning 2 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients receive temozolomide PO QD for 6 weeks and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes once every 2 weeks. Courses repeat every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2-3 months.