Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Neurofibromatosis and Progressive Plexiform Neurofibromas
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining methotrexate with vinblastine may be effective treatment for neurofibromatosis type 1 associated with progressive plexiform neurofibromas.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy in treating patients who have neurofibromatosis type 1 associated with progressive plexiform neurofibromas.
Neurofibromatosis Type 1|Precancerous Condition
DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Vinblastine
Time to Disease Progression, Disease progression was assessed both radiographically and clinically.

Tumor assessments to assess for radiographic disease progression were assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurement whenever possible or computed tomography (CT) scan and/or tumor measurement during physical examination of palpable lesions. Clinical assessments for clinical progression of disease were assessed by treating physician or designee.

Progressive disease as measured by the appearance of new lesions; an increased size of index tumor(s) by \>/= 25% of the sum of the products of baseline measurements; and/or by increase in symptoms., 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the effect of chronic vinblastine and methotrexate on time to disease progression in children or young adults with progressive plexiform neurofibroma associated with neurofibromatosis type 1.
* Determine the objective response rate in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to tumor status (severely debilitating and/or life-threatening vs cosmetically disfiguring).

Patients receive methotrexate and vinblastine IV weekly for 26 weeks and then every 2 weeks for 26 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then every 3 months during study participation.

Patients are followed every 3 months until disease progression.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study within approximately 3 years.