TLR9 Agonist SD-101, Ibrutinib, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Grade 1-3A Follicular Lymphoma
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) agonist SD-101 when given together with ibrutinib and radiation therapy and to see how well they work in treating patients with Low Grade Follicular Lymphoma, Marginal Zone Lymphoma, or Mantle Cell Lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement or no longer responds to treatment. Immunostimulants such as TLR9 agonist SD-101 may increase the ability of the immune system to fight infection and disease. Ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving TLR9 agonist SD-101 with ibrutinib and radiation therapy may induce an immune response and prolong anti-tumor response.
Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: TLR9 Agonist SD-101
Number of Dose-limiting Toxicity Assessed Using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (Phase Ib), Dose-limiting toxicity was continuously throughout the trial. Adverse event information was collected at each visit. Safety labs were collected on week 2, 4, 6, 12 and every 12 weeks thereafter until the final study visit., Up to 24 months|Tumor Response Rates (Phase II), Tumor response rate of intratumoral SD 101 in combination with ibrutinib and radiation in subjects will be assessed. Tumor response rates (complete response, partial response) will be calculated based on the Lugano classification for low-grade B-cell lymphomas., Up to 24 months
Progression-free Survival (Phase II), Progression free Survival is defined as the time elapsed between treatment initiation (Day 1) and tumor progression or death from any cause. Progression will be defined using the Lugano Classification. This outcome will be measured on any individual who has received at least one intratumoral injection of SD 101 at the recommended phase 2 dose level., Up to 24 months
Primary Objective:

Phase 1b: - To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of intratumoral SD 101 in combination with ibrutinib and radiation in subjects with relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma . - To determine the safety and tolerability of SD 101 in combination with ibrutinib and radiation in subjects with relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma

Phase 2: -To evaluate the efficacy of intratumoral SD 101 in combination with ibrutinib and radiation in subjects with relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma by assessing overall response rate

Secondary Objective:

Phase 2: - To evaluate progression free survival after treatment with intratumoral SD 101 in combination with ibrutinib and radiation in subjects with relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma

- To evaluate the induction of tumor-specific immune responses by treatment with intratumoral SD-101 in combination with ibrutinib and radiation in patients with relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma