Safety and Tolerability of AP 12009, Administered I.V. in Patients With Advanced Tumors Known to Overproduce TGF-beta-2
In this national Phase I dose-escalation study the safety and tolerability of AP 12009 is evaluated in adult patients with advanced tumors known to overproduce TGF-β2, who are not or no longer amenable to established therapies.
Pancreatic Neoplasms|Melanoma|Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: AP 12009
To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) as well as the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of two cycles of AP 12009 administered intravenously at weekly intervals and for four days every other week.
To determine the safety and tolerability of AP 12009 administered intravenously at weekly intervals and for four days every other week.|To assess the plasma pharmacokinetic profile of AP 12009 administered intravenously at weekly intervals and for four days every other week.|To establish a suitable determination method and to assess the urine pharmacokinetic profile of AP 12009 administered intravenously for four days every other week.|To determine the effect of AP 12009 administered intravenously at weekly intervals and for four days every other week on TGF-β2 plasma concentration levels.|To determine the potential antitumor activity of AP 12009 administered intravenously at weekly intervals and for four days every other week, as assessed by the effect on tumor size and tumor markers.
The purpose of this dose-finding study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of AP 12009. Two fixed dose-escalation schemes with predefined steps and increasing increments have been selected to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) as well as the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). At least two cycles of AP 12009 are administered intravenously in adult patients with no further acknowledged treatment options.

AP 12009 (trabedersen) is a phosphorothioate antisense oligodeoxynucleotide specific for the mRNA of human Transforming Growth Factor beta 2 (TGF-beta-2). The growth factor TGF-beta plays a key role in malignant progression of various tumors by inducing proliferation, invasion, metastasis, angiogenesis, and escape from immunosurveillance. In patients with pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, and metastatic melanoma the TGF-beta-2 overexpression is associated with disease stage, clinical prognosis, and the immunodeficient state of the patients.