COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway Reduces Hypoxia During Sedated Gastrointestinal Endoscopy in Obese Patients: A Multicenter, Randomized, Controlled Clinical Trial
Hypoxia represents the prevailing adverse occurrence during the sedation of patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy with propofol. This is particularly true for obese patients, who have a higher incidence of hypoxia. A recent innovation in this domain is the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway-a multifaceted device that encompasses capnography monitoring, bite block , oxygenation support, and oropharyngeal airway management. This device has been purposefully designed to cater to the unique requirements of endoscopic procedures. The principal objective of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway in reducing the incidence of hypoxia in obese patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy under sedation.
Hypoxia|Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
DEVICE: the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway Group|DEVICE: Regular Nasal Cannula
The incidence of hypoxia, 75% ≤ SpO2 \< 90% for \<60 s, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours
The incidence of sub-clinical respiratory depression, 90% ≤ SpO2 \< 95%, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours|SpO2 < 75% or 75% ≤ SpO2 < 90% for ≥60 s, SpO2 \< 75% or 75% ≤ SpO2 \< 90% for ≥60 s, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours
The incidence of other adverse events, Other adverse events recorded by tools proposed by the World Society of Intravenous Anesthesia International Sedation Task Force, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours
Hypoxia represents the prevailing adverse occurrence during the sedation of patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy with propofol. This is particularly true for obese patients, who have a higher incidence of hypoxia. A recent innovation in this domain is the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway-a multifaceted device that encompasses capnography monitoring, bite block , oxygenation support, and oropharyngeal airway management. This device has been purposefully designed to cater to the unique requirements of endoscopic procedures. The principal objective of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway in reducing the incidence of hypoxia in obese patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy under sedation.