Capture of Prostatic Trans-rectal Ultrasound Scans for Research
Through this study the investigators seek to build up a repository of prostate ultrasonography videos and prostate MRI scans to enable research into novel anatomical registration techniques. These data will facilitate the development of improved technology that enables targeting of tumours seen on MRI using free-hand biopsy techniques, without the need for a gantry or overlaid perineal grid.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Transrectal ultrasound scan of prostate
Prostate size, Ultrasound images and videos of the prostate will be captured to measure the length, width and depth of the prostate on ultrasound. The measurements will be in millimeters (mm). This will be taken at a single time-point at the time of general anaesthesia for transperineal biopsy., Years 1-5|Prostate location, Ultrasound images and videos of the prostate will be captured to assess prostate location relative to surrounding structures. Specifically this will mean measuring the distance from the anal verge to the prostate. Unit of measurment is millimeters (mm). This will be taken at a single time-point at the time of general anaesthesia for transperineal biopsy., Years 1-5
The purpose of this study is to explore whether mathematical and computational modelling techniques can be used to enable anatomical based real-time image registration for guiding prostate biopsies. This would lead to the ability to perform free-hand trans-perineal biopsy without the need for supporting gantries or a biopsy grid placed over the perineum. This will significantly decrease costs of trans-perineal biopsy, reduce the number of puncture sites through the perineal skin - reducing pain and bleeding - and reduce the procedure time. Alongside locally developed local-anaesthetic transperineal biopsy techniques it will allow targeted biopsy to be taken in the outpatient setting, improving patient convenience, and helping health services to meet growing demands on targeted biopsies.

The investigators aim to create a new method of mapping the prostate using free-hand ultrasound, without any additional physical equipment. This may require collaborations with approved International groups with particular skills in relevant mathematical or engineering techniques.