Cetuximab, Bevacizumab & 5FU/Leucovorin vs. Oxaliplatin, Bevacizumab & 5FU/Leucovorin in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to compare the rates of Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at 12 months for patients treated with Bev-FOLFOX versus patients treated with FOLF-CB for first line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Cetuximab
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), From randomization to first progression or death, whichever comes first (event); or first new anti-cancer treatment if before or without progression / death (censoring); or last follow-up date otherwise (censoring).

Kaplan-Meier median PFS time and PFS rate (at 12 months), 12 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate at 1 Year., From randomization to first progression or death, whichever comes first (event); or first new anti-cancer treatment if before or without progression / death (censoring); or last follow-up date otherwise (censoring)., 12 months
Overall Survival (OS), From randomization to death (event); or last follow-up date if alive (censoring).

Kaplan-Meier OS median time., up to 4 years|Objective Response Rate, Percentage of patients with tumor response (by RECIST criteria, including complete response, or CR, i.e. disappearance of all target lesions; and partial response, or PR, i.e. at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters) among all "per-protocol population" patients., 12 months
This is a Phase III, open label, nonblinded study. A total of 240 eligible patients will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to either treatment Arm.

In this trial, we will compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of this novel combination of biweekly infusional 5-FU/leucovorin plus cetuximab and bevacizumab (FOLF-CB) to the current standard of care, biweekly infusional 5-FU/leucovorin plus oxaliplatin and bevacizumab (Bev-FOLFOX). For practical purposes, this study will be a head to head comparison of oxaliplatin versus cetuximab, since the other components of both regimens will be the same.