A Study of AUY922 in Non-small-cell Lung Cancer Patients Who Have Received Previous Two Lines of Chemotherapy.
This study will assess the efficacy of AUY922, when administered weekly at 70 mg/m2, in adult patients with advanced Non-small-cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), who have received at least two prior lines of chemotherapy. Patients will be retrospectively, and prospectively, stratified based on their molecular tumor etiology. The following strata was assigned: Patients with Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activating mutations, Patients with Kirstin Raus sarcoma virus (KRAS) activating mutations, Patients with EML4-ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) translocations and patients that were both EGFR and Kras wild type.
Non-small-cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: AUY922
Response Assessment by Study Stratum - Per Investigator Assessment, The primary endpoint of the study was the investigator assessment of efficacy at 18 weeks in terms of response complete response (CR)/partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or non clinical benefit (NCB) as assessed by response evaluation criteriain solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.0. ORR = patients with confirmed complete or partial response. Stable disease at 18 weeks = patients without response and with no assessment of progressive disease up to 18 weeks, but with an assessment of stable disease or better either within 2 weeks prior to the 18 week time point, or at the next non-missing assessment after the 18 week time point. No clinical benefit = all other patients., 18 weeks
Overall Survival Rate Using Kaplan Meier Estimates - Per Investigator Radiological Review, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to date of death due to any cause. If a patient is not known to have died, survival was censored at the date of last contact., Week 12, Week 18|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate as Per Investigator Using Kaplan Meier Estimates - Per Investigator Radiological Review, Progression-free survival (PFS) is the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient did not have an event, progression-free survival was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment. A Novartis modified response evaluation criteria in solid tumors RECIST 1.1 criteria was applied to CT/MRI imaging data when assessing any responses to AUY922 treatment. All images were evaluated locally by the investigator. All complete or partial responses were confirmed by a second assessment at least 4 weeks later., Week 12, Week 18|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Plasma Concentration of AUY922 and Its Metabolite BJP762: AUCinf, Summary of PK parameters for all patients one hour post 70 mg/m2 AUY922 infusion for area under the curve infinity. There are discrepancies between sample numbers and study population because PK samples were not collected from all study subjects and thus were not analyzed., 1 hour after infusion|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Plasma Concentration of AUY922 and Its Metabolite BJP762: AUClast, Summary of PK parameters for all patients one hour post 70 mg/m2 AUY922 infusion for area under the curve last. There are discrepancies between sample numbers and study population because PK samples were not collected from all study subjects and thus were not analyzed., 1 hour after infusion|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Plasma Concentration of AUY922 and Its Metabolite BJP762: Cmax, Summary of PK parameters for all patients one hour post 70 mg/m2 AUY922 infusion for concentration max. There are discrepancies between sample numbers and study population because PK samples were not collected from all study subjects and thus were not analyzed., 1 hour after infusion
This study will assess the efficacy of AUY922, when administered weekly at 70 mg/m2, in adult patients with advanced Non-small-cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), who have received at least two prior lines of chemotherapy. Patients will be retrospectively, and prospectively, stratified based on their molecular tumor etiology. The following strata was assigned: Patients with Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activating mutations, Patients with Kirstin Raus sarcoma virus (KRAS) activating mutations, Patients with EML4-ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) translocations and patients that were both EGFR and Kras wild type.