Tofacitinib in Recurrent GBM Patients
The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of Tofacitinib in patients with recurrent Glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Tofacitinib 10mg
Progression-free survival (PFS) of the study cohort as defined by RANO criteria., Median progression-free survival from initiation of Tofacitinib until disease progression as defined by the RANO criteria, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or discontinuation from the trial for any other reason., Up to 2 years after study treatment
Overall survival (OS) of the study cohort., Median OS of the study patients from time of study entry until death or lost to follow-up., Up to 2 years after study treatment|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability]., Assess safety and tolerability associated with Tofacitinib 5 mg orally twice daily when administered to GBM patients. NCI Common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE v.5) will be used to assess the adverse events., Up to 2 years after study treatment|Tumor response by RANO criteria., Tumor response will be assessed using contrast and non-contrast brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with assessments based on the international criteria proposed by the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Working Group, until progression of disease. For patients who do not progress or die, PFS will be censored at the last adequate radiologic assessment., Up to 2 years after study treatment
Once consented and registered, eligible patients will commence Cycle 1 and be assessed on Cycle 1 Day 1. An entire cycle will be 28 days of continuous Tofacitinib dosing. There will be a gap of 18-24 days between the first and subsequent cycles of treatment. The patient will once again be assessed on Cycle 2 Day 1. An interim follow-up will be done after the second cycle, during which the patient will undergo a brain MRI for tumor measurements along with all other assessments. Subsequent cycles will continue as prior, with subject assessments, brain MRI, and toxicity evaluations every 4 weeks. Treatments will stop upon evidence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or if the physician deems it unsafe for the subject to continue in the study.