Verteporfin for the Treatment of Recurrent High Grade EGFR-Mutated Glioblastoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of Visudyne (liposomal verteporfin) and to see how well it works in treating patients with high grade EGFR-mutated glioblastoma that has come back (recurrent).

Visudyne is FDA approved in combination with light to treat eye diseases. In this study we use Visudyne by itself like chemotherapy to kill tumor cells which may be sensitive to verteporfin.
Glioblastoma|Recurrent Glioblastoma
DRUG: Verteporfin
Incidence of adverse events (Phase I), Will be graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. For each adverse event, information to be collected includes event description, time of onset, clinician assessment of severity, relationship to study product (assessed only by those with the training and authority to make a diagnosis), and time of resolution/stabilization of the event., From study enrollment until 100 days after the last day of study participation|Progression free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Will be assessed by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Criteria (RANO) for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of glioblastoma. Progression-free survival is defined as no progression within 6 weeks. Progression-free survival will be estimated as a binary rate, and a 95% confidence interval will be estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 6 weeks|Response rate (RR) (Phase II), Will be assessed by RANO for MRI of glioblastoma., From study enrollment until 2 years|Overall survival (Phase II), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from study enrollment to death or last follow-up, assessed up to 2 years
PFS (Phase I), Will be assessed by RANO for MRI of glioblastoma., From study enrollment to 2 years|RR (Phase I), Will be assessed by RANO for MRI of glioblastoma. Response rate will be estimated, and a 95% confidence interval will be estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method., From study enrollment to 2 years|Overall survival (Phase I), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from study enrollment to death or last follow-up, assessed up to 2 years|Visudyne blood levels (Phase I), Will be summarized descriptively using mean, median, standard deviation, and range at each time point., At timepoints following administration|Incidence of adverse events (Phase II), Will be graded by NCI CTCAE version 5.0., From study enrollment to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of successively higher doses of verteporfin (Visudyne \[liposomal verteporfin\]) and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in study participants with recurrent EGFR positive (+) glioblastoma (GBM). (Phase I) II. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of Visudyne by assessing progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase II) III. To describe the response rate of EGFR+ GBM in study participants treated with Visudyne. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of Visudyne by assessing progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Phase I) II. To describe the response rate of EGFR+ GBM in study participants treated with Visudyne. (Phase I) III. To describe pharmacokinetics of Visudyne administered on a weekly schedule. (Phase I) IV. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of successively higher doses of Visudyne in study participants with recurrent EGFR+ GBM. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive verteporfin intravenously (IV) over 83 minutes weekly for 6 weeks in cycle 1, then weekly for 5 weeks in subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 12 weeks.