Application of the sG8 Scale in Real-World Geriatric Oncology Patients
This study is a multicenter, prospective, observational study. The study included patients aged 65 and older with solid tumors requiring systemic anti-tumor therapy. All patients underwent screening using the sG8 scale before the start of treatment, followed by routine treatment based on a plan developed through clinician decision-making. The study did not intervene in any way with the patients' diagnosis and treatment, and relevant clinical data during the treatment process were recorded accurately for follow-up patients. Study data were obtained from the electronic medical record databases and hospital information systems of multiple centers, including Sichuan Cancer Hospital. Patient clinicopathological features, pathological diagnoses, clinical stages, previous treatment histories, as well as anti-tumor treatment regimens after patient enrollment, drug dosages per cycle, treatment start times, incidence and grades of adverse events (AEs), and tumor response were extracted and collected from the medical records. All data were entered, managed, quality-controlled, exported, and analyzed through a real-world data management platform (RWDMP).
Solid Cancers|Geriatric Assessment
OTHER: Geriatric Screening using the sG8 scale
The incidence of unplanned treatment delays and treatment interruptions, The incidence of unplanned treatment delays and treatment interruptions, From date receiving anti-tumor therapy after the first screening assessment until date of disease progression or death or the end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months
TRAE, Number and percentage of patents with treatment-related adverse events assessed by CTCAE v5.0., From date receiving anti-tumor therapy after the first screening assessment until date of disease progression or death or the end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months|ORR, the sum percentage of participants with CR and PR assessed by RECIST v1.1 criteria every 8-12 weeks., From date receiving anti-tumor therapy after the first screening assessment until date of disease progression or death or the end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months|PFS, Systemic Progression-Free Survival assessed by the investigators using RECIST V1.1., From date receiving anti-tumor therapy after the first screening assessment until date of disease progression or death or the end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months.
OS, Overall survival, From date receiving anti-tumor therapy after the first screening assessment until date of death or the end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 12 months
This study is a multicenter, prospective, observational study. The study included patients aged 65 and older with solid tumors requiring systemic anti-tumor therapy. All patients underwent screening using the sG8 scale before the start of treatment, followed by routine treatment based on a plan developed through clinician decision-making. The study did not intervene in any way with the patients' diagnosis and treatment, and relevant clinical data during the treatment process were recorded accurately for follow-up patients. Study data were obtained from the electronic medical record databases and hospital information systems of multiple centers, including Sichuan Cancer Hospital. Patient clinicopathological features, pathological diagnoses, clinical stages, previous treatment histories, as well as anti-tumor treatment regimens after patient enrollment, drug dosages per cycle, treatment start times, incidence and grades of adverse events (AEs), and tumor response were extracted and collected from the medical records. All data were entered, managed, quality-controlled, exported, and analyzed through a real-world data management platform (RWDMP).