A Multicenter, Open and Observational Real World Study on the Prognosis and Treatment in Young Women With Breast Cancer
This is a multicenter, open and observational real world study. The main purpose of this study is to map the genomic variation map of young breast cancer patients in China, and to analyze the relationship between gene mutation and therapeutic effect of young breast cancer patients. The secondary purpose was to analyze the relationship between gene mutation and prognosis of young breast cancer patients.

We expect to enroll 2000 young breast cancer patients (≤35 years old). All patients were detected by targeted next generation sequencing （NGS）(600+ gene panel). Clinical diagnosis, treatment and prognosis information were collected. The Stratification factors mainly include stage, molecular type and treatment method.
Breast Cancer
PFS, The time from the first medication at the beginning of treatment to the first disease progression or death from any cause, 5 years
OS, time from randomization to death from any cause, 5 years|ORR, After treatment, the percentage of patients whose tumor volume reduced to a predetermined value and could maintain the minimum time limit was evaluated, including complete remission (CR) + partial remission (PR), 5 years
AEs, It refers to any adverse medical event during the clinical study. It is not necessarily a causal relationship with treatment., 5 years
The study can only be formally carried out with the written approval of the ethics committee. We regularly submit annual research reports to the ethics committee. We will inform the ethics committee in writing when the study is discontinued and / or completed.

All patients were required to sign informed consent before entering the group. All updated versions of informed consent and written information will be provided to the subjects during the participant's participation.

In the experimental design stage, the statistical principle was used to make reasonable and effective arrangements for the relevant factors. Employ statistical experts to calculate the sample size and data statistics, and participate in the design process. Data collection and follow-up were conducted by specially assigned personnel, professional doctors were assigned to conduct data review regularly, and special data management personnel were provided. They will ensure the authenticity, reliability and security of data throughout the process.