Determination of Copper and Other Trace Elements in Serum Samples From Patients With Biliary Tract Cancers
The aim of the study is to determine the total concentration of selected trace elements (Cu, Zn, Fe), the proportion of free Cu and Cu bound to ceruloplasmin and the isotopic ratio of Cu65/Cu63 in blood serum samples from healthy volunteers and cancer patients using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry-based methods. The results will be statistically evaluated and the potential applications of the analytical methods used in cancer diagnosis and therapy will be assessed.
Trace Element Deficiency
OTHER: trace elements
Serum copper (Cu) as a predictive biomarker of the response to systemic treatment of biliary tract cancer patients, The concentration of copper (Cu) in blood serum samples from healthy volunteers and biliary cancer patients will be measured to identify the differences in levels and the ratio between both groups, and to identify the serum Cu levels as a predictive biomarker of response to systemic therapy biliary tract cancer patients in the correlation with radiological CT evaluation., 3 years
Copper, zinc and iron (Cu, Zn and Fe) are among the trace metals that are essential for the normal functioning of the human body. They are involved in many biochemical reactions, are cofactors of enzymes, regulate important biological processes by binding to specific receptors and transcription factors. Their concentration in the organism is influenced by many factors such as gender, age, food, environmental pollution, etc. Deregulation of trace metal homeostasis, both at the cellular and tissue level, is part of the pathology of many cancers. It accelerates the transformation of normal cells into cancerous ones, and alters the inflammatory and anti-tumour response of immune cells such as macrophages). Knowledge of the role of essential trace metals in cancer is important for the development of modern pharmaceutical and nutritional approaches aimed at restoring the balance of trace elements in the body and enhancing the beneficial effects of systemic oncological therapy. At the same time, the results of modern research on the imbalance of essential trace metals point to their usefulness in cancer diagnosis and therapy. Biliary tract cancers (BTCs) are a heterogeneous group of uncommon and rare epithelial tumours. Surgery is the only potential curative treatment for BTCs, but approximately 70% of patients are diagnosed at advanced stages due to absence of specific symptoms in early stage. Tumour markers can be diagnostic, for tumour screening and early detection, prognostic or predictive for response to systemic oncological therapy. However, widely accepted biomarkers for diagnosing and dynamically monitoring the BTCs are still lacking. Currently applied tumour markers CA 19-9 and CEA, have limited diagnostic value for BTCs because they don't have high sensitivity and specificity for BTCs. Trace elements as biomarkers in oncology are new research field for detecting, diagnosing and prediction of response to treatment.