FORTIFI-HN01: A Study of Ficerafusp Alfa (BCA101) or Placebo in Combination With Pembrolizumab in First-Line PD-L1-pos, R or M HNSCC
Ficerafusp alfa is directed against two targets, Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) and Transforming Growth Factor beta (TGF-β).

This study intends to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ficerafusp alfa in combination with pembrolizumab versus placebo with pembrolizumab in 1L PD-L1-positive, recurrent or metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC).
Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Ficerafusp alfa|DRUG: Pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA®)|DRUG: Placebo
Phase 2 - Incidence and severity of TEAEs, treatment-treatment emergent SAEs TEAEs leading to dose interruption, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation., To assess safety and tolerability of ficerafusp alfa with pembrolizumab., Up to 30 days post end of treatment for TEAEs (90 days for SAEs).|Phase 2 - Objective Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 by blinded independent central review (BICR), ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects in the DDS who have a confirmed CR or PR per RECIST 1.1. by BICR., Approximately 1 year.|Phase 3 - Objective Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects in the DDS who have a confirmed CR or PR per RECIST 1.1. by BICR., Approximately 2 years.|Phase 3 - Overall Survival (OS), OS: Defined as the time from the randomization to death due to any cause., Approximately 3 years.
Phase 2 - Duration of Response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., DOR: For subjects who demonstrated CR or PR, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., Approximately 1 year.|Phase 3 - Incidence and severity of TEAEs, treatment-treatment emergent SAEs TEAEs leading to dose interruption, dose reduction, or permanent discontinuation., To assess safety and tolerability of ficerafusp alfa with pembrolizumab., Up to 30 days post end of treatment for TEAEs (90 days for SAEs).|Phase 3 - Progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., PFS: Defined as the time from randomization to the first documented PD per RECIST 1.1 as determined by BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - Objective Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., ORR: Defined as confirmed CR + PR per RECIST 1.1 by BICR. (FAS)., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - Duration of Response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., DOR: For subjects who demonstrated CR or PR, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., Clinical Benefit Rate: For subject who demonstrated CR + PR + SD\>6 months per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - ORR, per RECIST 1.1 by investigator's assessment., ORR, per RECIST 1.1 as determined by investigator's assessment., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - DOR, per RECIST 1.1 by investigator's assessment., DOR, per RECIST 1.1 as determined by investigator's assessment., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - PFS, per RECIST 1.1 by investigator's assessment., PFS, per RECIST 1.1 as determined by investigator's assessment., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - 14. Time to deterioration (TTD) in global health status measured by the EORTC QLQ C30 items for global health status and quality of life scale (item 29/30), To evaluate TTD in global health status/quality of life in subjects treated with ficerafusp alfa in combination with pembrolizumab versus placebo plus pembrolizumab.

TTD is defined as the time from Baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point negative change (decrease) from Baseline in QoL using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 30) score. Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher value indicates a better level of function., Approximately 3 years.|Phase 3 - Time to deterioration (TTD) in pain measured by the EORTC HN 35 (items 31-34) pain domain., To evaluate TTD in pain in subjects treated with ficerafusp alfa in combination with pembrolizumab versus placebo plus pembrolizumab.

TTD defined as the time from first dose (baseline) to change in pain score by 10-point from baseline, using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core Head and Neck Module (EORTC HN35). A higher score indicates a higher level of symptom burden., Approximately 3 years.
The mechanism of action of ficerafusp alfa involves dual targeting of two cancer targets, EGFR and TGF-β, which are known to drive solid tumor growth and metastasis.

Phase 2 of the study will identify an optimal biologic dose (OBD) supported by the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and efficacy data of ficerafusp alfa. In this part, eligible subjects will be randomized to one of three treatment arms at a 1:1:1 ratio:

* Arm A: ficerafusp alfa 1500 mg once weekly (QW) + pembrolizumab 200 mg every three weeks (Q3W).
* Arm B: ficerafusp alfa 750 mg QW + pembrolizumab 200 mg Q3W.
* Arm C (control): placebo QW + pembrolizumab 200 mg Q3W.

The primary objective for the phase 3 portion is to compare the efficacy in subjects treated with ficerafusp alfa at the selected OBD in combination with pembrolizumab versus placebo with pembrolizumab. Eligible subjects will be randomized 2:1 in the treatment versus control arm during the phase 3 portion.