Methotrexate Compared With Dactinomycin in Treating Patients With Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia
Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of methotrexate with that of dactinomycin in treating patients who have gestational trophoblastic neoplasia. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known whether methotrexate is more effective than dactinomycin in treating patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.
Good Prognosis Metastatic Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor|Hydatidiform Mole|Non-Metastatic Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor|Uterine Corpus Choriocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Dactinomycin|DRUG: Methotrexate
Response Based on Blood Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG) Assay, Primary outcome is measured as a difference in proportion responding between treatment arms and evaluated using a chi square test. A complete response was defined as a normal hCG sustained over four weekly measurements., Endpoint was assessed by hCG measurements taken weekly, once normal, treatment was bi-weekly, then monthly, up to 12 months.|Incidence of Adverse Effects (Grade 3 or Higher) as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 2.0, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher during the treatment period., Prior to study entry, weekly during treatment, up to 12 months after normal titer, an average of 7 months.
Number of Patients With a Decline of hCG on Day 1 of Treatment, Number of patients with a decline in hCG on day 1 of treatment relative to the level at enrollment. A decline is defined as a decrease by 1 or more units between enrollment and treatment start., Prior to study entry and on Day 1 of treatment
OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the efficacy of methotrexate vs dactinomycin, as measured by complete response rate, in patients with low-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.

II. Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients. III. Determine whether the definition of persistent gestational trophoblastic neoplasia is accurate (as determined by the likelihood that the beta human chorionic gonadotropin \[HCG\] titer would decline on the day treatment is initiated).

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive methotrexate intramuscularly once weekly in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive dactinomycin IV over 15 minutes every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients continue on treatment until 1 beta human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) titer is below the institutional normal. Patients then receive 1 additional consolidation treatment.

Patients are followed every 4 weeks for 1 year.