C11 AMT Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Imaging in Patients With Metastatic Invasive Breast Cancer
The purpose of this research project is to create images of where and how the amino acid (the building blocks of proteins)Tryptophan is processed in normal and abnormal tissue in the patient's body. Tryptophan is a normal building block of proteins in the body. Sometimes in the case of cancer and other diseases, Tryptophan is processed abnormally, and possible treatments for this abnormality are of great interest because of the potential to improve cancer care.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Adenovirus-p53 transduced dendritic cell vaccine|DRUG: 1-methyl-D-tryptophan|RADIATION: Carbon C 11 alpha-methyltryptophan
Occurrence of Detected Changes in Regions of Interest (ROIs), Changes in C-11 AMT uptake and localization (measured by SUV) between baseline and approximately 4 days after initiation of treatment. The primary objective is to determine whether such changes can be detected in regions of interest (ROIs) using PET/CT imaging in patients with metastatic breast cancer enrolled in NCI 8461/ MCC16025. The SUV values in identified regions of interest (ROIs) for each patient will be compared over time between baseline and approximately 4 days after initiation of treatment, and after completion of the protocol treatment. The analysis will be largely exploratory and descriptive as the sample size and study design will likely preclude an adequate/definitive statistical conclusion of SUV values between the two time points., Average of 7 weeks
Number of Participants with Clinical Response, Clinical responses based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria, to 1-MT plus the Ad.p53 DC vaccine., Average of 7 weeks|Number of Participants with Presence of IDO ImmunoHistoChemistry (IHC) Expression, Presence of immuno-modulatory enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) IHC expression (positive vs. negative as described in NCI 8461/MCC 16025) in the assayed tumor sample., Average of 7 weeks|Number of Participants with Immune Response, Immune response to the vaccine (by ELISPOT criteria as described in NCI 8461/MCC 16025). The secondary endpoint immunologic response is defined as IFN-γ p53 T cell specific ELISPOT assay count measured, being ≥ 2 SDs above the baseline for a patient., Average of 7 weeks|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, Examine toxicity data of the protocol treatment according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.0., Average of 7 weeks
Coordinating Center: Southeast Phase 2 Consortium (SEP2C), Moffitt Cancer Center.

Research participation involves up to three experimental imaging examination visits in radiology: a baseline before the patient starts a cancer treatment, a follow-up a few days later, and a later follow up to see how the treatment may affect normal or abnormal processing of Tryptophan.

The research imaging results will be linked with other evidence of the patient's disease, but will not effect their care.