Gemcitabine, Ascorbate, Radiation Therapy for Pancreatic Cancer, Phase I
This is a phase 1 (first in man) study testing the safety of adding high dose ascorbate (vitamin C) to standard radiation and chemotherapy for treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Neoplasms
DRUG: Ascorbate|DRUG: Gemcitabine|RADIATION: Radiation therapy
Number of grade 3, 4, & 5 adverse events during radiation, Assess grade 3 and higher adverse events. Evaluate the frequency and severity against the published literature to determine the likely causality between ascorbate and the adverse event(s)., Weekly during therapy for up to 10 weeks
Time to progression, Time from the start of therapy (radiation day 1) to documented disease progression as described by RECIST., Monthly, up to 10 years post-treatment|Overall survival, From start of treatment (radiation day 1) until the date of death from any cause., Monthly, up to 10 years post-treatment|Number of grade 3, 4, & 5 adverse events post-treatment, Beginning one month after completing radiation therapy, grade 3 and higher adverse events will be assessed. Evaluate the frequency and severity against the published literature to determine the likely causality between ascorbate and the adverse event(s)., every 3 months for 2 years
This phase 1 study will test the safety of adding high dose ascorbate (vitamin C) to standard chemoradiation. The ascorbate is infused during external beam radiation therapy treatment.

For patients eligible for this trial, standard treatment for their cancer includes radiation therapy combined with weekly gemcitabine (a chemotherapy).

Participants will:

* receive high doses of intravenous (IV) ascorbate during their daily radiation therapy treatments. Radiation treatments are given once a day, Monday through Friday.
* have routine doctor's visits and be asked about any side effects they are experiencing.

This is a phase 1 study that will evaluate the side effects of adding ascorbate to standard therapy. The dose given to a participant will be determined by how well other participants have tolerated ascorbate.