Copanlisib (BAY 80-6946) in Combination With Gemcitabine and Cisplatin in Advanced Cholangiocarcinoma
The purpose of this study is to see if an experimental drug, called copanlisib is effective and safe in treating adult participants with cholangiocarcinoma, when used in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin.
Biliary Carcinoma|Gall Bladder Carcinoma|Cholangiocarcinoma|Gastrointestinal Tumor
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Copanlisib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS at six months. Response and progression will be evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines (version 1.1). PFS will be calculated from study entry to documented disease progression, death from any cause, or date of last follow-up, whichever comes first. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression.), 6 months
Response Rate, Complete Response + Partial Response according to RECIST 1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from either the date of diagnosis or the start of treatment for a disease, such as cancer, that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., Up to 24 months
The purpose of this study is to see if an experimental drug, called copanlisib is effective and safe in treating adult participants with cholangiocarcinoma, when used in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin.