Induction Gemcitabine & Carboplatin Followed by Paclitaxel & Carboplatin +XRT in NSCLC
This is a single institution Phase II study for patients with unresectable Stage IIIA and IIIB non-small cell lung cancer. The treatment started with 2 cycles of gemcitabine and carboplatin followed by concurrent chemotherapy with radiation. The chemoradiation included using paclitaxel and carboplatin with daily thoracic radiation to a total dose of 74 Gy. Response rate was determined following the chemotherapy with gemcitabine and carboplatin and evaluated again after the chemoradiation. Treatment toxicities were also assessed.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: Radiation
Number of Participants Whose Response Allowed Them to Proceed to Chemoradiation, Response Rates - Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR): We determined the number of participants whose response (both CT and PET assessment) to two cycles of induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine and carboplatin allowed them to proceed to chemoradiation. Response was evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee., Ranging from 2 weeks up to 4 years, 9 months
Progression Free Survival, To determine median Progression Free Survival rate. Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the interval between the date of the first chemotherapy administration and the date of objective progression or death. Progression was evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee., Ranging from 2 weeks up to 4 years, 9 months|Overall Survival, To determine median Overall Survival rate, Ranging from 2 weeks up to 4 years, 9 months|Treatment Completion, The number of participants who completed all treatment on schedule without dose reductions or delays., Ranging from 2 weeks up to 4 years, 9 months
In this trial we adopted the approach of using both induction and concurrent chemotherapy together with Thoracic Radiation Therapy (TRT) planned conformally to a tumor dose of 74 Gy. Substitution of gemcitabine for paclitaxel in the induction chemotherapy allowed us to evaluate the impact of RRM1 expression on the activity of this agent. The expression of Ribonucleotide Reductase, M1 Subunit (RRM1) was evaluated prior to initiation of therapy, following induction chemotherapy but prior to concurrent chemoradiation, and following completion of all therapy by CT-guided core needle biopsies. This is a single institution phase II clinical trial, of induction treatment with gemcitabine and carboplatin followed by concurrent chemoradiation using paclitaxel and carboplatin and daily thoracic radiation to a total dose of 74 Gy for patients with unresectable Stage IIIA and IIIB NSCLC. The specific clinical objectives of this study are as follows: To determine the response rate (both CT scan and PET scan assessment) to two cycles of induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine and carboplatin; To determine the response rate (both CT scan and PET scan assessment) to concurrent thoracic radiation and weekly paclitaxel and carboplatin; To evaluate the patterns of local and distant failure for patients treated with induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiation according to this regimen; To estimate the median, 1 year, and overall survival; To assess acute and long term toxicities of treatment.