Multi-center Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Maintenance Therapy With Valrubicin Versus no Maintenance, in Subjects Treated With Valrubicin Induction for Carcinoma in Situ (CIS) of the Bladder
This is a Phase 3b open-label, randomized, parallel-arm, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 10 monthly intravesical administrations of maintenance therapy with valrubicin following induction with valrubicin as compared to induction with valrubicin only in subjects with CIS of the bladder. The randomization will be 1:1 and subjects will be stratified by tumor type (CIS plus papillary disease vs. CIS only) and time from last bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) failure (\>1 year vs. \<1 year).
Carcinoma in Situ|Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: VALSTAR - Maintenance Therapy|OTHER: No Maintenance treatment ( Standard of Care)
To Evaluate the Efficacy of Maintenance Therapy With Valrubicin After Induction With Valrubicin, as Compared to Induction With Valrubicin Only in Subjects With CIS of the Bladder., time interval from randomization to an event. An event is defined as tumor recurrence (any stage or grade), tumor progression to muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), metastatic bladder cancer or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Tumor recurrence or progression must be documented by biopsy/transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT)., 2 years
To Evaluate the Safety and Tolerability of Maintenance Therapy With Valrubicin After Induction With Valrubicin, as Compared to Induction With Valrubicin Only in Subjects With CIS of the Bladder, The occurrence of serious adverse events (SAEs), occurrence of local adverse reactions (LARs), results of vital signs, physical exams and laboratory test, and study discontinuation due to inability to complete valrubicin instillations, 2 years
This is a Phase 3b open-label, randomized, parallel-arm, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 10 monthly intravesical administrations of maintenance therapy with valrubicin following induction with valrubicin as compared to induction with valrubicin only in subjects with CIS of the bladder. The randomization will be 1:1 and subjects will be stratified by tumor type (CIS plus papillary disease vs. CIS only) and time from last bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) failure (\>1 year vs. \<1 year).