Decitabine and Selinexor in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of Selinexor when given together with decitabine in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has returned after treatment (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as decitabine and Selinexor, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: decitabine|DRUG: selinexor|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD defined as the dose where at most one patient experiences DLT with the next higher dose having at least 2 patients who experience DLT graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03, 31 days|Incidence of severe (grade 3+) adverse events or toxicities assessed by NCI CTCAE version 4.03, The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns., Up to 3 years|Tolerability of the regimen defined by the number of patients who required dose modifications and/or dose delays, Up to 3 years|Proportion of patients who go off treatment due to adverse reactions, Up to 3 years
Overall response rate, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics across all dose levels. Overall response rate will estimated at the MTD and defined as the number of patients who achieve any level of clinical response (e.g. CR, incomplete blood count recovery, morphologic CR) divided by the total number of evaluable patients (i.e. any patient who received at least one dose of study treatment)., Up to 3 years|Complete response rate, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics across all dose levels. Complete response rate will be estimated in those patients treated at the MTD., Up to 3 years|Change in expression of XPO1, Changes in expression of these markers across time will be explored by dose level graphically. Relationships between baseline expression levels and changes in expression levels with response and certain toxicities will also be explored graphically (e.g. side-by-side boxplots) and with quantitative summaries. Confidence intervals will be presented as the primary method of analysis. Correlations among expression of the genes, micro-ribonucleic acids (miRs), and methylated signatures will be evaluated using scatterplots and the Spearman-rank correlation coefficient., Baseline to up to day 31 of course 1|Change in expression of genes associated with XPO1, Changes in expression of these markers across time will be explored by dose level graphically. Relationships between baseline expression levels and changes in expression levels with response and certain toxicities will also be explored graphically (e.g. side-by-side boxplots) and with quantitative summaries. Confidence intervals will be presented as the primary method of analysis. Correlations among expression of the genes, miRs, and methylated signatures will be evaluated using scatterplots and the Spearman-rank correlation coefficient., Baseline to up to day 31 of course 1|Change in expression of miRs associated with XPO1, Changes in expression of these markers across time will be explored by dose level graphically. Relationships between baseline expression levels and changes in expression levels with response and certain toxicities will also be explored graphically (e.g. side-by-side boxplots) and with quantitative summaries. Confidence intervals will be presented as the primary method of analysis. Correlations among expression of the genes, miRs, and methylated signatures will be evaluated using scatterplots and the Spearman-rank correlation coefficient., Baseline to up to day 31 of course 1|Change in expression of methylated signatures, Changes in expression of these markers across time will be explored by dose level graphically. Relationships between baseline expression levels and changes in expression levels with response and certain toxicities will also be explored graphically (e.g. side-by-side boxplots) and with quantitative summaries. Confidence intervals will be presented as the primary method of analysis. Correlations among expression of the genes, miRs, and methylated signatures will be evaluated using scatterplots and the Spearman-rank correlation coefficient., Baseline to up to day 31 of course 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Selinexor (KPT-330) in combination with decitabine in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

II. To define the specific toxicities, maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of this combination.

III. To determine the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of this combination.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR). II. To determine the rate and duration of complete remission (CR) +/- hematological recovery of KPT-330 plus decitabine in AML.

III. To conduct pharmacodynamic studies by measuring the effect of this chemotherapy combination on the kinome, micronome and epigenome.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of selinexor.

INDUCTION: Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10 and Selinexor orally (PO) on days 11, 13, 18, 20, 25 and 27. Treatment repeats every 31 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and Selinexor PO on days 6, 8, 13, 15, 20 and 22. Courses repeat every 31 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.