Comparison of Transdermal Fentanyl and Morphine for Oral Mucositis Pain in Nasopharyngeal Cancer Patients
The primary purpose of this study is to explore the significance of analgesic treatment for radiation-induced oral mucositis pain in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma during radiotherapy, and to compare the analgesic effect of morphine controlled-release tablets with that of fentanyl transdermal patch. Half of participants will receive morphine controlled-release tablets,while the other half will receive fentanyl transdermal patch.
Pain|Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Head and Neck Cancer|Radiation Induced Oral Mucositis
DRUG: Fentanyl|DRUG: Morphine
Pain Intensity Measure, Self reported pain intensity once a day according to the numeric rating scale (NRS), with 0-10(0=no pain, 10=pain as bad as can be). The higher scores indicate worse pain., Through chemoradiotherapy completion, 3 weeks
Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events, All adverse events were recorded during treatment, and the skin was examined for local reactions during treatment and after removal of fentanyl transdermal patch., Through chemoradiotherapy completion, 3 weeks|Quality-of-Life composite Index, Quality-of-Life was assessed using Karnofsky performance status (KPS) standards of the Union for International Cancer Control and SPAASMS (Score for pain, Physical activity levels, Additional pain medication, Additional physician/emergency room visits, Sleep, Mood, and Side effects) scores before and after 3 days of treatment. The higher KPS scores(0-100) of patients indicate better quality of life, but the higher SPAASMS scores(0-31) mean worse outcome., Through chemoradiotherapy completion, an average of 2 weeks
Morphine controlled-release tablets and fentanyl transdermal patch each relieve radiation-induced oral mucositis pain in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. But they do so by different mechanisms and in different effects.

Morphine is a classic strong analgesic, which has been widely used in patients with advanced cancer pain. It has achieved satisfactory results in pain control, sleep improvement and quality of life. Oral morphine has been regarded as the standard treatment for moderate and severe cancer pain.

Fentanyl transdermal patch is a system device for transdermal delivery of drugs. It is compressed on a film containing fentanyl memory. The film can continuously release fentanyl into the blood circulation and maintain stable for more than 72 hours. It is not affected by gastrointestinal PH or food, and it has no hepatic frst-pass effect, with a bioavailability of up to 92%.

This study will test the efficacy and safety of morphine controlled-release tablets compared to fentanyl transdermal patch in the treatment of pain in patients with radiation-induced oral mucositis.