Psychometric Evaluation of the Chinese Version of the Resilience Scale-10 for Cancer Children
This study aims to translate the original English version of Resilience Scale for Children (RS10) into traditional Chinese. It will then test the psychometric properties of the newly translated RS10.
Cancer Childhood
Resilience level, The Resilience Scale for Children (RS10) was developed to measure a child's capacity to respond to the life changes. The RS10 measures the child's resilience capacity along five core elements: (1) Sense of purpose and meaning, (2) Authenticity, (3) Equanimity, (4) Self-Reliance, and (5) Perseverance., Baseline
Number of depressive symptoms, The subjects' depressive symptoms will be assessed using the Chinese version of the CES-DC. The CES-DC comprises 20 fully standardized items to evaluate depressive symptoms. All items are evaluated on a four-point self-report scale in relation to their incidence during the last week, which were scored from 0 to 3, with total possible scores ranging from 0 to 60, with higher scores indicating greater symptomatology., Baseline|Levels of self-esteem, The subjects' self-esteem will be assessed using the Chinese version of the RSES. The RSES is designed to measure the global self-esteem of children and adolescents. The scale comprises 10 items, rated using a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 1 to 4, with total possible scores ranging from 10 to 40. Higher scores indicate higher levels of self-esteem., Baseline
It has been well documented that cancer and its treatment may have adverse effects on the physical and psychological well-being of children with cancer. Such adverse effects may start from diagnosis and continue for months or even years after the completion of therapy. Cancer and its treatments may also have long-term effects on the psychological well-being of children with cancer, such as decreased self-esteem, increased anxiety and depression that can adversely affect their quality of life.

Numerous studies indicated that resilience effectively prevents the development of mental health problems and is associated with positive mental health outcomes in children and adolescents, such as reduced levels of anxiety, depression and obsessive compulsive symptoms. Assessing resilience in children with cancer is therefore crucial for a thorough understanding of their responses to stress and adversity, which is an essential prerequisite for the design of an appropriate psychological intervention to enhance their resilience and foster the development of their coping mechanisms and positive mental well-being.

This study aims to translate the original English version of Resilience Scale for Children (RS10) into traditional Chinese. It will then test the psychometric properties of the newly translated RS10. In addition, the factorial structure of RS10 will be examined using confirmatory factor analysis (CFA).