A Translational Study of Bevacizumab in Participants With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This open-label, prospective, single-arm, multicenter study will evaluate the relationship of the markers of inflammation and progression-free survival (PFS) in participants with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer. The study consists of two phases: Phase A treatment: oral capecitabine plus infusional oxaliplatin (XELOX) plus bevacizumab, or modified infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin (LV) and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX6) plus bevacizmab administered until first disease progression. Participants will then continue with Phase B treatment: infusional 5-FU, LV and irinotecan (FOLFIRI) plus bevacizumab until second disease progression. The anticipated time on study treatment is 4 years.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: 5-Fluouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan
Association Between Neutrophil to Lymphocyte Ratio (NLR) [NLR ≤5 Versus NLR >5] and Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Hazard Ratio, NLR was calculated from the laboratory values as the ratio of Neutrophils to Lymphocytes. PFS was defined as the time from the start of initial treatment to documentation of first disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (carcinoembryonic antigen \[CEA\]) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was to be unequivocal and was defined as any of the following: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in the size of known tumors, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration. The association between NLR (NLR less than or equal to \[≤\] 5 vs greater than \[\>\] 5) and PFS was reported as hazard ratio., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)
PFS Until First Disease Progression as Assessed by the Investigator Based on Routine Clinical Practice: Phase A, PFS until first progression was defined as the time from the start of initial treatment to documentation of first disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (CEA) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was to be unequivocal and was defined as any of the following: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in the size of known tumors, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate PFS., Baseline up to first disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|PFS Until Second Disease Progression as Assessed by the Investigator Based on Routine Clinical Practice: Phase B, PFS in Phase B (PFS-B) was defined as the time from the start of Phase B treatment to documentation of second disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (CEA) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was to be unequivocal and was defined as any of the following: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in the size of known tumors, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate PFS., From the start of Phase B treatment to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Time to Failure of Strategy (TFS): Overall, TFS was defined as time from the start of initial treatment to documentation of first disease progression without entering Phase B, or second disease progression having entered Phase B. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (CEA) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was to be unequivocal and was defined as any of the following: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in the size of known tumors, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate TFS., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Duration of Disease Control (DDC) as Assessed by the Investigator Based on Routine Clinical Practice: Overall, DDC was defined as PFS + PFS-B. In cases where a participant did not enter Phase B, then DDC was defined as PFS. PFS was defined as time from start of initial treatment to documentation of first disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS-B was time from start of Phase B treatment to documentation of second disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (CEA) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was to be unequivocal and was defined as any of the following: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in the size of known tumors, appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate DDC., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Overall Survival (OS) From the Start of Treatment to Study Completion: Overall, OS was defined as the time from the start of initial treatment to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate OS., Baseline until death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Survival Beyond First Disease Progression: Overall, Survival beyond first progression was defined as the time from the date of first disease progression to death due to any cause. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (CEA) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was to be unequivocal and was defined as any of the following: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in the size of known tumors, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate survival beyond first disease progression., Baseline until death or end of study (up to 4 years)|OS: Phase B, Overall Survival in Phase B was defined as the time from the start of treatment in Phase B to death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier methodology was used to estimate OS., From the start of Phase B treatment death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Complete or Partial Response as Assessed by the Investigator Based on Routine Clinical Practice: Phase A, Percentage of participants with best overall response of confirmed complete response or partial response based on the investigator assessment of the response as per routine clinical practice was reported. The confirmation of response must be no less than 4 weeks after initial assessment., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Complete or Partial Response as Assessed by the Investigator Based on Routine Clinical Practice: Phase B, Percentage of participants with best overall response of confirmed complete response or partial response based on the investigator assessment of the response as per routine clinical practice was reported. The confirmation of response must be no less than 4 weeks after initial assessment., From the start of Phase B treatment to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Complete or Partial Response as Assessed by the Investigator Based on Routine Clinical Practice: Overall, Percentage of participants with best overall response of confirmed complete response or partial response based on the investigator assessment of the response as per routine clinical practice was reported. The confirmation of response must be no less than 4 weeks after initial assessment., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Percentage of Participants Who Underwent Liver Resection: Overall, The results include percentage of participants who underwent potentially curative liver resection., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Association Between NLR (NLR ≤5 Versus NLR >5) and OS as Assessed by Hazard Ratio, NLR was calculated from the laboratory values as the ratio of Neutrophils to Lymphocytes. OS was defined as the time from the start of initial treatment to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death. The association between NLR (NLR ≤ 5 vs \> 5) and OS was reported as hazard ratio., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Association Between NLR Normalization (First NLR Post-Baseline ≤5 Versus NLR >5) and PFS as Assessed by Hazard Ratio, NLR was calculated from laboratory values as ratio of Neutrophils to Lymphocytes. NLR normalization was assessed by adding first post-baseline measurement of NLR to the primary model. This is equivalent to testing whether first change in NLR is significantly associated with outcome. PFS was defined as time from start of initial treatment to documentation of first disease progression or death from any cause. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (CEA) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was defined as: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in size of known tumors, appearance of ≥1 new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration.The association between NLR normalization (first NLR post-baseline ≤5 vs \>5) and PFS was reported as hazard ratio., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Association Between Longitudinal NLR (Longitudinal NLR ≤5 Versus NLR >5) and PFS as Assessed by Hazard Ratio, NLR was calculated from the laboratory values as the ratio of Neutrophils to Lymphocytes. Longitudinal NLR was assessed by treating the NLR measurements taken over the time-course of treatment as a time-dependent covariate. PFS was defined as time from the start of initial treatment to documentation of first disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was determined according to standard practice based on radiological, biochemical (CEA) or clinical factors. Determination of disease progression was to be unequivocal and was defined as: an unequivocal and clinically meaningful increase in size of known tumors, appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, elevated CEA accompanied by other radiological or clinical evidence of progression, or symptomatic deterioration. The association between longitudinal NLR (longitudinal NLR ≤5 vs N\>5) and PFS was reported as hazard ratio., Baseline up to disease progression, death or end of study (up to 4 years)|Association Between Longitudinal NLR (Longitudinal NLR ≤5 Versus NLR >5) and OS as Assessed by Hazard Ratio, NLR was calculated from the laboratory values as the ratio of Neutrophils to Lymphocytes. Longitudinal NLR was assessed by treating the NLR measurements taken over the time-course of treatment as a time-dependent covariate. OS was defined as the time from the start of initial treatment to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death. The association between longitudinal NLR (longitudinal NLR ≤5 vs NLR \>5) and OS was reported as hazard ratio., Baseline up to death or end of study (up to 4 years)|European Quality of Life 5-Dimension (EuroQol-5D) Utility Score: Phase A, EQ-5D is a standardized generic preference based health related quality of life instrument. It records how one's health is "today" and consists of a descriptive system. The descriptive system is comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression. Each dimension on the EQ-5D involves a 3-point response scale which indicates the level of impairment (level 1 = no problem; level 2 = some or moderate problem\[s\] and level 3 = unable, or extreme problems). Level of problem reported in each EQ-5D dimension determines a unique health state which is converted into a weighted health state index by applying scores from EQ-5D preference weights elicited from general population samples. This generates a unique description of the subjects' health status, which is valued between 0 (representing death) and 1 (representing perfect health). Higher the score, the better the quality of life., Baseline, every 8-9 weeks thereafter, end of treatment (EOT) (30 days after disease progression [up to 4 years]), survival follow-up 12-weekly visits (up to 4 years) [Detailed time points are presented in the category titles]|EuroQol-5D Utility Score: Phase B, EQ-5D is a standardized generic preference based health related quality of life instrument. It records how one's health is "today" and consists of a descriptive system. The descriptive system is comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression. Each dimension on the EQ-5D involves a 3-point response scale which indicates the level of impairment (level 1 = no problem; level 2 = some or moderate problem\[s\] and level 3 = unable, or extreme problems). Level of problem reported in each EQ-5D dimension determines a unique health state which is converted into a weighted health state index by applying scores from EQ-5D preference weights elicited from general population samples. This generates a unique description of the subjects' health status, which is valued between 0 (representing death) and 1 (representing perfect health). Higher the score, the better the quality of life., Baseline, every 8-9 weeks thereafter, EOT (30 days after disease progression [up to 4 years]), survival follow-up 12-weekly visits (up to 4 years) [Detailed time points are presented in the category titles]|Assessment of Quality of Life - Eight Dimensions (AQoL-8D) Global Utility Score: Phase A, AQoL-8D provides a global utility score and comprised of 35 questions from which 8 dimensions (Independent Living, Life Satisfaction, Mental Health, Coping, Relationships, Self Worth, Pain, and Senses) are derived. Each of the 8 scales is calculated based on the answers to 3 questions. Each question is given an answer dependent utility score (0 \[worst\] to 1 \[best\]) and then these scores are combined using a multiplicative model to get the normalized scale score value, each scale ranging between 0.0 (representing death) and 1.0 (representing full health)., Baseline, every 8-9 weeks thereafter, EOT (30 days after disease progression [up to 4 years]), survival follow-up 12-weekly visits (up to 4 years) [Detailed time points are presented in the category titles]|AQoL-8D Global Utility Score: Phase B, AQoL-8D provides a global utility score and consists of 8 separately scored dimensions including Independent Living, Life Satisfaction, Mental Health, Coping, Relationships, Self Worth, Pain, and Senses. Each of the 8 scales is calculated based on the answers to 3 questions. Each question is given an answer dependent utility score (0 \[worst\] to 1 \[best\]) and then these scores are combined using a multiplicative model to get the normalized scale score value, each scale ranging between 0.0 (representing death) and 1.0 (representing full health)., Baseline, every 8-9 weeks thereafter, EOT (30 days after disease progression [up to 4 years]), survival follow-up 12-weekly visits (up to 4 years) [Detailed time points are presented in the category titles]|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colorectal (FACT-C) Score: Phase A, FACT-C is one part of the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) Measurement System, which comprehensively assesses the health-related QoL of cancer participants and participants with other chronic illnesses. It is composed of 27 items of the general version of the FACT-C as a general core QoL measure and has a disease-specific subscale containing 9 colorectal cancer-specific items. It consists of total 36 items, summarized to 5 subscales: physical well-being (7 items), functional well-being (7 items), social/family well-being (7 items); all 3 subscales range from 0 to 28, emotional well-being (6 items) range from 0 to 24, colorectal cancer subscale (9 items) range from 0 to 36; higher subscale score=better QoL. All single-item measures range from 0='Not at all' to 4='Very much'. Total possible score range: 0 to 144. High scale score represents a better QoL., Baseline, every 8-9 weeks thereafter, EOT (30 days after disease progression [up to 4 years]), survival follow-up 12-weekly visits (up to 4 years) [Detailed time points are presented in the category titles]|FACT-C Score: Phase B, FACT-C is one part of the FACIT Measurement System, which comprehensively assesses the health-related QoL of cancer participants and participants with other chronic illnesses. It is composed of 27 items of the general version of the FACT-C as a general core QoL measure and has a disease-specific subscale containing 9 colorectal cancer-specific items. It consists of total 36 items, summarized to 5 subscales: physical well-being (7 items), functional well-being (7 items), social/family well-being (7 items); all 3 subscales range from 0 to 28, emotional well-being (6 items) range from 0 to 24, colorectal cancer subscale (9 items) range from 0 to 36; higher subscale score=better QoL. All single-item measures range from 0='Not at all' to 4='Very much'. Total possible score range: 0 to 144. High scale score represents a better QoL., Baseline, every 8-9 weeks thereafter, EOT (30 days after disease progression [up to 4 years]), survival follow-up 12-weekly visits (up to 4 years) [Detailed time points are presented in the category titles]
This open-label, prospective, single-arm, multicenter study will evaluate the relationship of the markers of inflammation and progression-free survival (PFS) in participants with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer. The study consists of two phases: Phase A treatment: oral capecitabine plus infusional oxaliplatin (XELOX) plus bevacizumab, or modified infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin (LV) and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX6) plus bevacizmab administered until first disease progression. Participants will then continue with Phase B treatment: infusional 5-FU, LV and irinotecan (FOLFIRI) plus bevacizumab until second disease progression. The anticipated time on study treatment is 4 years.