Dasatinib in Treating Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic Squamous Cell Skin Cancer or RAI Stage 0-I Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial is studying how well dasatinib works in treating patients with unresectable or metastatic squamous cell skin cancer or RAI Stage 0-I chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Dasatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Skin Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin|Stage 0 Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Stage I Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: dasatinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Response Rate (Complete Response and Partial Response), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Every 2 courses during treatment, assessed up to 12 weeks after completion of treatment
Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Time from start of treatment to time of progression, assessed up to 12 weeks|Presence of Total EphA2 and Both Total and Active Src and FAK by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), Performed per standard protocols by the Pathology Department., At baseline|COX-2 Presence by IHC, Performed per standard protocols by the Pathology Department. Samples will be obtained pre-therapy. Determination of the COX-2 tumor status on this trial will develop the beginnings of a data base upon which future therapy may be designed., At baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate (complete response and partial response) in patients with unresectable or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the skin or RAI stage 0-I chronic lymphocytic leukemia receiving dasatinib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the progression-free survival of patients receiving this drug. II. Evaluate tumor for presence of total EphA2 and both total and active Src and FAK by immunohistochemistry (IHC) pre-treatment with dasatinib.

III. Evaluate tumor for presence of cyclooxygenase-2 by IHC pre-treatment with dasatinib.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive 100 mg dasatinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28.

ARM II (PATIENTS ENROLLED AFTER 11/18/08): Patients receive 70 mg dasatinib PO BID on days 1-28.

In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Pre-therapy tumor biopsy specimens are collected to detect total and phosphorylated Src and FAK, total EphA2, and cyclooxygenase-2 by immunohistochemistry.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for up to 12 weeks.