Tumor Immunity and Cancer Recurrence Prediction Model
The purpose of this observational study is to understand the predictive effect of the laboratory-developed TIMES scoring system on the recurrence status of cancer patients who have undergone surgical tumor resection. The main questions it aims to answer are:

Can the TIMES scoring system accurately predict the recurrence status of cancer patients who have undergone surgical tumor resection? What is the accuracy of the TIMES scoring system? The medical records or biological specimens used in this study were obtained from previous clinical treatments, and the tissues used were collected from post-surgical discarded tissues from the participants, which will not affect their health. Researchers will continuously monitor the disease progression of the participants for up to 10 years or until cancer recurrence occurs.
Cancer
recurrence, The time from when the participant undergoes surgical treatment to the recurrence of cancer, which is obtained by researchers through phone follow-ups., From the date of random grouping to the date of first recorded recurrence or death due to any reason, whichever comes first, the evaluation lasts up to 120 months.|disease-free progression period, The time from when the participant undergoes surgical treatment to any progression of cancer, which is obtained by researchers through phone follow-ups., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 120 months|RECIST1.1, Tumor size: Measure the longest diameter or maximum cross-sectional area of the target tumor and record its changes.

Evaluation criteria:

Complete Response (CR): All target lesions disappear. Partial Response (PR): The tumor's maximum diameter or volume decreases by at least 30%.

Stable Disease (SD): The tumor shows no significant growth or shrinkage, with changes within a certain range.

Progressive Disease (PD): The tumor's maximum diameter or volume increases by at least 20%., From the start of clinical treatment to the end of clinical treatment, up to a maximum of 120 months.
No grouping, the long-term tracking of participants' disease progression and recurrence status will be compared with the analysis results of the collected discarded tumor tissues from the participants' surgeries