Neoadjuvant Tebentafusp for Uveal Melanoma
This phase II trial tests how well tebentafusp works to shrink tumors prior to primary treatment with surgery or radiation in patients with uveal (eye) melanoma that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Tebentafusp is a drug that binds to melanoma tumor cells as well as immune cells called T-cells. This binding causes an immune response against the melanoma cells, which leads to tumor cell death. Tebentafusp has been approved for the treatment of locally advanced and unresectable uveal melanoma. Giving tebentafusp before primary treatment with surgery or radiation may help shrink the tumor, prevent the disease from spreading, or reduce the likelihood that patients will require total eye removal (called enucleation).
Locally Advanced Unresectable Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: Tebentafusp-Tebn
Regression of primary uveal melanoma after Tebentafusp treatment in 20% of treated patients., Regression is defined as ≥ 20% reduction in tumor volume. All estimates of rates will be presented with corresponding 95% exact confidence intervals. For regression rate, the method of Atkinson and Brown will be used to allow for the two-stage design., 22 months
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (AE) version 5.0. All estimates of rates will be presented with corresponding 95% exact confidence intervals. AEs will be reported for each dose level and presented as tables of frequency of AEs by body system and by worse severity grade observed. AE term start and end date, severity, seriousness, outcome, action taken regarding study drugs and relationship to each study drug will also be reported. The summary tables will also discuss AEs leading to death and AEs leading to study drug(s) discontinuation. Tables should indicate related and unrelated events. Laboratory data will be presented by dose level at each observation time. Values outside normal limits will be identified and summarized by frequency distribution., Up to 5 years|Detection of plasma circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) and correlation of antitumor response, Plasma of patients will be collected for all patients at baseline (within 28 days of first dose), cycle 2 day 1, post-tebentafusp (within 14 days of last dose), and at the 3 month post-treatment evaluation. ctDNA response will be measured (defined as ≥0.3 log reduction) in ctDNA-evaluable patients as measured using Signatera assay and correlated with eye tumor regression., 22 months|Detection of aqueous humor ctDNA and correlation of antitumor response, Aqueous humor of patients will be collected at baseline and post-tebentafusp; if no ctDNA is detectable in the aqueous humor after 5 patients we will stop collecting aqueous ctDNA for the rest of the patients. ctDNA response will be measured (defined as ≥0.3 log reduction) in ctDNA-evaluable patients as measured using Signatera assay and correlated with eye tumor regression., 22 months
Assessment of visual acuity loss at baseline (prior to Tebentafusp treatment), prior to plaque brachytherapy, and 3) following plaque brachytherapy (after resolution of any radiation side effects/edema)., Ophthalmological examination for assessment of disease: this will be performed within 48 hours prior to Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 8, and Cycle 2 Day 1. Additional ophthalmological examinations may be performed if clinically indicated. All ophthalmological examinations must be performed and interpreted by a qualified ocular oncologist. Examination will include clinical eye examination, ophthalmic ultrasound, wide-angle fundus imaging, and optical coherence tomography, 22 months|Change in radiation dose to the fovea., Change in modeled radiation dose at critical eye structures before and after neoadjuvant Tebentafusp therapy, 22 months|Enucleation vs plaque brachytherapy post-treatment, Assessment of proportion of patients who had planned enucleation prior to therapy, but following Tebentafusp treatment were suitable for plaque brachytherapy., 22 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy of neoadjuvant tebentafusp in patients with large surgically unresectable (other than complete enucleation of eye) primary uveal melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the local (eye) and systemic toxicity with tebentafusp treatment. II. To investigate the usefulness of circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) as a biomarker for response.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess sight preservation. II. To assess the change in radiation dose to the fovea.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tebentafusp intravenously (IV) over 15-20 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 28 days of their last dose of tebentafusp, patients undergo standard of care (SOC) primary eye treatment (plaque radiotherapy or eye enucleation), as decided by their treating physician. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening, ophthalmic ultrasound, optical coherence tomography (OCT), wide-angle fundus imaging, OCT angiography (OCTA), fluorescein angiography, orbit magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and collection of blood samples throughout the trial, undergo biopsy and collection of aqueous humour samples at screening and on study, and undergo abdominal MRI and chest and pelvis computed tomography (CT) at screening and during follow up.

After completion of primary eye treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months and then every 3 months for up to 5 years.