Effect of Omega-3 Fatty Acids on the Perioperative Immune Response and Erythrocyte Function
Ideally, the postoperative inflammatory response is part of a well-orchestrated mechanism that contributes to tissue healing and rapid recovery. An exaggerated uncontrolled inflammatory response, however may lead to catabolism, tissue damage and organ failure. Omega-3 fatty acids may provide a means to alter cellular immune responses to the benefit of the patient. When omega-3 fatty acids are incorporated into membranes of inflammatory cells, they trigger intracellular signalling pathways that result in a less pro-inflammatory response. They modify gene and protein expression, modulate membrane protein activity and act as a reservoir for bioactive molecules. They also have a strong anti-inflammatory effect by mediating resolution of the inflammation. Furthermore, omega-3 fatty acids improve erythrocyte function, which is vital for an adequate microcirculation, tissue oxygenation and wound healing.

The investigators hypothesize that the perioperative administration of intravenous omega-3 fatty acids results in a rapid incorporation in immune cells and erythrocytes, thereby reducing the postoperative inflammatory response and improving erythrocyte function in patients undergoing colorectal surgery.
Colon Cancer
DRUG: Omegaven|DRUG: Placebo
Change in ex vivo production of pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 in LPS stimulated whole blood, Ex vivo stimulation of whole blood with LPS (lipopolysaccharide, component of gram negative bacteria) resulting in the production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6, measured in ng/ml., baseline, day of surgery, postoperative day 1,2 and 4
Change in ex vivo production of TNF-α and IL-10 in LPS stimulated whole blood, Ex vivo stimulation of whole blood with LPS (lipopolysaccharide, component of gram negative bacteria) resulting in the production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor-α), and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (interleukine-10), both measured in ng/ml., baseline, day of surgery, postoperative day 1, 2 and 4|Change in erythrocyte function, Erythrocyte deformability and aggregation measured by LORRCA (laser assisted optical rotational red cell analyzer), baseline, day of surgery, postoperative day 1, 2 and 4|Change in in vivo systemic inflammatory response parameters, White blood cell count, C-reactive protein and cytokine levels (Interleukine-6, Tumor Necrosis Factor-α and Interleukine-10) in serum., baseline, day of surgery, postoperative day 1, 2 and 4
Postoperative outcome (composite measure of length of stay and complications), Length of hospital stay and occurence of surgical site infection, abscess, urinary tract infection, pneumonia, anastomotic leakage, need for Intensive Care Unit admission, Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome, Multi Organ Failure, any adverse events., Registration during admission, follow up 2 and 4 weeks after surgery|Cognitive function, Neuropsychological examination using a reading test, an auditory verbal learning test, WAIS III figure series and trail making tests., baseline, follow up 2 weeks after surgery
Ideally, the postoperative inflammatory response is part of a well-orchestrated mechanism that contributes to tissue healing and rapid recovery. An exaggerated uncontrolled inflammatory response, however may lead to catabolism, tissue damage and organ failure. Omega-3 fatty acids may provide a means to alter cellular immune responses to the benefit of the patient. When omega-3 fatty acids are incorporated into membranes of inflammatory cells, they trigger intracellular signalling pathways that result in a less pro-inflammatory response. They modify gene and protein expression, modulate membrane protein activity and act as a reservoir for bioactive molecules. They also have a strong anti-inflammatory effect by mediating resolution of the inflammation. Furthermore, omega-3 fatty acids improve erythrocyte function, which is vital for an adequate microcirculation, tissue oxygenation and wound healing.

The investigators hypothesize that the perioperative administration of intravenous omega-3 fatty acids results in a rapid incorporation in immune cells and erythrocytes, thereby reducing the postoperative inflammatory response and improving erythrocyte function in patients undergoing colorectal surgery.