Complete Versus Partial Preservation of Denonvilliers' Fascia on Urogenital Function in Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
Total mesorectal resection (TME) is the standard surgical method for locally advanced rectal cancer, which significantly reduces the local recurrence rate. However, the incidence of urogenital dysfunction is higher. Studies found that Denonvilliers' Fascia contains autonomic nerves that may regulate urogenital function, while traditional TME surgery resects part of it. Recent Studies found that complete preservation of Denonvilliers' Fascia could improve urogenital in selected patients with rectal cancer. Locally advanced patient (T3-4 and/or N+, M0) accounts for a high proportion of mid-low rectal cancer. However, whether these patients can benefit from it has not fully been demonstrated. This project conducts a multi-center randomized controlled study to evaluate the effects of complete preservation and partial preservation of Denonvilliers' Fascia on postoperative urogenital function of locally advanced non-anterior mid-low rectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer|Advanced Cancer
PROCEDURE: Complete Preservation of Denonvilliers' Fascia
Incidence of sexual dysfunction, IIEF-5(International questionnaire of erectile function-5), Ejaculation function and FSFI questionnaires are used to assess sexual function, 1 month|Incidence of urinary dysfunction, IPSS(International prostate symptom score), ICIQ, bladder residual urine volume and urodynamic study are used to assess urinary function, 1 month
Incidence of sexual dysfunction, IIEF-5, Ejaculation function and FSFI questionnaires are used to assess sexual function, 9 months|Incidence of urinary dysfunction, IPSS, ICIQ questionnaires, bladder residual urine volume and urodynamic study are used to assess urinary function, 9 months|Quality of life assessed with GIQLI questionnaires, GIQLI questionnaires are used to assess quality of life, 1month|Quality of life assessed with GIQLI questionnaires, GIQLI questionnaires are used to assess quality of life, 9 months|1-year local recurrence, 1-year local recurrence, 1 year|1-year overall survival rate, 1-year overall survival rate, 1 year|Positive Circumferential Resection Margin Rate, Positive Circumferential Resection Margin Rate, 1 week
Total mesorectal resection (TME) is the standard surgical method for locally advanced rectal cancer, which significantly reduces the local recurrence rate. However, the incidence of urogenital dysfunction is higher. Studies found that Denonvilliers' Fascia contains autonomic nerves that may regulate urogenital function, while traditional TME surgery resects part of it. Recent Studies found that complete preservation of Denonvilliers' Fascia could improve urogenital in selected patients with rectal cancer. Locally advanced patient (T3-4 and/or N+, M0) accounts for a high proportion of mid-low rectal cancer. However, whether these patients can benefit from it has not fully been demonstrated. This project conducts a multi-center randomized controlled study to evaluate the effects of complete preservation and partial preservation of Denonvilliers' Fascia on postoperative urogenital function of locally advanced non-anterior mid-low rectal cancer.