Evaluation of CAD-EYE/SCALE-EYE for Detection, Classification, and Measurement of Colorectal Polyps: a Prospective Study
The investigators hypothesize that the clinical implementation of an AI system is an optimal tool to monitor, audit and improve the detection and classification of polyps during colonoscopy. The purpose of this prospective clinical cohort study is to evaluate the performance of the SCALE-EYE virtual scale for measuring polyp size when used during live colonoscopies. The investigators also wish to evaluate CAD-eye for detection and classification of polyp histology. It is hypothesized that CAD-eye and SCALE-EYE can function in real-time practice with high accuracy.
Colorectal Polyp|Colorectal Adenoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Detection and classification and size measurement of polyp by Artificial Intelligence (Cad eye) and the Scale Eye
Evaluation of the Scale-Eye, to compare the relative accuracies of SCALE-EYE size measurement, visual size estimation or size estimation based on a standard polypectomy snare for colorectal polyps during real-time colonoscopies with measurement of viable specimens by a Vernier caliper as reference standard. Relative accuracy is defined as "1-\[(ScaleEye measurement - gold standard measurement)/gold standard measurement\] x100". Scale: 0-100. Higher score is a better outcome., 30 days|Evaluation of CADe function, compare the adenoma detection rate between the CAD-eye-assisted colonoscopy and standard colonoscopy (i.e., detecting adenomas only by endoscopists), 30 days|Evaluation of CADx function, evaluate the accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of CADx for classifying 1-5 mm polyp histology into neoplastic and non-neoplastic compared with the histopathology outcomes as the reference standard, 30 days
Agreement and discrepancy between SCALE-EYE and other measurement, calculate the agreement and discrepancy between SCALE-EYE and other measurement methods, 30 days|Video-based assessments, compare in video-based assessments with different endoscopists (expert level, staff GI, surgeons, trainees the relative size measurements accuracy of scale eye with visual and instrument based (snare and/or forceps) size measurement accuracy, 30 days|CADe sensitivity in polyp detection, evaluate the sensitivity of the CAD-eye in combination with adjunct methods for real-time detecting colorectal polyps compared with standard colonoscopy, 30 days|CADe function: proportion of polyps detected, to evaluate the proportion of polyps detected by the CAD-eye in combination with adjunct methods, 30 days|Evaluation of CADx function, compare the accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of CADx for classifying 1-5 mm polyp histology to that of using human decision based on CADx suggestion, Through study completion, estimation: 3 months|CADx proportion of polyp histology non-evaluable, calculate the proportion of 1-5 mm polyps, CADx can not suggest histology (in the intervention arm, please refer to the randomization section), while endoscopists can suggest histology with high confidence, or vice versa, 30 days|CADx diagnostic uncertainty, evaluate diagnostic uncertainty of the current CADx module when predicting the pathology of colorectal polyps, 30 days|3D scanning assessment, evaluation of the relative accuracy of 3D scanned polyps compared to measurement of viable specimens by a Vernier caliper as reference standard. Relative accuracy is defined as "1-\[(ScaleEye measurement - gold standard measurement)/gold standard measurement\] x100". Scale: 0-100. Higher score is a better outcome., 30 days|Histologic size assessment, evaluation of the relative accuracy of histologic size measurement compared to measurement of viable specimens by a Vernier caliper as reference standard. Relative accuracy is defined as "1-\[(ScaleEye measurement - gold standard measurement)/gold standard measurement\] x100". Scale: 0-100. Higher score is a better outcome., 30 days
Detailed Description:

This study will be conducted in several phases: phase 1 will evaluate the feasibility of using CAD-eye in real-time practice, training endoscopists to work with this platform, obtaining preliminary data on relative size measurement accuracy when using scale eye, testing feasibility of fresh polyp specimen size measurement and determining the sample size and reference standard for evaluating SCALE-EYE during the subsequent phases of the study in randomized controlled trials. Phase 2 will evaluate relative size measurement accuracy of SCALE-EYE compared to visual size estimation and CADe/CADx performance in a randomized controlled trial. Scale-eye will further be validated through video-based analysis comparing different size measurement methods (scale eye, snare, forceps, visual assessment) with different groups of endoscopists (experts, staff gastroenterologists, trainees evaluating videos showing video sequences that show the polyps either with scale eye, visual or instrument information. Furthermore, fresh specimen size measurement and pathology-based size (including different ways to prepare specimens for pathology sectioning) will be evaluated for agreement between size measurement methods and tissue shrinkage effects. Phase 3 will evaluate relative size measurement accuracy of SCALE-EYE compared to snare-based size estimation.

Eligible patients will be adults (aged 45 to 80 years) referred to CHUM for diagnostic, screening or surveillance colonoscopy. Patients will undergo colonoscopies using CAD-eye, and the size of all polyps detected will be estimated by different subjective and objective methods. All polyp size measurements will be videorecorded. Video recordings with different measurement instruments (forceps, snare, scale eye, visual assessment) will be assessed with different groups of endoscopists (experts, staff gastroenterologists, trainees) for size measurements through online video presentations in a randomized order. The main results of this study are to evaluate the relative accuracy of SCALE-EYE for polyp size estimation and the adenoma detection rates, sensitivity, specificity, NPV for CAD-eye for polyp detection and classification. We will also calculate other characteristics of CAD-eye and SCALE-EYE tests, the rate of divergence and/or agreement between subjective and objective methods of polyp size estimation, the agreement between surveillance intervals based on optical diagnosis by CAD-eye and pathological findings, and the false positive rate and latency for polyp detection.