Vaccine Therapy With Tumor Specific Mutated VHL Peptides in Adult Cancer Patients With Renal Cell Carcinoma
About 27,000 new cases of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) are diagnosed every year in the United States. 11,000 of these cases will die from the disease. More than half of patients present with advanced or metastatic disease for which chemotherapy plays a very limited role. Therefore, development of another therapeutic approach is needed. Cancers in humans are commonly associated with mutations in dominant and recessive oncogenes. These genes produce mutated proteins that are unique to cancer cells. Von Hipple-Lindau (VHL) gene which is associated with the development of the VHL disease, has been recently mapped and cloned, and it is found to be mutated in 57% of sporadic renal cell carcinomas.

Data in mice have shown the generation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) restricted cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) that are capable of detecting endogenous cytoplasmic peptide derived from mutated oncogenes. In addition, we have recently demonstrated, by conducting different phase I clinical trials in which we vaccinate cancer patients with mutated Ras or p53 peptides corresponding to the abnormality patients harbor in their tumors, that in some patients we can generate immunological responses represented by the generation of lymphocytes (CD4+ and/or CD8+). In the current study, we would like to extend our observations to test whether VHL tumor suppressor protein can be immunologically targeted by vaccination. We have identified specific epitopes along the amino acid sequence of the VHL protein, which represent known specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class-I binding motifs. These amino acids stretches in the VHL protein correspond to the area of the point mutation hot spots. Therefore, we propose to treat patients with sporadic RCC who carry VHL mutations in their tumors with corresponding mutant VHL peptide vaccination. This vaccination will be done either by using pulsed-autologous peripheral mononuclear cells with the peptides, or peptides administered subcutaneously alone or in combination with cytokines.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: incomplete Freund's adjuvant|BIOLOGICAL: von Hippel-Lindau peptide vaccine
Percentage of Participants Who Generated an Immune Response, The immunological response was assessed by in-vitro T cell cytokine production enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT). From each patients, post-vaccination peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were compared to pre-vaccination as a baseline. A positive ELISPOT result for the patients was defined as a total number of experimental spots in the post-vaccination sample of more than twofold above the total spots in the pre-vaccination sample., 30 months
The Number of Participants With Adverse Events., Here are the total number of participants with adverse events. For the detailed list of adverse events see the adverse event module., 88 months
About 27,000 new cases of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) are diagnosed every year in the United States. 11,000 of these cases will die from the disease. More than half of patients present with advanced or metastatic disease for which chemotherapy plays a very limited role. Therefore, development of another therapeutic approach is needed. Cancers in humans are commonly associated with mutations in dominant and recessive oncogenes. These genes produce mutated proteins that are unique to cancer cells. Von Hipple-Lindau gene, which is associated with the development of the VHL disease, has been recently mapped and cloned; it is found to be mutated in 57% of sporadic renal cell carcinomas.

Data in mice have shown the generation of MHC restricted CTL that are capable of detecting endogenous cytoplasmic peptide derived from mutated oncogenes. In addition, we have recently demonstrated, by conducting different phase I clinical trials in which we vaccinate cancer patients with mutated Ras or p53 peptides corresponding to the abnormality patients harbor in their tumors, that in some patients we can generate immunological responses represented by the generation of lymphocytes (CD4+ and/or CD8+). In the current study, we would like to extend our observations to test whether VHL tumor suppressor protein can be immunologically targeted by vaccination. We have identified specific epitopes along the amino acid sequence of the VHL protein which represent known specific HLA class-I binding motifs. These amino acids stretches in the VHL protein correspond to the area of the point mutation hot spots. Therefore, this protocol treats patients with sporadic RCC who carry VHL mutations in their tumors with corresponding mutant VHL peptide vaccination.