Efficacy and Safety of a Sunscreen Against Porfimer Sodium-induced Phototoxicity to Visible Light
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) uses a combination of a drug, porfimer sodium, and a light from a non heated laser. The activation of the drug is done by illuminating abnormal areas using a fiber optic device. The fiber optic device is a very fine fiber (like fishing line) that permits transmission of light. By itself, porfimer sodium is inactive. However it becomes active when it is put in the presence of a light source such as sunlight, very intense indoor light, or laser. Therefore, the main risk with this therapy is that the skin will be more sensitive to light, and this sensibility can last up to 90 days. The skin reaction is similar to sunburn and is called phototoxicity.

To date, no product on the market has shown protection against visible light, and therefore, no product has been demonstrated to protect against the skin phototoxicity to visible light. A sunscreen sold under the brand name Solar Protection Formula® SPF 60 in the United States contains ingredients that provide maximum ultraviolet (UV) protection, as well as a formulation that could provide visible light protection. The product could potentially prevent the skin phototoxicity due to visible light, the most frequently reported side effect in patients receiving PDT with porfimer sodium. Therefore, this study is designed to assess the efficacy of topical application of Solar Protection Formula® SPF 60 as skin protector against visible light-induced skin redness and swelling following injection of porfimer sodium. It will involve 17 to 20 human subjects in the United States for whom PDT with porfimer sodium is planned for the treatment of high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus (pre-cancerous change in the food pipe tissue), lung cancer, or cancer of the esophagus (food pipe).
High-grade Dysplasia in Barrett Esophagus|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Solar Protection Formula SPF® 60|PROCEDURE: Photobiological testing
Skin erythema responses of control (unprotected) and Solar Protection Formula® SPF 60-protected sites to light exposure, Skin erythema responses will be scored 24 hours after photobiological testing, 17 days
Skin erythema responses of control (unprotected) and Solar Protection Formula® SPF 60-protected sites to light exposure, Skin erythema responses will be scored 24 hours after photobiological testing on three separate occasions over 3 months, 3 months|Skin edema responses of control (unprotected) and Solar Protection Formula® SPF 60-protected sites to light exposure, Skin edema responses will be scored 24 hours after photobiological testing on four separate occasions over 3 months, 3 months|Skin phototoxicity responses of control (unprotected) and Solar Protection Formula® SPF 60-protected sites to light exposure, Skin phototoxicity responses will be scored according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 24 hours after photobiological testing on four separate occasions over 3 months, 3 months|Proportion of subjects with adverse events as a measure of safety, 3 months
Human subjects with planned PDT course will be evaluated to confirm eligibility. Prior to enrollment, all inclusion and exclusion criteria will be verified. Medical procedures including demographic information (age, sex, race, smoking and drinking habits), medical/surgical history, physical exam (including vital signs, body weight, height, and skin color), clinical laboratory testing, concomitant medication intake and other therapy uses will be collected. The study procedures will begin after the intravenous injection of porfimer sodium.

Skin photobiological testing will consist of four 2-day periods performed over three months after the injection of porfimer sodium at a dose of 2 mg/kg of body weight. Each period will include a Skin Illumination session and a Skin Evaluation session. During the Skin Illumination session, the Solar Protection Formula® SPF 60 will be randomly applied at a dose of 2 mg/cm² on a skin subunit area of the back 30 minutes before illumination. A second skin subunit will be used as a "no-treatment" observational area. Therefore, each subject will be her/his own control. Illumination will be performed using a visible light source. During the Skin Evaluation session, skin reactions will be scored by an outcome assessor 24 hours after illumination according to a pre-determined rating scale. The outcome assessor will be blinded to the active treatment sequence applications. All subjects will be followed for three months.