Targeted Radiotherapy in Androgen-suppressed Prostate Cancer Patients.
This multi-center, phase II trial will be conducted in men with castration resistant prostate cancer. The aim of the TRAP trial is to test whether a new precise radiotherapy technique called stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) can slow down the growth of metastatic prostate cancer. If SBRT is effective it will represent a new treatment option in these patients, providing more prolonged control without having to resort to chemotherapy and its potentially unpleasant side effects.

In this trial, the investigators will identify men who, despite being on next generation androgen deprivation treatment (Abiraterone or Enzalutamide) have developed one or two new sites of worsening (growing) disease but the rest of their cancer is still responding to hormonal therapy. If it is the case that SBRT can successfully treat the cancer which is resistant to current treatment then the investigators hope they will be able to better control the spread of cancer in these patients for longer.

The investigators also hope that they will be able to use the tell-tale products (gene markers) that are released into the bloodstream in these patients, or identify characteristics on novel imaging such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to help identify patients in the future who will benefit the most.
Prostate Cancer|Metastasis|Toxicity Due to Radiotherapy|Circulating Tumour DNA
RADIATION: SBRT + ADT
Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Median progression free survival following SBRT to oligo-progressing metastatic sites assessed using the RECIST (v 1.1) criteria on imaging such as computed Tomography (CT),bone scan, magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan, Outcome to be assessed at 6 months from end of SBRT
Local control rate following SBRT, Overall control defined as stable disease or partial response of irradiated metastases assessed using the RECIST (v 1.1) criteria on imaging such as computed Tomography (CT), magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan or control on bone scan, Outcome to be assessed at 6 months and 1 year from end of SBRT|Incidence and severity of treatment induced symptoms, Incidence of acute and late side-effects resulting from SBRT assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and the Radiotherapy and Oncology Group Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and the RTOG (Radiotherapy Oncology Group) scoring criteria, From the start of SBRT up to 24 months following delivery of SBRT|Health Related Quality of Life, Patient Reported Quality of Life assessed using the Euroqual (EQ) EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, Change from start of radiotherapy to each time-point including 3 and 6 months after end of SBRT|Time to administration of next line of therapy, Survival and median survival prior to alternative therapy administration, From the end of SBRT up to 24 months following delivery of SBRT|Association between selected WB DW MRI characteristics at baseline and prognosis after SBRT, Correlation or regression analysis of characteristics (e.g. number of metastases), Outcome to be assessed at 6 months and 1 year from end of SBRT
Exploration of novel bio-markers to assess response to SBRT treatment, Levels of circulating tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA), Assessment of Progression Free Survival at 6 months and 1 year
For many men with metastatic prostate cancer, the cancer develops resistance to successive systemic therapies and eventually all treatment options are exhausted and the patient succumbs to their disease. It is therefore vital to find ways of evading prostate cancer resistance. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) has the advantage that it destroys cancerous tissue irrespective of the underlying genetic deficit within the progressing metastasis. If the resistant clones are localized to 1-2 metastases and can be destroyed or ablated, the patient can continue to receive the benefit of their systemic (androgen deprivation) treatment (Abiraterone or Enzalutamide) which may continue to control the remainder of their disease for many months, possibly even years.

SBRT is a recognised technique for the elimination of isolated metastases in other tumour sites achieving local control of metastasis in 80-90% of cases. This is achieved with very few side effects. In the TRAP trial, the investigators wish to establish whether it is beneficial to target 1 or 2 metastatic sites with SBRT or whether patients will develop polymetastatic progression. Patients enrolled on the trial will receive 30 Gy in 5 fractions on alternate days over 10 days. They will continue their androgen deprivation treatment throughout and following SBRT. Side effects will be closely monitored throughout and patients will be seen at the end of radiotherapy and then 4 weeks after treatment. Thereafter patients will undergo trial follow up three monthly which will includes Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) monitoring.

In addition to the above procedures, the investigators will use a combination of whole body (WB) diffusion weighted (DW) magnetic resonance imaging (WB DW MRI) and circulating tumour (ct) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), 'ct DNA' biomarker analysis with the aim of identifying those patients which benefit most from the combination of SBRT and androgen deprivation treatment. WB DW MRI is a novel MRI technique which shows improved sensitivity compared to standard MRI. The marker ctDNA enables the investigators to explore genomic characterisation and variation of metastases and compare findings with previously explored genome mutations in prostate cancer patients.