Microbiome and Papillary Thyroid Microcarcinoma
It has been shown that gut microbiome and microbiome metabolism can regulate or control the initiation of a cancer process. To the best of the investigators knowledge, no study has directly shown the relationship of the thyroid microcarcinoma to the human microbiome. In this work, the aim is to detect the microbiome in peripheral blood in a patient with a thyroid gland carcinoma, and to correlate it with the disease, compared to the microbiome of a group of patients who did not find another thyroid gland carcinoma
Papillary Thyroid Microcarcinoma|Microbiome
PROCEDURE: Thyroidectomy
Type of microbiome in peripheral blood sample of a patient with papillary thyroid microcarcinoma, Microbiome in a sample of peripheral blood in a patient with PTMC and to correlate it with the disease as a diagnostic marker compared to patients without any type of thyroid cancer., preoperatively periferal blood collection, perioperatively periferal blood colection
Measurements of biological markers and tumor cell motility may be useful in predicting early whether a papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (PTMC) will develop to invasive carcinoma. Ideally, patients at high risk of progression may undergo immediate surgery instead of active surveillance and those with a very low likelihood of tumor progression may be included in an active surveillance protocol. Future research should focus on the development of new predictive early markers of papillary thyroid carcinoma during patient follow-up. From the above, it is clear the need to develop a new marker that raises the suspicion of possible thyroid microcarcinoma, if it is not preoperatively detected by the needle biopsy method and the patient has the indication for surgery for another benign thyroid disease. To date, there are no absolute biological and clinical parameters distinguishing a low risk from a high risk PTMC. If the fine needle aspiration shows stage V and VI Bethesda classification, and there is a high suspicion of PTMC, then questions such as the extent of the surgery, lobectomy or total thyroidectomy are beginning to be raised. The next dilemma is lymphadenectomy. The dilemma is greater if there are enlarged cervical lymph nodes (diameter over 1 cm in diameter of the small axis) and subsequently micromestases are confirmed. Another entity is when the cervical lymph nodes are not pathologically enlarged. This clinical situation is often emphasized as 60-80% of PTMC patients have metastases. By correlating a possible difference in the microbiome of a participants peripheral blood preoperatively, together with the imaging data, there may have been another marker of early PTMC detection and patient management planning respectively.