Nivolumab Plus Pemetrexed for Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects the combination of Nivolumab and Pemetrexed has on you and your cancer. The safety of this combination and the effectiveness of this treatment will be studied.
SCCHN
DRUG: Combination Product: Nivolumab with Pemetrexed
Feasibility, The number of participants who complete at least 2 cycles of combination nivolumab with pemetrexed for the treatment of advanced head and neck cancers, over the total duration of study., 1 year after enrollment of last participant|Safety/tolerability (incidence of adverse events including immune related), Treatment related and non-related adverse events per CTCAE v.4.0.3 of nivolumab with pemetrexed for the treatment of advanced head and neck cancers. Incidence of adverse events, the number of dose modifications and discontinuations due to adverse events including immune-related adverse events., Through study completion up to 2 years
Response Rate, associated with combination nivolumab/pemetrexed therapy (defined as the proportion of participants achieving either a partial response or a complete response as best-overall response per RECIST criteria 1.1), 1 year after enrollment of last participant.|Progression free survival, associated with combination nivolumab/pemetrexed therapy (defined as the time between the date of treatment initiation and the date of disease progression or death (whatever the cause, whichever occurs first), 5 years from final study drug dose.|Overall Survival, associated with combination nivolumab/pemetrexed therapy. (Defined as the time between the date of treatment initiation and the date of death), 5 years from final study drug dose.|Patient reported quality of life, associated with combination nivolumab/pemetrexed therapy (measured utilizing the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Score). This questionnaire includes six yes/no questions, 10 questions with a scale of 0 (no symptoms) to 10 (at the worst)., Through study completion, up to 2 years.
Investigation of the role of CD71+ immature red blood cells in the response to treatment with immunotherapy, In this study the frequency of the CD71+erythrocyte cells' (blood draws at pre-chemo, post-chemo and post immunotherapy) will be measured., 1 year after last study drug dose.
The treatment of patients with SCCHN is challenging, and represents an area of high unmet need. Treatment options within this patient population are limited, and inadequately treated disease may cause high morbidity, negatively impacting quality of life and leading to increased costs for supportive care. To address the unmet needs of these patients, this exploratory trial combining pemetrexed with standard-of-care nivolumab, with an investigational plan to study clinical and health services outcomes is being proposed.