Monitoring Heart Rate Variability for the Early Detection of Pancreatic Cancer
This study examines heart rate monitoring variability for the early detection of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer is a very difficult disease to detect early. This study is being done to observe the heart rate variability in patients with pancreatic cancer compared to undiagnosed individuals with increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer. This may help researchers determine if pancreatic occurrences/recurrences (chance of coming back) can be detected sooner through monitoring heart rate and activity.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
DEVICE: Activity Monitor|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Magnitude of heart rate variability (HRV) decline (Stage I), As measured by root mean square of the successive differences (RMSSD) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients and in high-risk participants., Up to 1 year after enrollment|Compliance statistics for wristband use (Stage II), Defined as the percentage of days during which data were collected during at least 70% of the hours., Until onset of PDAC, study withdrawal, or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years after enrollment
Compliance statistics for wristband use for all participants (Stage I, II), Defined as the percentage of days during which data were collected for at least 70% of the hours., Up to 6 weeks and 6 months after enrollment and device activation|Effectiveness of virtual training (Stage I, II), Defined as the percentage of participants for whom high quality data are available within 3 days of set up. The pattern of missing data, and the percentage of participants able to collect data will be presented graphically. Will also associate the compliance with patient characteristics, regions and seasons to understand what may impact the compliance rate., Up to 1 week after enrollment and device activation|Magnitude of HRV change (Stage II), As measured by RMSSD, in participants at high-risk of developing PDAC., Up to 5 years post enrollment|Incidence of PDAC among high-risk participants (Stage II), Up to 5 years post enrollment|Time of PDAC diagnosis among high-risk participants who developed PDAC (Stage II), Up to 5 years post enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether heart rate variability (HRV) is reduced in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) compared with individuals at increased risk of developing PDAC. (Stage I) II. To assess the feasibility of long-term compliance using a wearable device. (Stage II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess compliance with using a wearable device. (Stage I and II) II. To validate effectiveness of virtual device training. (Stage I and II) III. To determine whether HRV is reduced in participants at high-risk of developing PDAC. (Stage II) IV. To characterize timing and occurrence of PDAC among high-risk without disease. (Stage II) V. To characterize timing and occurrence of PDAC among participants at high-risk of developing PDAC. (Stage II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the relationship between changes in HRV relative to sarcopenia-related body composition characteristics in PDAC patients. (Stage I) II. To investigate the relationship between the pNN50 HRV measure and PDAC diagnosis. (Stage I and II) III. To compare changes in sleep biometrics among all participants. (Stage I and II) IV. To evaluate changes in health-related quality of life assessments among all participants. (Stage I and II) V. To evaluate participant satisfaction with virtual device instruction.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo HRV monitoring using an activity monitor (WHOOP) for a minimum of 5 days weekly for up to 1 year in patients with newly-diagnosed PDAC and up to 5 years for patients in high risk group.