Evaluation of Remnant Liver Function Using Primovist-enhanced MRI Before Resection/Ablation of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the global and segmental hepatic uptake and excretion of Gd-EOB-DTPA on Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced liver MRI correlates with standard liver function test results in the patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) before major hepatic resection or radiofrequency ablation (RFA).
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular|Liver Dysfunction
DRUG: Gd-EOB-DTPA|DRUG: Gd-EOB-DTPA|PROCEDURE: MRI|PROCEDURE: MRI
Correlation of hepatic extraction fraction (HEF) of future remnant liver function (RLF) obtained from Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI with postoperative ICG R15 clearance test results, Predicted RLF (HEF mL) = the sum of the individual HEF of each voxel in future remnant segment, 3 days (upto 5 days) after surgery
Correlation of various functional and volumetric parameters derived from Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI and clinical liver function tests obtained before and after surgical resection, 1. Functional parameters derived from Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI include hepatic extraction fraction \[HEF\], input-relative blood flow \[irBF\], hepatocellular uptake index \[HUI\], liver to spleen ratio (LSR).
2. Volumetric parameters include global liver volume and remnant liver volume.
3. Clinical liver function tests include ICG R15, MELD score and Child-Pugh score.
4. ICG R15 \[Indocyanine green retention at 15 minutes, %\] test will be performed within 3 days of preoperative MRI and 3 days after surgical resection., within 7 days before, and 3 to 5 days after surgery|Analysis of clinical and MRI parameters of postoperative complication and morbidity, 1. Clinical parameters refer to the following.

   * Frequency of POD#5 days 50-50 criteria
   * Evaluation of operation related complication
   * Incidence of hepatic failure or death
2. Functional and volumetric MRI parameters of patients with postoperative complication and morbidity will be evaluated.
3. Correlation of MRI parameters with laboratory liver function tests., upto 3 months (plus minus 1 week) after discharge|Exploratory analysis of MRI parameters and ICG R15 derived from potential liver donors, 1. Correlation of functional parameters derived from Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI with ICG R15
2. Correlation of functional and volumetric parameters derived from Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI
3. Correlation of volumetric parameters derived from Gd-EOB-DTPA enhanced MRI and ICG15
4. Comparison of functional MRI parameters between potential liver donors and patients undergoing hepatic resection for HCC., within 3 days of ICG R15 test
1. Preoperative/RFA assessment of remnant liver function is important for avoiding posthepatectomy liver failure. However, the function of the future remnant is decreased in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis, compared to that of healthy patients with an equal volume. Therefore, volume-based estimation of hepatic reserve function is inadequate for patients with hepatic dysfunction.
2. Standard clinical liver function tests, such as ICG clearance rate or Child-Pugh score, provides measurements of the global hepatic function, but cannot evaluate the functional distribution in the liver. Gd-EOB-DTPA (Gadoxetic acid, Primovist®, Bayer Schering) enhanced MRI has been recently demonstrated to have the potential to be an imaging-based liver function test, with the possibility to detect functional differences on a regional or even segmental level.
3. Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced liver MRI may be able to assess not only global but also segmental liver function in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have a relatively high risk for developing liver failure after surgical resection due to coexistent hepatic damage by chronic viral hepatitis and/or cirrhosis preoperatively.

The purpose of this study is to determine whether the global and segmental hepatic uptake and excretion of Gd-EOB-DTPA on Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced liver MRI correlates with standard liver function test results in the patients with HCC before major hepatic resection/RFA.