A Study of Bevacizumab in Combination With Bortezomib in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma (AMBER)
This is a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled, multicenter, Phase II study designed to provide a preliminary assessment of the safety and efficacy of combining bevacizumab with bortezomib in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: placebo
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or death on study from any cause within 30 days of the last response assessment. Disease progression was determined by the investigator using the International Myeloma Working Group's (IMWG) uniform response criteria. Median PFS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. For patients who were alive at the time of the analysis and whose disease had not yet progressed, PFS was censored at the time of the last response assessment., From randomization to disease progression or death on study (up to 116 weeks).
Number of Participants With an Overall Response, Overall response was defined as a stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, or partial response (sCR, CR, VGPR, and PR, respectively) determined on two consecutive assessments ≤ 6 weeks apart and before the initiation of any new anti-tumor therapy, as assessed by the investigator using the International Myeloma Working Group's (IMWG's) uniform response criteria. Patients without a post-baseline response assessment or who died prior to their first scheduled response assessment were considered non-responders., From randomization to the end of study (clinical cut-off; up to 116 weeks).|Percentage of Participants With an Overall Response, Overall response was defined as a stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, or partial response (sCR, CR, VGPR, and PR) determined on two consecutive assessments ≤ 6 weeks apart and before the initiation of any new anti-tumor therapy, as assessed by the investigator using the IMWG's uniform response criteria. Patients without a post-baseline response assessment or who died prior to their first scheduled response assessment were considered non-responders., From randomization to the end of study (clinical cut-off; up to 116 weeks).|Duration of Response, Duration of response was defined as the time from the initial response to disease progression or death on study. Disease progression was determined by the investigator using the IMWG's uniform response criteria and defined as an increase of ≥25% from best response in: Serum M-protein and/or Urine M-protein and/or Marrow plasma cells; or new or increased plasmacytomas or bone lesions; or hypercalcemia due to myeloma. Duration of response was estimated using Kaplan-Meier. For patients who had not progressed or died, duration of response was censored at the date of the last response assessment., From randomization to the end of study (clinical cut-off; up to 116 weeks).|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the duration of time from randomization until death from any cause. All deaths were included, whether they occurred on study treatment or following treatment discontinuation. Overall survival was estimated using Kaplan-Meier. For patients who had not died, overall survival was censored at the date that the patient was last known to be alive., From randomization until death from any cause, up until the end of study (clinical cut-off; up to 116 weeks).|Number of Participants With Selected Adverse Events (AEs), Adverse events were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), v3.0. All serious adverse events are listed in the Adverse Event Reporting section., Participants were monitored for AEs from initiation of treatment to 30 days after treatment termination (up to 122 weeks).
This is a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled, multicenter, Phase II study designed to provide a preliminary assessment of the safety and efficacy of combining bevacizumab with bortezomib in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.