Malignancy Predictors, Bethesda and TI-RADS Scores Correlated With Final Histopathology in Thyroid Diseases
In the last decades, thyroid cancer incidence has continuously increased all over the world, almost exclusively due to a sharp rise in the incidence of the papillary histologic subtype, which has the highest incidence of multifocality. Furthermore, Black Sea and Eastern European regions are both endemic and known to have been under the influence of Chernobyl nuclear explosion. Although overscreening might have a role in certain parts of the world, the predictors of malignancy such as family history, genetical disorders, previous radiation exposure, low iodine intake, diabetes and obesity, should also be taken into consideration in determining the extent of surgery.
Thyroid Carcinoma|Thyroid Papillary Carcinoma|Multinodular Goiter, Adolescent|Solitary Thyroid Nodule|Thyroid Diseases|Multifocal Dysplasia|Aspiration|Thyroid Nodule|Thyroid Cancer, Papillary|Thyroid Neoplasms|Thyroid Goiter
PROCEDURE: Total thyroidectomy (TT)
Preoperative Evaluation of Malignancy Risk Factors-How many risk factors are present?, Malignancy risk factors: 1. Demographics (Age and gender-Male/Female), 2. Smoking history (Yes/No, duration and number/day), 3. Iodine-deficient diet (Yes/No), 4. Born at an endemic area (Yes/No), 5. Presence in an endemic area (Yes/No), 6. Radiation exposure (Yes/No), 7. Radiation treatment during childhood (Yes/No), 8. Head and neck carcinoma (Yes/No), 9. Other carcinoma history (Yes/No, if yes specify.........) 10. Family history of thyroid disease (Yes/No), 11. Family history of other carcinomas (Yes/No), 12. Personal history of thyroid carcinoma/surgery (Yes/No, if yes, pathology........), 13. Personal history of other carcinomas (e.g. colonic polyps? breast disease?......) 14. Genetic disorders (Yes/No), 15. Obesity (Body mass index - ? kg/m2), 16. Diabetes mellitus (Yes/No) should be evaluated for each patient before surgery- The number of risk factors will be compared with malignancy rate found at final histopathology report., 12 months|Preoperative Bethesda category, Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology report, Bethesda score-FNA cytology report- as I, II, III, IV, V or VI. Cytology report will be compared with final histology report for each patient for malşgnancy rate and multifocality I. Nondiagnostic or unsatisfactory, II. Benign, III. Atypia of undetermined significance (AUS) or follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS), IV. Follicular neoplasm or suspicious for a follicular neoplasm-Preoperative cytology category will be compared with postoperative final histopathology report for malignancy rate, multifocality and cases with cytology-histopathology discrepancy will be evaluated further for biopsy techniques and cytology mis-interpretations.

V. Suspicious for malignancy, VI. Malignant., 12 months|Preoperative ultrasound evaluation with Thyroid Imaging Reporting and Data System (TI-RADS), TI-RADS score-Ultrasound evaluation of thyroid nodues- as I, II, III, IV or V. TI-RADS scores will be compared with final histopathology report to see malignancy rates and accuracy of TI-RADS.

TI-RADS 1: Normal thyroid gland. No focal lesion. TI-RADS 2: Benign nodules. Noticeably benign pattern (0% risk of malignancy) TI-RADS 3: Probably benign nodules (\<5% risk of malignancy)

TI-RADS 4:

* 4a - Undetermined nodules (5-10% risk of malignancy) Score of 1.
* 4b - Suspicious nodules (10-50% risk of malignancy) Score of 2.
* 4c - Highly suspicious nodules (50-85% risk of malignancy) Score of 3-4 TI-RADS 5: Probably malignant nodules (\>85% risk of malignancy) Score of 5 or higher TI-RADS 6: Biopsy-proven malignancy, 12 months|Total thyroidectomy for both benign and malign thyroid diseases, Final histopathology report-After surgery (all patients should have a final histopathology report after total thyroidectomy operation). Final histology report will be correlated to Malignancy risk factors (number), Bethesda category (accuracy, false negativity/positivity) and TI-RADS (accuracy, false negativity/positivity), 12 months
High-frequency ultrasound (US) is increasingly used to help distinguish malignancy in patients with solitary or multiple nodules, and US-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) has become the gold standard test for detecting thyroid cancer. Moreover, a further US-based risk stratification of thyroid nodules with Thyroid Imaging Reporting and Data System (TI-RADS) has been currently proposed for better and easier decision making. However, the presence of multiple nodules in the thyroid gland may decrease the diagnostic value of these preoperative diagnostic tools. The prevalence of incidental carcinoma identified on the final histological examination of the patients who underwent surgery for presumably benign thyroid diseases was previously reported to be roughly around 5 to 10%. Most of the previous studies also showed a lower risk of carcinoma in multinodular goitre (MNG) compared to solitary thyroid nodule (STN). However, some recent surgical series have reported that the risk of thyroid carcinoma in benign thyroid diseases is significantly higher than previously reported.

The purpose of the present study is to detect the accuracy of preoperative cytology and US-findings (TI-RADS) and the prevalence of thyroid carcinoma in patients operated for thyroid diseases and to discuss all malignancy risk factors in detail along with final histopathological report. Cytology-histology discrepant cases will also be further evaluated for sampling and interpretation errors, and possible solutions to increase the accuracy of preop testing are going to be proposed. The accuracy of the preference of total thyroidectomy procedure will be evaluated considering the prevalence of incidental carcinomas diagnosed postoperatively, and whether there are variations in the risk of malignancy with respect to final pathology of patients will also be discussed in detail.