BP-C1 in Short-term Treatment of Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
The aim of this study is to investigate the short-term effect and tolerability BP-C1 in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who has undergone guideline-recommended chemotherapy.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer|Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: BP-C1|DRUG: BP-C2
Change (%) in the sum of diameters of target lesions, Diameter of target lesions will be measured by computer tomography (CT) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, baseline to Day 32 of treatment|Maximum Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) score, Maximum CTC score will be recorded using NCI Common Toxicity Criteria v2.0 divided in 15 categories, baseline to Day 32 of treatment|Sum CTC score, The Sum CTC score will be a sum of all registered CTC scores by 15 categories, baseline to Day 32 of treatment
Treatment response, In accordance with RECIST v1.1 the treatment response will be classified as 'complete response', 'partial response', 'stable disease' or 'progressive disease':

Complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR): at least 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

Progressive disease (PD): at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum might also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions will also be considered progression.

Stable disease (SD): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., baseline to Day 32 of treatment|Scores of the general quality of life cancer questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a general quality of life questionnaire for cancer patients. The questionnaire contains 30 questions. Three variables will be obtained from the EORTC QLQ-C30: the sum of scores C1 to C5 denoted as "Physical activity problem last week", the sum of scores C6 to C28 denoted as "Discomfort last week", and the sum of scores C29 and C30 denoted as "Health and quality of life", baseline to Day 16 and Day 32 of treatment|Number of registered adverse events, Adverse events (AEs) will be coded according to the MedDRA (version 16.1E). AEs will be systemized by system organ class and by preferred term. AEs will be analyzed by severity, seriousness and relatedness to the drug., screening to Day 32 of treatment and Day 28 of follow-up
BP-C1, solution for injections 0.05%, is currently being developed for treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer and metastatic pancreatic cancer with palliative intent. Active substance of the product, which is a novel platinum-containing anticancer agent developed for intramuscular administration, is a complex between cis-diammineplatinum(II) derived core and an amphiphilic polymer, containing a composition of benzene polycarboxylic acids. The amphiphilic characteristics of the polymer have resulted in a product with clear and significantly altered and improved properties compared to other platinum analogues, e.g. cisplatin, carboplatin and oxaliplatin.

BP-C1 preserves antitumour activity of its predecessors (e.g. cisplatin and carboplatin), additionally offering the following advantages that ensure favourable outcome of treatment in metastatic cancer patients:

* injectable solution (intramuscular) does not cause injection site reactions;
* can be administered at home by a nurse or a patient;
* has an improved pharmacokinetic profile;
* exerts an additional immunomodulatory activity.

BP-C2 is a novel lignin-derived polyphenolic composition with ammonium molybdate. BP-C2, given orally, is believed to reduce the toxicity of chemotherapeutic agents.

This is a single center, two arm, open label pilot study (phase IIa). The eligible patients will be allocated either to BP-C1 arm or to BP-C1+BP-C2 arm and treated for 32 days with further follow-up for 28 days.