EGFRBi-Armed Autologous T Cells in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Glioblastoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of epidermal growth factor receptor bispecific antibody (EGFRBi)-armed autologous T cells and how well it works in treating patients with glioblastoma that have come back or does not respond to treatment. EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells coated with antibodies (proteins used by the immune system to target and kill foreign objects such as cancer cells) may have great ability to seek out, attach to, and destroy glioblastoma cells.
Adult Brain Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Brain Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: EGFRBi-Armed Autologous T Cells|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Incidence of toxicity according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (Phase I), Up to 7 days after the last infusion|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II), The median OS will be estimated with 95% confidence interval. Kaplan-Meier estimate of OS will be plotted. For quantitative measurements in immune evaluations, will calculate their means, standard deviations, medians, and examine the distributions of these data to ascertain whether normal theory methods are appropriate. Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-ranks test will be used for comparative analyses between each post-IMT time point versus pre-IMT., From study enrollment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Change in cytokines profiles, Mean, standard deviation, median and examine the distributions of these data will be calculated to ascertain whether normal theory methods are appropriate. Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-ranks test will be used for comparative analyses between each post-IMT time point versus pre-IMT. Bonferroni's adjusted p-values will be reported to control type I error rate. In addition, will assess the pattern of changes in the immune responses over time using graphical techniques such as LOWESS curves., Baseline to up to 1 year|Changes in activated T cells, Mean, standard deviation, median and examine the distributions of these data will be calculated to ascertain whether normal theory methods are appropriate. Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-ranks test will be used for comparative analyses between each post-IMT time point versus pre-IMT. Bonferroni's adjusted p-values will be reported to control type I error rate. In addition, will assess the pattern of changes in the immune responses over time using graphical techniques such as LOWESS curves., Baseline to up to 1 year|Changes in cytotoxic T-lymphocyte as measured by IFN-gamma EliSpots directed at autologous tumor or GBM cell lines, Mean, standard deviation, median and examine the distributions of these data will be calculated to ascertain whether normal theory methods are appropriate. Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-ranks test will be used for comparative analyses between each post-IMT time point versus pre-IMT. Bonferroni's adjusted p-values will be reported to control type I error rate. In addition, will assess the pattern of changes in the immune responses over time using graphical techniques such as LOWESS curves., Baseline to up to 1 year|Changes induced by IMT, Mean, standard deviation, median and examine the distributions of these data will be calculated to ascertain whether normal theory methods are appropriate. Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-ranks test will be used for comparative analyses between each post-IMT time point versus pre-IMT. Bonferroni's adjusted p-values will be reported to control type I error rate. In addition, will assess the pattern of changes in the immune responses over time using graphical techniques such as LOWESS curves., Baseline to up to 1 year|Human anti-mouse antibody responses, Serial serum samples will be tested and evaluated for the development of immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgM anti-mouse antibody responses., Up to 1 year|Peripheral blood measures, Up to 1 year
Persistence of aATC in blood, Will be evaluated whether the infused cells persist in vivo using fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis for the mouse immunoglobulin G 2 alpha (IgG2a) (OKT3 part of the EGFRBi)., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for 8 intrathecal (IT) injections (via lumbar puncture) of anti-cluster of differentiation (CD)3 × anti-EGFRBi armed activated T cells (aATC) (EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells) given twice per week for 4 weeks in a standard 3+3 dose escalation schema with 0.10, 0.50 and 1.00 × 10\^9 EGFRBi-aATC per IT injection for a total of 0.8, 4.0, and 8.0 × 10\^9 cells, respectively. (Phase I) II. To explore efficacy and confirm the toxicity profile of EGFRBi-aATC. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Measure immune responses in participants of the phase I/II trial by sequential monitoring of phenotype, interferon gamma (IFN-g) enzyme-linked immunoSpots (EliSpots), anti-glioblastoma (GBM) cytotoxicity of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) (direct cytotoxicity against GBM cells) directed at GBM cell lines, T-helper 1 (Th1)/T-helper 2 (Th2) serum cytokine patterns, and anti-glioma antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)/serum during the "vaccinate and consolidate" process.

II. Assess survival and persistence of aATC in the CSF, and trafficking of IT-injected aATC out of the CSF into the bloodstream.

III. Image patients' brain with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (performed clinically in 2-month intervals; includes standard structural sequences and perfusion imaging) and alpha-\[11C\]methyl-L-tryptophan (AMT) positron emission tomography (PET) scan (under Wayne State University \[WSU\] Internal Review Board \[IRB\]/Karmanos Cancer Institute \[KCI\]-approved research protocol) before and after the aATC treatment regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells IT twice weekly for 4 weeks.

PHASE II: Patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells\* IT twice weekly for 4 weeks and then intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes twice weekly for 2 weeks.

\*NOTE: Six selected patients receive EGFRBi-armed autologous T cells IV on day -3, -2, or -1 prior to first IT infusion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months thereafter.