ZR2 Followed by Immunochemotherapy in Elderly Patients With Newly-diagnosed DLBCL
As the most common subtype of lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive but potentially curable malignancy. The poor prognosis of elderly DLBCL patients may be related to the biological behavior of the disease, more comorbidities, poor performance status, and inability to tolerate standard-intensity immunochemotherapy. The investigators plan to use ZR2 regimen(rituximab, lenalidomide and zanubrutinib) for 2 cycles followed by immunochemotherapy for up to 4 cycles in elderly newly diagnosed DLBCL patients.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Rituximab, Lenalidomide, Zanubrutinib and RCHOP
ORR, overall response rate, 21days after the end of treatment
PFS, Progression Free Survival, From date of first day of treatment until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 24 months|OS, Overall Survival, From date of first day of treatment until the date of first documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|AE and SAE, Adverse event and serious adverse event, From date of first day of treatment until 30 day after last treatment|Performance status, Assess the patient's performance status according to the Barthel index. Patients will be classified into 5 scales with the score ranging from 0 to 100: 0-20 points=extremely severe functional impairment; 25-45 points=severe functional impairment; 50-70 points=moderate functional impairment; 75-95 points=mild functional impairment; 100 points=normal. Higher scores mean a better outcome., At screening period, after 2 cycles of ZR2 regimen(each cycle is 21 days), after 2 cycles of RCHOP regimen(each cycle is 21 days) and 21days after the end of treatment|Life quality, Assess the patient's quality of life according to the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., At screening period, after 2 cycles of ZR2 regimen(each cycle is 21 days), after 2 cycles of RCHOP regimen(each cycle is 21 days) and 21days after the end of treatment
DLBCL mostly occurs in the elderly, with a median age at diagnosis of 66 years. Age over 60 years is a poor prognostic factor for DLBCL and is included in the International Prognostic Index (IPI) to stratify patients for prognosis. So there is an unmet need for treatment in this population. Both lenalidomide and BTK inhibitor single drugs have shown certain efficacy in DLBCL patients, and many studies have also explored the effectiveness of rituximab, lenalidomide and BTK inhibitor combination regimen in the treatment of DLBCL. Therefore, the investigators plan to use ZR2 regimen(rituximab, lenalidomide and zanubrutinib) for 2 cycles to reduce tumor burden, improve the patient's physical condition, and improve the tolerance to immunochemotherapy in elderly newly diagnosed DLBCL patients. Up to 4 cycles of immunochemotherapy were then administered sequentially in order to reduce the overall chemotherapy intensity of the patients and improve the long-term quality of life of the patients.