Metronomic Temozolomide in Unfit NENs Patients Metronomic Temozolomide in Unfit Patients With Advanced Neuroendocrine Neoplasms (NENs): MeTe Study
Study design and rationale: Neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs ) represent a heterogeneous group of malignancies, which differ in terms of behavio r and prognosis. Most of t hem are advanced at diagnosis t herefore systemic treatment is proposed. While over the last years many advanced have been made especially in terms of molecular targeted therapies (MTA) like everolimus and sunitinib, chemotherapy i n NENs still represents a controversial question. Temozolomide has been reported to be active alone or in combination with other drugs in neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) from different origin. So far there is not universal agreement on the right setting an d way of administration of this therapy. Objective: This is a multicentric phase II prospective interventional study to evaluate the clinical features of patients, who are judged unfit for systemic treatments, consecutively treated with a metronomic Temozolomide chemotherapy schedule in Italian centers with expertise in NEN and to explore also the methylation status of O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) and the polymorphism of thymidylate synthase (TS) by pyrosequencing in those patients of which tissues were available. This study will allow a better understanding of the role of metronomic temozolomide chemotherapy in NENs patients and help clinicians in answering some of the outstanding questions on their management. Method: Prospective analysis of clinical data of patients unfit for chemotherapy consecutively treated with metronomic temozolomide regimen in Italian centers with expertise in clinical and research NEN activity, for one year from the start of the accrual. Planning of study: Data from NENs patients of any age treated at these centers will be retrieved by searching the hospital information system and analysed. Eligible study population: Patients with histological diagnosis of low grade advanced NEN treated unfit for systemic treatments, for one year from the start of the accrual. Endpoints and evaluation parameters:

Description of efficacy and toxicity of Temozolomide regimen in patients with advanced NENs with different primary sites unfit for systemic treatment and explored the pote ntial correlation with clinical/biological factors.
Neuroendocrine Tumors|Frailty|Chemotherapy Effect
DRUG: Temozolomide capsule
Progression free survival (PFS)., PFS will be defined as the time from starting treatment to documented disease progression or death from any cause. For patients without documented progression or death at the time of analysis, PFS will be censored at the last actual visit date of tumor evaluation., 3 years
Objective response rate (ORR)., ORR will be defined as the percentage of patients with complete responses (CR) or partial responses (PR). Patients for whom overall best response is not CR or PR, as well as patients without any post baseline tumor assessment, will be considered non responders., 3 years|Duration of response (DoR), DOR will be defined as the time from the first documented objective response of PR or CR, whichever is noted earlier, to disease progression or death (if death occurs before progression is documented). DOR will be defined for responders only, i.e.

patients with a CR or PR. DOR for patients who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of their last tumor assessment., 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS). OS will be defined as the time from starting treatment to death from any cause. Patients alive at the date of data cut off for analysis will be censored at the last date known to be alive., 3 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Incidence of adverse events (AEs), with severity determined through use of the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (NCI CTCAE v4.0); change from baseline in targeted vital signs and physical findings ; change from baseline in targeted clinical laboratory test results, 3 years|Quality of life (QoL), Mean changes from baseline score in patient function (physical, role, social, emotional, cognitive) and disease/treatment related symptoms by cycle, as assessed by a ll function scales and symptom items/scales of the EORTC QLQ C30, EORTC GI NET 2 and G8 test for frail elderly patients., 3 years
Exploratory biomarker, O6 methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) status will be evaluate in tumor tissue to validate the methods of MGMT determining and correlation with clinical outcomes, 3 years
Study design and trial duration This is an italian multicenter phase II trial of metronomic temozolomide in unfit patients with advanced NENs. The accrual will last 1-year and the follow up 2-year for a global 3-year period.

Objectives Primary endpoint Progression free survival (PFS).

Secondary endpoint Overall response rate (ORR) Duration of response (DOR) Overall survival (OS) Safety Quality of life (QoL)

Exploratory endpoint To evaluate O6 methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) status in tumor tissue to validate the methods of MGMT determining and correlation with clinical outcomes

Overview on the study design Prospective analyses of consecutively NEN patients treated at Istituto Europeo di Oncologia IRCCS and participant centers between the end of 2021 and 2024 will be conducted. All patients who potentially benefit by these therapies will be proposed to participate to the study. The patient notes will then be assessed for eligibility as defined in the next section.

Treatment drug and schedule The regimen consists of oral temozolomide 60 mg once daily fasting continuously (28-day cycles)