Feasibility of a Remotely-Delivered Resistance Training Program for Cognitive Function in Men Living With and Beyond Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer and its treatment are associated with many long-term adverse effects including cancer-related cognitive impairment. Specifically, androgen deprivation therapy has been shown to negatively impact cognitive function. Combined aerobic and resistance training has been shown to improve cognitive function in men treated with androgen deprivation therapy, but limited research has observed its impact into survivorship. Additionally, existing study designs are limited to supervised, combined aerobic and resistance training interventions. Remotely-delivered resistance training programs could enhance exercise participation by overcoming commonly reported barriers in men living with and beyond prostate cancer such as transportation, distance to facility, and timing of programs. Alongside the needs to address cancer-related cognitive impairments due to androgen deprivation therapy, resistance training may serve to manage functional deficits, losses in bone mineral density and muscle mass and increases in cardiometabolic risk factors. This study will assess the feasibility of an 8-week remotely-delivered resistance training program to improve cognitive function in men living with and beyond prostate cancer who have a history of androgen deprivation therapy treatment.
Prostate Cancer|Resistance Training
BEHAVIORAL: Resistance Training
Enrollment, Participant enrollment rate will be one measure of feasibility. Enrollment will be calculated by measuring the number of participants who enrolled in the intervention, divided by the number of participants who were assessed for eligibility, Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Adherence, Participant adherence will be one measure of feasibility. Adherence will be measured by assessing the number of exercise sessions attended divided by the total number of exercise sessions that take place (i.e., 16 sessions). Additionally, adherence to the exercise intensity will be reported by assessing the reported RPE and HR of participants during each session., Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Attrition, Attrition will be one measure of feasibility. Attrition will be measured by calculating the number of participants who did not complete the intervention, divided by the number of participants who completed the entirety of the intervention., Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Adverse Events, Adverse events will be one measure of feasibility. This will be assessed as an unexpected and severe medical problem or injury (e.g., cardiac-related events, musculoskeletal injury or pain, falls) that occurs as a result of the intervention., Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Participant Satisfaction, A participant satisfaction survey will be administered following the 8-week intervention to assess the acceptability of the intervention by using researcher-generated statements (e.g., "I found the resistance training intervention rewarding"). The survey will assess the burden of the program and the participant's feedback regarding the RT program and overall study experience. Likert scales ranging from 1 (not at all) to 5 (very much) will be used., Post-intervention (8 weeks).|Therapeutic Alliance, Therapeutic alliance will be measured using a modified version of the Working Alliance Inventory Short Revised (WAI-SR). Participants will respond to 12-items of statements and questions about experiences participants might have had with their instructor (e.g., \[INSTRUCTOR\] and I respect each other\]. Participants will rate their responses on a scale from 1 (seldom) to 5 (always). Higher scores indicate better therapeutic alliance., Post-intervention (8 weeks).
Objective Cognitive Function, Objective cognitive function will be assessed at baseline and follow-up using the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Toolbox Cognition Battery. The assessment will consist of 5 test instruments: the Picture Sequence Memory Test (episodic memory); the Picture Vocabulary Test (Language-Vocabulary Comprehension); the Oral Reading Recognition Test (Language-Reading Decoding); the List Sorting Working Memory Test (working memory); and the Auditory Verbal Learning Test (working memory). To supplement these tests, the PsyToolkit will be used to deliver the Stroop test (executive function). The cognitive assessments will be delivered remotely via a shared iPad screen and videoconferencing (i.e., Zoom)., Change from baseline (pre-intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Subjective Cognitive Function, Subjective cognitive function will be assessed at baseline and follow-up using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function Version 3 (FACT-Cog v3). This questionnaire will assess cognitive symptoms in the previous 7 days in four domains: perceived impairments, perceived abilities, quality of life, and comments from others. Participants will be asked to rate 37 items related to perceived cognitive complaints on a 5-point Likert scale (0= "not at all" or "never and 4= "very much" or "several times/day) where higher scores indicate fewer cognitive problems and better quality of life., Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Physical Function, Physical function will be measured at baseline and follow-up using the remotely-delivered 30-second sit-to-stand test. The purpose of the 30-second sit-to-stand test is to measure participants' lower body strength and endurance by measuring the number of full chair stands with arms folded at the chest completed in 30-seconds. A qualified exercise professional will oversee timing the participant and counting the number of full stands. Higher scores indicate better physical function., Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Self-Reported Exercise, Self-reported exercise will be measured using the modified Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire (GLTEQ). Participants will report the number of times per week and duration that they engage in light, moderate, and vigorous leisure-time exercise, and resistance exercise. Total weekly minutes of MVPA will be calculated as the sum of the number of moderate exercise minutes per week, plus twice the number of vigorous exercise minutes per week. Total RT score will be calculated by summing the number of days spent in RT activities per week., Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Self-Reported Fatigue, Fatigue will be assessed at baseline and follow-up using the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy- Fatigue Scale (FACIT-Fatigue). The FACIT-Fatigue is a 13-item measure will assess self-reported fatigue and its impact upon daily activities and function. Participants will be asked to rate 13 items related to their fatigue in the previous 7 days on a 5-point Likert scale (0="not at all" or "never" and 4= "very much" or "several times/day) where higher scores indicate higher quality of life., Change from baseline (pre- intervention) to post-intervention (8 weeks).|Anxiety and Depression, Anxiety and depression will be assessed at baseline and post-intervention as an exploratory variable using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The HADS is a 14-item instrument comprised of an anxiety subscale score (HADS-A), a depression subscale score (HADS-D) and a total score (HADS-T), where higher scores indicate higher distress. Each item on the HADS is rated on a 4-point Likert scale, where 0= "not at all" and 3= "yes, definitely"., Baseline (pre- intervention) and post-intervention (8 weeks).|Clinical Demographics, Clinical variables include: cancer type, date of diagnosis, cancer stage, cancer spread, cancer stage, treatment, current treatment status, recurrences, other cancer diagnoses, general health status, comorbidities, concussion history, smoking history, alcohol consumption history., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Age, Demographic variable of age will be assessed. Units of measurement is years., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Sex, Demographic variable of biological sex will be assessed. Response options are; male and female., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Gender, Demographic variable of gender will be assessed. Response options include; agender, bigender/multigender, gender fluid, genderqueer, man, nonbinary, transgender, two-spirit, woman, and other., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Marital Status, Demographic variable of marital status will be assessed. Response options are; single, married, common-law, separated, widowed, and divorced., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Highest Level of Education, Demographic variable of highest level of education will be assessed. Response options are; some high school, completed high school, some university/college, completed university/college, some graduate school, completed graduate school., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Current Employment Status, Demographic variable of current employment status will be assessed. Response options are; disability, retired, part-time, homemaker, full-time, and unemployed., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Ethnicity, Demographic variable of ethnicity will be assessed. Response options are; White, Chinese, South Asian, Black or African American, Latin American, South East Asian (Cambodian, Indonesian, Laotian, Vietnamese), Arab, West Asian (Afghan, Iranian), East Asian (Japanese, Taiwan), and other., Baseline (pre-intervention)|Body Mass Index, Demographic variable of body mass index will be assessed. Units of measurement are height (ft.) and weight (lb.). Weight and height will be combined to report BMI in kg/m\^2., Baseline (pre-intervention)
Prostate cancer and its treatment are associated with many long-term adverse effects including cognitive impairments which have been shown to improve with combined aerobic and resistance exercise. Existing exercise interventions have reported improved cognitive function for men treated with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Many of these studies, however, are limited by subjective measures of cognitive function and the use of a generalized quality of life questionnaire to capture cognitive function. Additionally, existing study designs are limited to supervised, combined aerobic and resistance training (RT) interventions. While combined aerobic and RT interventions elicit improvements in cognitive function following ADT, the independent effects of aerobic exercise and RT is less understood. Alongside the needs to address cancer-related cognitive impairments due to ADT, resistance training may serve to manage functional deficits, losses in bone mineral density and muscle mass and increases in cardiometabolic risk factors. There is indirect evidence to support a role for exercise training to attenuate the negative effects of ADT on cognitive function, however, a lack of research has been conducted with men living with and beyond prostate cancer (LWBPC). Given the unique treatment-related impacts on this patient group, there is a need for more adequately powered randomized controlled trials to investigate the direct effects of exercise, and independent effects of RT, on cognitive function in men LWBPC.

Remotely-delivered interventions may be an effective option to increase exercise among men LWBPC, while enhancing reach and accessibility by overcoming barriers to participation in traditional in-person programs. This includes overcoming some of these commonly reported barriers in men LWBPC including transportation and distance to the facility, the timing of the program, poor weather, and gender- or disease-specific concerns. To address the current gaps in literature, research is needed to assess the feasibility of a remotely-delivered RT program for cognitive function in men living with and beyond prostate cancer. Accordingly, the primary objective of this study is to assess the feasibility (e.g., enrollment, adherence, attrition, safety, participant satisfaction) of an 8-week supervised, remotely-delivered RT program versus usual care (i.e., exercise guidelines materials) for men LWBPC. The secondary objectives of this study are to examine changes in 1) objective cognitive function; 2) subjective cognitive function; 3) physical function; 4) self-reported exercise; and 5) self-reported fatigue. The trial results may be used to inform a larger randomized controlled trial and demonstrate that a remotely-delivered RT program could be an effective supplementary intervention strategy to mitigate the impact of cancer-related cognitive impairment in men LWBPC.