Imaging Correlates of Renal Cell Carcinoma Biological Features
This pilot study is designed to evaluate imaging parameters indicative of underlying tumor biology. Patients with large renal masses (\>3 cm, or at the discretion of the investigator) who are planning to undergo nephrectomy will be identified, and recruited to undergo a contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance-Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (MR-FDG-PET) scan.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: FDG PET/MR
Feasibility of FDG-PET-MRI making useful measurements that might be then used to globally assess tumor biological features, This is a feasibility study. Feasibility will be determined by the quality of the FDG-PET-MRI measurements. That is, the measurements represent what the investigators hope they are measuring. With 10 of 10, the 100% rate has an exact 95% confidence interval of 69% to 100%. The interval width, representing a measure of precision, is 31%. The tumor biological features that will be assessed include genetic analyses performed for commonly mutated genes in kidney cancer (VHL, PBRM1, SETD2, HIF1, UTX, MLL2) and protein expression analyses performed on HIF1 and HIF2 protein expression using standard immunohistochemistry. These genetic and protein expression analyses will be performed on tissue samples collected within four weeks of imaging from tissue removed via nephrectomy., 4 weeks
This pilot study is designed to evaluate imaging parameters indicative of underlying tumor biology. Patients with large renal masses (\>3 cm, or at the discretion of the investigator) who are planning to undergo nephrectomy will be identified, and recruited to undergo a contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance-Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (MR-FDG-PET) scan. Samples collected from their tumor after it is removed will undergo a variety of laboratory tests, including biomarker assessments and genotyping. By examining primary renal masses via a combination of MR and FDG-PET functional imaging in concert with tissue based tests, areas of hypermetabolism and hypervascularization will be evaluated as features of HIF activation or tumor subtype.