Neoadjuvant Nivolumab Plus Ipilimumab in Resectable NSCLC (GALAXY 3)
Neoadjuvant immunotherapy followed by surgery has emerged as the standard treatment for locally advanced and resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, conventional chemotherapy components may increase treatment-related toxicity, particularly in elderly populations. Additionally, the efficacy of preoperative immunochemotherapy for patients with PD-L1 expression \<1% remains to be improved. Emerging evidence has demonstrated that the combination of nivolumab (anti-PD-1) and ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) provides superior responses in the treatment of advanced NSCLC. However, the safety and efficacy of this strategy in the neoadjuvant setting remain controversial. Therefore, this single-arm clinical trial aims to evaluate the safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant nivolumab plus ipilimumab followed by surgery in treating locally advanced and resectable NSCLC.
Lung Cancer - Non Small Cell
DRUG: Nivolumab & Ipilimumab
Pathological Complete Response (PCR), Pathological complete response is predefined as no residual viable tumor cells in primary tumor and lymph nodes., Within 2 weeks after surgery
3-year Event-Free Survival (3-year EFS）, The starting point for EFS was the initiation of neoadjuvant treatment. The endpoint for EFS was defined as the date of death, recurrence, progression, or the last follow-up., From neoadjuvant treatment to the date of death, recurrence, progression, or the last follow-up (assessed up to 3 years).|Major Pathological Response (MPR), Major pathological response defined as less than 10% of viable tumor cells in primary tumor., Within 2 weeks after surgery|Safety (Rate of grade 3 and higher grade treatment-related adverse events (TRAEs)), Adverse events will be evaluated and recorded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 5.0)., Between the last dose of neoadjuvant treatment and surgery (assessed up to 30 days)|Radiological Response, Radiographic response will be evaluated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1., Between the last dose of neoadjuvant treatment and surgery|Postoperative complications, Postoperative complications will be evaluated and recorded after the surgery following Clavien-Dindo grade. The minimum and maximum values were grade I-V, and the higher scores mean a worse outcomes., After the surgery assess to 90 days|Intraoperative bleeding, Intraoperative bleeding was assessed and recorded by the surgical team. Blood loss was estimated by measuring suction canister volume and weighing surgical sponges, subtracting irrigation fluid., Up to approximately 20 weeks|The Quality of Life, The quality of life will be evaluated and recorded according to the EORTC QLQ-C30. The minimum and maximum values were 0-100, and the higher scores mean a better outcome., From the Day 1 to at least 90 days after surgery|Duration of surgery, Duration of surgery is the time spent in surgery., Up to approximately 20 weeks|Hospital Stay, Hospital Stay is the length of inpatient time spent in hospital., Up to approximately 20 weeks|Feasibility (Completion rate of neoadjuvant treatment and surgery), Propotion of patients who complete neoadjuvant treatment and receive surgery within 42 days after neoadjuvant treatment, From date of treatment allocation until surgery, assessed up to 5 months
Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related death globally. Neoadjuvant immunotherapy followed by surgery has been emerged as the standard treatment for locally advanced and resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Numerous clinical trials highlighted the efficacy of preoperative immunochemotherapy, including remarkably shrinking the primary lesion, eliminating micrometastases and ultimately contributing to survival outcomes. Notably, studies also demonstrated neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy increased the access of modified surgery and enhanced survival prognosis of patients with locally advanced NSCLC (IIIB).

Despite these advances, certain limitations remain. Conventional chemotherapy components may elevate treatment-related toxicity, particularly in elderly populations. Additionally, the efficacy of preoperative immunochemotherapy for patients with PD-L1\<1% remained to be improve. Emerging evidences demonstrated that nivolumab (anti-PD-1) combine with ipilimumab (antiCTLA-4) provided superior response for the treatment of advanced NSCLC patients. However, the safety and efficacy of this strategy in the neoadjuvant setting remain controversial. Therefore, this single-arm clinical trial aims to evaluate the safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant nivolumab plus ipilimumab followed by surgery in treating locally advanced and resectable NSCLC. The study will enroll 69 eligible participants, with the primary endpoint being pathological complete response (pCR) rate following neoadjuvant therapy.