Neoadjuvant Radiotherapy for Rectal Adenocarcinoma With Capecitabine Versus TAS-102
Neoadjuvant fluoropyrimidine-based chemoradiotherapy followed by total mesorectal excision (TME) is the standard of care for locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC); however, pathologic complete response (pCR) rates are low. Trifluridine/tipiracil (TAS-102) is a new oral anti-tumor oral formulation of nucleoside analogue, trifluridine (FTD), and a thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor, tipiracil (TPI). Previous studies have shown that TAS-102 has shown clinically relevant activity after fluoropyrimidine failure in colorectal cancer and may thus be of increased efficacy compared with current standard capecitabine chemoradiation. Also, a phase 2 trials conducted by our team have demonstrated that neoaduvant TAS-102 concurrent with long-course radiotherapy could lead to a high pCR rate of 32% with acceptable toxicity for LARC patients. Herein, we will conduct this multicenter, randomized controlled, phase III trial to explore the safety and efficacy benefit of TAS-102 concurrent with long-course radiotherapy for LARC.
Rectal Cancer|Rectal Cancer Patients
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: TAS-102|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Capecitabine
Pathologic complete response (pCR), The pCR is defined as no tumor cells residue in the tumor area and lymph nodes within the specimen after radical surgery or in the lesion after local excision., 1 year|Clinical complete response (cCR), The cCR is defined as no evidence of local tumor residue found after radiotherapy by physical examination and auxiliary examination., 1 year
The rate of Grade 3-4 acute adverse reactions, The acute adverse reactions are graded and recorded according to the National Cancer Institute General Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0., 1 year|3-year recurrence-free survival (RFS), 3-year RFS is measured from randomization to the first occurrence of recurrence., 3 year|3-year disease-free survival (DFS), 3-year DFS is measured from randomization to the appearance of evidence of recurrence, 3 year|3-year overall survival (OS), 3-year OS is measured from randomization to death due to any cause., 3 year
Neoadjuvant fluoropyrimidine-based chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) followed by TME is the standard care for LARC. However, the tumor responses to nCRT cover a wide spectrum and the complete pathologic response rate varies from 8% to 20%. The low rate of pCR after neoadjuvant therapy could not satisfy patients with distal rectal cancer who want to keep anal function. Therefore, currently, the addition of other agents to 5-FU or capecitabine as components of the multimodality treatment for LARC outside of clinical trials is not recommended in clinical practice. TAS-102 is a new oral anti-tumor oral formulation of nucleoside analogue, FTD, and a thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor, TPI. TPI improves the bioavailability and ensures sufficient blood concentrations of FDT. Previous studies have shown that TAS-102 has shown clinically relevant activity after fluoropyrimidine failure in colorectal cancer and may thus be of increased efficacy compared with current standard capecitabine chemoradiation. Also, a phase 2 trials conducted by our team have demonstrated that neoaduvant TAS-102 concurrent with long-course radiotherapy could lead to a high pCR rate of 32% with acceptable toxicity for LARC patients. Herein, we will conduct this multicenter, randomized controlled, phase III trial to explore the safety and efficacy benefit of TAS-102 concurrent with long-course radiotherapy for LARC.