Soy Isoflavones and Breast Cancer Risk Reduction
Soy consumption has been associated with reduced risk for developing breast cancer. Soy contains isoflavones which are weak estrogens. The roles of soy isoflavones in reducing breast cancer risk are currently unclear. Breast density has been considered as a breast cancer risk marker. We hypothesize that because isoflavones have estrogen-like activities, breast density and possibly bone density will be lower in women on soy-isoflavones.
Breast Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: isoflavones|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: carbohydrate
Fibroglandular Tissue in Total Breast (FGBT%), Effects of 1 and 2 years of treatment with isoflavones on percent of changes in FGBT%., baseline, and after year 1 and 2 of supplementation|Breast Density by Mammography, Area of FGBT in mammogram. The timepoints were combined and summed., baseline, and after year 1 and 2 of supplementation
Bone Mineral Density, Bone mineral density of hip, spine and whole body bone mineral density as measured by dual x-ray absorptiometry. The timepoints were combined and summed., one and two years after dietary supplement
This is a randomized, double-blind study, with two arms and 100 women in each arm. Premenopausal women will be recruited and randomly allocated to take one of the two different dietary supplements in pills daily for 2 years. The two supplements are soy isoflavones (treatment) and placebo (carbohydrates). Both treatment and placebo pills will contain multi-vitamins and minerals. Multiple blood, urine, and breast fluid samples will be obtained before and during the dietary supplement periods and analyzed for biomarkers of breast cancer risk. At baseline and after the intervention period, breast density and bone density will be assessed by radiologic techniques. The efficacy of the dietary intervention will be determined by comparing mean changes of serum markers for breast cancer risk,dense breast tissue, and bone mineral density over the two year dietary intervention period in the two supplement groups with adjustment for baseline values and individual patient characteristics of interest. We predict that 2 years of soy isoflavone supplement will reduce breast density, which may be explained by individual changes in serum markers of breast cancer risk.