EVALUATION OF AMIFOSTINE FOR MUCOSAL AND HEMOPOETIC PROTECTION AND CARBOPLATIN, TAXOL, RADIOTHERAPY IN THE MANAGEMENT OF PATIENTS WITH HEAD AND NECK CANCER.(GCC 0202)
Purpose of this study:

There is some evidence that the best treatment for head and neck cancer involves a combination of radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Radiation therapy is a form of cancer treatment using high energy x-rays. Chemotherapy is a form of cancer treatment that uses special medications. This study uses two chemotherapy drugs (Taxol and Carboplatin), which are FDA approved for treating head and neck cancers. This treatment combination has been associated with difficulty, pain, or a burning sensation upon swallowing (called esophagitis), and decrease in blood cells (cells in the blood which fight against infection). The purpose of this study is to investigate whether the addition of another drug, Amifostine, can reduce the side effects of current combination treatment (radiation and chemotherapy which is standard of care). The addition of Amifostine is the investigational part of the study. The research study is also looking at the side effects of Amifostine and cancer's growth response to this combination treatment.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Amifostine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Taxol|DEVICE: Radiotherapy
Participants With Mucositis and Hematological Toxicities With the Addition of Radioprotector Amifostine, Blood work (CMP was collected and evaluated for neutropenia, leukopenia and anemia) is taken prior to chemotherapy administration. The toxicity levels were measured using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 3.0) and monitored based on the dose of Amifostine given., 3 years
Response Rates Based on the Study Regimen, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 3 years
Patients presenting with locally advanced squamous cell carcinomas of head and neck (SCCHN) continue to represent a significant therapeutic challenge. The bulk of tumor burden often proves to be overwhelming for conventional radiotherapy. Attempts to improve upon these poor outcomes have led investigators to explore several new strategies, one such being chemoradiation. One of the trials conducted at the University of Maryland with carboplatin and paclitaxel with daily radiation showed 82% CR at the primary site. But the most commonly encountered grade 3 toxicities were mucositis (70%), leukopenia (30%) and 3% grade 4 leukopenia. Amifostine: An organic thiophosphate is radioprotective and has shown to protect experimental animals from lethal doses of radiation. Clinical trials have demonstrated that amifostine can provide protection against the hematological toxicities and mucositis seen with various chemotherapeutic agents. Theoretically, drug interactions between amifostine and chemotherapeutic agents are not likely to occur, due to amifostine¿s rapid clearance from plasma (90% of the drug is cleared within 6 minutes). A promising venue would be the investigation of amifostine¿s role in reducing the toxicities associated with chemoradiation (which is standard of care of treating squamous cell carcinomas of head and neck).

Principal objectives of the study: Primary: To evaluate whether the addition of the radioprotector amifostine can reduce the incidence and severity of mucositis and hematological toxicities caused by chemoradiation. Secondary: 1.To determine the toxicities of amifostine given in this setting. 2. To determine the response rate of this regimen in the population.