Safety and Efficacy of Tipifarnib in Head and Neck Cancer With HRAS Mutations and Impact of HRAS on Response to Therapy
An international, multicenter, open-label, 2 cohort, non-comparative, pivotal study evaluating the efficacy of tipifarnib in HRAS mutant HNSCC (AIM-HN). The first cohort will assess the objective response rate (ORR) of tipifarnib in subjects with HNSCC with HRAS mutations. The second study cohort, SEQ-HN, is an observational sub-study including HNSCC patients in whom HRAS mutations were not identified (wild type HRAS HNSCC) and who consent to provide first line outcome data and additional follow up.
HRAS Gene Mutation|HNSCC
DRUG: Tipifarnib|DEVICE: HRAS Detection Assay
Objective Response Rate (ORR) in High Variable Allele Frequency (VAF) Population, as Assessed by Independent Review Facility (IRF), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who experienced a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 by IRF. 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated by the exact binomial (Clopper-Pearson) method., Up to approximately 28 months
ORR in All VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who experienced a BOR of CR or PR and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF. 95% CI was calculated by the exact binomial (Clopper-Pearson) method., Up to approximately 28 months|Duration of Response (DoR) in High VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, DoR was defined as the time from the date of first response (CR or PR \[whichever occurred first\]) to the date of progression of disease or death of any cause, whichever occurred first, in participants with a confirmed CR or PR and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF. Median was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was based on Brookmeyer and Crowley method with log-log transformation., Up to approximately 28 months|DoR in All VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, DoR was defined as the time from the date of first response (CR or PR \[whichever occurred first\]) to the date of progression of disease or death of any cause, whichever occurred first, in participants with a confirmed CR or PR and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF. Median was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was based on Brookmeyer and Crowley method with log-log transformation., Up to approximately 28 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) in High VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, PFS was defined as months from the first dose of the study drug to the first documented progressive disease (PD, appearance of one or more new lesions or at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions) or death, whichever came first and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF. Median was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was based on Brookmeyer and Crowley method with log-log transformation., Up to approximately 28 months|PFS in All VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, PFS was defined as months from the first dose of the study drug to the first documented PD or death, whichever came first and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF. Median was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was based on Brookmeyer and Crowley method with log-log transformation., Up to 28 approximately months|PFS Rate in High VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, PFS rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had not experienced documented PD or death, whichever came first and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF at 6 and 9 month timepoints. Percentage of participants was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was calculated using normal approximation to the log transformed cumulative hazard rate, 6 months and 9 months|PFS Rate in All VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, PFS rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had not experienced documented PD or death, whichever came first and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF at 6 and 9 month timepoints. Percentage of participants was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was calculated using normal approximation to the log transformed cumulative hazard rate., 6 months and 9 months|Overall Survival (OS) in High VAF Population, OS was defined as months from first dose date until death from any cause. Median was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was based on Brookmeyer and Crowley method with log-log transformation., Up to approximately 28 months|OS in All VAF Population, OS was defined as months from first dose date until death from any cause. Median was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was based on Brookmeyer and Crowley method with log-log transformation., Up to approximately 28 months|OS Rate at 12 Months in High VAF Population, OS rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had not experienced or death and was assessed at 12 months. Percentage of participants was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was calculated using normal approximation to the log transformed cumulative hazard rate., 12 months|OS Rate at 12 Months in All VAF Population, OS rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had not experienced or death and was assessed at 12 months. Percentage of participants was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. 95% CI was calculated using normal approximation to the log transformed cumulative hazard rate., 12 months|Time to Response (TTR) in High VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, TTR was defined as months from treatment start to first CR or PR (whichever was first recorded) in participants with confirmed CR or PR and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF. TTR was summarized descriptively by summary statistics., Up to approximately 28 months|TTR in All VAF Population, as Assessed by IRF, TTR was defined as months from treatment start to first CR or PR (whichever was first recorded) in participants with confirmed CR or PR and was assessed using RECIST v1.1 by IRF. TTR was summarized descriptively by summary statistics., Up to approximately 28 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), TEAEs were defined as adverse events (AEs) that started on or after the first dose of the study drug and within 30 days of the last administration of the study drug. Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 was used for toxicity grading (Grade 3: severe or disabling; Grade 4: life-threatening; Grade 5: death related to AE). Clinically significant changes in laboratory tests, vital signs, and electrocardiogram results were reported as AEs., Up to approximately 28 months|Change From Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Head and Neck Module 35 (EORTC QLQ-H&N35) Subscales, Change from Baseline score in pain, swallowing, speech problems, and senses problems subscales of EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 are summarized individually. Raw scores for each subscale were linear transformations and standardized to range (0 - 100), with higher scores representing worse levels of symptoms. Change from Baseline was calculated as End of Treatment Observed - Baseline with a negative change representing a reduction in symptoms., Baseline and End of Treatment Visit (up to approximately 28 months)|Change From Baseline in the EuroQol-Visual Analog Scale (EQ-VAS) Score, The EQ-VAS forms part of the EQ-5D-5L and collects the self-rating health status from 0 (the worst imaginable health) to 100 (the best imaginable health). Change from Baseline was calculated as End of Treatment Observed - Baseline with a negative change representing an increase in symptoms., Baseline and End of Treatment Visit (up to approximately 28 months)
KO-TIP-007 is an international, multicenter, open-label, 2 cohort, non-comparative, pivotal study evaluating the efficacy of tipifarnib in HRAS mutant HNSCC (AIM-HN) and the impact of HRAS mutations on response to first line systemic therapies for HNSCC (SEQ-HN). KO-TIP-007 has 2 study cohorts. The first study cohort, named AIM-HN, includes HNSCC subjects with HRAS mutations. AIM-HN subjects will receive treatment with tipifarnib and the outcome of this cohort will be evaluated for ORR by an independent review facility.

The second study cohort, SEQ-HN, is an observational sub-study including HNSCC patients in whom HRAS mutations were not identified (wild type HRAS HNSCC) and who consent to provide first line outcome data and additional follow up.

HNSCC patients in whom HRAS mutations are identified and who meet eligibility criteria will be offered participation in AIM-HN. HNSCC patients in whom HRAS mutations are not identified may participate in SEQ-HN only. These patients will be followed and the comparison of outcomes of HRAS mutant and HRAS wild type HNSCC will address the exploratory objective to determine the effect of HRAS mutation on the ORR of first line systemic therapy in patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC. Outcome data from subsequent lines of therapy will be collected.