Open Label Study Of SU011248 In Combination With Trastuzumab For Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
The current study is to evaluate: Overall response rate for the combination of trastuzumab and SU011248 in metastatic or locally recurrent breast cancer; evaluate safety and tolerability of the combination; measure duration of tumor control and survival; assess patient reported outcomes; assess PK in combination with trastuzumab and compare efficacy and safety.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: SU011248/Trastuzumab
Percentage of Participants With Overall Confirmed Objective Disease Response, Objective disease response =participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). A CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. A PR was defined as a \> = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions associated to a non-progressive disease response for the non target lesions., From start of treatment through 18 months
Duration of Response (DR), Time from the first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR) that was subsequently confirmed to the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. If tumor progression data included more than 1 date, the first date was used. DR was calculated as (the end date for DR minus first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed +1) divided by 7., From start of treatment through 18 months|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit, Percent of participants with confirmed CR, PR or stable disease (SD) for at least 24 weeks on study according to RECIST.CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions.PR was defined as \>=30% decrease in sum of longest dimensions of target lesions taking as reference baseline sum longest dimensions associated to non-progressive disease response for non target lesions.SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease taking as reference smallest sum of longest dimensions since treatment started., From start of treatment through 18 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from first dose of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression, or to death on-study due to any cause, whichever occurred first. If tumor progression data included more than 1 date, the first date was used. PFS was calculated as (first event date minus first dose date +1) divided by 7., From start of treatment through 18 months|Time to Progression (TTP), Time from first dose of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression. If tumor progression data included more than 1 date, the first date was used. TTP was calculated as (first event date minus first dose date +1) divided by 7., From start of treatment through 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time from first dose of study treatment to first documentation of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (date of death minus first dose date +1) divided by 7 \* 4.33., From start of study treatment until death or 2 years from first study treatment|Probability of Survival at One Year, One- year survival probability was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of study treatment until death or 2 years from first study treatment|EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-C30 scales consist of 30 questions: functional (physical/role/cognitive/emotional/ social), symptom (fatigue/nausea/vomiting/pain), global health/QOL, cancer symptom (dyspnea/insomnia/appetite loss/constipation/diarrhea). Feelings in past week: response range: not at all to very much, global/QOL range: very poor to excellent. Scales/single-items averaged, score 0 to 100. Higher functional/global=better functioning and symptom=greater degree of symptoms., From start of treatment through 18 months|EORTC QLQ (BR23), BR23: consisted of 23 questions which measured disease related symptoms of dry mouth, eye pain, hair loss, hot flushes, attractiveness, future health, sexual activity, arm/shoulder pain, breast pain, swollen breast, and skin problems on the breast. Recall period: past week; response range: not at all to very much. Scale score range: 0 to 100. Higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms., From start of treatment through 18 months|Dose-corrected Trough Plasma Concentrations (Ctrough) of Sunitinib, Ctrough = the concentration prior to study drug administration. Dose-corrected values were reported, the reference dose was 37.5 mg., Predose on Day 1 of Cycle 3 and 5|Dose-corrected Ctrough of SU-012662 (Sunitinib's Metabolite), Ctrough = the concentration prior to study drug administration. Dose-corrected values were reported, the reference dose was 37.5 mg., Predose on Day 1 of Cycle 3 and 5|Dose-corrected Ctrough of Total Drug (Sunitinib + SU-012662), Ctrough = the concentration prior to study drug administration. Dose-corrected values were reported, the reference dose was 37.5 mg., Predose on Day 1 of Cycle 3 and 5
The current study is to evaluate: Overall response rate for the combination of trastuzumab and SU011248 in metastatic or locally recurrent breast cancer; evaluate safety and tolerability of the combination; measure duration of tumor control and survival; assess patient reported outcomes; assess PK in combination with trastuzumab and compare efficacy and safety.