Chemotherapy Plus Steroid Therapy in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells. Steroids, such as dexamethasone or prednisolone, may help relieve some of the side effects of chemotherapy. It is not yet known which regimen of chemotherapy plus steroid therapy is more effective in treating patients with multiple myeloma.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of two different regimens of chemotherapy plus steroid therapy in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has recurred for the first time.
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: idarubicin|DRUG: lomustine|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: prednisolone
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the response rate, response duration, and survival of patients with relapsed multiple myeloma after treatment with lomustine, idarubicin, and dexamethasone vs melphalan and prednisolone.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to prior autologous transplant (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive oral lomustine on day 1, oral idarubicin once daily on days 1-3, and oral dexamethasone twice a day on days 1-4. Treatment is repeated every 28 days for 6-9 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.
* Arm II: Patients receive oral melphalan once daily on days 1-4 and oral prednisolone twice a day on days 1-4. Treatment is repeated every 28 days for 6-9 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Some patients may receive oral cyclophosphamide every 7 days and oral prednisolone on alternate days for 6 weeks concurrently with chemotherapy in either treatment arm.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and then every 6 months thereafter.

Patients are followed until death.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 660 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.