Combination of HX008 And Niraparib in GErm-line-mutAted Metastatic Breast Cancer
A number of anti-PD-1/L1 monoclonal antibodies have been approved for the treatment of various advanced tumors in the world, and many studies on anti-PD-1 /L1 monoclonal antibodies for breast cancer are also being carried out. HX008 (Taizhou Hanzhong Biomedical Co., Ltd.China) combined gemcitabine and cisplatin (GP) regimen for first-line treatment of advanced triple negative breast cancer has been shown good efficacy. On the other hand,HRD as the target of PARP inhibitor therapy in the treatment of breast cancer has a broad prospect, In HRD tumor patients, the use of PARPi can make obstacles of DNA damage repair(DDR), accumulation of DNA damage, thus promote the apoptosis of tumor cells. Several PARPi have been approved worldwide (including Olaparib, Rucaparib, Niraparib, Talazoparib, Veliparib) for the treatment of ovarian and/or breast cancer. Theoretically, PARPi and anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody can play a synergistic mechanism. In this study, HX008 combined with Niraparib is designed to treat metastatic breast cancer patients with DDR gene (BRCA1/2, PALB2, CHEK2, ATM, ATR, BAP1, BARD1, BLM, BRIP1, CHEK1, CDK12, FANCA, FANCC, FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCM, MRE11A, NBN, PTEN, RAD50, RAD51C, RAD51D, WRN) pathogenic/suspected pathogenic germline mutation, so as to explore the possibility of more combined therapy for breast cancer to achieve better therapeutic effect.
Treatment Efficacy
DRUG: HX008，Niraparib|DRUG: HX008，Niraparib|DRUG: HX008，Niraparib，Trastuzumab|DRUG: HX008，Niraparib，Pyrrolitinib
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is the percentage of participants with the best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1. CR = Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 12 weeks
Overall Survival (OS), Time from date of randomization to the date of death from any cause, Up to approximately 30 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first evidence of disease progression as defined by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) v1.1 or death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions. If a participant does not have a complete baseline disease assessment, then the PFS time was censored at the date of randomization, regardless of whether or not objectively determined disease progression or death has been observed for the participant. If a participant was not known to have died or have objective progression as of the data inclusion cutoff date for the analysis, the PFS time was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment date., Up to approximately 30 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Percentage of participants with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) lasting 24 weeks or longer as defined in RECIST 1.1.CR = Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters; SD = Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease: PD = At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20% the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to approximately 12 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR), Time from the first documented response (CR or PR) to the first documented progression or death due to underlying cancer, Up to approximately 10 months
A number of anti-PD-1/L1 monoclonal antibodies have been approved for the treatment of various advanced tumors in the world, and many studies on anti-PD-1 /L1 monoclonal antibodies for breast cancer are also being carried out. HX008 (Taizhou Hanzhong Biomedical Co., Ltd.China) combined gemcitabine and cisplatin (GP) regimen for first-line treatment of advanced triple negative breast cancer has been shown good efficacy. On the other hand,HRD as the target of PARP inhibitor therapy in the treatment of breast cancer has a broad prospect, In HRD tumor patients, the use of PARPi can make obstacles of DNA damage repair(DDR), accumulation of DNA damage, thus promote the apoptosis of tumor cells. Several PARPi have been approved worldwide (including Olaparib, Rucaparib, Niraparib, Talazoparib, Veliparib) for the treatment of ovarian and/or breast cancer. Theoretically, PARPi and anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody can play a synergistic mechanism. In this study, HX008 combined with Niraparib is designed to treat metastatic breast cancer patients with DDR gene (BRCA1/2, PALB2, CHEK2, ATM, ATR, BAP1, BARD1, BLM, BRIP1, CHEK1, CDK12, FANCA, FANCC, FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCM, MRE11A, NBN, PTEN, RAD50, RAD51C, RAD51D, WRN) pathogenic/suspected pathogenic germline mutation, so as to explore the possibility of more combined therapy for breast cancer to achieve better therapeutic effect.