Temsirolimus (Torisel®) and Erlotinib (Tarceva®) in Platinum-Refractory/Ineligible, Advanced, Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The primary hypothesis of this study is that the addition of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) blockade to conventional epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) blockade will result in synergistic clinical activity in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN), consistent with preclinical xenograft data. Patients will be treated with the combination of temsirolimus and erlotinib, at the previously established Maximal Tolerated Dose (MTD). The primary signal of efficacy will be progression free survival (PFS), anticipating that PFS will be prolonged compared to historical PFS in SCCHN patients treated with erlotinib or cetuximab monotherapy.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Temsirolimus
Progression Free Survival (PFS), The time from treatment initiation to disease progression or death by any cause. Progression is evaluated according to modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version 1.0). Target lesions are assessed by computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): Progressive Disease (PD), 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesion, the appearance of new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, or global deterioration in health status attributable to disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression., 3 years
Toxicity Profile, Toxicities (i.e. Adverse Events) are evaluated prior to each treatment and during any clinical visit. Toxicity will be evaluated per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3.0. The number of patients affected by adverse events of grade 3 or higher will be reported., 3 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response is evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version 1.0). Target lesions are assessed by computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI:) Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Overall response rate (ORR) is the sum of the percentages of patients achieving complete and partial responses, 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), The time from treatment initiation to death by any cause, 3 years
This is a phase II, multicenter, single arm, open-label study. Thirty-seven patients with advanced, platinum-refractory or platinum-ineligible squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck will be sequentially enrolled to a single treatment arm. Patients will be treated with continuous, 28-day cycles of 150 mg of erlotinib by mouth daily and 15 mg of temsirolimus intervenously weekly. In the absence of grade 3 or higher toxicity in the first cycle, a single, intra-patient dose increase to 20 mg temsirolimus will be permitted.