Pain Caregiver Resource (PainCaRe)
Pain is a problem for children with cancer, especially when they are outside of the hospital setting. Younger children with cancer are particularly vulnerable to undermanaged pain because of their inability to self-report pain and their reliance on parents for treatment. One method to help these children to get the best care possible is through the use of smartphone-based mHealth solutions. Smartphone apps can provide treatment advice to patients experiencing pain in real-time and in any environment. This research will use a phased and user-centered approach with family caregivers to co-design and co-evaluate the new cancer Pain Caregiver Resource (PainCaRe) app to achieve the following aims: (1) high-fidelity software development and usability refinement; (2) evaluation of trial feasibility and preliminary effectiveness in a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT); and (3) systematic analysis of caregiver app usage patterns to refine PainCaRe for optimal engagement prior to a future RCT.
Pediatric Cancer
OTHER: Pain Caregiver Resource (PainCaRe)
Feasibility - attrition, Percent of caregivers not completing 8-week outcome measures. Criteria for feasibility: attrition \<25%., 1 year|Feasibility - accrual, Percent of eligible caregivers accrued per recruitment day. Criteria for feasibility: accrual \>60%., 1 year|Feasibility - adherence, Adherence to the intervention will be measured using the Analytics Platform to Evaluate Effective Engagement (APEEE) platform, a proprietary analytics software measuring the number of once-daily pain assessments completed and engagement with pain treatment guidance. Criteria for feasibility: adherence to twice-daily pain reporting \>65%., 8 weeks|Acceptability, Measured with the Acceptability E-Scale (AES). Criteria for acceptability: mean score of 4 on each item, 8 weeks
Child pain intensity - parent report, Measured by caregiver proxy report using the Brief Pain Inventory, 8 weeks|Child pain intensity - child report, Measured by self-report for children ≥4 years of age using the Faces Pain Scale-Revised ., 8 weeks|Child pain interference - parent report, Measured by parent proxy for children \<8 years of age using appropriate version of PROMIS Pediatric Scale, 8 weeks|Child pain interference - child report, Measured by self-report for children ≥8 years of age using appropriate version of PROMIS Pediatric Scale ., 8 weeks|Child health-related quality of life - parent report, Measured by self-report for children \<8 years of age using appropriate versions of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory 4.0 ., 8 weeks|Child health-related quality of life - child report, Measured by self-report for children \<8 years of age using appropriate versions of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory 4.0 ., 8 weeks|Parent quality of life, Measured by parent report using the Caregiver Quality of Life Index - Cancer ., 8 weeks|Parent pain management self-efficacy, Measured by parent report using the Pain Self-Efficacy Scale ., 8 weeks|Parent care satisfaction, Measured by parent report using the Satisfaction with Child Healthcare Survey ., 8 weeks
Pain is a problem for children with cancer, especially when they are outside of the hospital setting. Younger children with cancer are particularly vulnerable to undermanaged pain because of their inability to self-report pain and their reliance on parents for treatment. One method to help these children to get the best care possible is through the use of smartphone-based mHealth solutions. Smartphone apps can provide treatment advice to patients experiencing pain in real-time and in any environment. This research will use a phased and user-centered approach with family caregivers to co-design and co-evaluate the new cancer Pain Caregiver Resource (PainCaRe) app to achieve the following aims: (1) high-fidelity software development and usability refinement; (2) evaluation of trial feasibility and preliminary effectiveness in a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT); and (3) systematic analysis of caregiver app usage patterns to refine PainCaRe for optimal engagement prior to a future RCT.