A Pilot Study of Decitabine and Vorinostat With Chemotherapy for Relapsed ALL
This is a pilot study using decitabine and vorinostat before and during chemotherapy with vincristine, dexamethasone, mitoxantrone, and peg-asparaginase in pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Precursor B-Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Precursor T-Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Vorinostat|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Mitoxantrone|DRUG: Pegaspargase|DRUG: Methotrexate
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT)., To evaluate the side effects of giving decitabine and vorinostat before and during chemotherapy using the standard drugs vincristine, dexamethasone, PEG-asparaginase and mitoxantrone., 6 weeks
Disease Response Rate After Treatment., Bone marrow evaluation was performed on Day 35 of study to evaluate treatment response. CR defined as attaining M1 marrow (\<5% blasts) with no evidence of circulating blasts or extramedullary disease in addition to recovery of peripheral blood counts (ANC \>750/uL and platelet count \>75,000/uL). CRp was defined as attaining an M1 marrow with no evidence of circulating blasts or extramedullary disease in addition to recovery of ANC but insufficient recovery of platelets. CRi was attaining M1 marrow with no evidence of circulating blasts or extramedullary disease but insufficient recovery of ANC with or without sufficient recovery of platelets. PR was defined as no evidence of circulating blasts and achievement of M2 marrow (5-25% blasts) without new sites of disease and with recovery of ANC. SD is for patients who did not meet the criteria for PR, CR, CRp, or CRi. PD is an increase of at least 25% in the absolute number of leukemia cells or development of new sites., 6 weeks
Decitabine is a demethylating agent and vorinostat is a HDAC inhibitor. The use of demethylating agents and HDAC inhibitors in combination have been previously shown to have synergistic effects in altering neoplastic pathways of cancer cells and be well tolerated in human clinical studies. With the ability of decitabine and vorinostat to alter the abnormal cellular pathways of leukemic blasts and essentially turn off anti-apoptotic proteins, the leukemia cells have become primed for cytotoxic cell kill via chemotherapeutic agents. This study will ask the question as to whether or not the combination of decitabine and vorinostat followed by chemotherapy is feasible and whether it can positively impact outcome in patients with relapsed or refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia.