Using Health Information Technology to Improve Health Behaviors and Promote Cardiovascular Health Among Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Survivors
Health information technology (HIT) has the potential to improve the quality, efficiency, consistency, and availability of cancer survivor care. PREVENT is a novel HIT tool designed by our team for adolescents (12-19 years). PREVENT aggregates and displays the American Heart Association's (AHA) Life Simple 7 cardiovascular health (CVH) risk factors and provides tailored, evidence-based, behavior change recommendations inclusive of community resources that are delivered to overweight/obese adolescents at the point-of-care to improve CVH. The investigators seek to expand this tool for patients beyond 19 years of age to increase this tool's reach to the entire adolescent and young adult (AYA) age range and then evaluate its effectiveness among AYA cancer survivors.
Cardiovascular Disease|Young Adult Cancer Survivors
BEHAVIORAL: Wait-List Control|BEHAVIORAL: PREVENT tool
Change in minutes of physical activity, Physical activity will be measured using a triaxial accelerometer (Actigraph GT3X+, Actigraph of Ft. Walton Beach, FL). The participant will be instructed to wear the accelerometer on an elasticized belt, on the left mid-axillary line. The Actigraph is one of the most common accelerometers used for scientific purposes. Participants will be encouraged to wear the accelerometer 24-hours per day for at least 7-days, including 2 weekend days., At baseline and 3-months|Change in food intake behaviors, Patient-reported food intake behaviors (fruit and vegetable intake, whole grains, sugar-sweetened beverages and snacking behaviors) are collected using a brief Health Behavior \& Attitudes Survey., At baseline and 3-months|Change in body mass index (BMI), Collected from patient's medical record., At baseline and 3-months|Change on patient's attitudes toward behavior change, A survey (6-question) administered to patients will assess attitudes toward and readiness for behavior change. Questions are asked using a 5-point Likert scale (range: 0-30) with a higher score indicating more positive attitudes., At baseline and 3-months
Change in patients' satisfaction of PREVENT tool: survey, Within 48 hours of clinic visit and at 3-months|Provider's satisfaction of PREVENT tool: survey, A survey (15-questions) will assess provider's satisfaction with five aspects of health information technology: content, accuracy, format, ease of use and timeliness. Questions are asked on a 5-point Likert scale (range: 15-75) with a higher score indicating greater satisfaction, 3-months|Change on patient's average systolic and diastolic blood pressure, Collected from patient's medical record, At baseline and 3-months|Change in patient's cholesterol, Collected from patient's medical record, At baseline and 3-months|Change in patient's fasting blood glucose, Collected from patient's medical record, At baseline and 3-months|Provider's motivation for sustained use of PREVENT tool, -A survey (12-questions) will assess provider's intent to change their behavior and continue using PREVENT were adapted from Legare's CPD Reaction Questionnaire. Questions are asked using a 7-point Likert scale (range: 12-84) with a higher score indicating greater motivation for sustained use., 3-months|Fidelity of PREVENT tool implementation, -Fidelity will be measured using direct observation of patient-provider interactions while using the PREVENT tool. A direct observation checklist will be used by the observer to determine the number of interactions with the PREVENT tool that were implemented as intended., 0-3 months
Health information technology (HIT) has the potential to improve the quality, efficiency, consistency, and availability of cancer survivor care. PREVENT is a novel HIT tool designed by our team for adolescents (12-19 years). PREVENT aggregates and displays the American Heart Association's (AHA) Life Simple 7 cardiovascular health (CVH) risk factors and provides tailored, evidence-based, behavior change recommendations inclusive of community resources that are delivered to overweight/obese adolescents at the point-of-care to improve CVH. The investigators seek to expand this tool for patients beyond 19 years of age to increase this tool's reach to the entire adolescent and young adult (AYA) age range and then evaluate its effectiveness among AYA cancer survivors.