AMG 102, Pemetrexed Disodium, and Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
This phase II trial is studying how well giving AMG 102 together with pemetrexed disodium and cisplatin works in treating patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as AMG 102, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow or spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as pemetrexed disodium and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving AMG 102 together with pemetrexed disodium and cisplatin may kill more tumor cells
Advanced Malignant Mesothelioma|Epithelial Mesothelioma|Recurrent Malignant Mesothelioma|Sarcomatous Mesothelioma
BIOLOGICAL: rilotumumab|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: pemetrexed disodium|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free survival, From registration to clinical evidence of disease progression or death without progression, assessed up to 3 years
Toxicity defined as a grade 4 hemorrhagic event or a grade 5 event, Graded using the NCI CTCAE., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression-free survival of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) treated with anti-HGF monoclonal antibody AMG 102 in combination with pemetrexed disodium and cisplatin.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the toxicity associated with this regimen in these patients. II. To determine the response rate of patients treated with this regimen. III. To determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen. IV. To evaluate multiple potential correlative biomarkers in MPM that are relevant to this combined regimen, including serum HGF and mesothelin levels, c-met expression by IHC in tumor specimens, presence of c-met mutations in tumor, and the presence of thymidylate synthetase (TS) and excision repair cross complementing protein-1 (ERCC1) polymorphisms.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive anti-HGF monoclonal antibody AMG 102 (AMG 102) IV over 1 hour, pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes, and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients without disease progression may continue AMG 102 IV over 1 hour on day 1, every 3 weeks, as maintenance therapy in the absence of disease progression. Some patients undergo blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during study for correlative biomarker studies. Tumor samples from diagnostic tissue may also be analyzed.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.