Gut and Tumor Microbiome in Patients With Early Stage (II-III), Locally Advanced or Advanced ER-positive and HER2-negative Breast Cancer.
The purpose of this research study is to collect samples of blood and stool and analyse primary tumor from participants with breast cancer to see how the bacteria in the body affect cancer and how well it responds to treatment. By comparing samples and data from multiple participants with breast cancer, it may be possible to identify how a person's gut health and tumor microenvironment affects how they respond to certain cancer treatments.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Observation
Interaction between the gut microbiome, tumor microbiome and serum immune profile for patients with early stage (II-III), locally advanced or advanced ER-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer., Microbiome data obtained from fecal samples will be compared using alpha and beta diversity metrics., Screening, week 2, week 4, week 6
After being informed about the study and potential risks, all participants giving written informed consent will provide a pre-treatment stool sample looking at the gut microbiome, primary tumor sequencing analysis to infer tumor microbiome, and a blood sample for the CyTOF whole blood Immune Profile. Blood tests (full blood count, renal profile, liver profile, C-reactive protein), medical history, concomitant medications, and the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance level will be obtained through a mixture of self-reported and data collated from the electronic health record (EHR). Two food frequency questionnaires will be given to participants to complete at two timepoints: at screening and at end of study. There are 5 study visits. Participants will provide a stool sample for gut microbiome sequencing at weeks 2 and 4 of the study. During the Week 6 visit, participants will provide final stool samples for gut microbiome analysis, and a blood sample for CyTOF whole blood Immune Profile. ECOG performance status and adverse event data will be obtained from EHR.