Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy to Improve Immunotherapy Response in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This study includes the additional use of radiation therapy in combination immunotherapy in order to determine whether the radiation may improve the response of non-small cell lung cancer to immunotherapy and to monitor any side effects.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic
RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Immuno-Therapeutic Agent
Time to Best Overall Response, Time to Best Overall Response is measured in months from the start of treatment until the best response is achieved. Both RECIST v1.1 and irRC criteria will be used. RECIST Criteria: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage for PR nor sufficient increase for PD. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions or appearance of new lesions. irRC Criteria: Complete Response (irCR): Disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations ≥4 weeks apart. Partial Response (irPR): ≥50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations ≥4 weeks apart. Stable Disease (irSD): Neither sufficient decrease for irPR nor sufficient increase for irPD. Progressive Disease (irPD): ≥25% increase in tumor burden compared with nadir in two consecutive observations ≥4 weeks apart., From the start of treatment until disease progression up to 2 years.
Time to Progression Free Survival, The duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. For those patients with a CR or PR, the reference for progressive disease is the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started.

RECIST version 1.1 will be used to assess the local response of irradiated lesions only, taking as reference the baseline largest diameter:

Complete Response (CR) - Disappearance of the irradiated lesion Partial Response (PR) - \> 30% decrease in the single largest diameter of the irradiated lesion Stable Disease (SD) - Neither sufficient decrease in diameter to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase in diameter to qualify as PD Progressive Disease (PD) - \> 20% increase in the single largest diameter of the irradiated lesion. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm (0.5 cm)., From the start of treatment until the date of documented progression or death assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Amount of time from treatment until death, reported via follow up visit or phone call., From the start of treatment until the date date of death, or the last follow up date on which the participant was reported alive, assessed up to 2 years
Preclinical data suggest that radiation therapy may be uniquely suited to combine with immune checkpoint inhibitors, since radiation can disrupt a tumor's physical barriers to T-cell infiltration and augment antigen presentation, thus serving as an "in situ personalized vaccine" to activate the immune system and potentially enhance the systemic response.

The rationale for this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of combined immune checkpoint inhibitors and radiation therapy in metastatic non-small cell lung cancer patients.