Alvocidib, Oxaliplatin, Fluorouracil, and Leucovorin Calcium in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of alvocidib when given together with oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium in treating patients with advanced solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as alvocidib, oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Alvocidib may also make tumor cells more sensitive to chemotherapy. Combining more than one chemotherapy drug may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: alvocidib|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin calcium
Maximum tolerated dose of biweekly alvocidib when given in conjunction with oxaliplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium, Defined as the dose level immediately preceding the dose where 2 or more patients experienced dose-limiting toxicity., 6 weeks
Dose-limiting toxicity as defined by the occurrence of Grade 4 hematologic toxicity, Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity including diarrhea despite antidiarrheal prophylaxis, or any delay in treatment resulting in less than 3 treatments in 6 weeks, 6 weeks|Recommended phase II dose of alvocidib, 6 weeks
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of flavopiridol when given in combination with oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium in patients with advanced solid tumors.

II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine, preliminarily, the therapeutic activity of this regimen in these patients.

IV. Determine the dose-limiting toxicity and the recommended phase II dose of flavopiridol when administered with this regimen in these patients.

V. Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. VI. Correlate p21, p53, and apoptotic markers with response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, dose-escalation study of flavopiridol.

Patients receive alvocidib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 48 hours on days 1, 15, and 29. Courses repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of alvocidib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, the cohort is expanded and an additional 10 patients are treated at that dose.