Phase I-II Study of Interferon-gamma in Patients With HER-2 Positive Breast Cancer
This purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and to find the optimal dose in participants with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer who are given the combination of Interferon-gamma with paclitaxel, trastuzumab and pertuzumab. This study will also look at other effects of Interferon-gamma with paclitaxel, trastuzumab and pertuzumab, including its effect on this type of cancer.

Interferon-gamma is a biologically manufactured protein that is similar to a protein the body makes naturally. In the body, interferon gamma is produced by immune cells and helps to prevent serious infections.
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer, Male|Breast Cancer Female|HER2-positive Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ)|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab|OTHER: Pertuzumab|PROCEDURE: Post Therapy Surgery
Phase 1: Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), The dose limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluation period for dose escalation will be during the first three weeks. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) dose level is defined as the highest dose level with ≤1 out of 6 participants experiencing a DLT. If the first dose level experience two or more DLTs, then dose de-escalation will occur. DLT during cycle one (C1) is defined as follows: Non-hematologic or hematologic toxicities that are ≥ grade 3 in severity and probably or definitely related to study therapy which leads to chemotherapy treatment delays \> 14 days are considered DLT. The MTD will become the RP2D., 12 weeks|Phase 2: Pathologic Complete Response Rate (pCR), Pathologic complete response in the breast at definitive surgery after completion of protocol therapy. The pathologic response to treatment will be assessed by an institutional pathologist at Moffitt Cancer Center. The pathologist will evaluate response by the "Residual Cancer Burden"(RCB) for each participant as described in the online calculator (see RCB link in the More Information section). pCR is defined as no residual invasive carcinoma in the breast and lymph notes at definitive surgery following neoadjuvant therapy, After post therapy surgery - Therapy: approximately 12 weeks per participant
Phase 2: Clinical Response, Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) based upon tumor measurements obtained on physical examination at baseline, after completion of 4 cycles of study therapy. Factors that will be evaluated include: Breast mass(es) - size (longest dimension); Axillary lymph node(s) - size (longest dimension); Skin edema of the breast - present worse, present unchanged, present improved, or absent; Skin erythema of the breast - present worse, present unchanged, present improved, or absent., 12 weeks|Phase 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS)/Number of Participants Who Progressed, Progression will be evaluated in this study using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, version 1.1.

PFS is defined as the time from study therapy to the first occurrence of ipsilateral invasive breast tumor recurrence, ipsilateral locoregional invasive breast cancer recurrence, contralateral invasive breast cancer, distant recurrence, or death from any cause. This is reported as number of participants who progressed., Up to 2 years
This purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and to find the optimal dose in participants with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer who are given the combination of Interferon-gamma with paclitaxel, trastuzumab and pertuzumab. This study will also look at other effects of Interferon-gamma with paclitaxel, trastuzumab and pertuzumab, including its effect on this type of cancer.

Interferon-gamma is a biologically manufactured protein that is similar to a protein the body makes naturally. In the body, interferon gamma is produced by immune cells and helps to prevent serious infections.