Neoadjuvant Therapy in Biliary Adenocarcinoma
Feasibility of neoadjuvant therapy in resectable biliary adenocarcinoma.
Cholangiocarcinoma|Biliary Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|RADIATION: Short course ChemoRT
Completion of all therapy. Defined as completing 4/6 doses of gem/cis chemo, 80% of RT dose, and surgical resection., Feasibility trial with accrual goal of 12 patients using primary endpoint of completion of neoadjuvant therapy and surgery as an assessment of feasibility. Interim assessment of first 6 patients enrolled will be performed. Resection rate benchmark for neoadjuvant pancreas trials \~70% accounting for patients found to have progression. Completion of all therapy is defined as completing 4/6 doses of gem/cis chemo, 80% of RT dose, and surgical resection. If 2 or less of first 6 patients enrolled complete all therapy the trial will be closed and treatment will be considered unfeasible. Upon trial completion, if 5 or less of 12 patients complete all therapy the trial will be deemed unfeasible., 5 years
Patients will be evaluated for toxicity during protocol therapy and postoperatively using the CTCAE v 5 criteria., All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first treatment with Gemcitabine/cisplatin using the CTCAE v 5 criteria., 5 years|Margin negative resection rate. This will be measured by the Proportion of patients with involved surgical margins (R1 rate)., This is one of the Pathologic outcomes that will be measured. The margin negative resection rate will be measured by the Proportion of patients with involved surgical margins (R1 rate)., 5 years|Lymph node involvement. This will be measured by the Proportion of patients with involved lymph nodes (N0 vs N1)., This is one of the Pathologic outcomes that will be measured. Lymph node involvement will be measured by the Proportion of patients with involved lymph nodes (N0 vs N1)., 5 years|Survival outcomes measured by Disease Free Survival [DFS]), Disease-free survival: From date of registration to date of first documentation of relapse or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and free of disease will be censored at date of last contact., 5 years|Survival outcomes measured by Local Failure Free Survival [LFFS]., Local failure free survival: From date of registration to date of first documentation of local relapse or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and without evidence of local relapse will be censored at date of last contact.

Local relapse: Any evidence of new disease within the primary tumor bed or the regional (retroperitoneal, celiac, and portal vein nodes) lymphatics (these areas are to be encompassed within the radiation fields)., 5 years|Survival outcomes measured by Overall Survival [OS]., Overall Survival: From date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive will be censored at date of last contact., 5 years
This trial will evaluate whether a neoadjuvant paradigm is feasible in resectable biliary adenocarcinoma. All components of therapy are currently used standards of care, however they have not been used in the neoadjuvant setting for the management of resectable biliary cancers. The study will use Gemcitabine/cisplatin, followed by chemoradiation.

This is a feasibility trial with an accrual goal of 12 patients using the primary endpoint of completion of neoadjuvant therapy and surgery as an assessment of feasibility.