Uterine Artery Embolization(UAE) Versus High-Intensity-Focused-Ultrasound(HIFU) for Treatment of Uterine Fibroids
This study aimed to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and adverse effects of Uterine Artery Embolization (UAE), High-Intensity-Focused-Ultrasound (HIFU) in treating patients with uterine fibroid.
Uterine Fibroids
PROCEDURE: UAE|PROCEDURE: HIFU
Treatment success rate, Technical success of treatment procedure and absence of symptoms of fibroid, 6 months
Incidence of procedure related complication, Complications after treatment procedures will be recorded during each hospital admission and during each HIFU treatment session. Major adverse events will be reported. Complications that occur prior to a clinical visit will be documented and graded in each clinical visit at 1, 3, 6 and 12 month after treatment., 1, 3, 6, 12 months after treatment|volume change of the fibroids, Assessed by 3 Dimensional ultrasonography (USG), 6, 12 months after treatment|Degree of infarction of the fibroids, Contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used to assess the degree of infarction, which is defined as non-perfused tissue on contrast MRI., 3, 15 months after treatment|Vascularity of the fibroids, Assessed by contrast enhanced USG. Vascularity of the fibroid will be classified into six categories: 0%, \<25%, 25 to 50%, \>50 to 75%, \>75%, 100%., 6, 12 months after treatment
The usual management for symptomatic uterine fibroid is surgery (myomectomy or hysterectomy), in the current study, uterine artery embolization (UAE) is a form of non-surgical and minimally invasive treatment, High-Intensity-Focused-Ultrasound (HIFU) is a form of non-invasive treatment that can be completed as an out-patient within hours. Embolization causes ischaemia and shrinkage of the fibroid and therefore symptomatic relieve. HIFU is a medical technology that has been used for cancer treatment. Energy is delivered from outside the body in a non-invasive manner to produce heat energy that causes necrosis and shrinkage of the uterine fibroid thereby relieves the symptoms due to the fibroid. It does not involve radiation. The clinical effectiveness of HIFU for uterine fibroid is unknown, however, based on the knowledge of the clinical effectiveness of HIFU on liver cancer and pancreatic cancer, there is reasonable ground to believe that HIFU is effective for uterine fibroid.