Probiotics Combined With Standard Chemotherapy Plus Targeted Therapy in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
Bifico (also known as "bifidobacterium trifidum live powder") is a probiotic preparation that has been marketed and widely used in China. The number of live bacteria of lactobacillus acidophilus and bifidobacterium per gram should not be less than 1.0×107CFU. At present, it is mainly used for diarrhea and abdominal distension caused by intestinal flora imbalance. It can also be used for treating mild to moderate acute diarrhea and chronic diarrhea. Lactobacillus acidophilus and bifidobacteria have been fully proved in basic studies to improve gut microbiological environment and inhibit colorectal cancer. A recent paper published by Nature Biomedical Engineering reported that chemotherapy can effectively enhance the efficacy of colon cancer by regulating intestinal flora. Based on the above evidence, we propose that the current standard chemotherapy plus targeted therapy regimen combined with Bifico can exert a more powerful synergistic anticancer effect. To sum up, this study put forward innovative joint regulating intestinal flora environment with standard chemotherapy and target therapy of new concept and mode, to assess Bifico combined with standard chemotherapy plus targeted therapy compared to standard chemotherapy plus targeted therapy for efficacy and safety of metastatic colorectal cancer, combined with the intestinal flora, probiotics patient blood DNA analysis, etc. New technology, explore flora index correlation with the prognosis of patients' immune system function, and its potential as a predictive marker. It is worth noting that this study will closely combine the current most advanced intestinal flora 16S microbial polymorphism detection and single-cell sequencing technology, so as to truly achieve accurate and individualized treatment, evaluation and prognosis prediction.
Unresectable Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Bifico combined with chemotherapy plus targeted therapy|DRUG: chemotherapy plus targeted therapy
objective response rate, the proportion of patients with tumor size reduction of a predefined amount and for a minimum time period, 1 year
Patients were randomized to either standard therapy (i.e., chemotherapy + targeted therapy) or standard therapy combined with Bifico. We will provide patients with first-line, second-line and third-line treatment with full intervention, including maintenance treatment. The standard treatment regimen, first-line (FOLFOX regimen + cetuximab) : oxaliplatin 85mg/m2 intravenous infusion 2 hours day1 + calcium leucofolate (LV) 400mg/m2 intravenous infusion 2 hours day1 + 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) 400mg/m2 intravenous infusion day 1, and then 1200mg/ (m2·day) ×2 days continuous intravenous infusion + cetuximab 500mg/m2 intravenous infusion over 2 hours day 1, repeat every 2 weeks. First-line treatment 4 to 6 months after the effective disease control or stable but still no radical surgery opportunity, can enter maintenance treatment: 5 - FU + LV (dose with a line), repeat every 2 weeks, or capecitabine oral 2 1250 mg/m2 / day day 1-14 + beacizumab 7.5 mg/kg intravenous day 1, repeat every 3 weeks, or stop the systemic treatment, until a progression, and immediately to the next line treatment; Second-line (FOLFIRI regimen + bevacizumab) : irinotegam 180 mg/m2 iv infusion over 30-90min day 1 + LV 400mg/m2 iv infusion 2 hours day 1 + 5-fu400 mg/m2 iv infusion day 1, then 1200mg/ (m2·day) ×2 days continuous intravenous infusion + bevacizumab 5mg/kg introvenious infusion day 1, repeat every 2 weeks. Third line: fuquinib 160mg oral 1/ day day 1-21, repeat every 28 days, or regofenil 5mg oral 1/ day day 1-21, repeat every 28 days. Bifico 2g oral 3/ day, take the medicine daily.