Blinatumomab, Inotuzumab Ozogamicin, and Combination Chemotherapy as Frontline Therapy in Treating Patients With B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well blinatumomab, inotuzumab ozogamicin, and combination chemotherapy work as frontline therapy in treating patients with B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as blinatumomab, may induce changes in the body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Inotuzumab ozogamicin is a monoclonal antibody, called inotuzumab, linked to a toxic agent called ozogamicin. Inotuzumab attaches to CD22 positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers ozogamicin to kill them. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, dexamethasone, cytarabine, mercaptopurine, methotrexate, and prednisone work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving blinatumomab, inotuzumab ozogamicin, and combination chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with B acute lymphoblastic leukemia than chemotherapy alone.
B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B Lymphoblastic Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Blinatumomab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: Inotuzumab Ozogamicin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mercaptopurine|DRUG: Methotrexate|BIOLOGICAL: Ofatumumab|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Relapse-free survival (RFS), Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Will compute the Bayesian posterior probability. Will perform a competing risk analysis treating stem cell transplant as a competing event for RFS., From date of treatment start until the date of death or disease relapse, assessed for up to 24 months
Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 24 months|Overall response rate, Will be estimated along with the exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Minimal residual disease negativity rate, Will be estimated along with the exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 24 months|Incidence of adverse events, Will be summarized by organ type, grade and attribution to study treatment., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the clinical efficacy of the sequential combination of hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and dexamethasone (hyper-CVAD) + blinatumomab + inotuzumab ozogamicin (inotuzumab) in patients with newly diagnosed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in terms of relapse-free survival (RFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate other efficacy endpoints such as overall survival, overall response rate, minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity rate as well as the safety of this combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify genomic alterations in adult ALL predictive for response and long-term outcomes with the combination of hyper-CVAD plus blinatumomab and inotuzumab.

II. To evaluate the impact of next generation sequencing (NGS)-based MRD assay on outcomes and to compare with standard flow cytometry MRD assays.

OUTLINE:

INTENSIVE PHASE: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 3 hours twice daily (BID) on days 1-3, dexamethasone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-4 and 11-14, methotrexate intrathecally (IT) on day 2 of cycles 1 and 3, day 8 of cycles 2 and 4, and IV over 24 hours on day 1 of cycles 2 and 4, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously on day 4, vincristine sulfate IV over 15 minutes on days 4 and 11, and cytarabine IT on day 7 of cycles 1 and 3, day 5 of cycles 2 and 4, and IV over 2 hours on days 2 and 3 of cycles 2 and 4. Patients may also receive ofatumumab IV or rituximab IV over 4-6 hours on days 1 and 11 of cycles 1 and 3, and days 1 and 8 of cycles 2 and 4 at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients may receive ofatumumab IV over 4-6 hours on day 2 of cycle 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

BLINATUMOMAB AND INOTUZUMAB OZOGAMICIN PHASE (CYCLES 5-8): Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously on weeks 1-4. Patients also receive inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 1 hour on days 5 and 11 of cycles 6 and 8. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE PHASE: At doctor's discretion, patients may receive maintenance therapy prior to completing 4 cycles of hyper-CVAD and/or 4 cycles of blinatumomab. Patients receive mercaptopurine PO thrice daily (TID), methotrexate PO every week, vincristine sulfate IV over 15 minutes every month, and prednisone PO on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive blinatumomab IV after every 3 cycles of maintenance therapy for a total of about 15 cycles.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 1 time each month for up to 24 months.