Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Followed by Donor Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies how well autologous stem cell transplant followed by donor stem cell transplant works in treating patients with lymphoma that has returned or does not respond to treatment. Peripheral blood stem cell transplant using stem cells from the patient or a donor may be able to replace immune cells that were destroyed by chemotherapy used to kill cancer cells. The donated stem cells may also help destroy any remaining cancer cells (graft-versus-tumor effect).
Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|T-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|T-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Autologous-Allogeneic Tandem Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Carmustine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cyclosporine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|PROCEDURE: Nonmyeloablative Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Therapeutic Autologous Lymphocytes|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation
Engraftment of HLA Identical PBSC Allografts, Number of patients who engrafted by Day 56 post allogeneic transplant. Failure to engraft is defined as the absence of detectable donor cells in the marrow. The rates and accompanying confidence intervals associated with failure of engraftment at day +56 will be calculated after every 5th patient is enrolled on the study. If the lower limit to the appropriate one-sided 80% confidence interval exceeds 25%, this will be considered sufficient evidence of an excess "failure" rate and the study will be stopped. For these purposes, all patients will be evaluated together (patients with chemosensitive and chemoresistant disease)., Day 56|Non-Relapse Mortality, The rates and accompanying confidence intervals associated with transplant-related mortality will be calculated after every 5th patient is enrolled on the study. If the lower limit to the appropriate one-sided 80% confidence interval exceeds 25%, this will be considered sufficient evidence of an excess "failure" rate and the study will be stopped. For these purposes, all patients will be evaluated together (patients with chemosensitive and chemoresistant disease)., Day 100 post-non-myeloablative allografting following mobilization and high-dose chemotherapy with autografting
Overall Survival (OS), Number of patients surviving by interval. Chemosensitive and chemoresistant subjects will be analyzed separately., From the date of autologous transplant until the time of death, assessed up to 3 years|Progression Free-survival (PFS), Number of patients surviving without disease by interval. Chemosensitive and chemoresistant subjects will be analyzed separately., From the date of autologous transplant until the time of progression, relapse, death, or the date the patient was last known to be in remission, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate engraftment of human leukocyte antibody (HLA) identical peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) allografts given after conditioning with total-body irradiation (TBI) (200cGy) +/- fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate), 90 mg/m\^2 and post-grafting immunosuppression with cyclosporine (CSP)/mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in refractory or relapsed lymphoma patients following an initial autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) for disease cytoreduction.

II. To determine the non-relapse mortality at day 100 post-non-myeloablative allografting following mobilization and high-dose chemotherapy with autografting.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the disease free survival and overall survival of non-myeloablative allografting following autologous PBSCT.

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients with matched, related stem cell donors receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -6 and -5 and undergo TBI twice daily (BID) on days -3 to -1. Patients with matched, unrelated stem cell donors receive carmustine IV over 3 hours on day -7, etoposide IV over 2 hours BID on days -6 to -3, and cytarabine IV over 3 hours BID on days -6 to -3, and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -2.

TRANSPLANTATION: All patients undergo autologous PBSCT on day 0.

NON-MYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING: Beginning 40-120 days following PBSC transplant, patients with related donors undergo TBI on day 0. Patients with unrelated donors receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -4 to -2 and undergo TBI on day 0.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo non-myeloablative allogeneic PBSCT on day 0.

IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) BID on days -3 to 56 (patients with related donors) or 100 (patients with unrelated donors) followed by taper to day 180. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO BID on days 0-27 (patients with related donors) or thrice daily (TID) on days 0-27, then BID on days 28-40 followed by taper to day 96 (patients with unrelated donors).

Some patients may undergo donor lymphocyte infusion if there is evidence of disease progression and no evidence of graft-vs-host disease (GVHD).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 180, 1 year, 1.5 years, 2 years, 3 years, and then annually thereafter.