Efficacy and Safety of G-202 in PSMA-Positive Glioblastoma
Glioblastoma (GBM) comprises about 16% of all malignancies of the nervous system and over 50% of all gliomas. Standard of care for newly-diagnosed GBM is a combination of surgical debulking followed by concurrent radiotherapy and chemotherapy with temozolomide. Efforts to improve second-line therapy in GBM have met with only marginal success and there is a large unmet medical need for new therapies. G-202 (mipsagargin) is an example of prodrug chemotherapy. It is activated by Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen (PSMA), which is expressed by some cancer cells and in the blood vessels of most solid tumors, including GBM, but not by normal cells or blood vessels in normal tissue. It is believed that activation of the prodrug G-202 will allow the drug to kill cancer cells. This study will evaluate the activity, safety and CNS exposure of G-202 in patients with PSMA-positive recurrent or progressive GMB receiving G-202 by intravenous infusion on three consecutive days of a 28-day cycle.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: G-202
6-month progression-free survival, Percentage of patients who received at least 2 cycles of G-202 and have not progressed, according to criteria of the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Working Group (RANO), or died within 6 months of beginning treatment with G-202, 6 months
Safety, Proportion of patients experiencing treatment-emergent adverse events, Every 2 weeks for approximately 1 year|Objective tumor response rate, best overall response, Response rate assessed by RANO criteria, Every 8 weeks for approximately one year|Duration of PFS, Duration of time from the first administration of G-202 until the first documented progression or date of death, assessed up to 12 months, Every 4 weeks for approximately one year|Overall survival, Duration of time from the first administration of G-202 until the date of death, assessed up to 12 months, Every 4 weeks for approximately one year
Glioblastoma (GBM) comprises about 16% of all malignancies of the nervous system and over 50% of all gliomas. Standard of care for newly-diagnosed GBM is a combination of surgical debulking followed by concurrent radiotherapy and chemotherapy with temozolomide. Efforts to improve second-line therapy in GBM have met with only marginal success and there is a large unmet medical need for new therapies. G-202 (mipsagargin) is an example of prodrug chemotherapy. It is activated by Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen (PSMA), which is expressed by some cancer cells and in the blood vessels of most solid tumors, including GBM, but not by normal cells or blood vessels in normal tissue. It is believed that activation of the prodrug G-202 will allow the drug to kill cancer cells. This study will evaluate the activity, safety and CNS exposure of G-202 in patients with PSMA-positive recurrent or progressive GMB receiving G-202 by intravenous infusion on three consecutive days of a 28-day cycle.