Randomized Trial of Topotecan With M6620, an ATR Kinase Inhibitor, in Small Cell Lung Cancers and Small Cell Cancers Outside of the Lungs
This phase II trial studies how well berzosertib (M6620) works when given in combination with topotecan hydrochloride (topotecan) compared with topotecan alone in treating patients with small cell lung cancer that has come back (relapsed), or small cell cancer that arises from a site other than the lung (extrapulmonary). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as topotecan hydrochloride, work by damaging the DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) in tumor cells, causing those cells to die and the tumor to shrink. However, some tumor cells can become less affected by chemotherapy because they have ways to repair the damaged DNA. The addition of M6620 could help topotecan hydrochloride shrink the cancer and prevent it from returning by blocking enzymes needed for DNA repair.
Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Extrapulmonary Small Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Limited Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Platinum-Sensitive Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Berzosertib|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Topotecan Hydrochloride
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Reported With 80% Confidence Interval, The combination of M6620 with topotecan will be compared to topotecan alone in participants with relapsed small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Kaplan-Meier curves and a one-tailed log-rank test will be the primary analysis methods. PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death. whichever occurs first. Progression was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) and is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesions., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months after last participant has enrolled; up to 2 years for pulmonary cohort and up 31.5 months for Exploratory Cohort.|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Reported With 95% Confidence Interval, The combination of M6620 with topotecan will be compared to topotecan alone in participants with relapsed small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Kaplan-Meier curves and a one-tailed log-rank test will be the primary analysis methods. PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death. whichever occurs first. Progression was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) and is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesions., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months after last participant has enrolled; up to 2 years for pulmonary cohort and up 31.5 months for Exploratory Cohort.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as percentage of participants who achieved either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as best response assessed using the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guideline (v 1.1). ORR percentage is calculated as the sum of the PR and CR rates, divided by the total number of participants who are evaluable for a response, multiplied by 100%. All participants included in the study must be assessed for response to treatment, even if there are major protocol treatment deviations or if they are ineligible. Complete response is disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions. Stable disease is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Progressive disease is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) Reported With 80% Confidence Interval, OS is defined as time from randomization to death, regardless of cause., Up to 2 years for pulmonary cohort and up 31.5 for Exploratory Cohort.|Overall Survival (OS) Reported With 95% Confidence Interval, OS is defined as time from randomization to death, regardless of cause., Up to 2 years for pulmonary cohort and up 31.5 for Exploratory Cohort
Number of Participants With Serious and/or Non-serious Adverse Events Assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0)., Here is the number of participants with serious and/or non-serious adverse events assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0). A non-serious adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence. A serious adverse event is an adverse event or suspected adverse reaction that results in death, a life-threatening adverse drug experience, hospitalization, disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions, congenital anomaly/birth defect or important medical events that jeopardize the patient or subject and may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the previous outcomes mentioned., Date treatment consent signed to date off study, an average of 801.3 days.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if the combination of berzosertib (M6620) with topotecan hydrochloride (topotecan) will result in an improvement in progression-free survival (PFS) compared to topotecan alone in patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer (SCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) and overall survival (OS) with the combination of M6220 and topotecan in patients with relapsed SCLC and extrapulmonary small cell cancers.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not limited to ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNA-Seq):

Ia. To assess expression of genes Schlafen family member 11 (SLFN11), MYC, and ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) among others.

Ib. To identify potential predictive biomarkers of response to a combination of M6620 with topotecan.

Ic. Identify mechanisms of drug sensitivity and resistance using deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)- and RNA-based assessment platforms.

II. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

III. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Early-Phase and Experimental Clinical Trials (EET) Biobank at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

IV. To characterize circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and circulating tumor cells in patients with relapsed SCLC and extrapulmonary small cell cancers.

V. To identify potential predictive biomarkers of response to a combination of M6620 with topotecan in patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancers.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patient with SCLC are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants receive topotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants may crossover to Arm II at disease progression. Participants undergo a computed tomography (CT) scan during screening and on study as well as a tumor biopsy during screening. Participants may also undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

ARM II: Participants receive topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and berzosertib (M6620) IV over 60 minutes on days 2 and 5. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants undergo a CT scan during screening and on study as well as a tumor biopsy during screening. Participants may also undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

COHORT II (Patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancer): Participants receive topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and berzosertib (M6620) IV over 60 minutes on days 2 and 5. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants undergo a CT scan during screening and on study as well as a tumor biopsy during screening. Participants may also undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter.