Study of the Intra-patient Variability of the Quantitative Parameters of Tumor Perfusion Evaluated With Ultrasound Contrast
RECIST criteria for evaluating tumor response are often inadequate for the evaluation of anti-angiogenic drugs. An evaluation model of tumor perfusion with contrast-enhanced ultrasonography was developed at Gustave Roussy. It assesses the tumor vascular response through the analysis of 7 different parameters. Several studies (four at IGR, involving 117 patients, and a multicenter study involving 400 patients) showed that CEUS allows early evaluation of the effect of anti-angiogenic drugs. Two of these parameters are particularly interesting for the early identification of patients responding (or not) to treatment. Those are area under curve , and area under the wash-out. To further validate the use of these parameters, it is essential to measure and describe the level of their intra-patient variability.
GIST Metastatic Cancer|Breast Metastatic Cancer|Kidney Metastatic Cancer|Colon Metastatic Cancer|Rectal Metastatic Cancer
DEVICE: CEUS (Contrast-enhanced ultrasound)
Variability of quantitative parameters of Tumor Perfusion Evaluated With Ultrasound Contrast, Demonstrate that for the hepatic metastatic sites and for non hepatic metastatic sites the variability of the measured quantitative parameters on two different perfusion curves is less than 30%, Assessed 30 days after inclusion
RECIST criteria for evaluating tumor response are often inadequate for the evaluation of anti-angiogenic drugs. An evaluation model of tumor perfusion with contrast-enhanced ultrasonography was developed at Gustave Roussy. It assesses the tumor vascular response through the analysis of 7 different parameters. Several studies (four at IGR, involving 117 patients, and a multicenter study involving 400 patients) showed that CEUS allows early evaluation of the effect of anti-angiogenic drugs. Two of these parameters are particularly interesting for the early identification of patients responding (or not) to treatment. Those are area under curve , and area under the wash-out. To further validate the use of these parameters, it is essential to measure and describe the level of their intra-patient variability.