First Line Chemotherapy for Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma in Russia (HL-Russia-1)
The HL-Russia-1 is a non-randomized, open-label, multicenter, phase III, 3-arm study. The primary objective is to assess efficacy, safety and progression-free survival (PFS) of different approaches (earle favorable, early unfavorable and advanced stages) to first line chemotherapy for classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL).
Hodgkin Lymphoma, Adult
DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Bleomycin|DRUG: Vinblastine|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Complete remission rate (CR), CR rate is defined as the proportion of patients achieving a CR after 3 months of chemotherapy (interim) and at the end of treatment, up to 6 months|Acute Toxicity, The severity of the toxicities will be classified according to definitions of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (CTCAE) version 4.3. It will be determined by the incidence of severe, life- threatening (CTCAE grade 3, 4 and 5) and/or serious adverse events (Infusion-related reactions), 6 months|Late Toxicity, The severity of the toxicities will be classified according to definitions of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (CTCAE) version 4.3. It will be determined by the incidence of severe, life- threatening (CTCAE grade 3, 4 and 5) and/or serious adverse events (Infusion-related reactions), 5 years|Event-Free Survival (EFS), EFS will be measured from the time from entry onto a study to any treatment failure including disease progression, or discontinuation of treatment for any reason (e.g., disease progression, toxicity, patient preference, initiation of new treatment lacking documented progression, or death), 5 years|Disease free survival (DFS), DFS will be measured from the time of occurrence of disease-free state or attainment of a CR to disease recurrence or death as a result of lymphoma or acute toxicity of treatment, 5 years
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from entry onto the clinical trial until death as a result of any cause, 5 years
The study is devoted to patients affected with Hodgkin Lymphoma in Russia.

The study aims to assess the efficacy and safety of three different approaches to first line chemotherapy for classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL):

1. Early favourable (stages I-IIA without unfavorable risk factors). Patients will receive two courses of standard ABVD (Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine). Those with a PET-2 (positron emission tomography) negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with radiotherapy on initially involved site (20 Gy). Those with a PET-2 Deauville score 4 will proceed with additional 2 ABVD courses. After that, those with a PET-4 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with radiotherapy on initially involved site (30 Gy). In case of PET-4 positive scan after 4 ABVD cycles (Deauville score 4-5) patients will be planned to perform the biopsy and in case of positive results, proceed to high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation (HDT with ASCT). In case of negative results of the biopsy, they will proceed with additional 2 ABVD courses and restage again. Those with a PET-6 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with radiotherapy on initially involved site (30 Gy). In case of PET-6 positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) patients will be proceeded to HDT with ASCT.

   Those with a PET-2 Deauville score 5 after 2 ABVD courses will be planned to perform the biopsy and in case of positive results, proceed to HDT with ASCT. In case of negative results of the biopsy they will proceed with additional 2 ABVD courses and restage again. Those with a PET-4 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with radiotherapy on initially involved site (30 Gy). In case of PET-4 positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) patients will be proceeded to HDT with ASCT.
2. Early unfavorable (stages IA-B, IIA bulky and/or extranodal lesions, patients younger 50 years). Patients will receive two courses of EACODD-14 (etoposide 100 mg/m2 days 1-3, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 day 1, cyclophosphamide 650 mg/m2 day 1, vincristine 1,4 mg/m2 day 8, dacarbazine 375 mg/m2 day 1, dexamethasone 20 mg days 1-3; cycle is repeated every 14 days). Those with a PET-2 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will be deescalated to 2 courses of AVD (Adriamycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine) and consolidative radiotherapy on initially involved site (30 Gy). Those with a PET-2-positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) will proceed with additional 2 EACODD-14 courses. After that, those with a PET-4 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with radiotherapy on initially involved site (30 Gy). In case of PET-4 positive scan after 4 EACODD-14 cycles (Deauville score 4-5) patients will proceed with additional 2 EACODD-14 courses. After that, those with a PET-6 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with radiotherapy on initially involved site (30 Gy). In case of PET-6 positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) patients will be proceeded to HDT with ASCT.
3. Advanced stages (younger 50 years). Patients will receive two courses of EACODD-14. Those with a PET-2 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with 4 additional courses of EACODD-14. After that, patients with residual tumor ˂ 4 cm, will stop the therapy and start the follow-up phase. Patients with residual tumor ≥ 4 cm, will undergo consolidative radiotherapy on residual tumor (30 Gy). Those with a PET-2-positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) will proceed with additional 4 additional courses of EACODD-14. After that, those with a PET-6 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with radiotherapy on residual tumor ≥ 2,5 cm (30 Gy). In case of PET-6 positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) patients will be proceeded to HDT with ASCT.