Genital Wart and Sexuality in Adolescence
The adolescence is a landmark in perceiving the sexuality and awareness about the sexual experiences. Genitals warts were shown to be a potential risk to impair the sexual functions in women. Adolescence is a vulnerable period in which the individuals may be prone to the negative effects of the disorders affecting sexual functions such as genital warts. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of genital warts on sexual functions in female adolescents.
Adolescent Development|Genital Wart|Sexual Dysfunction|Sexual Disorder, Physiological
OTHER: Clinical assessment
Female Sexual Function Index, Questionnaire score with minimum and maximum levels of 2.4 and 36 points,respectively. Higher scores mean a better outcome., Through study completion, an average of 6 months
Arizona Sexual Experiences Scale, Questionnaire score with minimum and maximum levels of 5 and 30 points,respectively. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., Through study completion, an average of 6 months|Female Sexual Distress Scale-Revised, Questionnaire score with minimum and maximum levels of 0 and 50 points,respectively. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., Through study completion, an average of 6 months
This current study aimed to elucidate the impact of genital warts on female sexual function in adolescence. The current study also targeted to reveal whether there is any correlation between the genital warts and the female sexual dysfunction, as well as the sexuality related distress. The current study is conducted at Youth Center Outpatient Clinic of Ankara City Hospital which is a high-volume tertiary health care center in Turkey. The study was prospectively designed and data were collected between the 1 August 2020 and 1 February 2021. Totally 90 female adolescents between the age of 17-21 who had regular sexual intercourse with heterosexual partners were included. The Study group composed of 45 adolescents who had genital warts and the Control group included 45 healthy adolescents. Female sexual function Index (FSFI), Arizona Sexual Experiences Scale (ASEX) and Female Sexual Dysfunction Scale (FSDS) scores were compared between the two groups to evaluate the sexual functions. Difference between two independent means (two groups) power analysis demonstrated that this study achieved a power of 0.99, 0.98 , 0.99 with a 5% level of significance for comparison of 45 adolescents with genital warts and 45 healthy adolescents in terms of FSFI, ASEX, and FSDS scores, respectively.