Navitoclax and Vistusertib in Treating Patients With Relapsed Small Cell Lung Cancer and Other Solid Tumors
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose and side effects of navitoclax and how well it works when given together with vistusertib in treating patients with small cell lung cancer and solid tumors that have come back (relapsed). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as navitoclax, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Vistusertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving navitoclax and vistusertib may work better than navitoclax alone in treating patients with small cell lung cancer and solid tumors.
Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Stage III Lung Small Cell Carcinoma, by American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) v7|Stage IIIA Lung Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Lung Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Lung Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Unresectable Solid Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Navitoclax|DRUG: Vistusertib
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (Phase I), Graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.0. The number of participants with dose limiting toxicities at each dose level will be reported with exact binomial 95% confidence intervals. All patients who receive at least 1 dose of both study drugs, regardless of their eligibility for the study, will be evaluable for toxicity., Up to 30 days after last treatment, an average of 3 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) (Phase II), Defined as Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. partial response or complete response, of the combination in patients with recurrent small cell lung cancer. The ORR will be reported with its corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up to 1.5 years
Occurrence of a Bi-directional Pharmacokinetic (PK) Interaction, Concentrations of each study agent present in the blood at the specified time point are reported for each study agent., Through Day 15|Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events by Grade (Phase II), Graded by NCI CTCAE v 4.0. The number of participants with toxicities by grade in the phase 2 study will be reported with exact binomial 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1.5 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS) (Phase II), Based on RECIST 1.1. Standard life table methods will be used to analyze PFS. We will report the one-year and median PFS with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1.5 years|Overall Survival (OS) at Year 1 (Phase II), Standard life table methods will be used to analyze OS. We will report the one-year and median OS with 95% confidence intervals., At Year 1|Disease Control Rate (Phase II), Based on RECIST 1.1. The proportion of patients achieving disease control will be reported with exact 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 1.5 years
Change in p4EBP1 Expression, Descriptive statistics and box plots with jittered data points will be used to visualize all raw data. Will be assessed with paired t-tests., Baseline up to 1.5 years|Change in Ratio p4EBP1/4EBP1, Descriptive statistics and box plots with jittered data points will be used to visualize all raw data. Will be assessed with paired t-tests., Baseline up to 1.5 years|Change in Ratio pS6/S6, Descriptive statistics and box plots with jittered data points will be used to visualize all raw data. Will be assessed with paired t-tests., Baseline up to 1.5 years|Change in BAX and MCl-1 Expression, Descriptive statistics and box plots with jittered data points will be used to visualize all raw data. Will be assessed with paired t-tests., Baseline up to 1.5 years|Pharmacodynamic Parameters, Exploratory correlative studies with pharmacodynamic (biological endpoints, toxicity and efficacy) will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics., Up to 1.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of navitoclax and vistusertib in patients with advanced solid tumors. (Phase I) II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose limiting toxicities (DLT), and recommended phase 2 doses (RP2D) of navitoclax and vistusertib. (Phase I) III. To determine the objective response rate (ORR), defined as complete plus partial response, of the combination of navitoclax and vistusertib in patients with recurrent small cell lung cancer (SCLC). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of navitoclax and vistusertib when administered together. (Phase I) II. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I) III. To confirm the safety and tolerability of navitoclax and vistusertib at the RP2D. (Phase II) IV. To estimate progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of the combination of navitoclax and vistusertib at the RP2D. (Phase II) V. To estimate disease control rate (DCR) of the combination of navitoclax and vistusertib at the RP2D. (Phase II)

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess pharmacodynamic changes in levels of phosphorylated 4EBP1 (p4EBP1) the ratio of p4EBP1 to total (p4EBP1/4EBP1) in paired pre-treatment and on-treatment biopsies at the RP2D. (Phase II) II. To correlate changes in BAX and MCL-1 with response. (Phase II) III. To estimate the baseline inter-patient variability in p4EBP1, pS6, BAX, and MCL-1. (Phase II) IV. To explore exposure-response relationships between navitoclax and vistusertib exposure and the pharmacodynamic endpoints (safety, efficacy, and laboratory correlatives). (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive navitoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) and vistusertib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 8-12 weeks for up to 2 years.