Neoadjuvant Interstitial Brachytherapy Using Diffusing Alpha Emitters Radiation Therapy in Men With Prostate Cancer
A unique approach for cancer treatment employing intratumoral diffusing alpha radiation emitter device as a neo-adjuvant therapy in men with prostate cancer
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Radiation: Diffusing Alpha Radiation Emitters Therapy (DaRT)
Feasibility of intratumoral DaRT seeds implantation, To evaluate the feasibility of intratumoral insertion of DaRT seeds into prostate adenocarcinoma in the neoadjuvant setting. Feasibility will defined as the successful delivery of DaRT., Study visit 'Day 0'|Safety of intratumoral DaRT seeds implantation, To evaluate the safety of intratumoral insertion of DaRT seeds into prostate adenocarcinoma in the neoadjuvant setting.

To evaluate the safety of intratumoral insertion of DaRT seeds into prostate adenocarcinoma in the neoadjuvant setting by the frequency and severity of acute adverse events related to DaRT. Adverse events will be assessed and graded according to Common Terminology and Criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Study visit 'Day 0'
Pathological ORR, To asses the percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatment using a biopsy from removed prostate., Week 4-6|Radiological ORR, Radiological response rate according to PSMA-PET/ multiparametric MRI (SUV change/T2 weighting) through comparison with baseline imaging as assessed by RECIST or PERCIST., 1 Week prior to surgery|Change in quality of life, Change in disease related QoL using the EPIC questionnaires from baseline to prior to surgery, Screening. Day 22.|Change in quality of life, Change in disease related QoL using the IPSS questionnaires from baseline to prior to surgery, Screening. Day 22.
Assess DNA damage and repair, Assess DNA damage and repair (biomarker analysis: γH2AX foci, TUNEL, RAD51, RAD50, BRCA1, XRCC2, XRCC6) from baseline to surgery following DaRT seeds insertion., Day 40 - 60|Assess immune infiltration, Assess immune cell infiltration (biomarker analysis: CD34, TILs) from baseline to surgery following DaRT seeds insertion., Day 40 - 60|Biochemical response evaluation, Biochemical response evaluation based on PSA levels, Day 19-25, Day 68-82
The study is planned as a prospective, open-label, one arm, single center trial, designed to assess the feasibility and safety of intratumoral DaRT seeds implantation for the treatment of local prostate cancer prior to surgery.

This approach combines the advantages of local intratumoral irradiation of the tumor, as used in conventional brachytherapy, with the power of the alpha radiation emitting atoms, that will be introduced in quantities considerably lower than radiation therapy already used in patients.

Prostate lesions with histopathological confirmation of adenocarcinoma will be treated using DaRT seeds in a neo-adjuvant setting.

Feasibility will be assessed by the successful delivery of DaRT seeds into the intratumoral environment. In addition, objective response rate will be assessed both by imaging and pathology.