Comparing the Efficacy of Endoscopic FNA vs FNB in Diagnosing Solid Gastrointestinal Lesions
The purpose of this study is to determine if fine needle aspiration or fine needle biopsy is more efficacious and cost-effective than the other while maintaining diagnostic accuracy in the setting of solid gastrointestinal lesions.
Pancreatic Tumor|Gastric Tumor|Esophageal Tumor|Lymphadenopathy|Duodenal Tumor
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic ultrasound guided needle tissue acquisition.
Number of needle passes needed to obtain a pathologic diagnosis., Within 1 week of study enrollment
Diagnostic yield, defined as percentage of cases with a diagnostic biopsy sample, between FNA and FNB., By three months post-op in the pathology report|Visible core specimens obtained and its correlation to obtaining a diagnostic sample., During the intervention itself|Frequency of adverse side effects., Three months post-op
When ultrasound is used during endoscopy, we are able to visualize the structures adjacent to the gastrointestinal tract in close detail. Once the mass is visualized, we use endoscopic ultrasound to obtain a tissue sample, which the pathologist can examine in order to provide a diagnosis.

The conventional method for obtaining a sample of tissue with endoscopic ultrasound is called fine needle aspiration (FNA). This involves the insertion of a thin needle into the mass and obtaining a small sample of tissue which the pathologist can examine. An alternative technique is called fine needle biopsy (FNB), and involves the insertion of a thin double-edged needle into the mass. This double-edged needle may potentially provide a larger sample of tissue to examine.

Both of these techniques are commonly used, and both methods are equally safe. However, it is not known if one of these techniques is more effective at obtaining a sample of tissue or if one of these techniques is more cost-effective than the other. The purpose of this study is to determine if one method is more efficacious and cost-effective than the other while maintaining diagnostic accuracy. The results of this study may alter the way gastroenterologists obtain tissue samples during endoscopic ultrasound, improving the utility of the exam and reducing unnecessary healthcare costs.