A Study to Learn About the Effectiveness of the Medicine Called Elranatamab in People With Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This study is to understand how well elranatamab (PF-06863135) may be used for relapsed refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). Sometimes MM might improve at first, but then gets resistant to the treatment and starts growing again (known as relapsed refractory). This study medicine will be compared with standard-of-care (SOC) therapies used in real-world clinical practice. For people receiving elranatamab, the investigators will use data from the phase 2 clinical trial (MagnetisMM-3). The investigators will also use data from multiple real-world sources, representing the SOC in clinical practice. This study does not seek any participants for enrollment. The investigators will compare the experiences of people receiving elranatamab to people receiving SOC therapies. This way, it will help the investigators to know how well elranatamab can be used for RRMM treatment.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Elranatamab|DRUG: Standard of care
Progression Free Survival (PFS): Study C1071003 Cohort A Versus RWD COTA Cohort- Using Unweighted Analysis, PFS: a) C1071003 Cohort A: time from the date of the first dose until confirmed progressive disease (PD) per IMWG criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first; b) RWD COTA: time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM to either the date of progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. IMWG criteria for progression: an increase of \>=25% (Percent) from the lowest response value in any 1 or more of the criteria: serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP) with an absolute increase \>0.5 gram/deciliter (g/dL); 24-hour(h) urine protein electrophoresis (UPEP) with an absolute increase \>200 microgram (mg)/24 h; in participants without measurable serum and urine M-protein, the absolute increase of \>10 mg/dL in the difference between involved and uninvolved free light chain (FLC) levels; or an absolute bone marrow plasma cell \>10%. Retrospective data was retrieved and observed in the current study for approximately 1.5 months., C1071003:First dose to confirmed PD/ death due to any cause or censoring whichever occurred first (maximum of 15 months);COTA:Initiation of first line post TCR MM to PD/ death due to any cause or censoring whichever occurred first (maximum of 64.3 months)|PFS: C1071003 Cohort A Versus COTA Cohort- Using Inverse Probability of Treatment Weights (IPTW), PFS: a) C1071003 Cohort A: time from the date of the first dose until confirmed PD per IMWG criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first; b) COTA: time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM to either the date of progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. IMWG criteria for progression: an increase of \>=25% from the lowest response value in any 1 or more of the criteria: SPEP with an absolute increase \>0.5 g/dL; 24-hour UPEP with an absolute increase \>200 mg/24 h; in participants without measurable serum and urine M-protein, the absolute increase of \>10 mg/dL in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels; or an absolute bone marrow plasma cell percentage \>10%. Retrospective data was retrieved and observed in the current study for approximately 1.5 months. Participants without an event were censored at date of last adequate disease assessment or the data cut-off. Kaplan Meier method was used., C1071003:First dose to confirmed PD/ death due to any cause or censoring whichever occurred first (maximum of 15 months);COTA:Initiation of first line post TCR MM to PD/ death due to any cause or censoring whichever occurred first (maximum of 64.3 months)|PFS: Study C1071003 Cohort A Versus Flatiron Cohort - Using Unweighted Analysis, PFS: a) C1071003 Cohort A, PFS: time from the date of the first dose until confirmed PD per IMWG criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. B) Flatiron Health: time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM to either the date of progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. IMWG criteria for progression: an increase of \>= 25% from baseline/nadir value in any one or more of the following: an absolute increase in serum M-protein by SPEP by \>= 0.5 g/dL; serum M-protein \>= 1 g/dL if the lowest M component was \>= 5 g/dL; an absolute increase in urine M-protein by UPEP by \>=200 mg/24 h; in participants without measurable serum and urine M-protein levels, an absolute increase in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels of \>10 mg/dL. Retrospective data was retrieved and observed in the current study for approximately 1.5 months., C1071003:First dose to confirmed PD/death due to any cause or censoring whichever occurred first(maximum of 15 months);Flatiron:Initiation of first line post TCR MM to PD/death due to any cause or censoring,whichever occurred first(maximum of 66.9 months)|PFS: Study C1071003 Cohort A Versus Flatiron Cohort - Using IPTW Analysis, PFS: a) C1071003 Cohort A, PFS: time from the date of the first dose until confirmed PD per IMWG criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. B) Flatiron Health: time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM to either the date of progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. IMWG criteria for progression: an increase of \>= 25% from baseline/nadir value in any one or more of the following: an absolute increase in serum M-protein by SPEP by \>= 0.5 g/dL; serum M-protein \>= 1 g/dL if the lowest M component was \>= 5 g/dL; an absolute increase in urine M-protein by UPEP by \>=200 mg/24 h; in participants without measurable serum and urine M-protein levels, an absolute increase in the difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels of \>10 mg/dL. Retrospective data was retrieved and observed in the current study for approximately 1.5 months. Kaplan Meier Method was used for analysis., C1071003:First dose to confirmed PD/death due to any cause or censoring whichever occurred first(maximum of 15 months);Flatiron:Initiation of first line post TCR MM to PD/death due to any cause or censoring,whichever occurred first(maximum of 66.9 months)
Overall Survival (OS): Study C1071003 Cohort A Versus RWD COTA Cohort- Using Unweighted Analysis, OS: a) C1071003 Cohort A: OS was defined as time from the date of the first dose until death due to any cause; b) COTA Cohort: OS was defined as time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause. Kaplan Meier Method was used for analysis. Participants without an event were censored at the latest available record or the data cut-off., C1071003: The date of the first dose until death due to any cause or censoring (maximum up to 15 months); COTA: First line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause or censoring (maximum of 64.3 months)|OS: Study C1071003 Cohort A Versus RWD COTA Cohort- Using IPTW Analysis, OS: a) C1071003 Cohort A: OS was defined as time from the date of the first dose until death due to any cause; b) COTA Cohort: OS was defined as time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause. Kaplan Meier Method was used for analysis. Participants without an event were censored at the latest available record or the data cut-off., C1071003: The date of the first dose until death due to any cause or censoring (maximum up to 15 months); COTA: First line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause or censoring (maximum of 64.3 months)|OS: Study C1071003 Cohort A Versus Flatiron Cohort - Using Unweighted Analysis, OS: a) C1071003 Cohort A: OS was defined as time from the date of the first dose until death due to any cause; B) Flatiron Cohort: OS was defined as time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause. Kaplan Meier Method was used for analysis. Participants without an event were censored at the latest available record or the data cut-off., C1071003: The date of the first dose until death due to any cause or censoring (maximum up to 15 months); Flatiron: First line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause or censoring (maximum of 66.9 months)|OS: Study C1071003 Cohort A Versus Flatiron Cohort - Using IPTW Analysis, OS: a) C1071003 Cohort A: OS was defined as time from the date of the first dose until death due to any cause; B) Flatiron Cohort: OS was defined as time from initiation of the first line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause. Kaplan Meier Method was used for analysis. Participants without an event were censored at the latest available record or the data cut-off., C1071003: The date of the first dose until death due to any cause or censoring (maximum up to 15 months); Flatiron: First line after participant identified as having TCR MM until the date of death due to any cause or censoring (maximum of 66.9 months)
This study is to understand how well elranatamab (PF-06863135) may be used for relapsed refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). Sometimes MM might improve at first, but then gets resistant to the treatment and starts growing again (known as relapsed refractory). This study medicine will be compared with standard-of-care (SOC) therapies used in real-world clinical practice. For people receiving elranatamab, the investigators will use data from the phase 2 clinical trial (MagnetisMM-3). The investigators will also use data from multiple real-world sources, representing the SOC in clinical practice. This study does not seek any participants for enrollment. The investigators will compare the experiences of people receiving elranatamab to people receiving SOC therapies. This way, it will help the investigators to know how well elranatamab can be used for RRMM treatment.