Aflibercept and Chemotherapy as First Line Treatment for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Assessable With DCE-US (PULSAR).
The PULSAR trial is an international, investigator-initiated, single arm open-label phase II study. The aim of this study is to measure the clinical activity of the combination FOLFIRI-aflibercept in an homogeneous group of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, and treated with a FOLFIRI-aflibercept regimen as first line treatment.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Aflibercept-FOLFIRI
Progression-Free Rate will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1 with central radiological review., At 10-month
Overall Response Rate (ORR) will be determined according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1., through the end of study treatment, an average of 1 year|Best Response Rate (BRR), through the end of study treatment, an average of 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), through study completion, an average of 3 years|Progression-free survival rate, through study completion, an average of 3 years|Patterns of PFS according to DCE-US early assessment, at day 28 ± 2|Pharmacodynamic activity, at day 7 ± 1, and day 28 ± 2|Safety and tolerance, up to 30 days after the end of the study treatment
Patients with an unresectable metastatic colorectal carcinoma (mCRC) histologically proven will be treated with a combination of Irinotecan/bolus-infusion-5-Fluorouracil/Leucovorin (FOLFIRI regimen) and aflibercept. On day 1 of each cycle patients will receive aflibercept followed by irinotecan, 5-Fluorouracil (FU) and leucovorin (FOLFIRI regimen). This treatment will be repeated every 2 weeks until RECIST progression or unacceptable toxicities, investigator's decision or patient's refusal of further treatment or death, whichever comes first.

All patients will be assessed during their FOLFIRI-aflibercept with Dynamic Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound (DCE-US) at baseline, D7 (± 1 day), D28 (± 2 days).

The recruitment period is 24 months. The average duration of the study per patient will be approximately 12 months, i.e. 3 weeks for screening, 10 months for the combination of FOLFIRI plus aflibercept and 30 days for follow-up of adverse events after the last dose of study treatment.