NR in Chemo-induced Peripheral Neuropathy
The purpose of this single-arm phase II trial is to determine whether nicotinamide riboside (NIAGEN®) prevents the progression of peripheral sensory neuropathy in patients receiving infusions of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer or recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian, endometrial, peritoneal, fallopian tube cancer or metastatic head and neck cancer.
Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Breast Cancer Metastatic|Platinum-resistant Recurrent Ovarian Cancer|Head and Neck Cancer Stage IV|Endometrial Cancer Stage IV
DRUG: Nicotinamide Riboside
Number of Participants With No Worsening in the Grade of Peripheral Sensory Neuropathy as Scored by CTCAE, The primary outcome variable is defined as no worsening of the grade of peripheral sensory neuropathy as scored according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 guidelines. Per the CTCAE a score of 1 would be assigned in the instance of parethesias or a loss of deep tendon reflexes. A score of 2 would be assigned in the instance of moderate symptoms that limit instrumental activities of daily living. A score of 3 would be assigned in the instance of severe symptoms that limit self-care activities of daily living. Because the outcome measure is defined as no worsening of the grade, it was recorded as either "yes"( i.e. it worsened) or "no" (i.e. it did not worsen)., approximately 4 weeks
Percentage of Patients in Which Dose of Paclitaxel or Nab-Paclitaxel is Reduced Due to CIPN, Quantitate the percentage of patients that experience a dose reduction of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel therapy due to neuropathy., 3 weeks|Number of Dose Reduction Events, Count the number of (i.e. the incidence) of dose reduction events due to neuropathy (each occasion of dose reduction is a separate event);, 3 weeks|Total Dose of Paclitaxel Administered, Quantitate the total cumulative dose of paclitaxel administered over the 12 weeks., 3 weeks|Difference in Score Between Baseline and End of Treatment for the FACT&GOG-NTX Subscale ., Difference in Score on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group - neurotoxicity questionnaire at the end of treatment; i.e. Score at screening - score at end of treatment. This questionnaire asks 11 questions that are specific to chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathies. Maximum score is 44, minimum score is 0. Positive differences indicate a decrease in neuropathy. Negative differences indicate a worsening of neuropathy. Zero means unchanged., 4 weeks
Difference in Total Neuropathy Score Between Screening and End of Treatment, Exploratory analysis of ability of the clinical version of the Total Neuropathy Score questionnaire to detect changes in CIPN severity over time. Unlike the CTCAE or the FACT\&GOG-NTX questionnaires, the TNS is a patient reported outcome measure. HIghest score (worse neuropathy is 24, lowest score is 0. Outcome assessed difference between end of treatment and screening. A positive number indicates improvement in neuropathy, 4 weeks
Peripheral neuropathies are a dose-limiting, disabling, and debilitating side effect of virtually every known class of chemotherapeutic agent, and are referred to as chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathies (CIPN) (Seretny et al., 2014). The incidence and severity of CIPN increase as the cumulative dose, frequency of administration, and the number of therapeutic cycles increase. As many as 68% of patients have CIPN when assessed within 30 days of completing treatment. Patients experience paresthesias, dysesthesias (an unpleasant abnormal sensation, whether spontaneous or evoked), hyperalgesia (increased pain from a stimulus that normally provokes pain), allodynia (pain due to a stimulus that does not normally provoke pain), numbness or loss of sensation, or ongoing pain that is burning, lancinating or electric shock-like in nature. CIPN can seriously diminish a patient's quality of life, and can interfere with self-care and activities of daily living. The severity of CIPN may also necessitate reducing the dose of chemotherapeutic agent, delaying the next cycle of chemotherapy, or terminating treatment entirely (Argyriou et al., 2012; Argyriou et al., 2014; Miltenburg et al., 2014; Park et al., 2013).

Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) is an essential redox coenzyme required for cell viability, basic bioenergetics, and fast axonal transport (Yang and Sauve, 2016). It plays an important role in protection against axonal injury from either mechanical or neurotoxic injury (Araki et al., 2004; Sasaki et al., 2006; Sasaki et al., 2009; Gerdts et al., 2015; Khan et al., 2014; Conforti et al., 2014; Di Stefano et al., 2015). Nicotinamide riboside (NIAGEN®) is a form of vitamin B3 and a precursor in the pathway for synthesis of NAD+ (Bieganowski et al., 2004; Trammell et al., 2016; Chi and Sauve, 2013). Oral administration of NIAGEN® increases levels of NAD+ in the blood, liver, skeletal muscle, and other tissues (Canto et al., 2012; Hamity et al, 2017; Airhart et al., 2017; Martens et al., 2018).

NIAGEN®) has been reported to prevent tactile hypersensitivity and blunt the affective dimension of nociception in a rat model of CIPN (Hamity et al., 2017) It also prevents signs of peripheral neuropathy in a mouse model of diabetes (Trammell et al., 2016) The proposed single-arm pilot phase II study will examine whether daily dosing with NIAGEN®) can prevent the progression of CIPN in persons with stage IV breast cancer or recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian, endometrial, peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer receiving once weekly infusions of paclitaxel for 12 weeks.

In this study, persons with metastatic breast cancer, platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian, peritoneal, endometrial, or fallopian tube cancer, or platinum-resistant recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer who are receiving weekly infusions of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel and anticipated to survive for at least 3 months will be offered the opportunity to enroll in this study when they develop a peripheral neuropathy of at least grade 1. Persons with peripheral neuropathy of no greater than a grade 2 from prior therapy may also enroll in this study if they are receiving weekly infusions of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel. Upon enrollment, health care providers will review the overall severity of the participant's neuropathy and assign a baseline grade. Participants will also complete two short questionnaires that will more specifically score how the peripheral neuropathy interferes with daily functions of living. A small sample of blood will be taken at the completion of the paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel infusion to measure levels of paclitaxel. The participant will then be sent home with capsules of NIAGEN® to take twice daily. Each week upon return to the clinic a small sample of blood will be taken before the infusion of paclitaxel to measure biomarkers for NIAGEN®, and other samples of blood will be taken to evaluate clinical chemistries, kidney, and liver function. Another sample of blood will be obtained after the paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel infusion to measure levels of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel. The health care provider will meet with the patient each week to score the overall severity of the peripheral neuropathy, and the participant will answer another questionnaire with more specific questions. Once a month, the participant will be asked to fill out a second questionnaire. Participants will take 300 mg/day NIAGEN® in the first week and 1000 mg/day in the subsequent 11 weeks. The study will conclude one week after the 12th infusion of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel. Health care providers will contact the participant at various times up to 6 months to monitor their status.

Beginning with completion of the trial by the 10th participant and continuing with each subsequent participant up to 39, we will use a Bayesian statistical approach (Lee and Liu, 2008; i.e. predictive probability) to determine whether NIAGEN® has prevented a worsening of the peripheral neuropathy. This approach we let us make an early determination of futility. We will also determine whether NIAGEN® has decreased the need to delay or diminish the doses of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel due to severity of the peripheral neuropathy. The results of this trial will inform the design of a subsequent randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded clinical trial.