A Case-control Study Comparing Glycaemic Control in Pancreatic Cancer Patients vs Healthy Matched Individuals.
The aim of this study is to continuously monitor blood glucose concentrations for a 7-day period in pancreatic cancer patients whilst undergoing their typical daily routines and to compare this to age matched healthy individuals. The investigators plan to carry out the study on a small subset of patients, up to 30 with pancreatic cancer (15 not undergoing chemotherapy and 15 undergoing chemotherapy) and 15 healthy individuals.
Pancreatic Cancer
DEVICE: Continuous glucose monitors|DEVICE: Activity tracker|BEHAVIORAL: Food Diary|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires
Glycaemic control, Glycaemic control will be assessed by continuous glucose monitors for a 7-day period with activity trackers and food diaries used to further assess this control. The continuous glucose monitors takes readings every 5 minutes these readings will be averaged and area under the curve will be calculated., 7 day period|Health inequalities, Health inequalities, including household income, access to green space, main occupation, smoking habits, support system, ethnicity and religion assessed by specific questions and DipCare-Q questionnaires completed. Analyses determining the impact of inequalities on glyceamic control will be completed., 7 day period
The pancreas has two key functions related to digestion and metabolism. The first function of the pancreas is to produce exocrine enzymes which are released into the small intestine to help with the digestion of food. The second function is to produce endocrine hormones, such as insulin and glucagon, which help regulate glycaemic control. Impaired glucose metabolism and pancreatic cancer is temporally and pathogenically linked, with pancreatic tumours altering the secretion of key glucose regulatory hormones. Improved glucose regulation and lower glucose concentrations 3 months post-diagnosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, a type of pancreatic cancer, has shown to increase overall survival.

The aim of this study is to continuously monitor blood glucose concentrations for a 7-day period in pancreatic cancer patients whilst undergoing their typical daily routines and to compare this to age matched healthy individuals. The comparison between healthy individuals and pancreatic cancer patients will investigate the severity of the difference between healthy glycaemic control and glycaemic control in those with pancreatic cancer. The comparison between pancreatic cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy and those not undergoing chemotherapy will help investigate the impact of chemotherapy on glycaemic control. This will help provide evidence as to what impact pancreatic cancer has on glycaemic control, whether continuous glucose monitors might be useful to regulate symptoms in patients, as a baseline to tailor an exercise intervention to regulate blood glucose concentrations and to investigate whether health inequalities impact glycaemic control.

The investigators plan to carry out the study on a small subset of patients, 30 with pancreatic cancer (15 undergoing chemotherapy and 15 not undergoing chemotherapy) and 15 healthy individuals.