ADT and SBRT vs SBRT Alone for Unfavorable Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer
For this study, unfavorable intermediate risk prostate cancer patients will select whether they are to be treated with the standard of care (SOC) 6 months of Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) in conjunction with stereotactic body radiation therapy/radiosurgery (SBRT) directed to the prostate versus SBRT alone. The patient population will include those with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)-defined unfavorable intermediate risk disease. All patients will be followed every 6 months for up to 5 years from the first patient treated and will undergo a routine 24-30 months post-SBRT prostate biopsy to assess for local tumor control.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Leuprolide, Degarelix or Relugolix|RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiation therapy/radiosurgery (SBRT)
Disease-Free Survival, Defined as the percentage of participants who survive without any signs or symptoms of prostate cancer., Up to Year 5
Incidence of Biochemical Failure, Biochemical failure recurrence will be determined according to the established Phoenix criteria of 2 ng/nl elevation of the prostate specific antigen (PSA) nadir level (nadir + 2 definition)., Up to Year 5|Incidence of Distant Metastases, Number of distant metastases observed over the course of the study., Up to Year 5|Overall Survival, Defined as the length of time from the date of first treatment until death., Up to Year 5|Number of Positive Post-Treatment Biopsies, Year 2 Post-Treatment (Month 24-30)|Change in Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) Questionnaire Score (EPIC-26), 26-item assessment of prostate cancer symptoms. Late bowel function as reported by the patient using the standardized questionnaire Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) sub-domain approximately 1 year after the end of treatment. The EPIC questionnaire contains 26 questions measuring patient function. Each question has a response option ranging from 0 or 1 (best) to 3, 4, or 5 (worst). The responses then correlate to a scoring scale of 0 to 100, where 0 is the best and 100 is the worst. The values vary from 0 to 100 for each question. The scores are averaged to derive a quality of life score, ranging from 0-100., Baseline, Year 2|Change in International Prostatism Symptom Score (IPSS), 7-item questionnaire of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) symptoms. Each item is rated on a scale from 0 (not at all) to 5 (almost always). The total score is the sum of responses and ranges from 0 to 35; higher scores indicate greater BPH symptomology., Baseline, Year 2|Change in 12-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12) Score, The SF-12 is a 12-item assessment of the impact of health on an individual's everyday life. The total score is the sum of each item and is standardized; the total score ranges from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicated better physical and mental health functioning., Baseline, Year 2
For this study, unfavorable intermediate risk prostate cancer patients will select whether they are to be treated with the standard of care (SOC) 6 months of Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) in conjunction with stereotactic body radiation therapy/radiosurgery (SBRT) directed to the prostate versus SBRT alone. The patient population will include those with National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)-defined unfavorable intermediate risk disease. All patients will be followed every 6 months for up to 5 years from the first patient treated and will undergo a routine 24-30 months post-SBRT prostate biopsy to assess for local tumor control.