Myeloma-Developing Regimens Using Genomics (MyDRUG)
The MyDRUG study is a type of Precision Medicine trial to treat patients with drugs targeted to affect specific genes that are mutated as part of the disease. Mutations in genes can lead to uncontrolled cell growth and cancer. Patients with a greater than 25% mutation to any of the following genes; CDKN2C, FGFR3, KRAS, NRAS, BRAF V600E, IDH2 or T(11;14) can be enrolled to one of the treatment arms. These arms have treatments specifically directed to the mutated genes. Patients that do not have a greater than 25% mutation to the genes listed can be enrolled to a non-actionable treatment arm.

The genetic sequencing of the patient's tumor is required via enrollment to the MMRF002 study: Clinical-grade Molecular Profiling of Patients with Multiple Myeloma and Related Plasma Cell Malignancies. (NCT02884102).
Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Abemaciclib, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide|DRUG: Enasidenib, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide|DRUG: Cobimetinib, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide|DRUG: Erdafitinib, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide|DRUG: Venetoclax, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide|DRUG: Daratumumab, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide|DRUG: Belantamab mafodotin, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide|DRUG: Selinexor, dexamethasone, ixazomib, pomalidomide
Overall Response Rate - Actionable Genetic Alteration, • To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) with targeted agents used in combination with backbone regimen ixazomib, pomalidomide and dexamethasone (IPd) in patients with an actionable genetic alteration per the International Myeloma Working Group \[IMWG\] consensus criteria (Kumar et al, 2016), Patients will be evaluated monthly for response from the start of the study until the date of documented disease progression, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Response Rate - Non-Actionable Genetic Alteration, • To evaluate the ORR with agents used in combination with backbone (or IPd) regimen in patients with no actionable genetic alteration per IMWG consensus criteria (Kumar et al, 2016)., Patients will be evaluated monthly for response from the start of the study until the date of documented disease progression, assessed up to 2 years
The study will enroll 228 patients enrolled to one of eight treatment arms. The study is open to patients relapsing with relapsed refractory multiple myeloma, who have

* received at least one prior but no more than 3 prior therapies
* exposed to both a PI and an IMiD
* had early relapse after initial treatment. Relapse is defined as the IMWG uniform response criteria (Kumar et al, 2016). Early relapse as defined by at least one of the following:

  1. Relapse within 3 years post autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) on maintenance, or 18 months if unmaintained
  2. Relapse within 18 months of initial non-ASCT based therapy