Selinexor in Myelofibrosis Refractory or Intolerant to JAK1/2 Inhibitors
This is a phase II, open label, prospective, single-arm study evaluating the efficacy and safety of selinexor in patients with PMF or secondary MF (PPV-MF or PET-MF) who are refractory or intolerant to ruxolitinib and/or any other experimental JAK1/2 inhibitors.
Primary Myelofibrosis|Post-essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis|Post-polycythemia Vera Myelofibrosis
DRUG: Selinexor
Count of Participants With Reduction in Spleen Volume, To assess the efficacy of selinexor on spleen volume reduction in subjects with myelofibrosis (PMF, PET-MF, or PPV-MF) refractory or intolerant to ruxolitinib and/or any other experimental JAK1/2 inhibitors.

This outcome will report the number of subjects with ≥ 35% reduction in spleen volume as measured by MRI or CT abdomen from baseline to after six cycles of treatment or end of treatment. Patients who did not complete six cycles of treatment received an MRI at discontinuation of therapy. Patients who died prior to completing six cycles of treatment or a follow-up scan were considered non-responders., Up to 5.5 months
Adverse Events That Occur, To assess the safety/tolerability and further characterize the safety profile of selinexor in PMF, PET-MF, or PPV-MF patients refractory or intolerant to ruxolitinib and/or any other experimental JAK1/2 inhibitors.

Secondary Endpoints: rate of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs)., Up to 24 months|Percent Change of Spleen Volume, To further assess the efficacy and clinical activity of selinexor (by means of overall response) in subjects with myelofibrosis (PMF, PET-MF, or PPV-MF) refractory or intolerant to ruxolitinib and/or any other experimental JAK1/2 inhibitors.

This outcome will report the mean percent change of spleen volume as measured by MRI or CT abdomen from baseline to after six cycles of treatment or end of treatment. Patients who did not complete six cycles of treatment received an MRI at discontinuation of therapy. Patients who died prior to completing six cycles of treatment or a follow-up scan were not included in this endpoint.

The mean and standard will be reported for the change in spleen volume., Up to 5.5 months|Change in Symptoms Score, To further assess the efficacy and clinical activity of selinexor (by means of reduction in symptoms) in subjects with myelofibrosis (PMF, PET-MF, or PPV-MF) refractory or intolerant to ruxolitinib and/or any other experimental JAK1/2 inhibitors.

This outcome reports the count of patients with ≥ 50% reduction of total symptoms scores as measured by the Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form (MPN-SAF) from baseline after 6 cycles of treatment. Patients who did not complete 6 cycles of treatment will receive the MPN-SAF assessment at discontinuation of therapy.

The MPN-SAF is a symptom assessment completed by the patients including fatigue, concentration, early satiety, inactivity, night sweats, itching, bone pain, abdominal discomfort, weight loss, and fevers. Scoring is from 0 (absent/as good as it can be) to 10 (worst imaginable/as bad as it can be) for each item. The MPN-SAF TSS is the sum of all the individual scores (0-100 scale)., Up to 5.5 months|Overall Response, To further assess the efficacy and clinical activity of selinexor (by means of overall response) in subjects with myelofibrosis (PMF, PET-MF, or PPV-MF) refractory or intolerant to ruxolitinib and/or any other experimental JAK1/2 inhibitors.

Overall response according to the 2013 International Working Group-Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) consensus criteria for treatment response in primary and secondary MF (post-PV and post-ET). The IWG-MRT response categories are CR (Complete Response), PR (Partial Response), CI (Clinical Improvement), Anemia Response, Spleen Response, Symptoms Response, Progressive Disease, Stable Disease, Relapse., Up to 24 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival at 24 months from the initiation of study therapy., Up to 24 months
This is a phase II, open label, prospective, single-arm study evaluating the efficacy and safety of selinexor in patients with PMF or secondary MF (PPV-MF or PET-MF) who are refractory or intolerant to ruxolitinib and/or any other experimental JAK1/2 inhibitors.