Open Pilot Trial of a Mind-Body Sexual Well-Being Intervention for Female GI Cancer Survivors
The primary goal of this protocol is to conduct an open pilot to collect initial quantitative and qualitative feedback on the intervention that the investigators are developing. To do so, the investigators will deliver a newly-developed intervention to up to 2 consecutive groups of female colorectal and anal cancer survivors (n = up to 10 per group, total N = up to 20). Participants will provide feedback regarding intervention acceptability, feasibility, and perceived benefit.

To inform plans for ongoing program refinement, the investigators will elicit specific feedback about study assessment tools, recruitment procedures, and group factors. Given the early-stage, open pilot nature of this protocol, the investigators will not set strict criteria to establish feasibility and acceptability but will rather interpret each of these outcomes holistically. Qualitative feedback collected in post-intervention exit interviews will also support understanding of feasibility and acceptability.

As a secondary aim, the investigators will explore the preliminary effects of the intervention on psychosocial measures of satisfaction with sexuality and impact of functional limitations, coping abilities, acceptance of body image changes, loneliness, and anticipated stigma. As noted above, the investigators will not set specific criteria to establish preliminary efficacy, nor will they consider statistical significance as an indicator of the study's efficacy for these outcomes. Instead, the investigators will consider pre-post intervention effect sizes to consider the need for refinement of study procedures/measurement in a future larger trial.

In future, larger-scale, work, the investigators intend to conduct a larger randomized pilot trial to assess intervention acceptability, feasibility, as well as preliminary efficacy on essential outcomes related to sexual well-being.
Colorectal Cancer|Anal Cancer|Sexual Dysfunction
BEHAVIORAL: Mind-Body Group Intervention
Feasibility of Intervention, The primary feasibility metric will be program engagement, quantified as participant rates of intervention attendance (% attending at least 4 of 6 sessions). Given the preliminary, open pilot nature of this protocol, the investigators will not set a priori criteria to establish feasibility but will rather use these data to inform ongoing protocol refinement., Approximately 6 weeks after the final 6-week (up to N=2 groups) group program begins|Acceptability of Intervention, The primary intervention acceptability metric will be participant ratings of overall comfort with the group program (% rating satisfaction =\>4 on a 1-5 Likert scale). Given the preliminary, open pilot nature of this protocol, the investigators will not set a priori criteria to establish acceptability but will rather use these data to inform ongoing protocol refinement., Approximately 6 weeks following group program start
This is an open pilot trial to gather initial data regarding feasibility, acceptability, and perceived impact of a 6-session mind-body group intervention that the investigators are developing to enhance sexual well-being among post-treatment female colorectal and anal cancer survivors.

The investigators will enroll up to 10 women per group into up to 2 groups (total N = up to 20). The team will run groups consecutively so that any necessary changes from the first open pilot group may be incorporated and re-examined in the second.

Participants will complete informed consent prior to initiation of study procedures. To inform ongoing intervention refinement, the investigators will ask participants to complete approximately 15-minute survey batteries via REDCap at baseline and after the 6-session program, including assessments of intervention feasibility and acceptability as well as psychosocial outcomes. Participants will also be invited to complete a brief qualitative exit interview with a member of the study team, regarding perceived benefit of the intervention as well as and strengths and weaknesses of program content and delivery format to inform ongoing intervention refinement.