Canagliflozin With Gemcitabine in Pancreatic Carcinoma
Gemcitabine-based chemotherapy or combination with FOLFIRINOX is the leading treatment of pancreatic cancer. However, the overall response rate of pancreatic cancer to gemcitabine is less than 20%. Resistance to gemcitabine is the most important reason. There is an urgent need to develop new combination therapies to improve the efficiency of chemotherapy, avoid toxicity limitations, and improve the overall prognosis of pancreatic cancer. At present, it has been found that canagliflozin can reduce the expression level of PD-L1 in pancreatic cancer and restore the vitality of CD8+ T cells. Canagliflozin combined with gemcitabine may improve the efficiency of chemotherapy.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Canagliflozin and Gemcitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Evaluation the clinical complete response (CR) at 6 weeks intervals, The tumor lesion in our patient completely resolved and lasted for ≥4 weeks, and no new lesion appeared, 18 weeks|Evaluation the clinical partial response (PR) at 6 weeks intervals, the overall reduction in the longest diameter of the tumor focus is \> 50% and it can be maintained for at least 4 weeks, with no new focus emerging, 18 weeks|Evaluation the clinical stable disease (SD) at 6 weeks intervals, the overall reduction or increase of the longest diameter of the tumor lesion is \< 50% or \< 25%, and the duration is \> 4 weeks; no new lesion appears, 18 weeks|Evaluation the clinical disease progression (PD) at 6 weeks intervals, the combined increase in the longest diameter of the tumor lesion is ≥25%, or a new lesion appears, 18 weeks
Gemcitabine-based chemotherapy or combination with FOLFIRINOX is the leading treatment of pancreatic cancer. However, the overall response rate of pancreatic cancer to gemcitabine is less than 20%. Resistance to gemcitabine is the most important reason. There is an urgent need to develop new combination therapies to improve the efficiency of chemotherapy, avoid toxicity limitations, and improve the overall prognosis of pancreatic cancer. At present, it has been found that canagliflozin can reduce the expression level of PD-L1 in pancreatic cancer and restore the vitality of CD8+ T cells. Canagliflozin combined with gemcitabine may improve the efficiency of chemotherapy.