Combination Chemotherapy Followed by Radiation Therapy in Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase III trial is studying how well combination chemotherapy works when given before radiation therapy and/or additional chemotherapy in treating young patients with newly diagnosed Hodgkin's lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill cancer cells. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) and giving them together with radiation therapy may kill more cancer cells.
Childhood Favorable Prognosis Hodgkin Lymphoma|Childhood Lymphocyte Depletion Hodgkin Lymphoma|Childhood Mixed Cellularity Hodgkin Lymphoma|Childhood Nodular Sclerosis Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage I Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage II Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma
RADIATION: radiation therapy|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: ifosfamide|DRUG: vinorelbine tartrate|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: etoposide phosphate|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: cytarabine|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim
Event Free Survival Without Receiving Radiation Therapy (EFSnoRT)., Survival is defined as the minimum time from study entry to requirement for additional chemotherapy and IFRT for retrieval, occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm, or death from any cause. Patients without report of such events where censored at last contact. Patients who achieve less than CR after 3 cycles of AV-PC will require IFRT and hence will satisfy this definition at the time of response evaluation. Patients who achieve a CR but who relapse will receive addition chemotherapy and IFRT or intense retrieval and hence will satisfy this definition at the time of the first relapse of Hodgkin disease. This endpoint will be used to compute event free survival without receiving radiation therapy (EFSnoRT)., At 60 months|Intensive Therapy Free Survival (ITFS)., Survival is defined as the minimum time from study entry to a relapse of higher risk at any time, any relapse following treatment with protocol mandated IFRT, death from any cause, or the occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm. This will be used to compute intensive therapy free survival (ITFS). Patients without report of such events where censored at last contact. This differs from traditional EFS in that relapse after AVPC\* x3 therapy alone that does not place the patient in a higher risk category is not considered a treatment failure. In this definition, higher-risk relapse refers to relapse involving sites and extent of disease that place the patient in the current COG definition of intermediate or high-risk disease. If a patient with CR who experiences a LR relapse is not retreated with protocol-mandated chemotherapy and IFRT, subsequent disease relapses will nevertheless be counted in the analysis of the treatment strategy., At 60 months|Event Free Survival (EFS), Survival is defined as the minimum time from study entry to a relapse of any kind, death from any cause, or occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm. Patients without report of such events where censored at last contact. This will be used to compute event free survival (EFS)., At 60 months
Overall Survival, Survival is defined as time from study entry to death due to any cause. Patients alive at last contact where censored at last contact., At 60 months
OBJECTIVES:

I. Investigate the paradigm of response-based therapy for low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma by eliminating involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT) in patients who achieve a complete remission (CR) after initial chemotherapy.

II. Investigate whether 3 courses of doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide (AV-PC) for the treatment of low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma is sufficient to induce CR in at least 80% of patients.

III. Investigate whether patients who experience a low-risk relapse after initial treatment with chemotherapy alone can be successfully treated with a salvage regimen comprising ifosfamide and vinorelbine ditartrate with dexamethasone, etoposide phosphate, cisplatin, and cytarabine (IV/DECA) and IFRT.

IV. Maintain the overall survival for patients with low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma at or above 97%.

V. Determine the prognostic significance of very early response as measured by fludeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) or gallium after the first course of chemotherapy.

VI. Evaluate the prognostic significance of elevation of erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein at the time of diagnosis in patients with low-risk Hodgkin's lymphoma on CR rate and relapse rate after chemotherapy alone.

VII. Determine the frequency and severity of late effects of therapy, including thyroid dysfunction, infertility, cardiotoxicity, and second malignant neoplasms.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

INITIAL CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 10-30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-2, vincristine IV on days 1 and 8, prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-7, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 3-7 and 9-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients achieving complete remission (CR) proceed to observation. Patients achieving partial remission proceed to radiotherapy. Patients who have a low-risk relapse after achieving CR on initial chemotherapy proceed to salvage chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy. Patients who have stable disease or disease progression go off study.

SALVAGE CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive ifosfamide IV continuously on days 1-4, vinorelbine ditartrate IV over 6-10 minutes on days 1-5, and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients then receive dexamethasone IV over 15 minutes every 12 hours, etoposide phosphate IV over 3 hours every 12 hours, and cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 1 and 2; cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1; and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients then proceed to radiotherapy.

INVOLVED-FIELD RADIOTHERAPY (IFRT): Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo IFRT once daily, 5 days a week, for 2.8 weeks. Patients who do not achieve CR go off study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.