NeuroPathways Intervention for Brain Tumor Patients
This goal of this study is to test an information and support intervention for patients with malignant (or "high-grade") brain tumors. This study was developed to help patients cope after a brain tumor diagnosis. The main question this study aims to answer is whether this intervention (which includes access to an information guide and one-on-one coaching sessions) is feasible (i.e., possible to carry out) and acceptable (i.e., considered helpful) to patients. Participants will be asked to take part in the coaching sessions, use the guide as desired, and complete a small group of short surveys at three different points in time; some participants will be asked to share feedback via exit interviews.
Malignant Brain Tumor|Glioma|Coping Skills
BEHAVIORAL: Information and Support Intervention|OTHER: Usual supportive care
Feasibility of the Intervention: Percentage of Eligible Patients Who Enroll and Participate in the Intervention, The investigators will assess feasibility by examining the percentage of eligible patients who agree to enroll in the study and the percentage of enrolled patients who participate in all four intervention sessions. The intervention will be deemed feasible if at least 60% of eligible patients enroll in the study and if at least 60% of enrolled patients complete all four sessions., 2 years|Acceptability of the Intervention: Percentage of Participants who Have High Satisfaction with the Intervention, The investigators will assess acceptability via examining the distribution of patient scores for the 8-item Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8). CSQ-8 scores range from 8 to 32, with higher scores indicating higher satisfaction. The intervention will be deemed acceptable if at least 80% of patients score at least 20 points on the CSQ-8., 2 years
Exploratory: Perceived Cognitive Function, The investigators will explore the effect of NeuroPathways on perceived cognitive function using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog) between study arms in the pilot RCT phase of this study. The FACT-Cog is a 37-item measure of perceived cognitive impairment in cancer patients with scores from 0-148 and higher scores representing higher perceived cognitive functioning., 2 years|Exploratory: Distress (Depression and Anxiety Symptoms), The investigators will explore the effect of NeuroPathways on distress using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) between study arms in the pilot RCT phase of this study. The HADS is a 14-item questionnaire that contains two 7-item subscales assessing depression and anxiety symptoms during the past week. Used extensively in samples of patients with cancer and their caregivers, the questionnaire consists of a four-point item response format that quantifies the degree to which participants experience mood symptoms. Scores on each subscale range from 0 to 21, with higher scores indicating higher symptom burden, and a cutoff of 8 or greater denoting clinically significant anxiety or depression., 2 years|Exploratory: Self-Efficacy, The investigators will explore the effect of NeuroPathways on self-efficacy using the Lewis Cancer Self-Efficacy Scale (CASE) between study arms in the pilot RCT phase of this study. The CASE is a 17-item questionnaire with a score range of 0-170. Higher scores reflect higher confidence in managing the impact of one's illness., 2 years|Exploratory: Loneliness, The investigators will explore the effect of NeuroPathways on loneliness using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Social Isolation between study arms in the pilot RCT phase of this study. The PROMIS - Social Isolation is a 8-item questionnaire, scored from 4-20, that is used to evaluate feelings of loneliness and social isolation. Higher scores indicate greater feelings of loneliness and social isolation., 2 years|Exploratory: Coping, The investigators will explore the effect of NeuroPathways on coping using the Brief Coping Orientation to Problems Experienced (Brief-COPE). The Brief-COPE is a 28-item self-report measure assessing a variety of coping styles with scores ranging from 28-112 and higher scores indicating greater coping ability., 2 years
This study will be a prospective pilot randomized controlled trial to examine the feasibility and acceptability of a novel, population-specific intervention designed to help patients with recently-diagnosed malignant brain tumors process and cope with their illness.

The specific aims are to 1) refine the NeuroPathways intervention based on feedback from an open pilot study (n=up to 10) with exit interviews, 2) evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of NeuroPathways in a pilot randomized controlled trial (n=40), and 3) explore preliminary effects of the intervention on psychological, behavioral, and cognitive outcomes.