Improving Cognitive Function in Older Adults Undergoing Stem Cell Transplant
Cancer and treatment-related cognitive changes, such as thinking or remembering, hinder resumption of normal routine and roles and worsen quality of life. Older adults undergoing hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) are at high-risk for cognitive impairment. Age is a risk factor for Alzheimer's Dementia (AD) and the hematological malignancies leading to HCT. There are shared mechanisms and interactions between AD and cancer-related cognitive decline (CRCD). Physical activity improves cognitive function in older adults and survivors of other cancers. This study hypothesizes that increasing physical activity can also improve cognitive function in this vulnerable population.

The study has two goals. The first is to adapt and test an evidence-based physical activity intervention, The Community Health Activities Model Program for Seniors II (CHAMPS II), in the HCT setting for adults 55 years and older. This will be done using semi-structured interview of up to 10 patients who have experienced the HCT process within the last 3 to 6 months with HCT care-team partners.

The second goal will explore the prevalence and impact of AD-neuropathology and inflammation on cancer-related cognitive decline (CRCD) in older adults undergoing HCT.
Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma|Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS)|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: CHAMPS-II adapted to adults 60+ years in HCT setting
Change in executive function as measured by Trails A., Change in raw scores and z-scores, determined by the following neuropsychological test: Trail Making Test Part A (Trails A). Time to complete and number of errors are measured, where less time and errors are better outcomes., 12 weeks|Change in executive function as measured by Trails B., Change in raw scores and z-scores, determined by the following neuropsychological tests: Trail Making Test Part B (Trails B). Time to complete and number of errors are measured, where less time and errors are better outcomes., 12 weeks|Change in executive function as measured by the Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT)., Change in raw scores and z-scores, determined by the following neuropsychological test: Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT). Minimum score is zero and maximum is unlimited; higher score means better outcome., 12 weeks|Change in working memory as measured by the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R)., Change in raw scores and z-scores, determined by the following neuropsychological test: Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R). There are 3 learning trials and 1 delayed recall trial. Minimum score for each is zero and maximum is 12; higher score means better outcome. There is also a delayed recognition trial where person is presented with both true positives and false positives. Minimum score for both is zero and maximum is 12. For the true positives a higher score means better outcome. For the false positives a lower score means better outcome., 12 weeks
Change in global cognitive function as measured by the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)., Change in total score, determined by objective measures of global cognitive function using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). Minimum score is zero and maximum is 30; higher score means better outcome., 12 weeks|Change in subjective memory as measured by the Neuro-Quality of Life (QOL) Cognition Function-Short Form., Change in total score, determined by patient questionnaire: Neuro-Quality of Life (QOL) Cognition Function-Short Form. Minimum score is 8 and maximum score is 40; higher score means better outcome., 12 weeks
Change in functional ability as measured by the Short Performance Physical Battery (SPPB)., Change in total score, determined by objective measures of balance, gait speed and endurance with the Short Performance Physical Battery (SPPB). Minimum score is zero, maximum is 12; higher score means better outcome., 12 weeks|Change in endurance as measured by the 6-minute walk., Change in distance measured in meters, determined by a 6-minute walk. More distance in meters is better outcome., 12 weeks|Change in performance of instrumental activities of daily living as measured by the Lawton Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL)., Change in total score, determined by a self-report questionnaire: Lawton Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (Lawton IADL). Minimum score is zero, maximum is 8; higher score means better outcome., 12 weeks|Change in physical activity as measured by the Community Healthy Activities Model Program for Seniors II (CHAMPS-II) questionnaire., Change in total score of light and moderate physical activity as measured by a self-report questionnaire (CHAMPS-II questionnaire). Frequency and duration of various intensity activities and their caloric expenditure per week are all scored. No activity, duration or calories expended would be minimum score, and unlimited would be the maximum; where more frequency, duration and calories expended would be a better outcome., 12 weeks|Change in physical activity as measured by the activPAL4 accelerometer data., Change in time spent in upright postural allocation as measured by an accelerometer (activPAL4). Increased time in upright postural allocation is better outcome., 12 weeks
Hematologic malignancies are diseases that primarily affect older adults, with a median age at diagnosis of 65 years. Hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is a potentially curative and life-prolonging treatment for patients with hematologic malignancies. Cancer and treatment-related cognitive changes cause distress, hinder resumption of normal routine and roles, and worsen quality of life. HCT differs from the delivery of chemotherapy in other cancer settings due to the intensity of chemotherapy and severity of toxicity. Older adults undergoing HCT are at high risk for cognitive decline and pervasive cognitive deficits. Interventions to improve cognitive outcomes are needed. The prevalence and risk of cognitive decline post-HCT are greater for older adults because of a greater number of existing health conditions (i.e., vascular disease) and impaired physical and psychologic function pre-HCT that can be exacerbated by treatment and the overall HCT experience.

Exercise training improves cancer-related health outcomes, including cardiorespiratory fitness, inflammation, cancer related fatigue, depressive symptoms, and sleep disturbance. There is consistent evidence showing that physical activity improves cognitive function in older adults and survivors of other cancers. Improvement in cardiorespiratory fitness, brain structure, and inflammation underlie the mechanisms of the cognitive benefits of physical activity. While untested in older adults undergoing HCT, the investigator hypothesizes that increasing physical activity can also improve cognitive function in this vulnerable population.

Physical activity improves the cognitive domains most affected by cancer treatment, namely executive function and working memory. Cognitive function is an important outcome to older adults and has not been a focus of physical activity interventions in the HCT population. In addition, older adults are underrepresented in previous physical activity interventions in the HCT population.

Investigators will adapt CHAMPS II, an evidence-based physical activity intervention, to the HCT setting for older adults to improve cognitive function. This is an individually tailored program that provides information, skills, training, and problem-solving support to older adults. The program provides a foundation for application by including an instructor manual and directions for implementation. CHAMPS-II has been adapted and implemented in diverse communities using existing resources and improving contextual factors to increase physical activity for sedentary older adults.

Adaptation of evidence-based interventions, such as CHAMPS-II, can result in an attenuation of effects if the core components are not maintained. However, adaptations can be made to fit the needs and priorities of the service setting, target audience, mode of delivery, and cultural context without compromising CHAMPS-II effectiveness. Through a research-practice partnership approach, investigators will help adapt the program while maintaining the core components of CHAMPS-II, develop new program materials, provide training, monitor implementation, and conduct program evaluation. The overarching goal is to enable HCT team members to implement CHAMPS-II and leverage existing organizational resources to enhance feasibility and sustainability.

The research plan proposes a hybrid effectiveness-implementation design, which is a design that spans the effectiveness and implementation research to accelerate the translation of physical activity interventions into practice for older adults with cancer. This novel trial design will allow testing of the program within a randomized clinical trial methodology while observing and gathering information on implementation. The effectiveness study condition offers an ideal opportunity to examine implementation issues and plan for implementation strategies for a future study that examines both effectiveness and implementation strategies. The study will use the RE-AIM (Reach, Effectiveness - Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance) framework for planning and formative and process evaluation of the intervention. Formative and process evaluation provides information needed to evaluate an intervention's potential for translation into clinical practice.

Investigators aim to understand the prevalence and impact of AD-neuropathology and inflammation on cognitive function and structural brain changes in older adults undergoing HCT. Quantifiable AD-related neuropathology can accumulate silently for decades with no clinical symptoms. Some will have no AD pathology, some will have "silent" AD pathology, and some will have clinically relevant levels of AD pathology. Brain volumes is also a measure of cognitive reserve with many factors that could impact brain volumes including aging, AD, other degenerative diseases, untreated obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), chronic stress, and ethyl alcohol or ethanol abuse (ETOH). Some patients with low brain volumes may have negative AD biomarkers. However, brain volumes may be a good predictor of CRCD. Investigators expect to gain an understanding of the prevalence of between-subject variability in the quantity of AD neuropathology and differences in brain volume. The results of this research will lay the groundwork for future funding opportunities to elucidate the bidirectional mechanisms, prevention and treatment of AD and CRCD in this population.