Phase II Study Assessing the Efficacy and Safety of Lenvatinib for Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
The purpose of this phase Ⅱ study is to assess the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib for anaplastic thyroid cancer patients who are diagnosed as unresectable. The total duration of the study will be 30 months. All patients will start administration of lenvatinib within 1 week of enrollment and receive the study drug 24mg orally once daily at almost the same time. 1 cycle consists of 4 weeks. Treatment term starts on the day 1st of drug administration of cycle 1 and administration will be continued until patients meet withdrawal criteria. Safety and efficacy assesment will be conducted on a regular basis during the trial. Tumor evaluation will be conducted at 4weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks and at every 8 weeks after the 16th week since initial administration. When study drug administration terminated,tests of the drug termination will be conducted within 7 days of withdrawal and final observation will be conducted at 30 days after the last dose. Survival survey will be conducted at follow-up term. After the termination of the study drug, survival follow up survey will be conducted every 12 weeks unless patients withdraw enrollment of this study.
Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time frame from date of initial dose until date of death from any cause. Or until the last confirmed survival date, study cut-off date which ever comes first., up to 30 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as time frame from date of initial dose until the date of first confirmed disease progression, until date of death from any cause or the last tumor evaluating date whichever comes first., up to 30 months|Best Overall Response (BOR), BOR is defined as the best total efficacy record during the date of initial dose to the date of study completion, by which evaluated with following index. Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD is defined as ≧3 weeks),Pharmacodynamics/Progressive Disease (PD) or Not Evaluable (NE)., up to 30 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the ratio of patients who are evaluated as CR or PR in Best Overall Response (BOR)., up to 30 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the ratio of patients who are evaluated as CR, PR or SD in Best Overall Response (BOR)., up to 30 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as the ratio of patients who are evaluated as CR, PR or durable SD (dSD is defined as ≧11 weeks SD) in Best Overall Response (BOR)., up to 30 months|Safety assessment on the incidence ratio of adverse events, Safety assessment will be assessed by the ratio of adverse event, up to 30 months
The purpose of this phase Ⅱ study is to assess the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib for anaplastic thyroid cancer patients who are diagnosed as unresectable. The total duration of the study will be 30 months. All patients will start administration of lenvatinib within 1 week of enrollment and receive the study drug 24mg orally once daily at almost the same time. 1 cycle consists of 4 weeks. Treatment term starts on the day 1st of drug administration of cycle 1 and administration will be continued until patients meet withdrawal criteria. Safety and efficacy assesment will be conducted on a regular basis during the trial. Tumor evaluation will be conducted at 4weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks and at every 8 weeks after the 16th week since initial administration. When study drug administration terminated,tests of the drug termination will be conducted within 7 days of withdrawal and final observation will be conducted at 30 days after the last dose. Survival survey will be conducted at follow-up term. After the termination of the study drug, survival follow up survey will be conducted every 12 weeks unless patients withdraw enrollment of this study.