Ibrutinib lead-in Followed by Venetoclax Plus Ibrutinib in Patients With RR CLL
Venetoclax and ibrutinib have complementary activity in clearing the disease across anatomical compartments. By combining ibrutinib with venetoclax, cells can be mobilized from tissues into the bloodstream by ibrutinib and killed in the blood by venetoclax. Consistently, the venetoclax-ibrutinib combination can achieve undetectable minimal residual disease (MRD-neg) in a sizable proportion of patients. Gentle debulking obtained with a lead-in phase of ibrutinib monotherapy may allow starting venetoclax when the disease has been reshaped in a size that fits for low-risk of tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), a rare adverse event (AE) of venetoclax. MRD-guided treatment duration may allow patients achieving a negative status to gain drug-free intervals and less medicalization, and may avoid all the potential, and not yet completely known implications of continuous therapy on long-term safety, drug interactions, quality of life, compliance to treatment, and economic sustainability.
Relapsed/Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Leukemia
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Venetoclax
MRD-neg CR/CRi at end of cycle 30, The MRD-neg (Undetectable Minimal residual disease) Complete remission/Complete remission with incomplete marrow recovery CR/CRi rate is defined as the proportion of patients having achieved:

* CR/CRi, according to the iwCLL (International workshop on chronic lymphocytic leukemia) guidelines (2018), and
* MRD-neg in bone marrow BM, measured by flow cytometry with a quantitative lower limit of at least \< 10-4. MRD status will be considered as negative if the proportion of malignant cells is \< 10-4.

Patients without any response or MRD BM assessment at end of cycle 30 (+/- 14 days) will be counted as non-responders (failures for the primary endpoint)., after 840 days (1 cycle = 28 days)
ORR at end of cycle 30, The ORR (Overall response rate) is defined as the proportion of patients having achieved a CR/CRi or PR according to the iwCLL guidelines (2018) and will be evaluated at end of cycle 30 (+/- 14 days). Patients without any response assessment at end of cycle 30 (+/- 14 days) will be counted as non-responders., after 840 days (1 cycle = 28 days)|CR/CRi rate at end of cycle 30, The CR/CRi rate (Complete remission/Complete remission with incomplete marrow recovery) is defined as the proportion of patients having achieved a CR/CRi according to the iwCLL guidelines (2018) and will be evaluated at end of cycle 30 (+/- 14 days). Patients without any response assessment at end of cycle 30 (+/- 14 days) will be counted as non-responders., after 840 days (1 cycle = 28 days)|CR/CRi rate based on best response, The CR/CRi rate based on best response is defined as the proportion of patients having achieved a CR/CRi according to the iwCLL guidelines (2018) as best response during trial therapy including maintenance. Patients without any post-baseline response assessment will be counted as non-responders., Day 1 of cycle 7, 13, 19, 25 and 31 (1 cycle = 28 days)|MRD-neg rate, The MRD-neg rate is defined as the proportion of patients having achieved MRD-neg at any time during trial therapy including maintenance. Patients without any post-baseline MRD assessment will be counted as MRD positive patients. As MRD status will be assessed from PB or BM, both PB MRD-neg rate and BM MRD-neg rate will be calculated., Day 1 of cycle 7, 13, 19, 25 and 31 (1 cycle = 28 days)|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from registration until progression according the iwCLL criteria or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Patients not having an event at the time of analysis as well as patients starting a new antileukemic therapy in the absence of an event will be censored at the date of their last tumor assessment showing nonprogression before starting a new anti-leukemic treatment, if any., Day 169, 337, 505, 673, 841, yearly up to five years, end of trial treatment plus unscheduled (if progression is suspected)
Background:

The standard of care for treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (RR CLL) has substantially changed. Current standard for patients with a relapse later than 3 years from first-line therapy is a repetition with the first-line regimen used. This poses the risk of significant immunosuppression and infectious complications as well as a shorter event-free survival as expected for first-line treatment. Current standard for patients with refractory disease, early relapse or emerging TP53 defective clones, is a targeted treatment with ibrutinib, idelalisib + rituximab or venetoclax as continuous therapy until progression or toxicity.

Rationale:

Venetoclax and ibrutinib are both oral drugs whose tolerability when used in combination is not inferior to single agents. Venetoclax and ibrutinib have complementary activity in clearing the disease across anatomical compartments. Ibrutinib is more active in lymph nodes rather than blood where a small lymphocytosis might persist despite continuous treatment. Conversely, venetoclax appears to be more active in blood and bone marrow (BM) rather than lymph nodes. By combining ibrutinib with venetoclax, cells can be mobilized from tissues into the bloodstream by ibrutinib and killed in the blood by venetoclax. Consistently, the venetoclax-ibrutinib combination can achieve undetectable minimal residual disease (MRD-neg) in a sizable proportion of patients. Gentle debulking obtained with a lead-in phase of ibrutinib monotherapy may allow starting venetoclax when the disease has been reshaped in a size that fits for low-risk of tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), a rare adverse event (AE) of venetoclax. MRD-guided treatment duration may allow patients achieving a negative status to gain drug-free intervals and less medicalization, and may avoid all the potential, and not yet completely known implications of continuous therapy on long-term safety, drug interactions, quality of life, compliance to treatment, and economic sustainability.

The primary objective of the trial is to assess efficacy after 30 cycles of trial treatment.