Second Line Therapy in Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the therapeutic activity of capecitabine alone or in combination with mitomycin C as second-line therapy in patients with advanced/metastatic biliary adenocarcinoma in progression after gemcitabine and platinum compounds
Biliary Tract Cancer
DRUG: capecitabine and mitomycin|DRUG: Capecitabine
Progression Free Survival (PFS), This is a multi-centre phase II, randomized study. Patients will be stratified based on disease site and stage. For the purpose of the study, PFS-6 rate will be considered the primary outcome measure. The maximum PFS-6 rate of low clinical interest is 15% and the minimum PFS-6 rate of interest is set to 35%. The target enrollment, using a type I error of 5% and a test power of 90%, will be estimated to be 26 patients per treatment arm. The regimen will be considered active if at least 8 out of first 26 evaluable patients are PFS-6., 6 month PFS
Overall Survival (OS), the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause

All patients will be followed for survival every 3 months up to 2 years after the end of treatment, median OS (up to 2 years)
Biliary tract adenocarcinoma is an uncommon tumor with a poor prognosis and a median overall survival (OS) rarely exceeding 6 months. Less than 25% of patients are resectable at diagnosis and, even in this subset of patients, relapse rate is high. An improvement of OS and quality of life for patients receiving chemotherapy versus best supportive care was demonstrated in advanced disease. Recently, cisplatin and gemcitabine combination was identified as the new standard first-line chemotherapy, yielding a median progression free survival (PFS) and median OS of 8.5 and 11.7 months, respectively. Despite the outcome improvement, disease progression is a constant and approximately half of patients failing upfront treatment has a good performance status and are willing to undergo further treatment. No standard salvage chemotherapy regimen has been identified. Clinical trials are difficult to perform due to the rarity and heterogeneity of these tumors and to the lack of interest of the pharmaceutical industry. Fluoropyrimidines and mitomycin C have been considered the basis of palliative chemotherapy for a long time. The investigators decided to explore the activity, in terms of PFS, of capecitabine alone or combined with mitomycin C as second-line therapy in patients with pathological diagnosis of advanced biliary tract cancer and progressive disease after gemcitabine and cisplatin, by means of an open label randomized multicentric phase II trial.