A Stepped Care Intervention to Reduce Disparities in Mental Health Services Among Cancer Patients and Caregivers
Medically under-served (i.e., low-income, uninsured, underinsured) cancer patients generally encounter significant disparities in accessing care for their mental health needs while undergoing toxic treatments that provide considerable physical and emotional stress. Thus, the investigators propose to adapt evidence-based strategies to a stepped-care intervention model to address the mental health needs of under-served lung cancer (LC) and head and neck cancer (HNC) patients and their caregivers across several levels of symptom severity (e.g., mild, moderate, or severe symptoms of depression and anxiety).
Cancer, Lung|Cancer, Head and Neck
BEHAVIORAL: Stepped-Care Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced Usual Care
Symptoms of Depression-Patients, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-Cancer (CA) Form v1.0 - Depression (30 items). The range is from 8 to 40. Higher score indicates worse outcome (higher depression). Raw scores were used in analyses., 6-months|Symptoms of Anxiety-Patients, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System, Anxiety (PROMIS-Ca) Form v1.0- Anxiety (22 items). The range of scores is between 8 and 40. The raw scores were used. Higher score corresponds to worse outcome., 6-months|Change in Coping-Patients, Coping Self-Efficacy (26 items). Scores can rage from 0 to 260. Higher score corresponds to better outcome., 6-months
Change in Coping-Caregivers, Coping Self-Efficacy (26 items). Higher score corresponds to better outcome. Scores can rage from 0 to 260.

The number of caregivers randomized and analyzed was 118 and 131 in the enhanced usual care and intervention groups, respectively., 6-months|Symptoms of Anxiety-Caregivers, PROMIS Form v1.0 - Anxiety (29 items). The range of scores is from 8 to 40. Higher score indicates worse outcome (higher anxiety). Raw scores were used in analyses.

The number of caregivers randomized and analyzed was 118 and 131 in the enhanced usual care and intervention groups, respectively., 6-months|Symptoms of Depression-Caregivers, PROMIS Form v1.0 - Depression (28 items). The range is from 8 to 40. Higher score indicates worse outcome (higher depression). Raw scores were used in analyses.

The number of caregivers randomized and analyzed was 118 and 131 in the enhanced usual care and intervention groups, respectively., 6-months|Health-Related Quality of Life-Patients, FACT-G version 4 (27 items). The range is 0-108. Higher values indicate better QOL., 6-months|Perceived Stress-Patients, Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) (14 items). The range of scores is 0-40. Higher values indicate higher stress., 6-months|Perceived Stress-Caregivers, Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) (14 items). The range is from 0 to 40. Higher values indicate higher stress., 6-months|Caregiving Burden-Caregivers, Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI) (12 items). The range of scores is 0-48. Higher scores represent higher burden., 6-months
Medically under-served (i.e., low-income, uninsured, underinsured) cancer patients generally encounter significant disparities in accessing care for their mental health needs while undergoing toxic treatments that provide considerable physical and emotional stress. Thus, the investigators propose to adapt evidence-based strategies to a stepped-care intervention model to address the mental health needs of under-served lung cancer (LC) and head and neck cancer (HNC) patients and their caregivers across several levels of symptom severity (e.g., mild, moderate, or severe symptoms of depression and anxiety).