Binimetinib and Encorafenib for the Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer in Patients With a Somatic BRAF V600E Mutation
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well the combination of binimetinib and encorafenib work in treating patients with pancreatic cancer with a somatic BRAF V600E mutation. Binimetinib and encorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving binimetinib and encorafenib may work better compared to the usual treatment in treating patients with pancreatic cancer and a somatic BRAF V600E mutation.
Locally Advanced Pancreatic Carcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Carcinoma|Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Binimetinib|DRUG: Encorafenib
Objective Response Rate (ORR) at 24 Weeks, An objective response is defined as a complete or partial response with a confirmation scan not less than 4 weeks after the initial scan. Disease status will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 criteria. The final ORR point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., 24 weeks
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to clinical or radiographic disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median PFS and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., 25 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from registration to death from any cause. OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median overall survival and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., 25 months|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the duration of time from first documentation of an objective response to the earliest date disease progression is documented or death from any cause. Duration of response will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median duration of response and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., 12 months|Time to Response, Time to response is defined as the duration of time from registration to the first documentation of an objective response. Time to response will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median time to response and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., 25 months|Number of Patients With Grade 3+ Adverse Events, Adverse Events as defined by National Institute of Health (NIH) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. All patients who have initiated treatment will be considered evaluable for adverse event analyses. The rate of patients experiencing a grade 3+ adverse event will be reported., 25 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of the combination of binimetinib and encorafenib as \>= 2nd line of treatment for patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer with BRAF V600E mutation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine in patients treated with the combination of binimetinib and encorafenib as \>= 2nd line of treatment for patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer with BRAF V600E mutation:

Ia. The median progression-free survival. Ib. The median overall survival. Ic. Duration of response. Id. Time to response. Ie. The safety and tolerability.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive encorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and binimetinib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-25. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 36 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 5 years.