Feasibility Study Into Adjustment of the Radiation Beam to Account for Prostate Motion During Radiotherapy.
The purpose of this study is to monitor movement of the prostate during radiotherapy and adjust the radiation beam to account for any motion seen. This will increase the radiation dose to the prostate and decrease the dose to the rectum and bladder.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Prostate cancer radiotherapy using real-time tracking
Percentage of fractions being successfully delivered with Calypso-guided tracking., The primary endpoint of this Pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility of implementing realtime adaptive radiotherapy using DMLC. This will be assessed as greater than 95% of fractions being successfully delivered (no equipment failures and tracking MLC follows beacons) with Calypso-guided tracking., 2 years
Improvement in overall beam-target geometric alignment., Geometric alignment will be measured as average difference between beacon centroid and shifted MLC against original MLC., 2 years|Improvement in dosimetric coverage of prostate and normal healthy structures., Dosimetric improvement will be assessed by applying the methods of Poulsen to reconstruct delivered dose distributions for each fraction of patient cohort and summed total dose. Preliminary data demonstrates dose reconstruction to follow the planned dose distribution, potentially even for ultrahypofractionated cases with longer treatment duration and Flattening Filter Free (FFF) delivery with larger potential delivery error per time increment., 2 years|Acute toxicity, Portion of patients with grade 3 or greater genitourinary or gastrointestinal toxicity assessed using the Modified Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) Toxicity Scale., Assessed up to 12 weeks post treatment|Late toxicity, Ongoing reporting of gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicity of the DMLC tracking cohort will be compared to matched pair controls using the modified RTOG scale., Up to five years|Biochemical control, Ongoing biochemical control of the DMLC tracking cohort will be compared to matched pair controls using Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA)., Up to five years
Prostate cancer now accounts for one third of all new cancer diagnoses in men and approximately 30% of men will have external beam radiotherapy as their primary local therapy. Prostate motion during radiotherapy can be divided into interfraction and intrafraction motion. Interfraction motion has been well established and has been largely overcome by daily online image verification with either ultrasound, online CT or implanted fiducial markers, however motion during the radiation beam on time (intrafraction motion) is not corrected and can be the cause of significant errors in radiation dose delivery.

The most common technology utilised in 2012 to allow prostate gating is the Calypso system. The Calypso system consists of implantable electromagnetic transponders, an array that contains source and receiver coils, computers for data analysis and display purposes, and an infrared camera system to localise the electromagnetic array in the treatment room. The array is placed over the patient, and the source coil in the array emit an electromagnetic signal that excites the transponders. Once the transponders are excited, the source coils are turned off and the receiver coils detect the signal emitted from the excited transponders. This process is repeated at a rate of 10 Hz, providing a realtime radiofrequency localisation of the prostate triangulating three implanted beacons. The current study will investigate using the continuous prostate positioning data from Calypso to integrate with the treatment beam delivery and allow real-time adaptation based on the prostate motion. This is called Realtime Dynamic Multileaf Collimator (DMLC) tracking. In this technique the multileaf collimator motion is altered in the gantry head in real time during beam delivery to account for the measured prostate motion.

The proposed study is examining the dosimetric impact of accounting for intrafraction motion with Calypso and DMLC tracking. We hypothesise the improvements in delivered prostate dose with DMLC tracking will be even greater than gating. This improved treatment delivery will ensure that the prostate cancer receives the appropriate dose and that normal tissues are spared from extra radiation.