Pembro and Vorinostat for Patients With Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The main purpose of this study is to see whether the combination of two drugs called pembrolizumab and vorinostat can help people with advanced lung cancer. Researchers also want to find out if the combination of pembrolizumab and vorinostat is safe and tolerable. This study will compare the effects of the combination of two drugs called pembrolizumab and vorinostat with the effects of pembrolizumab alone. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved pembrolizumab for use to treat a deadly skin cancer called melanoma and lung cancer and vorinostat to treat some forms of blood and lymph node cancers.
Lung Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Vorinostat|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Phase I: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) corresponding to a risk of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) occurring in 30% of patients. DLTs will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE v4.03). A DLT will be defined as any Grade 3 or higher toxicity that occurs during the DLT evaluation period. Toxicity that is clearly and directly related to the primary disease or to another etiology is excluded from this definition., Up to 12 months
Phase II: Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per Treatment Arm, PFS will be measured from the start of treatment with pembrolizumab and vorinostat until the documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Progression: One or more of the following must occur: 20% increase in the sum of appropriate diameters of target measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease during therapy) using the same techniques as baseline, as well as an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm. Unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease in the opinion of the treating physician (an explanation must be provided). Appearance of any new lesion/site. Death due to disease without prior documentation of progression and without symptomatic deterioration., Up to 2 years
Phase II: Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Treatment Arm, Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines version 1.1. The ORR will be estimated by calculating the proportion of participants who achieve OR; the 80% confidence interval (CI) and 95% CI for the OR rate will be estimated using the exact binomial distribution. CR: Complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (exception: lymph nodes mentioned below). No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Any lymph nodes (target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. All disease must be assessed using the same technique as baseline. PR: Applies only to patients with at least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of appropriate diameters of all target measurable lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease. No new lesions. All target measurable lesions must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline., Up to 2 years
A Phase I/Randomized Phase II clinical trial of pembrolizumab and vorinostat in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0-1 patients with immune therapy naïve and immune therapy pretreated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC who have progressed through one prior line of therapy.

The begins with a phase I dose escalation utilizing the modified continuous reassessment method (O'Quigley, Pepe, \& Fisher, 1990). This would be followed by a phase I expansion at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in 18 NSCLC patients who have been previously treated with anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 therapy. In parallel, a separate phase II arm will randomize 70 patients to a pembrolizumab alone group and a pembrolizumab plus vorinostat group.