Effect of Different Treatments on the Prognosis of Early Cervical Cancer: A Multicenter, Prospective, Real-world Study
To observe the effects of different treatments on the oncological outcome and complications of early cervical cancer (2018 FIGO stage IA1 with lymphovascular space invasion and IA2-IIA2 cervical cancer). This study prospectively collecting enrolled cervical cancer patients clinical data and outcome from June 2020 to June 2025. (Classification factors: preoperative neoadjuvant treatment , surgical approach, type of hysterectomy, whether to receive radiochemotherapy) . This study is an observational study, and segmented analysis according to different treatment methods.
Cervical Cancer
OTHER: clinical routine treatments
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the period from initial treatment until cervical cancer related death., 60 months from primary treatment|disease-free survival (DFS), Tumor-free survival was defined as the period from initial treatment until the recurrence or the date of last follow-up., 60 months from primary treatment
Patterns of recurrence, date and localization of 1st recurrence as confirmed histologically, 60 months from primary treatment|Costs of treatment, 60 months from primary treatment|Costs of readmission, 60 months from primary treatment|Quality of life Questionnaires, The European O-rganization for Reasearch and Treatment of Cance QLQ-30 Questionnaires to measure quality of life for any kind cancer patient. The Europe Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire Cervical Cancer Module is a supplementary questionnaire for evaluating the quality of life of patients with cervical cancer., 60 months from primary treatment|The morbidity of sexual dysfunction, Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI), 60 months from primary treatment|Intra-operative, peri-operative, post-operative and long term treatment related morbidity, Complications of all the patients, 60 months from primary treatment
Objectives: To observe the effects of different treatments on the oncological outcome and complications of early cervical cancer (2018 FIGO stage IA1 with lymphovascular space invasion and IA2-IIA2 cervical cancer).

Study Design: We obtained the demographic, clinical, treatment hospital and complication data of patients with cervical cancer undergoing radical hysterectomy from 2004 to 2015 at 37 hospitals. The patients were assigned into groups. Classification factors: preoperative neoadjuvant treatment (not received, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, preoperative radiotherapy) , surgical approach (abdomincal, laparoscopic, vaginal, robotic surgery), type of hysterectomy (type B, type C1, type C2), primary treatment (radiochemotherapy or surgery).

laparoscopic and abdominal surgery groups. The differences in the survival, complication rates, quality of life, and cost were analyzed using univariate and multivariable logistic regression models.