Systemic Targeted Adaptive RadioTherapy of NeuroEndocrine Tumors.
There are several ways of personalizing PRRT (peptide receptor radionuclide treatment) in NEN (neuroendocrine neoplasia). Nevertheless, the current treatment regimen is not personalized. This trial aims to compare personalized PRRT to non-personalized PRRT in terms of safety, efficacy and resource demands in order to optimize treatment outcomes in an evidence-based manner in future.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: 177Lu-DOTATOC|DRUG: Capecitabine
Median progression free survival (PFS) defined as time from randomization to radiological progression., Time to progression is evaluated by CT (computed tomography) or MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) after every 16-22 weeks., Before start of treatment (within 4 weeks), then every 10 +/- 2 weeks weeks, at follow up (every 3-6 month (investigators choice) until progression.|Median progression free survival (PFS) defined as time from randomization to radiological progression., Time to progression is evaluated by CT (computed tomography) or MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) after every 10 +/- 2 weeks., Before start of treatment (within 4 weeks), then every 10 +/- week at follow up (every 3-6 month (investigators choice) until death.|Median progression free survival (PFS) defined as time from randomization to radiological progression,, Time to progression is evaluated by CT (computed tomography) or MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) after every 16-22 weeks., Before start of treatment (within 4 weeks), then every 10 +/- 2 weeks, at follow up (every 3-6 month (investigators choice) or patients withdrawal of concent.. No end can be given.
Rate of treatment-related adverse reactions, Treatment-related adverse reactions graded according to CTCAE v.5.0., At every treatment cycle, cycle length is 10 +/-2 weeks, at treatment follow up every 3-6 month (investigators choice) until progression. No time point can be given.|Median overall survival (OS)., Median OS defined as time from randomization to death of any cause., From date of randomization until the date of death. Timepoint unknown, as date of death can´t be predicted.|Progression free survival., Median progression free survival (PFS)., From time of randomization until the date of first documented progression. Is evaluated within 4 weeks before randomization, after each treatment, every 10 +/2 weeks. Timepoint unknown, as date of progression can´t be predicted.|Percent change in sum of longest diameters (SLD) of tumor lesions., Percent change in SLD from baseline (within 4 weeks before treatment) to time of best response., At each radiological investigation with CT or MRI of thorax and abdomen. Is done every 10 +/- 2 weeks. In the follow up period, evaluations are done every 3-6 months until death.|Quality of Life as judged by the patient., All patients complete the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (EORTC) QoL (quality of life)-questionnaires GI- neuroendocrine tumors (NET)21., Patients complete the QoL forms before start of treatment, at cycle 2 (cycle length 10+/-2 weeks), at each treatment cycle (4-approximately 7), until progression.|Cumulative median absorbed dose (AD), AD to target tumor lesions in subjects with complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) as best response, according to RECIST evaluations., After each dosimetry measurements after each treatment cycle (cycle length 10 +/2 weeks), up to 18 +/-2 months.|Correlation between cumulative median absorbed dose and time to progression., Correlation between cumulative median absorbed dose to target tumor lesions and time to progression, defined as time from randomization to radiological progression., Every 10 +/- 2 weeks up to 18 +/- 2 months.|Cumulative median absorbed dose (AD) and biological effective dose to kidneys., Cumulative median AD and biological effective dose (BED) to kidneys vs rate of grade 3-4 renal toxicity (estimated and measured GFR ( glomerular filtration rate)., Is evaluated with dosimetry after each treatment, 10 +/- 2 weeks, up to 18 +/- 2 months.|Differences in resource utilization and treatment cost., Differences in resource utilization and treatment cost between the two treatment arms, in relation to the progressive free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)., Through study completion, an average of 18 months, assessed every 10 +/- 2 weeks by questionnaires.
There are several ways of personalizing PRRT (peptide receptor radionuclide treatment) in NEN (neuroendocrine neoplasia). Nevertheless, the current treatment regimen is not personalized. This trial aims to compare personalized PRRT to non-personalized PRRT in terms of safety, efficacy and resource demands in order to optimize treatment outcomes in an evidence-based manner in future.