Nilotinib and Imatinib Mesylate After Donor Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With ALL or CML
This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best way to give nilotinib when given alone or sequentially after imatinib mesylate after donor stem cell transplant in treating patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or chronic myelogenous leukemia. Nilotinib and imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Philadelphia Positive Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Philadelphia Positive Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Untreated Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: nilotinib|DRUG: imatinib mesylate|OTHER: pharmacological study
Number of Participants With Treatment Safety Failure, Safety and tolerability of nilotinib therapy in patients with imatinib-sensitive leukemia graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Treatment safety failure is defined for a patient with imatinib sensitive Ph+ leukemia as the inability to be able to deliver at least 400 milligrams per day of nilotinib in adults, and 230 milligrams/m2 per day in children, for at least 85% of the time interval between 81 and 365 days after transplant. The overall study will be considered successful if nilotinib is deliverable to more than 75% of the study participants at this minimum specified dose intensity., Up to 365 days post-transplant
The Proportion of Patients at 1 Year With Treatment Efficacy Success, To be considered a treatment efficacy success at 1 year posttransplant, the patient's bone marrow must demonstrate complete hematological remission, absence of Philadelphia chromosomes, and not satisfy any of the criteria for treatment failure (\>/= 1% aberrantly expressing marrow blasts by multiparameter flow cytometry, \>5% BCR/ABL in marrow by fluorescent in situ hybridization, or \>1 log rise in peripheral blood BCR/ABL by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) since day 80)., Up to 1 year|Survival, The proportion of study participants alive at 1, 2 and 3 years, Up to 3 years|Patients Alive With Out Relapse, The proportion of study participants alive and without hematologic, cytogenetic or molecular evidence of BCR/ABL-positive leukemia at 1 year, Up to 1 year|Relapse, The proportion of patients with hematologic, cytogenetic or molecular relapse of BCR/ABL-positive leukemia, 1 and 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of the administration of nilotinib between Day 81 and Day 365 after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) leukemia.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To quantify the breakpoint cluster region (BCR)/Abelson murine leukemia (ABL) transcript load after HCT during tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy in patients with Ph+ leukemia treated sequentially with imatinib (imatinib mesylate) and nilotinib from the time of engraftment.

II. To evaluate survival at 1 year in patients with Ph+ leukemia who received sequential imatinib and nilotinib from the time of engraftment.

III. To determine if imatinib can be co-administered with nilotinib for patients with rising levels of BCR/ABL on 2 consecutive occasions after HCT.

IV. To confirm that imatinib can be delivered at an average daily dose of 400 mg at least 85% of the time in the majority of adults during the first 80 days after HCT.

V. To determine whether nilotinib can be administered safely at a daily dose of at least 300 mg (175 mg/m\^2 in children \< 17 years) at least 70% of the time to patients with imatinib resistant Ph+ leukemia during the first 80 days after HCT.

VI. To determine treatment efficacy success at 1 year post-transplant as demonstrated by complete hematological remission, absence of Philadelphia chromosome, and not satisfying any of the criteria for treatment failure.

OUTLINE:

Beginning after engraftment and blood count recovery (21-28 days after allogeneic stem cell transplant), patients with imatinib-sensitive leukemia receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) until day 80 and then nilotinib PO twice daily (BID) on days 81-445. Patients with imatinib-resistant leukemia receive nilotinib PO BID beginning after engraftment and blood count recovery until day 445.

Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.