Observational Study of Perioperative Chemotherapy in Gastric Cancer
This study will assess the efficacy and toxicity of perioperative chemotherapy with Epirubicin + Cisplatin + Capecitabine (ECX) in routine clinical practice in a network of public hospitals in Santiago, Chile.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: epirubicin + cisplatin + capecitabine polychemotherapy
Rate of downstaging, To determine the rate of downstaging of locally advanced cT3-4 and/or N+ gastric carcinomas after 3 cycles of preoperative chemotherapy with ECX, through study completion, an average of 3 months
Rate of adverse events, Rate and description of adverse events, through study completion, an average of 6 months|Clinical response after three cycles of preoperative ECX, Clinical response based on RECIST criteria, through study completion, an average of 6 months|To evaluate the surgical morbidity after three cycles of preoperative CT, Hospital stay duration, through study completion, an average of 1 year|To evaluate the surgical mortality after three cycles of preoperative CT, 30 days postoperative mortality rate, through study completion, an average of 1 year|progression free survival, To evaluate the 3 year progression free survival, through study completion, an average of 2 years|overall survival, To evaluate the 5 year overall survival (OS) of patients treated with perioperative CT, through study completion, an average of 3 years|compliance with the planned postoperative therapy, To evaluate the rate of start and completion of postoperative treatment, through study completion, an average of 1 year|EORTC QLQ-C30 after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery, To evaluate quality of life through patient reported outcomes of patients treated with perioperative chemotherapy, through study completion, an average of 2 years|EORTC QLQ-STO 22 after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery, To evaluate patient reported specific symptoms of patients treated with perioperative chemotherapy, through study completion, an average of 2 years|HER 2 expression, To determine the number of patients with HER2 overexpressing gastric cancers, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Chile belongs to the countries with a high mortality rate due to gastric cancer, and this disease is the most frequent cause of cancer death in Chile. Despite of adequate surgery, survival rates are disappointing, with less than 60% of patients for all stages achieving to be alive at 5 years. This is due to the fact that frequently gastric cancer is diagnosed at an advanced stage. For locally advanced gastric cancer a multimodality treatment is recommended, with the alternatives of surgery followed by chemotherapy (asian approach), surgery followed by chemoradiation (US approach) and perioperative chemotherapy (european approach). These three strategies are valid standard treatment options and have shown to improve overall survival in stage IB to IVA gastric cancer.

Perioperative chemotherapy administered pre- and postoperatively, has shown to downstage the tumor, increase curative resection, progression free and overall survival.

For patients with potentially resectable gastric cancer staged T2 or higher or cN+, NCCN Guidelines recommend perioperative chemotherapy (category1). Chilean guidelines for gastric cancer state the alternative of perioperative chemotherapy, however this approach has not been used widely in public hospitals because lack of financial support.

Some gastric cancers overexpress HER2, and this subset of patients benefit from targeted therapy at an advanced stage. The proportions of patients with these molecular characteristics vary widely depending of the geographic area. The chilean population has been investigated in small series, but the incidence of HER2 positive gastric cancer is not known. We therefore plan to measure HER2 expression in all participating patients.