Cryobiopsy Versus Forceps Biopsy for Pulmonary Lesions
Purpose: Patients with peripheral lung nodules require evaluation for lung cancer. Our aim is to assess the diagnostic yield of a new technique, transbronchial cryobiopsies, in patients at risk for lung cancer. Target population: Patients referred for bronchoscopy and lung biopsies as a part of their work up for peripheral lung lesions. Procedures: Patients enrolled will have forceps transbronchial biopsies followed by transbronchial cryobiopsies for their lung lesion during bronchoscopy.
Solitary Pulmonary Nodule|Multiple Pulmonary Nodules
PROCEDURE: transbronchial biopsy
The increase in sensitivity for diagnosing lung cancer with the addition of cryobiopsy to standard forceps biopsy for a suspicious lung nodule., Sensitivity for cancer is defined as true positives / (true positives + false negatives) with respect to diagnosing malignancy. If the bronchoscopic procedure fails to diagnose malignancy, the gold standard will be the results of any further, more invasive testing that is clinically indicated to evaluate the nodule., 1 year
The increase in sensitivity for diagnosing a specific benign lung disease with the addition of cryobiopsy to standard forceps biopsy for a suspicious lung nodule., Sensitivity is defined as true positives / (true positives + false negatives) with respect to diagnosing a specific benign condition that is thought to represent the lung nodule seen on CT scan. If the bronchoscopic procedure fails to diagnose a specific benign condition, the gold standard will be the results of any further, more invasive testing and stable follow-up imaging at 1 year., 1 year|The number of participants with pneumothorax or significant bleeding related to the addition of transbronchial cryobiopsy to standard forceps biopsy., A chest X-ray and ultrasound will be done to check for pneumothorax after standard forceps biopsy and after the addition of transbronchial cryobiopsy. Bleeding will be measured with a standardized scale (grade 0 = traces of blood not requiring suctioning; grade 1 = bleeding requiring suction to clear; grade 2 = bleeding requiring wedging of the biopsied segment with the flexible bronchoscope and/or iced saline/epinephrine; grade 3 = bleeding requiring further intervention such as balloon occlusion or inflation of the bronchial blocker; grade 4 = bleeding resulting in airway obstruction and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, cardiopulmonary instability, transfusion of packed RBCs, and/or admission to the ICU) both after forceps biopsy and again after transbronchial cryobiopsy., 1 year
Purpose: Patients with peripheral lung nodules require evaluation for lung cancer. Our aim is to assess the diagnostic yield of a new technique, transbronchial cryobiopsies, in patients at risk for lung cancer. Target population: Patients referred for bronchoscopy and lung biopsies as a part of their work up for peripheral lung lesions. Procedures: Patients enrolled will have forceps transbronchial biopsies followed by transbronchial cryobiopsies for their lung lesion during bronchoscopy.