Gefitinib in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of gefitinib in treating patients who have stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Biological therapies such as gefitinib may interfere with the growth of the tumor cells and slow the growth of non-small cell lung cancer
Bronchoalveolar Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: gefitinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Overall survival rate, Up to 1 year
Progression-free survival, From the date of registration to date of first observation of progressive disease, death due to any cause, symptomatic deterioration, assessed up to 2 years|Change in EGFR and EGFR variant III overexpression and their relationship with survival, From baseline to up to 1 year|Response via CAIA versus response by RECIST, At 16 weeks|Toxicity as assessed by CTCAE version 3.0, Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the one-years survival rate in both previously-untreated and previously-treated patients with advanced bronchioalveolar carcinoma receiving chronic oral ZD1839.

II. To assess the progression-free survival and overall survival in these groups of patients.

III. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with this treatment regimen.

IV. To evaluate the response rate using both the standard RECIST criteria and by computer-assisted image analysis in patients with measurable disease.

V. To measure EGFR and EGFR variant III overexpression in tumor tissue samples and explore their relationship with aforementioned clinical outcomes.

VI. To measure EGFR expression and activation status in slides of buccal brushings submitted on S9925 before and after initiation of treatment with ZD1839 and explore their association with response and survival.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior systemic treatment for bronchioalveolar carcinoma (yes vs no). (The previously untreated stratum closed to accrual as of 2/15/2003.)

Patients receive oral gefitinib once daily. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.