Intravenous Edotecarin in Patients With Advanced Gastric Cancer That Has Progressed or Recurred After Chemotherapy
This will be an international, multicenter, uncontrolled, 2-stage, phase II study in adult patients with advanced gastric cancer, reasonable performance status, good organ function, lack of serious concomitant medical conditions. Patients must have progressed or recurred after a fluoropyrimidine-containing regimen at anytime for primary metastatic disease or within 6 months of last dose of adjuvant therapy. Twenty-one evaluable patients will be enrolled in Stage 1. If at least 2 objective tumor responses are observed in the first 21 evaluable patients, the study will be expanded to enroll a total of 41 evaluable patients. Edotecarin will be administered at a starting dose of 13 mg/m2 as an IV infusion over 60 minutes in repeated 3-week cycles treatment.
Stomach Neoplasms
DRUG: Edotecarin
To assess the antitumor activity of edotecarin by repeating radiographic assessments at 6-week intervals for all patients.
To determine the time of onset and duration of tumor control, and overall survival.|In addition, the safety and tolerability profile of edotecarin will be assessed, and plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of edotecarin will be evaluated.|Blood samples for PK evaluation will be collected during Cycles 1 and 2 and limited to the patients included in the first stage of the study.
This will be an international, multicenter, uncontrolled, 2-stage, phase II study in adult patients with advanced gastric cancer, reasonable performance status, good organ function, lack of serious concomitant medical conditions. Patients must have progressed or recurred after a fluoropyrimidine-containing regimen at anytime for primary metastatic disease or within 6 months of last dose of adjuvant therapy. Twenty-one evaluable patients will be enrolled in Stage 1. If at least 2 objective tumor responses are observed in the first 21 evaluable patients, the study will be expanded to enroll a total of 41 evaluable patients. Edotecarin will be administered at a starting dose of 13 mg/m2 as an IV infusion over 60 minutes in repeated 3-week cycles treatment.