Study of Euthyroid Hypothyroxinemia in Metastatic Breast Carcinoma
Up to one third of breast cancer patients have hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. L-thyroxine (T4), or Synthroid, is the most commonly prescribed agent for the management of hypothyroidism in the US. However, there are data suggesting that triiodothyronine (T3) may have benefits in preventing disease progression over l-thyroxine (T4).
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Thyroid Dysfunction
DRUG: Triiodothyronine (T3)
Number of Participants With Progression-free Survival at 12 Months Based Upon Clinical and Radiological Assessments Completed as Part of Routine Care, To prospectively evaluate the progression-free survival in hypothyroid patients with metastatic breast carcinoma who are rendered euthyroid and hypothyroxinemic. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the nadir sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of target lesions, or unequivocal progression (overall level of substantial worsening) in existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 12 months
Number of Patients With Both Metastatic Breast Cancer and Hypothyroidism in All Screened Patients., To quantitate the prevalence of hypothyroidism in metastatic breast cancer patients at a community oncology practice., Study duration, planned was 48 months but actual was 36 months [March 1, 2019 to March 9, 2022] due to premature closure due to planned relocation of the PI.|Measurement of Quality of Life Total Score Across Time Using Validated FACT-B Questionnaire, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast (FACT-B) Total Score comprised of Physical Well Being (PWB), Social Well Being (SWB), Emotional Well Being (EWB), Functional Well Being (FWB), and Breast Cancer Subscale (BCS). Range is 0-148. A higher score indicates higher quality of life. Missing scores were handled by prorating values., Baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months|Measurement of Energy Level Across Time Using FACT-B Question., Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast (FACT-B) Lack of energy on 5 point Likert scale as measured on FACT-B Physical Well-being subscale. Score of 0 indicates no lack of energy with score of 4 indicating total lack of energy., Baseline, 3, 6, 9, 12 months|Time to Achieve Euthyroid Hypothyroxinemia State, To study the average time required to achieve euthyroid hypothyroxinemia state in qualifying patients. Thyroid function laboratory testing was performed at baseline and then at every 4 weekly intervals until 12 weeks then every 3 monthly thereafter, unless thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) was abnormal. If a normal TSH level was not achieved by the 12 week visit, repeat TSH measurements were ordered every 4-6 weeks until the TSH value was within the laboratory normal reference range. Initial euthyroid state defined by number of days between initiation of triiodothyronine (T3) and documentation of first normal TSH value., Number of days between initiation of triiodothyronine (T3) and documentation of first normal TSH value for each participant, assessed up to 12 months
It is estimated that there are approximately 155,000 living with metastatic breast cancer in the US and the number is estimated to increase over the next years (SEER data). Although their median survival has improved over the last 2 decades from 17 months to approximately 24 months attributed to newer treatments, there is an ongoing need for additional strategies and research to improve survival and quality of life.

Many studies have explored the connection between hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism and breast cancer with varied results ranging up to one third prevalence. Low Triiodothyronine (T3) and elevated Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH) levels have been detected in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients. Other studies have suggested that some of the common symptoms reported by breast cancer survivors such as fatigue and depression can be attributed to subclinical hypothyroidism.

L-thyroxine (T4) is the most commonly prescribed agent for the management of hypothyroidism in the US. However, there are data suggesting that T4 is a potent pro-oncogenic agent. Proposed mechanisms include stimulation of mitogenesis, angiogenesis and resistance to apoptosis, opposition of anti-PDL-1 and radiation effects. It has been postulated that the avbeta3integrin that is universally expressed on cancer cells harbors a thyroid hormone receptor and T4 interacts with it.

Triiodothyronine (T3) on the other hand, is significantly less oncogenic and less mitogenic and is downstream of T4 which is a T3 pro-hormone. Therefore, exogenous supplementation of T3 would decrease the T4 levels creating the desired state of euthyroid hypothyroxinemia.

The rationale of this study is to replace L-thyroxine (T4) with Triiodothyronine (T3) in hypothyroid patients with metastatic breast carcinoma while they continue to receive standard systemic therapy, titrating the dose to achieve a state of euthyroid hypothyroxinemia which is turn would result in a lower risk of disease progression and improved survival by lowering the concentration of T4.