VEGF Trap in Treating Patients With Recurrent Malignant Gliomas That Did Not Respond to Temozolomide
This phase II trial is studying how well VEGF Trap works in treating patients with recurrent malignant or anaplastic gliomas that did not respond to temozolomide. VEGF Trap may stop the growth of malignant or anaplastic gliomas by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Adult Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Adult Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: ziv-aflibercept|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, This design yields 85% power to detect a true 30% 6-month PFS rate, while maintaining .91 probability of rejecting for a true 15% 6-month PFS rate.

pts had MRIs at screening and at the 3rd and 5th cycles then every 8 weeks until progression.

Response determined by modified MacDonald Criteria Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease, no new lesions. no steroids Partial Response (PR): Greater than or equal to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable lesions. no new lesions. steroid dose no \> than maximum dose used in first 8 weeks of treatment.

Stable: Does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression steroid dose no \> than maximum dose used in first 8 weeks of treatment.

Progression: 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no increase) Clear clinical worsening., 6 months|Safety Profile - Toxicities, number of cycles patient was able to have before developing a toxicity that required removing the patient from treatment. Treatment: Aflibercept 4mg/kg intravenously on day 1 of every 14-day cycle - 2 week cycle., Start to End of treatment 39 cycles or 1yr 7.5months (78 weeks)|Safety Profile - Events That Discontinued Treatment, number of patients who experienced toxicity that led to being taken off treatment, Approximately 1 year (start of treatment - end of treatment)
Response Rate Associated With VEGF Trap Therapy Defined as Proportions of Patients Experiencing Complete or Partial Response, pts had MRIs at screening and at the 3rd and 5th cycles then every 8 weeks until progression. All responders were centrally reviewed for confirmation

Response determined by modified MacDonald Criteria Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease, no new lesions. no steroids Partial Response (PR): Greater than or equal to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable lesions. no new lesions. steroid dose no \> than maximum dose used in first 8 weeks of treatment.

Stable: Does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression steroid dose no \> than maximum dose used in first 8 weeks of treatment.

Progression: 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no increase) Clear clinical worsening., Up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate for Subjects With Radiographic Response, pts with confirmed radiographic response and their rate of progression (PFS).

Response determined by modified MacDonald Criteria Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease, no new lesions. no steroids Partial Response (PR): Greater than or equal to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable lesions. no new lesions. steroid dose no \> than maximum dose used in first 8 weeks of treatment.

Stable: Does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression steroid dose no \> than maximum dose used in first 8 weeks of treatment.

Progression: 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no increase) Clear clinical worsening., up to 3 years|Overall Survival, all patients alive as of the last contact were censored for survival on the basis of that contact date, 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the therapeutic efficacy of VEGF Trap in patients with temozolomide-resistant malignant gliomas at first recurrence as measured by 6-month progression-free survival (PFS).

II. Determine the safety profile of VEGF Trap in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of this regimen as measured by radiographic response, PFS, time to progression, and overall survival.

II. Characterize the single-dose and repeated-dose pharmacokinetic profiles of VEGF Trap in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to histology (glioblastoma vs anaplastic glioma).

Patients receive VEGF Trap IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.