Study of Dasatinib and All-Trans Retinoic Acid for Relapsed/Refractory and/or Elderly Patients With Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This is an open label, prospective, single institution dose-escalation study. The patient population includes non-induction candidate elderly patients with AML or MDS and/or patients with high-risk or relapsed/refractory AML or MDS. Five dose cohorts will be evaluated using a fixed dose of ATRA in combination with an escalating dose of dasatinib. The investigators will treat with an escalating dose of dasatinib from 70mg to 140mg daily. Dose escalation will proceed in a standard 3+3 fashion. A de-escalation to a 50 mg total daily dose of dasatinib is planned if DLT is greater than or equal to 33% is observed at the first dose level. Once the MTD for the combination of the drugs has been established, up to 6 additional patients will be enrolled at the MTD level to obtain additional safety information about the combination and to allow for preliminary laboratory correlate analysis.
Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: dasatinib (SPRYCEL)|DRUG: all trans retinoic acid (VESANOID)
To determine the MTD and DLTs of dasatinib in combination with ATRA given the proposed dose escalation plan., 1.5 years
Assessment of Differentiation. Bone marrow biopsies and aspirates will be obtained pre-treatment, on day 14, and day 28. These will be subjected to morphologic, cytochemical, and routine flow cytometric analyses., 1.5 years|Assess treatment effects on SFK (Src family kinase) activation and expression of RARA target genes., 1.5 years|PK parameters including peak concentration (Cmax),Tmax, Cmin, the area under the curve (AUC), volume of distribution, clearance terms, elimination rate constant, and elimination half-life (t1/2) will be analyzed., 1.5 years
Primary Objective:

1. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of dasatinib and ATRA in relapsed or elderly, non-induction candidate acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or MDS patients and to identify the maximally tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLT).

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of dasatinib and ATRA when administered as combination therapy for patients with AML or MDS
2. To determine if the combination therapy of dasatinib and ATRA promotes differentiation of AML or MDS .