PSMA-PET to Guide Prostatectomy
In this study, 196 patients will be randomized 1:1 to either having only the standard of care MRI prior to surgery versus having the standard of care MRI and the PSMA PET scan. PET (and MRI) findings will be validated against whole mount pathology. Pre-surgical imaging findings will also be evaluated in the context of affecting subsequent surgical plans and impacting actual patient outcomes.
Prostate Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PSMA-PET and SOC MRI|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: SOC MRI
IIEF-EF sub scale score, International Index Erectile Function-Erectile Function sub scale score. Maximum score is 30 with higher score indicating better outcomes., 1 month|IIEF-EF sub scale score, International Index Erectile Function-Erectile Function sub scale score. Maximum score is 30 with higher score indicating better outcomes., 3 months|IIEF-EF sub scale score, International Index Erectile Function-Erectile Function sub scale score. Maximum score is 30 with higher score indicating better outcomes., 6 months|IIEF-EF sub scale score, International Index Erectile Function-Erectile Function sub scale score. Maximum score is 30 with higher score indicating better outcomes., 12 months|IIEF-EF sub scale score, International Index Erectile Function-Erectile Function sub scale score. Maximum score is 30 with higher score indicating better outcomes., 18 months
Change in treatment plan, Proportion of patients whose treatment plan would be changed by PSMA-PET. Treatment changes are defined as any change in surgical resection plan that affects one of 4 critical regions for quality of life, 1 month|Ratio of positive surgical margins to nerve bundles spared, 1 month|EPE detection, Sensitivity/Specificity for extra-prostatic extension of cancer at the nerve bundles, 1 month|Incontinence bother, Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) questions 1-2, 18 months|Incontinence: using 0-1 pads per day, Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) question 3, 18 months|Urgency/frequency, Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) questions 4-5, 18 months|Erectile dysfunction: ability to achieve erection sufficient for penetration, IIEF question 3, 18 months|Overall mental and physical health, Short Form quality of life questionnaire (SF-36), 18 months|Surgical margins, postive surgical margin rates, 1 month
In this study, 196 patients will be randomized 1:1 to either having only the standard of care MRI prior to surgery versus having the standard of care MRI and the PSMA PET scan. PET (and MRI) findings will be validated against whole mount pathology. Pre-surgical imaging findings will also be evaluated in the context of affecting subsequent surgical plans and impacting actual patient outcomes.