Effect of Ultrasound Acupoints on Patients With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
This study will be conducted to evaluate the effect of ultrasound acupoints on menstrual irregularity and hormone levels on polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) patient.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
OTHER: Pulsed ultrasound at acupuncture points|OTHER: Placebo ultrasound at acupuncture points|OTHER: Standard care program
Serum insulin level, Blood samples will be obtained before intervention and 12 weeks after intervention by venepuncture for 20 seconds and transfer to the laboratory in gel tubes for measurement of serum insulin levels. Centrifugation will perform at 4600 rpm for 15 minutes. The Insulin Quantitative Tests are based on a solid phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Sampling time of insulin will be an 8 -hour fasting specimen., 12 weeks|Serum Luteinizing Hormone (LH) level, Blood samples will be obtained before intervention and 12 weeks after intervention by venepuncture for 20 seconds and transfer to the laboratory in gel tubes for measurement of serum LH levels. Centrifugation will perform at 4600 rpm for 15 minutes. The LH Quantitative Tests are based on a solid phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Sampling time of insulin will be an 8 -hour fasting specimen., 12 weeks|Serum Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) level, Blood samples will be obtained before intervention and 12 weeks after intervention by venepuncture for 20 seconds and transfer to the laboratory in gel tubes for measurement of serum FSH levels. Centrifugation will perform at 4600 rpm for 15 minutes. The FSH Quantitative Tests are based on a solid phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Sampling time of insulin will be an 8 -hour fasting specimen., 12 weeks|Testosterone level, Blood samples will be obtained before intervention and 12 weeks after intervention by venepuncture for 20 seconds and transfer to the laboratory in gel tubes for measurement of serum Testosterone levels. Centrifugation will perform at 4600 rpm for 15 minutes. The Testosterone Quantitative Tests are based on a solid phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Sampling time of insulin will be an 8 -hour fasting specimen., 12 weeks
Number of cysts on ultrasound, It will be measured before intervention and 12 weeks after intervention by ultrasonography., 12 weeks|Diameter of cysts on ultrasound, It will be measured before intervention and 12 weeks after intervention by ultrasonography., 12 weeks|Ovarian volume, It will be measured before intervention and 12 weeks after intervention by ultrasonography., 12 weeks
PCOS is a life-long condition and although the exact cause is yet to be identified, it is believed to have epigenetic origins. It is the main gynecological endocrinopathy of reproductive age. It is the most common cause of infertility due to anovulation. In many countries, it represents the leading cause of female infertility.

Signs and symptoms are mediated by hormonal disorder including elevated androgens and fasting insulin, and abnormal relative ratio of the gonadotropins luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH). Endocrine imbalances occur within the framework of disordered ovarian folliculogenesis, chronic anovulation, clinical signs of hyperandrogenism and metabolic syndrome.

The standard treatment of PCOS includes oral medications, lifestyle changes, and surgery. Pharmacology-based treatments are effective in only 60% of patients. Therefore, acupuncture provides an alternative.

Acupuncture therapy in female with PCOS and ovulatory disorder has been known to bring enduring useful results on the endocrine system and menstrual cycle, without complications.

In women with PCOS and IR, acupuncture was superior to metformin in improving glucose metabolism and had a lower incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects.

There were no studies using ultrasound acupoint to improve symptoms of PCOS patients, so this study will discuss this method to describe its effect on PCOS patients.