Heart Health After Cancer Treatment (HEART-ACT)
This is a pilot study testing multi-disciplinary health behavior intervention in breast cancer survivors who have been treated at Zuckerberg San Francisco General (ZSFG).
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Intake Session|BEHAVIORAL: Individual Sessions|BEHAVIORAL: Group Sessions|BEHAVIORAL: Graduation|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
Proportion of participants with analyzable data for change in 6 Minute Walk Distance (6MWD), 6MWD measures the distance walked over 6 minutes. The farther a person can walk indicates better exercise tolerance and mobility. The changes in distance will be compared at baseline and 12 months. We will measure the proportion of participants with analyzable 6MWD data., Baseline to 12 months|Proportion of participants with analyzable data for change in Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Global Health - Mental Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The mental health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better mental health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 12 months. The proportion of participants who can have a score measured will be calculated., Baseline to 12 months|Proportion of participants with analyzable data for change in PROMIS Global Health - Physical Health Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The physical health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better physical health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 12 months., Baseline to 12 months
Net Promoter Score, The Net Promoter Score asks the participant to report how likely they are to recommend this health behavior program to another breast cancer survivor on a scale of 1 (Very Unlikely) to 10 (Very Likely). The Score is calculated as the percent of respondents who are "promoters" reporting a 9 or 10 minus the percent of responders who are "detractors" reporting a 1-6. The score can range from -100 to 100, with 100 being the best score., 3 Months|Net Promoter Score, The Net Promoter Score asks the participant to report how likely they are to recommend this health behavior program to another breast cancer survivor on a scale of 1 (Very Unlikely) to 10 (Very Likely). The Score is calculated as the percent of respondents who are "promoters" reporting a 9 or 10 minus the percent of responders who are "detractors" reporting a 1-6. The score can range from -100 to 100, with 100 being the best score., 6 Months|Net Promoter Score, The Net Promoter Score asks the participant to report how likely they are to recommend this health behavior program to another breast cancer survivor on a scale of 1 (Very Unlikely) to 10 (Very Likely). The Score is calculated as the percent of respondents who are "promoters" reporting a 9 or 10 minus the percent of responders who are "detractors" reporting a 1-6. The score can range from -100 to 100, with 100 being the best score., 12 Months|Change in 6MWD, 6MWD measures the distance walked over 6 minutes. The farther a person can walk indicates better exercise tolerance and mobility. The changes in distance will be compared at baseline and 12 months., Baseline and 12 Months|Change in 6MWD, 6MWD measures the distance walked over 6 minutes. The farther a person can walk indicates better exercise tolerance and mobility. The changes in distance will be compared at baseline and 6 months., Baseline and 6 Months|Change in 6MWD, 6MWD measures the distance walked over 6 minutes. The farther a person can walk indicates better exercise tolerance and mobility. The changes in distance will be compared at baseline and 3 months., Baseline and 3 Months|Change in PROMIS Global Health - Mental Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The mental health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better mental health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 12 months., Baseline and 12 Months|Change in PROMIS Global Health - Mental Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The mental health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better mental health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 6 months., Baseline and 6 Months|Change in PROMIS Global Health - Mental Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The mental health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better mental health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 3 months., Baseline and 3 Months|Change in PROMIS Global Health - Physical Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The physical health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better physical health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 12 months., Baseline and 12 Months|Change in PROMIS Global Health - Physical Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The physical health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better physical health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 6 months., Baseline and 6 Months|Change in PROMIS Global Health - Physical Scale, The PROMIS Global Health 10 questionnaire is a self-assessed questionnaire that asks participants to respond to 10 questions. The physical health subscale consists of four questions with a raw score between 4 and 20 that is converted to a standardized T-score. Higher scores represent better physical health. We will calculate the change in the score between baseline and 3 months., Baseline and 3 Months
OBJECTIVES:

1. Evaluating feasibility and acceptability of the program.
2. Evaluating the effects of the program on health outcomes including change in exercise capacity, change in quality of life, change in risk factors, and adverse events.
3. Evaluating changes in patient-reported measures.

OUTLINE:

Participants with a history of breast cancer who receive care at Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital (ZSFG) will receive the intervention which is comprised of a 12-week multi-disciplinary health behavior program. Each participant will have an individualized assessment, goal and plan for each component of the program. Follow-up for outcomes will occur at 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months.