Prediction of Lymph Node Status in Stage T1 Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma（RENMIN-237）
Accurate assessment of lymph node status in superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is of great significance for preventing undertreatment and overtreatment. However, the accuracy of the commonly used preoperative imaging methods for evaluating lymph node status is not high, and it is urgent to develop a prediction model that can predict the risk of individual lymph node metastasis to assist in clinical decision-making. In this context, investigators intend to retrospectively collect the clinical and pathological data of 300 patients with superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, construct a lymph node metastasis risk prediction model. In addition, investigators are also preparing to prospectively collect tissue samples from 30 patients with superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma to further explore the mechanism of lymph node metastasis.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: no intervention
Lymphatic metastases, The primary end point was the presence of lymph node metastases in surgically resected specimens (≥ 15 resected lymph nodes), or the development of metastases during follow-up including local recurrence and distant metastasis (AJCC 8th). In cases of an endoscopic resection prior to surgical resection, the tumor was found in the endoscopic resection specimen and lymph node status in the surgical resection specimen. When no additional surgery was performed after endoscopic resection, the development of metastases during follow-up was used as a surrogate end point., Through study completion, an average of 2 year
Accurate assessment of lymph node status in superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is of great significance for preventing undertreatment and overtreatment. However, the accuracy of the commonly used preoperative imaging methods for evaluating lymph node status is not high, and it is urgent to develop a prediction model that can predict the risk of individual lymph node metastasis to assist in clinical decision-making. In this context, investigators intend to retrospectively collect the clinical and pathological data of 300 patients with superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, construct a lymph node metastasis risk prediction model. In addition, investigators are also preparing to prospectively collect tissue samples from 30 patients with superficial esophageal squamous cell carcinoma to further explore the mechanism of lymph node metastasis.