Evaluation of Efficacy and Safety of Roxadustat for the Treatment of Chemotherapy Induced Anemia
The purpose of this study is to find out if roxadustat (also known as FG-4592) is safe and effective for the treatment of anemia in participants receiving chemotherapy treatment for cancer.
Chemotherapy Induced Anemia
DRUG: Roxadustat
Maximum Change in Hb Within 16 Weeks From Baseline Without Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusion, Baseline Hb was defined as the mean of the assessments from central lab prior to first dose of the study treatment, which included up to 2 latest screening values prior to Day 1 and a value on Day 1. All central lab assessments from Day 1 to end of treatment (EOT) or early termination (ET) were included in the evaluation of this endpoint. Hb values within 4 weeks after an RBC transfusion were excluded., Baseline, up to Week 16
Mean Change in Hb Level From Baseline to Week 16 (Without RBC Transfusion), Baseline Hb was defined as the mean of the assessments from central lab prior to first dose of the study treatment, which included up to 2 latest screening values prior to Day 1 and a value on Day 1. Mean Hb during treatment was computed using the mean area-under-the-curve trapezoid method, from Day 1 to EOT or ET Hb assessment., Baseline, Week 16|Change in Hb From Baseline at Weeks 9, 13, and 16 (Without RBC Transfusion), Baseline Hb was defined as the mean of the assessments from central lab prior to first dose of the study treatment, which included up to 2 latest screening values prior to Day 1 and a value on Day 1., Baseline, Weeks 9, 13, and 16|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a ≥1 g/dL Increase in Hb From Baseline Through Week 16, The 95% confidence interval (CI) was based on the exact method of Clopper-Pearson method. All central lab assessments from Day 1 to EOT or ET were included in the analysis. Hb values within 4 weeks after an RBC transfusion was excluded., Baseline through Week 16|Time to Achieve a ≥1 g/dL Increase in Hb From Baseline Through Week 16, Median was calculated using Kaplan-Meier product limit method. 95% CI was calculated using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley. All central lab assessments from Day 1 to EOT or ET were included in the analysis. Hb values within 4 weeks after an RBC transfusion were excluded., Baseline through Week 16|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a ≥1.5 g/dL Increase in Hb From Baseline Through Week 16, The 95% CI was based on the exact method of Clopper-Pearson method. All central lab assessments from Day 1 to EOT or ET were included in the analysis. Hb values within 4 weeks after an RBC transfusion was excluded., Baseline through Week 16|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a Hematopoietic Response, Hematopoietic response was defined as an increase in Hb of 1.5 g/dL from baseline or attaining a Hb of 11 g/dL. The 95% CI was based on the exact method of Clopper-Pearson method. All central lab assessments from Day 1 to EOT or ET were included in the analysis. Hb values within 4 weeks after an RBC transfusion was excluded., Baseline through Week 16|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a ≥2 g/dL Increase in Hb From Baseline Through Week 16, The 95% CI was based on the exact method of Clopper-Pearson method. All central lab assessments from Day 1 to EOT or ET were included in the analysis. Hb values within 4 weeks after an RBC transfusion was excluded., Baseline through Week 16|Percentage of Participants Who Had an RBC Transfusion From Beginning of Week 5 (Day 29) to Week 16, Week 5 to Week 16
This study consists of three periods:

1. Screening Period up to 28 days
2. Treatment Period of up to16 weeks
3. A Follow-up period of 4 weeks.