Total Marrow and Lymphoid Irradiation as Conditioning Regimen Before Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation in Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndrome or Acute Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well total marrow and lymphoid irradiation works as a conditioning regimen before hematopoietic cell transplantation in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or acute leukemia. Total body irradiation can lower the relapse rate but has some fatal side effects such as irreversible damage to normal internal organs and graft-versus-host disease (a complication after transplantation in which donor's immune cells recognize the host as foreign and attack the recipient's tissues). Total body irradiation is a form of radiotherapy that involves irradiating the patient's entire body in an attempt to suppress the immune system, prevent rejection of the transplanted bone marrow and/or stem cells and to wipe out any remaining cancer cells. Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) is a more recently developed method of delivering radiation. Total marrow and lymphoid irradiation is a method of using IMRT to direct radiation to the bone marrow. Total marrow and lymphoid irradiation may allow a greater dose of radiation to be delivered to the bone marrow as a preparative regimen before hematopoietic cell transplant while causing less side effects to normal organs than standard total body irradiation.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|BIOLOGICAL: Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|DRUG: Tacrolimus
Incidence of adverse events, Evaluated using the Bearman scale and National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to day 100|Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) free relapse-free survival, Time from start of protocol therapy to grade 3-4 acute GvHD, chronic GvHD requiring systemic treatment, death, relapse/progression, or last follow-up, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years post-transplant
Overall survival, Time from start of protocol therapy to death from any cause, or last follow-up, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years post-transplant|Relapse-free survival, Time from the start of protocol therapy to the date of death, disease relapse, or last follow-up, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years post-transplant.]|Time to relapse/progression, Time from the start of protocol therapy to death, disease relapse or progression, or last follow-up, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years post-transplant|Non-relapse mortality, Time from start of therapy until non-disease related death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years post-transplant|Incidence of adverse events that meet grade 3, 4, or 5 per CTCAE version 5.0, From day -9 to day -1, from day 0 to day 30, and day 31 to day 100 post-transplant|Incidence of acute GvHD of grades 2-4 and 3-4, From date of stem cell infusion to documented/biopsy proven acute GVHD onset date (within the first 100 days post-transplant)|Incidence of chronic GvHD, From approximately 80-100 days post-transplant to the documented/biopsy proven chronic GvHD onset date|Incidence of infection, From day 0 to day 100 post-transplant|Complete remission proportion, At day 30|Rate of neutrophil recovery, Measured from stem cell infusion to the first to three consecutive days with neutrophil count greater than 0.5 x 10\^9/l., Up to 2 years|Incidence of cytokine release syndrome, Defined and graded per American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) criteria., Up to 2 years
Minimal residual disease, Assessed from bone marrow aspirates., At day 30, 100, and 180 days, and 1 year post-transplant|Immune cell recovery, Immunophenotyping with lymphocyte subsets by flow cytometry, including but not limited to the following cell markers: CD4, CD8, CD56, CD16, etc., Up to 2 years|GvHD biomarker analysis, Will be done by standard enzyme-linked immunosorbent (ELISA) assays., Up to 2 years|Pro-inflammatory cytokine analysis, Will be done using standard ELISA assays., Up to 2 years|Effect of TMLI on bone marrow environment, Longitudinal assessment swill be done by dual energy computed tomography (DECT), water-fat magnetic resonance imaging (wfMRI) imaging. Biological assessment of bone marrow samples will be done by flow cytometry, colony forming assay, and immunohistochemistry studies., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the efficacy of the haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplantation (haploHCT) total marrow and lymphoid organ irradiation (TMLI), with high dose post-transplant cyclophosphamide (PTCy) as graft-versus host disease (GvHD) prophylaxis, as assessed by 1-year graft versus (vs) host disease-free relapse-free survival (GRFS) rate in each arm (Arm A: patients with acute myeloid leukemia \[AML\] or myelodysplastic syndrome \[MDS\] and Arm B: Patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia \[ALL\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate overall survival (OS), cumulative incidences of relapse/disease progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) in each arm at 100 days, and 1 year post-transplant.

II. Estimate rate of relapse and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 1 year post-transplant.

III. Estimate rates of acute and chronic GvHD, infections, complete remission and neutrophil recovery.

IV. Describe and characterize cytokine release syndrome (CRS) post-haploidentical HCT with TMLI as conditioning regimen and PTCy as GvHD prophylaxis as assessed by incidence, frequency and severity.

V. Further evaluate the safety of this regimen by assessing:

Va. Adverse events: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course, duration.

Vb. Complications: including acute/chronic GVHD, infection and delayed engraftment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize minimal residual disease from bone marrow aspirates and investigate the possible association between TMLI-based regimen and patient's disease status.

II. Describe the kinetics of immune cell recovery. III. Describe the kinetics of serum pro-inflammatory cytokines and GvHD biomarkers.

IV. Longitudinal and spatial assessment of TMLI effect on bone marrow environment.

V. Cellular and molecular assessment of TMLI effect on bone marrow environment and TMLI effect on the engraftment and disease relapse.

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) once daily (QD) on days -7 to -5, and undergo TMLI twice daily (BID) on days -4 to 0 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo hematopoietic cell transplantation on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV QD on days 3-4 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on day 5, patients also receive granulocyte colony stimulating factor and tacrolimus/mycophenolate mofetil per institutional standard.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up twice weekly for the first 100 days post-transplant, twice monthly until 6 months post-transplant, monthly until patient discontinues immunosuppressive therapy, and then yearly for 2 years.