Cabozantinib and Temozolomide for the Treatment of Unresectable or Metastatic Leiomyosarcoma or Other Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well cabozantinib and temozolomide work in treating patients with leiomyosarcoma or other soft tissue sarcoma that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving cabozantinib and temozolomide may work better than either one alone in treating patients with leiomyosarcoma or other soft tissue sarcoma. Cabozantinib is an investigational drug, which means that it has not been approved by the United States (US) Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or any other regulatory agencies for sale or use by the public for the indication under investigation in this study.
Metastatic Leiomyosarcoma|Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage III Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Leiomyosarcoma|Unresectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: Cabozantinib|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Temozolomide
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be the time from the start of treatment to the time of progression, with progression defined as changes in Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 defined imaging, progression in non-target lesions as defined by RECIST 1.1, unequivocal clinical deterioration, or death from any cause., After the first 12 weeks of therapy
Presence of response (Cohort 1), Will be defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)., At weeks 6 and 12, then every 2 cycles up to 5 years|Clinical benefit rate (Cohort 1), Will be defined as CR + PR + stable disease (SD)., At weeks 6 and 12, then every 2 cycles up to 5 years|Median progression free rate, Will assess the time from the first dose of study treatment until progression based upon changes in RECIST 1.1, unequivocal clinical deterioration, or death from any cause., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS) (Cohort 1), Will assess the time from the first dose of the study treatment until death from any cause, up to a maximum follow-up of two years., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will assess the presence of all toxicities outlined in National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., From time of first treatment up to 5 years|Subject-reported outcomes, Will be assessed by the EuroQoL-Group Health Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L)., 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the progression-free survival (defined as complete response \[CR\]+partial response \[PR\]+stable disease \[SD\]) assessed at 12 weeks for subjects in Cohort 1 (Leiomyosarcoma Arm) treated with cabozantinib and temozolomide as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (defined as CR+PR) for subjects in Cohort 1 treated with a combination of cabozantinib and temozolomide.

II. To determine the clinical benefit rate (CR+PR+SD) for subjects in Cohort 1 treated with a combination of cabozantinib and temozolomide.

III. To evaluate the median progression free rate for subjects with combination of cabozantinib and temozolomide.

IV. To evaluate overall survival for subjects in Cohort 1 treated with a combination of cabozantinib and temozolomide.

V. To assess safety and tolerability for subjects treated with a combination of cabozantinib and temozolomide.

VI. To determine the overall response rate (defined as CR+PR) in Cohort 2 (other soft tissue sarcomas).

VII. To assess Quality of Life (QoL) and subject-reported outcomes as measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) and the EuroQoL-Group Health Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the correlation of progression free rate (PFR) and overall survival (OS) to levels of sVEGFR2, PIGF, VEGF, HGF, sMET, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, and soluble AXL.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients with progressive disease (PD) are followed up every 6 months for up to 2 years and patients without PD are followed up every 6 months for up to 5 years.