A Study of DM005 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
The goal of this clinical trial is to find out about the safety, efficacy, and tolerability of DM005 for patients with the advanced solid tumors. DM005 is an experimental drug which is not approved by health authorities for the treatment of advanced solid tumors. For each participant, there will be a screening period of up to 28 days, a treatment period consisting of 21-day cycles, an end of treatment (EOT) Visit (+7 days), and a Follow-up Visit at 30 days (±7 days) after the EOT Visit.

Participants with advanced solid malignant tumors will be treated with DM005 on Day 1 of each cycle (every 3 weeks, Q3W). An initial dose of DM005 will be infused intravenously (IV) into each participant for approximately 60 minutes (±10) on Cycle1 Day 1. If there is no infusion-related reaction (IRR) during or after the initial dose, with the Investigator's confirmation and supervision, the subsequent dosing of DM005 in the following cycles maybe infused IV for approximately 30 minutes ( ±5). A 21-day observation period (Cycle 1) will then occur, at the end of which all relevant safety data will be reviewed.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck|Solid Carcinoma
DRUG: DM005
Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs) of DM005, Incidence of DLTs of DM005 will be determined. A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as grade 3 neurological toxicities (e.g. chemical meningitis) or other grade 4 toxicity., 12 months|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for DM005, The MTD of DM005 will be determined. The MTD was defined as the dose where 0/3 or 1/6 patients experienced a DLT with at least two patients encountering DLT at the higher dose., 12 months
The MTD of DM005 will be determined. The MTD was defined as the dose where 0/3 or 1/6 patients experienced a DLT with at least two patients encountering DLT at the higher dose., Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero extrapolated to infinity, calculated by linear up/log down trapezoidal summation., 12 months|Maximum (peak) plasma concentration (Cmax, ng/mL), Maximum concentration, obtained directly from the observed concentration versus time data., 12 months|Time to maximum (peak) concentration (Tmax, h), Time to Cmax, 12 months|Trough concentration (Ctrough, ng/mL), The lowest plasma concentration reached before the next dose., 12 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the number of patients with at least a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), based on the best objective response values while on treatment using RECIST version 1.1, 12 months
This first-in-human (FIH), multicenter, open-label, dose escalation and dose expansion study is to evaluate the safety, preliminary efficacy and pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics of DM005 monotherapy in participants with advanced solid tumors.

DM005, a bispecific ADC developed using fully human antibodies with a common light chain, which targets c-MET and EGFR.

Subjects with solid malignant tumors will be treated with DM005 on Day 1 once Q3W (dose adjustments may be required depending on the safety profile and PK data of each dose