Phase 1/2 Study of Carfilzomib for the Prevention of Relapse and GVHD in Allo-HCT for Hematologic Malignancies
The investigators hypothesize that adding carfilzomib to standard conditioning regimen for allo-HCT for advanced or high-risk hematologic malignancies will decrease post-transplant relapse and treatment-related mortality by decreasing severe GVHD, leading to overall improvement in transplant outcomes.
Hematologic Malignancies|Relapse|Graft-Versus-Host Disease
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Tacrolimus
Phase I: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Carfilzomib, Subjects were enrolled on the first dose level (20 mg/m\^2), following a standard 3+3 dose escalation. For any given dose level, if none of the 3 subjects developed a treatment-related dose limiting toxicity (DLT), defined per protocol, dose escalation would follow. If a DLT occurred in any given dose level, the cohort would be expanded to 6. Further dose escalation would be made only if DLTs occurred in \<2 out of 6 subjects. If \>=2 of 6 develop DLTs, dose de-escalation would be made to the previous level. The highest dose level at which no more than one of six participants experience a DLT defines the MTD., Up to day 28|Phase II: Kaplan-Meier Estimate of the Percentage of Patients Who Are Alive and Have Not Developed Any "Event", Kaplan-Meier estimate of the percentage of patients who are alive and have not developed relapse/progression of primary disease or clinical grade III-IV acute graft-versus- host disease (GVHD) or chronic GVHD requiring systemic treatment. Subjects who receive all 4 doses of carfilzomib at the maximum tolerated dose level will be considered evaluable for endpoint analysis., 1 year
Phase II: Kaplan-Meier Estimate for Progression/Relapse-free Survival Time, Time from day 0 to the date of the first progression/relapse. Subjects who receive all 4 doses of carfilzomib at the maximum tolerated dose level will be considered evaluable for endpoint analysis., Up to 3 years|Phase II: Kaplan-Meier Estimate for Overall Survival Time, The time from day 0 to the day of death from any cause. Subjects who receive all 4 doses of carfilzomib at the maximum tolerated dose level will be considered evaluable for endpoint analysis., Up to 3 years|Number of Regimen Related Toxicities (RRTs), An RTT is defined as an adverse event (AE) that occurs within +37 days after transplant or 30 days after the last dose of carfilzomib (day +7), and is considered to be a direct consequence and a related event as a result of the combination of conditioning chemotherapy, GVHD prophylaxis regimen and carfilzomib., Up to 30 days post treatment|Phase II: Cumulative Incidence of Acute GVHD, The cumulative incidence of acute Graft Versus Host Disease (aGVHD). Events were assigned a severity grade using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v. 4.0; lower values indicate least severe and higher values indicate most severe. Grades 2 - 4 and grades 3 - 4 events are reported. Subjects who receive all 4 doses of carfilzomib at the maximum tolerated dose level will be considered evaluable for endpoint analysis., At day 180 post-transplant; data collected up to 3 years|Phase II: Cumulative Incidence of Chronic GVHD, The cumulative incidence of chronic Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD). Subjects who receive all 4 doses of carfilzomib at the maximum tolerated dose level will be considered evaluable for endpoint analysis., Up to 3 years|Phase II: Cumulative Incidence of Non-relapse Mortality, The cumulative incidence of non-relapse mortality. Subjects who receive all 4 doses of carfilzomib at the maximum tolerated dose level will be considered evaluable for endpoint analysis., Up to 3 years
The investigators hypothesize that adding carfilzomib to standard conditioning regimen for allo-HCT for advanced or high-risk hematologic malignancies will decrease post-transplant relapse and treatment-related mortality by decreasing severe GVHD, leading to overall improvement in transplant outcomes.